[{"Title":"Gigli for the 1980's!","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"42 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" OK. So someone took an A-list actor and his famous singer/ part time kind of-sort of actress wife and decided that the movie would be carried on the weight of the names alone. Substitute fiancee for wife and one has Gigli.But it is not- it is Shanghai Surprise, possibly the most ill-conceived movie of the 1980's (and yes, I have seen Hobgoblins.)This movie has no redeeming qualities whatsoever. Ridiculous plot, painfully bad acting (Madonna as a missionary? She didn't buy it either, so she says her lines in a flat tone which just screams get me out of this costume and get me my check), cinematography worthy of an old episode of Fantasy Island, lame ending.If, by some chance, you stumble across a copy of this in an unused corner of your local video rental store, call your local hazardous waste disposal hotline- do not rent it.But do not forget that this horror exists. Some people forgot- and thus Gigli was born. "},{"Title":"It's actually much worse than you've heard--and that's the only surprise","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" In 1938 China, a pretty but prim missionary needs to find a hidden stash of smuggled opium (for medicinal purposes!) and attempts to recruit the help of a ratty-looking con-man; his latest get-rich-quick scheme is glow-in-the-dark ties! After an OK opening (without Sean Penn and Madonna), this falls completely apart, weighed down by lethargic attempts at screwball comedy and no chemistry whatsoever between the leads (then a married couple). Based on Tony Kenrick's novel Faraday's Flowers (a better title), this failure from George Harrison's HandMade Films must have been a devastating blow to the ex-Beatle, who also executive produced, co-wrote the score and wrote and performed the songs (which are heavy on the camp-Asian allure). Just getting through the picture is a chore, and everything about it seems eternally misjudged. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"Dreary, dreadful romantic comedy","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Shanghai Surprise is an idiotic, out-of-date, poorly-acted, campy action film that wants to be a romantic comedy. Madonna, in her second starring role, had about enough acting talent at this point as a doll. Unfortunately, the doll in this movie comes off looking better than she does.Madonna, playing a missionary (!) nurse (!!) for a Shanghai mission, is in search of opium (!!!) for medicinal purposes (!!?!!) approaches Sean Penn, an American soldier-of-fortune type who happens to speak Chinese. Penn and Madonna, who were married at the time this film were made, are obviously uncomfortable with the material and do little to justify the film's existence. Penn mugs his way through and attempts to crach a few weak jokes, while Madonna stamps her foot and places her hands on her hips as she squeaks (yes, she squeaks, and you must hear it to believe it) in frustration.The plot is absolutely ridiculous -- Madonna and Sean Penn chasing after a mysterious cargo of opium known as Faraday's Flowers (incidentally, the name of the book this movie is based on) must run from a Chinese gangster with porcelain hands, have a romantic interlude with an Imperial concubine, teach baseball skills to another Chinese gangster, and (boy, aren't we surprised) sleep together to seal a deal.This movie, like Mommie Dearest or Plan Nine From Outer Space has immense camp value because it's so deliciously awful. Utterly predictable, insipid, and full of instantly forgettable lines, this movie is the equivalent of the yellow stuff they stick on your nachos at the movie theatres -- it's not really good enough to be real cheese, but it's much cheaper and tastes pretty much the same anyway. This movie isn't even cheesy enough to be cheesy.Avoid Shanghai Surprise unless, like me, you like Madonna WAY too much or if you're just a fan of bad movies. "},{"Title":"Horrifying","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think I made it through about half of this movie. The acting was horrible. The plot was non-existent. The editing was awful. It seemed like they just took a bunch of scenes and put them together in random order.This movie filled me with so many questions Why is Penn dressed in '80s-style clothing? What is going on? Was Madonna's crotch shot in that first chase scene intentional? What is motivating these characters? How did Sean Penn go on to have a successful career after this film? Will I ever regain that piece of soul I just lost? Why? Why? Why?My wife and I tried to watch this film tonight and it made us physically ill. If only I could unsee this film. I'm going to cry in the dark for the next few hours. "},{"Title":"Possibly the Worst Film I have Ever Seen (And I've Seen a Lot of Bad Movies Over the Years.)","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" The IMDb advises that I should say ...*Warning Spoilers Follow*.... but there is no way to spoil this movie, because it is already spoiled to the point of being compost, and is ready to be spread out on the fields.It has been almost 20 years since my girlfriend of the time, an obsessive Madonna fan, talked me into seeing this piece of trash, and I still go to bed at night praying to God that I can somehow get that two hours of my life back. This is not one of those movies that is so bad it is good. This is one of those movies that is so bad it actually slingshots right around past good and right back to bad again.Madonna stars as a missionary (I know this is a leap of faith folks, but I am *not* kidding!), who teams up with Sean Penn (her then husband) to search for Faraday's Flowers, a cache of opium balls she hopes can be used as a pain killer for wounded troops. From about this point on, the movie takes on a rhythm that more or less goes 1, 2, 3, plot twist, 1, 2, 3, plot twist, 1, 2, 3, plot twist, and so on, as the duo of Penn and Penn bounce around randomly from one ridiculous situation to another with plenty of plot twists, but absolutely no plot evident to be twisted. In the mean time, they are being chased by a corrupt official with prosthetic hands (He lost his real hands from opening a booby trapped money belt called a shanghai surprise, which is what the movie is supposedly named after. This seems appropriate to me, seeing how I had lost my money from watching this booby trapped movie.).You may wonder why it is that I am able to remember so much about a movie I haven't seen in almost 20 years. To that I can only say one thing ...... emotional scarring.This movie is that bad folks! I have seen a lot of bad movies in my time, but this one rules as the unchallenged chief god in my pantheon of stinkers. It makes Ed Wood's movies look like Academy Award winning material. It even makes the worst of the worst of the flash animation that I have seen over the last six years on the net look good. I would eagerly gnaw my foot off to escape from this movie.If, for some reason, you are ever unfortunate enough to find a copy of this little gem on the shelf of your local video store, the only thing I can recommend is that you slowly and carefully turn yourself around, then run, run! RUN!!!!!, and immediately seek psychiatric counseling so as to avoid any possible post traumatic stress syndrome you may suffer from exposure to this movie.I give this movie a 1, but that is only because IMDb will not let me input negative numbers. "},{"Title":"unbearably awful","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Who thought this up? It must have looked brilliant when they got Sean and Madonna in the same movie. Unfortunately Sean goes through the whole movie looking like a kid pretending he's in a movie and Madonna as usual just plays herself, badly. Nothing to see here, move along folks... "},{"Title":"It ain't Indiana Jones","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If nothing else this film has heart.  I remember years ago all the hype that was injected into this film aimed at adolescent girls (i.e. Madonna fans), with the angle being that they would get to see the then infamous couple of Penn and Madonna frolic on the big silver screen.Well, it didn't take a rocket scientist to know where this film was headed. Like with all films when the hype exceeds previously good, yet unhyped, films you know something's up.The story itself isn't bad.  It's kind of hackneyed at points, but that's its genre, and for what the film is it works after a fashion.  There're only two real problems with this film;1) Madonna's then acting capabilities.  It's not bad for a performer who's more used to singing and dancing, and it's unfair to expect anything more from her, but her acting talent then was what it was; lacking.  Let's face it, she's a better singer and dancer than an actress, and this comes from a man who is not one of her fans.2)The second problem is the actual filming and execution of this film. The storie's there, the acting's there (Madonna not withstanding), and so forth, but there's little in the way of coverage or good cinematography.  It's passing.  It gets the job done.  But the shots are those of a low budget flick.  I believe there was a real opportunity to create atmosphere with good camera direction, but the focus of the film wasn't art so much as it was to capitalize on the then Madonna-Penn phenomenon (the film itself was riding the coat tails of Indiana Jones and The High Road to China films).And that last part is really too bad, because this film could've been much more.  At least when I saw it on HBO years ago the print I saw then was clear, corrected, crisp and otherwise very viewable.  Today I had a gander at the recently released DVD, and it looks like the owners of the property took an old 16mm broadcast print and had some fly by night tranfer company encode it on a DVD master; complete with a couple of scratches on grainy film stock.In short, if you didn't like it the first time, then don't bother with the DVD because it's even worse.  If you got a spare evening, and your friend loaned you the disk, or it's available at the library, then give it a look, but don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"not even good enough to qualify as laughably bad","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" Tinsel town's (then) favorite bride and groom consummated their marriage with this abysmal comedy adventure, an aborted Indiana Jones rip-off set in (of all places) romantic China during the Japanese occupation. The project was obviously an excuse for a paid honeymoon abroad, but no amount of fun and games could possibly validate such an insult to the intelligence, which would have us accept Sean Penn as a romantic hero and Madonna as the chaste and innocent daughter of a local missionary, a joke of bad casting even her most loyal fans would have trouble defending (she can't play the role, at any rate). Ex-Beatle George Harrison obviously saw the film as an opportunity to peddle some forgettable songs, and using his producer's credit he was able to put his distinctive warble in every other scene. Bottom line life is too short to waste even 90 minutes of it watching indulgent crap like this. "},{"Title":"The worst lead actress performance in a major American release EVER","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is no reason to struggle with justifications, nor to reach for words to describe such an amateurish, hackneyed, stilted, banal ... well, there I go. Just suffice to it say that it is completely understandable why the talented Mr. Penn reportedly chose to stay drunk for every shooting day of this miserable, limp, pointless ... you see where I'm going. However bad you remember it to be, you must re-see it to believe it. Madonna is the worst American actress of all time without peer. The only thing she's done on film that is worth seeing is Evita (a music video) and Desperately Seeking Susan (in which she has little dialog and rolls her eyes a lot). "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Believe me this film is awful. Now I am a BIG Madonna fan and I have tried, out of duty, to watch and enjoy this film, but I can find no redeeming quality. The script is terrible, the direction is misguided, the acting dire...need I go on?I didn't even get as far as enjoying it, I have never seen it all the way through. Sorry Madonna, but as I am sure you know, this is a stinker! "}{"Title":"The only surprise is how this movie got made","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The only surprise is how this movie ended up being made. HA HA.The plot has Gloria(Madonna) as a missionary who needs to get some jewels to buy opium.In turn to sell the opium for medicine for the mission. She is joined by (Glendon)Sean Penn who helps her to get the jewels and avoid the sneaky Walter Faraday(played by Paul Freeman) who is after them and the jewels.He is disguised as an old man whom Gloria thinks is just a storekeeper.Most of the action is corny , the acting bad ,poor writing but you can't blame it all on the writers.Casting Madonna as a virginal missionary and Sean Penn in an Indiana Jones type role was pure idiocy. Actually ,I will say one positive thing , I did like the soundtrack-all of the songs are performed by the late former beatle George Harrison. The only reason I went to see it at the time was I loved Madonna and her music and wanted to see her on screen. She was terrible and so was Sean Penn(he is so damn ugly) how could they cast him as a romantic lead.Guess because they were going together at the time. 4 stars for the soundtrack by George Harrison, 0 stars for the movie itself.Of note to movie buffs - Paul Freeman who plays the bad guy Walter Faraday in this movie was also in Raiders of the Lost Ark playing Indy's nemesis Belloq. "},{"Title":"I liked it!","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm really surprised by the extremely negative reviews and poor box- office results for this expensively made and -- to my mind -- quite entertaining movie. Admittedly, I thought the violence a bit overdone, but the characters seem to weather all the storms with surprisingly little pain. Perhaps there were also too many twists in the narrative, but it certainly kept moving at an admirably fast clip. Production values are absolutely superb. Perhaps Madonna is not always photographed to her advantage, but you can't look luscious all the time, and I thought that she and Penn delivered quite charismatic performances. The support cast was great too.And the wonderful music score from George Harrison was an added delight. And I've no complaints whatever with my Artisan DVD. I thought it was perfect. In all, 93 fast-moving, adventurous minutes. "},{"Title":"I liked it!","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" OK, it's not a classic, not every movie is, but if you just want to see a tongue-in-cheek romantic comedy you could do worse.The music of George Harrison helps and I, for one, kinda' liked this unpretentious little movie.Not many movies were being made about China in 1986 and being set in 1938 during the Japanese occupation adds some historic appeal. The plot, although unbelievable, is not really predictable and some of the supporting characters are interesting to say the least.If you want to see a great movie then watch something else but if you like a fun movie with a few twists and turns then Shanghai Surprise might be just right. "},{"Title":"25 years later it's mellowed with age","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" The thought struck me recently that this movie was unfavorably received by critics and audiences alike at the time of its release (1986) because of the celebrity status of the two leading stars - Madonna and Sean Penn. But, if you watch the movie today, some twenty five years later, and if you are able to put the hype and the celebrity status of those two stars out of your mind, then, the movie doesn't seem so bad. In fact, it's actually a pretty good escapist adventure romp along the lines of an Indiana Jones movie.I watched this movie for the first time just recently, as I was scared away from viewing it all those many years prior, simply because of all the negative hype surrounding it - the hype that said it was a real stinker. But I actually found it to be a pretty engrossing story, with a nicely done cinematography that oozed a colorful, exotic, sometimes even enchanting Oriental atmosphere that was hard to dismiss. Some of the shots, as filmed, were... beautiful! So don't let 1980's critics scare you away this movie is worth a shot, and if you can mentally distill the two leads down to just being a guy and a girl from 1930's America thrust into an adventure escapade set in a faraway exotic locale, then you just might enjoy this movie for what it was meant to be pure escapist entertainment.Not perfect, but then again, NOT the stinker it has been made out to be. "},{"Title":"Nice tie, shame about the film....","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" Glendon Wasey is a fortune hunter looking for a fast track out of China. Gloria Tatlock is a missionary nurse seeking the curing powers of opium for her patients. Fate sets them on a hectic, exotic, and even romantic quest for stolen drugs. But they are up against every thug and smuggler in Shanghai.....If you ever want to see a film starring a married couple who have zero chemistry in a movie, then this is a must.It's labelled as an adventure romance, so you'd be forgiven to think your about to watch a homage to Indiana Jone ps by way of romancing the stone. Instead you get a film that is more like a homage to Firewalker, by way of Allan Quartemain in the eighties, and every bit as bad as it sounds.We have Paul Freeman pretending to be an old Oirish clergyman, and the big reveal at the end is wasted, because we see him without his contacts in for at least five minutes before he goes 'ta da'.There's a man with porcelain hands, Penn looks like he's been taking some sort if narcotic throughout filing, and Madonna, is supposed to be a virginal missionary.......Isn't it all hilarious.It's dreck of the highest order, and no wonder they broke up after this, I hated everybody after sitting through it.Devoid of almost anything, it's a surprise it didn't sink Handmade pictures.... "},{"Title":"It's true  one of the worst movie ever, Madonna or not (web)","Date":"8 March 2015","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" When the opening credits start, you are surprised how it's immediately bad  the song is lame, the visual inspiration is particularly awful. Then, the first scene comes and you are already bored. Then, comes Madonna, Sean Penn and nothing changes  there are no story, no action, no exoticism ! This is like this for nearly 100 minutes and if you wonder why the movie bombed, well, now you know ! For those who expected a firework between the new spouses, it's a disappointment  it's maybe the first couple on a screen who doesn't exude a little chemistry between them ! Shot on locations on Macau, you expected to feel like « Empire of the sun » or « Indy 2 » but the places are limited to the port, a lake, and looks like today! The big action sequence is a ridiculous rickshaw pursuit and the special effects are just laughable as much as they are bad (exploded hands, tomato blood!)... In other words, the movie is just totally uninteresting and in addition totally salvaged by a inept crew! "},{"Title":"Fun, but needed more action scenes","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" Everyone knows Shanghai Surprise (1986), starring Sean Penn and Madonna when they were still very young, is regarded as one of the worst films ever made. Don't believe it. I'm not saying it's a good film, but it's certainly not one of the worst ever made.People complain about the film and the acting as if it was supposed to be a serious drama when, in fact, it's a goofy romantic-comedy adventure a la High Road to China or Romancing the Stone, but with way more talk and less action. I'd also compare it to Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom but the Indiana Jones films are in a whole different league.Like I said, people complain about, say, Madonna's acting, but she strikes the right note for a semi-goofy romantic-comedy/adventure. It's low camp all the way. What other approach can you expect in this type of movie? The highlights are seeing Madonna and Sean when they were so young (not that I'm a fan of either), as well as George Harrison's original songs, the Hong Kong locations, a good Bond-parody villain and the amusing shenanigans throughout.If Shanghai Surprise had added two or three great action sequences the movie would have been better received. As it is, there are NO great action scenes. There are quite a few scenes of quasi-violence and intrigue, but no memorable action sequences like Indiana Jones. But, then again, maybe Shanghai Surprise can be respected for daring to be different by not catering to those with ADHD.GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"An amazing adventure film that deserves to be revalued","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Missionary Madonna hires adventure Penn to capture a cache of stolen opium in 1937 China, but only for medical purpose. The plot seems simple but it reserves  great unforseen turns of events, with a lot of action, a tender love story and a little bit of humour, on the backdrop of a beautiful 30s' China. Shanghai Surprise takes the best from 30s adventure films and re-propose it with the freshness of the 80s. The cinematography and the music are very suggestive and Madonna gives a good performance. She is a chameleon not only for what concern her looks but also getting into very different part (an explosive street girl in Desperately seeking Susan, a modern Betty Boop in Who's that girl, A seductive 30's night club star in Dick Tracy, a baseball girl in A league of their own, just the Body of evidence in the hononym film, an actress in the mirror in Dangerous game, the first lady of Argentina in Evita.etc. ) and I think that that is the most important quality that an actress should be! Penn is good too. Thrilling.exciting...really a good film.  "},{"Title":"Not that bad!","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm glad to see that I'm not the only person who thinks this film isn't a complete waste of time.I first rented the movie waaaaay back when it first came out on video and actually quite liked it. Then when it became available to buy, I hot footed it down to HMV to get my own copy, and I wasn't disappointed.Let's start off with Madonna. First of all, she looks gorgeous in this. And you know what, her acting isn't that bad. Yes, you read me right, she's not bad. What lets her down, however, is the clunky dialogue. Not even Meryl Streep could do much with this. But she's more than competent with what she has to work with.As for the story, well, it was never going to be a contender for film of the year, but it's straight forward enough and even has a little twist at the end (and no, I didn't see it coming). Madonna is a missionary out in Shanghai, trying to procure opium while Sean Penn is a... not sure exactly what he is, but he ends up helping Madonna against the baddies. Yes, it's full of clichés, but it's upbeat and doesn't take itself too seriously.I realise that the film won't be to everyone's tastes, but it's honestly not that bad. "},{"Title":"'Swept Away' syndrome first made its appearance 16 years earlier...","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" ... Lets vilify a film out of all proportion just because it's a project of Madonna and her beau... Shanghai Surprise is a better film than Swept Away, and even (whisper it) 'quite good'...Yes, you read me right...Had it been decided to make it without a married couple, this would've been released to little fanfare and been the quaint favourite of a select few. As it was; in 1986 everyone and their dog seemed desperate to put a spanner in the works of the 'Poison Penns' nuptials, and their intended target was starkly visible... If one is actually intelligent enough to assess it sans 'scandal mag' hysteria, it's an innocuous enough concoction. Interesting sets, a quirky character or two, 'screwball' situations... Sean Penn should've been intelligent enough to pass on what's essentially Raiders of The Lost Ark's more 'insipid' step-child; but hey, he was *in love* at the time, so cut 'im some slack... ! 'Love' - the same sickness that prompted most of Madonna's other career mis-steps, as well; (Unless she fell in love with a crew-member, there's NO excuse for Who's That Girl... ) and she's out of her depth, here. Sean knows it too, which is why he looks uncomfortable most of the time, but he's still professional enough to wring one or two chuckles from his unscrupulous character - that's as staple in this genre as an 'ill-timed avalanche', BTW - albeit in a manner that still allows the likes of Michael Douglas to sleep safe in his bed.The awkward pairing we're given though even adds to the fun, although presumably that WASN'T part of the producers' 'grand plan'... Remember how, in 'Temple of Doom', lots of people said the Kate Capshaw character was annoying? Well, so is Madonna here, I guess; it's just this time I don't think it was scripted that way... ! Still, it works effectively enough, as each time Sean gets exasperated with her, so do we the viewers... !Apparently all that's needed to draw the ire of millions is one main star who's better than the material, and one who's worse... Which is which in the case of Gigli... ?! I haven't seen that one yet; but if it gets attacked for the same mean-spirited motives as this, then I'm actually quite looking forward to it... ! When movie stars get hitched, it's been proved that all they're doing is doubling the amount of criticism that gets thrown their way.EDIT - It must be said, some two months later, that Gigli IS almost as bad as reputed... There's still nothing of the like to be wary of here, though... ! "}{"Title":"Enjoyable Idiotic Indiana Jones/Swept Away Wannabe","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, after the hoopla of the Madonna/Penn train wreck, I've watched this again. Don't ask, I was bored! But in all honesty, this film isn't as bad as critics said at the time. This is actually quite cute.Richard Griffiths (Harry Potter's Uncle Vernon) makes an appearance, and helps even out Madonna's lesser performance, if only a bit. Penn, on the other hand, is great, if ill at ease with the dialog and Madonna's presence. It seems unfortunate that he chose to costar alongside his wife to be, as instead of uplifting her talents, it merely drags his down.This is fun, but Indiana Jones, it ain't.It rates a 6.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone makes it out to be.","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" I came across this movie at my local video store, and my Madonna-loving heart just had to buy it; it was only $3.15, and I was sure it couldn't have been as bad as everyone made it out to be.I was right. While it's in no way outstanding or excellent, and is, in fact, probably slightly bad (but more mediocre than anything), it's no way the worst movie ever made, or deserving of being on the Bottom 100, either.The only acting I found to be lacking was from Madonna, who seemed stiff in several scenes in the first half and rather annoying throughout the last half. I don't see where the hate against Sean Penn's performance is coming from - like in Fast Times at Ridgemont High, I was able to focus on the character and forget about the fact that I really dislike Sean Penn, so he must have done something right.The plot wasn't bad, either - a bit confusing in places, but otherwise decent. A lot of stuff that I found to be rather ridiculous in the beginning made more sense in the end (why missionaries would be looking for opium), and I didn't find Madonna the Missionary's unethical behavior to be that far-fetched or over-the-top.All in all, a decent, somewhat (unintentionally) campy movie recommended to fans of Madonna, Sean Penn, or both the Poison Penns. Otherwise, if it comes on TV, and you're bored with nothing else to do, consider giving it a try. "},{"Title":"A good adventure movie that should be revalued!","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Missionary `Madonna' hires adventurer `Penn' to capture a cache of stolen opium in 1937 China, but only for medical purposes. The plot seems simple but it reserves great unforeseen turns of events, with a lot of action, a tender love story and a little bit of humor, on the backdrop of a beautiful 30s' China. `Shangay Surprise' takes the best from 30s adventure films and re-propose it with the freshness of the 80s. The cinematography and the musics are very suggestive and Madonna gives a good performance. She is a chameleon not only for what concern her looks but also getting into very different part (an explosive street girl in `Desperately Seeking Susan', a modern `Betty Boop' in `Who's that girl', a seductive 30's night club star in `Dick Tracy', a baseball girl in `A league of their own', just the `Body of evidence' in the homonym film, an actress in the mirror in `Dangerous game', the first lady of Argentina in `Evita'&#133;etc. ) and I think that this is the most important quality that an actress should have! Penn is good too. Thrilling&#133;exciting...really a good film!  "},{"Title":"i love madonna, but this must be her worst movie...","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As you can see by the name in my email adress, i am a huge fan of madonna, but in this movie she performs her worst acting.... I personally think it's because of the cooperation between husband and wife (madonna and sean penn). In the past this combination of husband and wife playing together in the same movie has to end in a bad trip! Examples Bruce willis & Demi Moore, Nicole Kidman & Tom Cruise, i am sure you can name one couple for yourself who are acting in a movie, but the acting isn't worth the movie..... "},{"Title":"The most underrated movie on this site","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not a fan of Penn or Madonna, but this movie is undoubtedly the most underrated film on IMDb.  I can't believe that Shanghai Surprise user rating is only 2.6 and is on it's way to bottom 100.The story here is very good, Penn was okay and Madonna was not as bad as in other her films, so I rated it strong 6 out of 10, not an 0.1 less but not an 0.1 more.  Perhaps it's not an excellent adventure, but still very entertaining, sometimes funny,and with beautiful cinematography as a bonus. Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Two music icons for a big big flop","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the biggest history flops. Why? It's not easy to answer. Madonna has just become the queen of pop thanks to her top-selling album Like A Virgin and she has already been considered a hot actress thanks to the huge success of Desperately Seeking Susan. So everyone was waiting for her next step. The following album left everyone breathless True Blue became her greatest success ever selling over 23 millions copies, but her next movie was going' to be one of the biggest flop of movie industry. Her partner was Sean Penn, then her real life partner ( they got married the previous year), the director was the legendary member of The Beatles George Harrison, but the movie was a disaster since the beginning she described it as a surviving test, 'cause weather conditions were terrible and paparazzi were always following them ( Madonna and Sean Penn) wherever they were going. She states  We were very disappointed. We want to make a love movie, they cut all dramatic scenes and make it an action movie. They have cut all my best scenes, my character seems to be without personality now. Sean Penn said to his friend Chrissie Hunde Please don't watch it, as you're my friend and I don't want you to watch it. For all those thing, I recommend it! "},{"Title":"Penn's Bad Performance Saves the Film From Being Even Worse","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" Shanghai Surprise (1986) * 1/2 (out of 4) I love watching bad movies from all periods of history and this 1986 turkey has one of the worst reputations out there. While this is certainly a bad movie it's still far from one of the worst ever made. The film's simple story involves a missionary worker (Madonna) who hires an American (Sean Penn) stranded in China to locate some missing opium that needs to be used for medical reasons. The two end up in one shady place after another and running into corrupt cops, gangsters and countless double-crossers. SHANGHAI SURPRISE certainly is a surprise because it features Sean Penn, one of the greatest actors of the past thirty-years, in such a bad performance that one really needs to consider it one of the worst performances by any great actor in the history of cinema. I really can't think of one good thing to say about the performance other than it's so bad that it gives the film the only reason to be viewed because as a major fan of his I can't help but admit that I was drawn into the movie simply because of how bad it was. This might seem crazy to say but had Penn's performance been somewhat better I think the film would have been even worse and nearly impossible to get through. While Penn's performance is bad, what really kills this movie is the lackluster direction by Jim Goddard who doesn't seem to know what type of movie he wants to make. There's no question that this is a rip-off of RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARC but the problem here is that the action doesn't work, the comedy isn't funny and there's simply no adventure or characters to care about. This movie is incredibly lifeless from the first sequence to the very last one and even when we do get an action scene it's so poorly put together that you can't help but yawn. The screenplay has so many plot holes that you can't help but quit trying to figure out anything going on and things only get worse as more and more characters are dragged into the mess. We've already established that Penn's not very good here but the same goes for his then-wife Madonna. I've never been one to overly bash here and while the performance isn't the best, you can't overlook this because she's not an actress. At least she can say that she out-performed the future two-time Oscar-winner. Richard Griffiths has a small supporting role and is one of the few good things. Ex-Beatle George Harrison was the executive producer of this thing and he co-wrote the score and performed the songs. The score isn't too bad but it doesn't fit the film too well and none of the songs are all that memorable. "},{"Title":"Ugh! Learn a lesson, people!","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime, Drama","Review":" What is it with bad reviews and pop stars who cannot act, huh? And this is the 80s! Did you think things would be different back in the day? Huh? I guess not! But I'm not one of those people - I do adore movies whose stars are none other than pop stars! It gives me a great chance to see pop stars in action - doing things that we cannot see on the radio because there's no screen on a radio! LOL However, there are screens on a television and a movie auditorium, and I can see the pop stars there! So why give negative reviews on movies like these when people like us give positive reviews? This movie is an 11 out of 10 stars! "}]