[{"Title":"A great film","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"64 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is just as good or even better that it predecessor, Jean de Florette (1986). It is amazing how well thought out the story is. Like a Greek tragedy, everything falls into place, everything is accounted for as fate conspires with character to bring about retribution for those who did wrong.We feel sad and sorry for Papet and Ugolin, whose weaknesses and crimes are so like our own.Daniel Auteuil, who plays Ugolin, is a actor with great range and sensitivity. He is unforgettable here as a not-too-bright peasant who suffers an excruciating and hopeless case of unrequited love. And Yves Montand, who plays his uncle is flawless, like an Olivier, as he experiences a very cruel turn of fate. Emmanuelle Béart, who plays Manon, is very beautiful, but she is also strange enough to be believable in an unlikely role as a solitary shepherdess of the hills of Provence. Claude Berri's direction is so perfectly paced, so full of attention to detail and so unobtrusive and natural that the film just seems to happen without effort. Nothing fancy, just show what needs to be seen, no more. Use no more words than necessary, but all that are necessary. It's almost like magic, how easy it looks. The scene near the end when the blind woman reveals the cruel turn of fate to Papet is exquisite in its simplicity and its effectiveness.In a sense this movie is a throw back an earlier era in cinema when careful attention to the construction of a character-driven story was the essence of the art.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"French films in the classroom","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"41 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I always felt that the week I needed to show the two films was worth the time for the students  they heard other-than-Parisian accents and they saw truly fine films!  I enjoyed watching them as well, but I always went to the front of the room toward the end of Manon so I could watch the reaction of the students at the revealing scene near the end.  One year, a young lady whom I did not particularly like was glued to the TV closest to her  her eyes widened, her mouth gaped, and perfectly silent tears started to flow down her cheeks.  Not a motion, not a sound...just tears.  I decided I liked her quite a bit more than I previously had!   "},{"Title":"Your soul will be left glowing. These movies will shower you with gold.","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"35 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For those of you English-only speakers who don't like sitting through foreign language films with either their dubbing or having to read subtitles, retain an open mind. Rent Jean de Florette and its second part Manon of the Spring tonight. Sit back and relax, and you will have more than just the wind knocked out of you from this cinematic masterpiece. The late Gene Siskel, bless his soul, placed these films on his top ten list for the year of 1987. The American Academy completely ignored these films; the British Academy awarded Jean de Florette / Manon of the Spring Best Film of the year.You will find tears coming to your eyes simply from seeing the stunning beauty of the French countryside and the farming life. It'll make city dwellers long to breath the fresh country air! You will be captivated by all the very unique characters brilliantly portrayed by the actors. A hunchback played by good old Gerard Depardieu is full of love for life and his veins are afire with excitement for putting into practice some innovative ideas about farming. But, little does he know that his neighbours, pretending to be friendly, are filled with greed and jealousy, and are plotting and scheming against him behind his back. Part 1 Jean de Florette ends tragically, but just wait till you see the sun of justice gradually rise in Part 2 Manon of the Spring.At the end of Jean de Florette, the hunchback's daughter overhears the neighbours talking and realises that they were scheming against their family the whole time and sabotaged their farming. In Manon of the Spring, she has grown up, having kept to herself over the years. But she comes across farming neighbours talking about what happened in the past and she can no longer let them go unpunished. She burns up inside. What makes matters worse is that one of the neighbours that conspired against her father falls in love with her and chases her through the countryside, shouting, Je t'aime! Je t'aime! (I love you! I love you!). The film ends with a series of shocking revelations that the viewer could never have guessed. The plot comes full circle and couldn't be more ironically perfect!Your soul will be left glowing. These movies will shower you with gold. (10 out of 10 for both films)  "},{"Title":"One of the Very Best Films of the 1980s","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Manon of the Spring is the sequel to Jean de Florette, released the same year. By no means should Manon be rented without having first seen Jean. By no means, in either case, should one glance at the movie notes on the reverse side of the video box.Almost nothing can be said safely about Manon without giving away the overall plot or this or that twist or turn. Suffice to explain that Jean concerns an urbanite hunchback who relocates to the Provencal countryside with his wife and daughter, intent on raising rabbits. Manon picks up some years after the Jean conclusion, with the daughter having grown to young womanhood. (More prudish prospective viewers need to know that this will be explicitly evident.)This is superb movie-making. Other reviewers accurately call it a masterpiece. The story line dominates, not the acting. Even so, Yves Montand continues his excellent performance from Jean, and Daniel Auteuil as the unsightly nephew is more impressive after one sees him clean-cut and sophisticate in something like Un Coeur en Hiver (1992). Emmanuelle Beart and Hipployte Girardot say very little, yet it doesn't detract from their respective essential portrayals. Anyone who becomes a Beart fan is advised to rent Nelly & Monsieur Arnaud (1995).The two movies, prequel and sequel, work as a team. By virtue of its powerful denouement, however, Manon of the Spring is the standout of the pair. For the same reason, in my opinion, it is one of the very best films of the 1980s. "},{"Title":"The best film ever","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This (and Jean de Florette) is the most moving, well thought out film I have ever watched. The countryside makes me long to go to France, to where it was filmed, to see Les Romarins and Les Bastides. The music is like an eerie prayer that reminds my soul of pauvre Galinette et ses rouges oeillets, et Papet Soubeyrans, et Manon Cadoret. The red carnations are a haunting image...Both books are as good as the movies; I recommend anybody who likes this film to buy them (if you can read French, that is!). I would give everyone, Marcel Pagnol, Claude Berri, etc etc a gold medal for these works- well done!By the way, have a look at the earlier version of Manon des Sources. An actress called Jaqueline Pagnol is in it -she is the wife of Marcel Pagnol who wrote both books! "},{"Title":"A Good Sequel Than Needs To Be Seen With 'Jean de Florette'","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a good sequel to Jean de Florette which was made earlier in the year. Both movies should be seen back-to-back to make this story complete and comprehensible. Actually, this really could be called Jean de Florette Part Two.Manon Of The Spring features Emmanuelle Beart, who has to have one of the prettiest faces ever put on film. She plays the now-grown-up woman who gets revenge on the men who ruined her father when she was a little girl.As in the first film, this has interesting characters. The cinematography isn't quite as striking as Florette, but still decent. There are some neat twists at the end of the story, tying all of it together. The 113-minute film starts slowly for the first third but then picks up nicely to become a memorable story.Remember, you shouldn't watch this film without seeing the one first. "},{"Title":"Terrificly upsetting ending to the larger-than-life story","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jean de Florette ends very tragically and with great unfairness. It's a very ingenious idea because now the audience is practically dying to see Manon des sources. Cesar Soubeyran and Ugolin simply can't win, it just wont do. Even though the sequel shows how hunchback's grown-up daughter Manon (enchanting Emmanuelle Béart) finally revenges all the cruelty and evil she and her father had to put up with, Manon des sources is actually even darker and more melancholy and dismal than the first film and not even half as funny. The ending turns out to be even twice as unhappy. All the same both of these movies are fantastic and Manon des sources only slightly weaker, I guess mostly because of the intelligible absence of Gérard Depardieu's charmingly sympathetic character who was the heart of the previous movie. French cinema at its best, Manon des sources is perfect and massively emotional drama and a movie experience you will remember rest of your life. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Following the death of her father, Manon (Emmanuelle Beart) has remained in the farm house tending goats. Galinette (Auteuil) and his uncle Cesar (Montard) have greatly prospered from the fresh spring water and their carnations grow well. Galinette begins to turn towards ideas of love and steadily falls for the distant Manon. Meanwhile she has discovered the treachery that once befell her father and begins her plan to uncover the culprits.This follows on from the open-ended story of Jean de Florette. Time has passed and Manon is now a beautiful young woman. This film will satisfy those who felt the bleak ending of the first film was not satisfying. This sees those who acted in greed receive their deserves. As a conclusion to the story it is satisfactory - the film begins quite relaxed and is quite humorous throughout. However the punishment of both Galinette and Cesar is moving. Cesar's fate is particularly impacting and you feel sorry for him and his greediness.The performances are not as strong as before. In the first film both Montard and Auteuil had set characters to play. Here they are less set and act out their roles rather than their characters. Beart is good as Manon, but she is too different in heart from the angel of the first - it's understandable why she has changed but where she was since the last film is not clear, it's unlikely that her mother would have left her at the farm or that she would have let her leave to return. But this is a minor complaint over a moving tale of deserves. I would say this rather than revenge - because both Galinette and Cesar bring their pains upon themselves.My only problem with this is that it follows the story of the first film. However to me the first film was more about human nature (greed & hope specifically) rather than the story of the farmland and the spring. Although the end of Jean de Florette was bleak it was perhaps understandable that things should end that way. That said this is a good conclusion to the story if that's what you want - although as a further look at human nature it doesn't convince as well as the first did.Manon des Sources is a good film that has all the visual beauty of the first film and continues the strong emotive story - as a pair of films they are an excellent piece of work. However for me, the first film is so strong in all areas that it leaves too much for the second to live up to.A moving sequel that almost manages to live up to what went before. "},{"Title":"Part 2 is just as amazing","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After spending 2 hours with Manon, I'm still in shock, but in a way I saw it coming. The film proves that greed only last for a certain time, but love and being a good person is what lasts forever. That's where happiness lies.Our crimes pay, it will eventually catch up with you, and this picture tells us best.I won't say anymore.The picture is as amazing as the first, Jean de Florette. "},{"Title":"Revenge and Revelation","Date":"27 October 2010","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ten years after the death of Jean Cadoret, his wife has returned to the life of opera singer and his daughter Manon (Emmanuelle Béart) has grown up and become a gorgeous lonely shepherdess. Ugolin (Daniel Auteuil) is now a thirty year-old wealthy bachelor planting carnations. His grandfather Cesar Soubeyran (Yves Montand) presses him to get married to carry the name of their family since he is the last man alive. When Ugolin sees Manon on the fields, he falls in love with her, but the shy Manon is infatuated with the school teacher Bernard Olivier (Hippolyte Girardot). One day, Manon overhears the conversation of two locals about the vile action of Ugolin and Cesar and she plots revenge against the two scoundrels blocking the spring of the whole town. While the farmers and the dwellers despair and the mayor summons a water specialist from the city, the priest organizes a precession. Later Cesar has a conversation with the blind Delphine (Yvonne Gamy) that discloses a secret about his beloved Florette.Definitely Jean de Florette and Manon des Sources are among the best films I have ever seen. The revelation in the end of the story is unpredictable and closes this engaging story with golden key. The beauty of Emmanuelle Béart and the haunting music score are mesmerizing. I only regret that the Brazilian title is actually a spoiler. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) A Vingança de Manon (Manon's Revenge) "}{"Title":"A sequel that is almost better than the original","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is my favourite French movie of all time.  The cycle of life and death, as symbolized at the wedding at the end while one of the characters visits the cemetary, is so poetically portrayed in this movie.  Nobody is crudely and simply drawn here--you understand motivation, human nature, and the capacity for both good and evil that exists in all of us.  The film would also be an excellent travelogue of Provence, and its slow, deliberate pacing enables you to envelop yourself in a story that unveils itself in its own sweet time.  Even though Daniel Auteil's character was supposed to be evil, his love for Manon was so heartbreakingly portrayed you couldn't help but feel for him.  And of course what can be said about Yves Montand--he can say more with one raised eyebrow on that great wrinkled face than Bruce Willis can mumble in an entire movie...the highest recommendation for both Jean de Florette and Manon of the Spring "},{"Title":"First French film seen!","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was the first French film I ever saw! It wasn't the last - I came to appreciate the cinema of Jean-Luc Godard, Jean-Pierre Jeunet & Marc Caro, Claude Berri, Claude Sautet, Jacques Rivette, etc. through watching this fabulous film.Emmanuelle Beart is divine.Yves Montand is now sorely missed.And Daniel Auteuil is on the form of his life here.If YOU want to get into European films, this is a cracking way to start. Magnifique!  "},{"Title":"The standard for giving a 10","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Whenever I'm tempted to give a movie that I liked a lot a 10 rating, I think of this and Jean de Florette (it's one long story arc).  It's a rare film that comes up to this standard.Strongly recommend that you rent them both at once; watch Jean de Florette on Friday or Saturday, and then watch Manon of the Spring the next day. Otherwise, Jean de Fleurette is just too damn depressing.But whether apart or taken together, they are as fine a work of art as any of us can hope to ask for.  "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of story, photography, and acting","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Manon des Sources finishes where its previous film, Jean de Florette, left off. It takes up the tale of Manon, the beautiful young daughter whose father is gone due to the evil deeds of their neighbors.It is 10 years past Jean de Florette, and Manon is reduced to being a lone shepherdess in the hills for a small goat herd. Meanwhile, Ugolin, one of the men who wronged her family, has fallen in love with her.As the movie progresses, the dark secret from Jean is fully revealed to all. The crime involves not only the two Soubeyrans behind the plot of the first film, but it even extends to implicate the entire town. As more is uncovered, Manon is driven to consider dark plans of a fitting revenge on them all.The film binds all the people in town in a wonderfully spun knot of love, hate, crime, guilt, vengeance, repentance, and the possibility of forgiveness. And just when you think you've seen the completion of a superb story, there is one rich twist at the end that ties it all up into a perfect masterpiece.Besides the wonderful story, the scenery is again gorgeously photographed. The acting is wonderful -- you end up feeling deep sympathy for all the characters in the film, no matter what their wrongs.The first film was a solid 8, but this is definitely a rare 10. "},{"Title":"It is a delight.  The screenplay is extraordinary.  The acting magnificent.","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's rare for a sequel to best the original.  Manon des sources, the sequel to Jean de Florette, does just that.  It's better!  It is paced to fly.  Emmanuelle Béart's stunning portrayal of Manon - a beautiful girl with a heart full of revenge for what the bad guys did to her Dad - has a lot to do with it.  My wife saw Part II with me without having the benefit of Jean de Florette and enjoyed it immensely as a standalone film.  Without having viewed the slower paced Jean, however, it's hard to understand the depth of hatred Manon would have for the people that indirectly and directly did her father wrong.  It is a delight.  The screenplay is extraordinary.  The acting magnificent.  It is the perfect story.  The dastardly pair Yves Montand and Daniel Auteuil get precisely what they deserve in a very satisfying way.  And you've got to love the blind woman.Recommendation Jean de Florette should be released as a paired movie.  Instead, it announces that Part II (Manon...) is now available.   DVD manufacturer's take note  Pair it up and sell more movies.  See it soon.  9 / 10.   "},{"Title":"Superb ending to a great artistic pas de deux","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILERSManon des Sources is the second part of the highly acclaimed Jean de Florette double,adapted from a movie/novel made by Marcel Pagnol. The movie picks up the trail were the first part left off and although both movies were made in the same year there has been a a complete make-over in the characters (not the names but their appereance).The story takes place 10 years after Jean de Florette (Gerard Depardieu who of course isn't present in this film) was killed in an accident on his land caused by the evil secrecy from Cesar (Yves Montand) and Ugolin Soubeyran (Daniel Auteuil.The daughter of Jean now wants her revenge and gets it after she stops the water from coming into the village and on the country.This act causes the villagers to tell the truth about what happened in the past and it all ends with a climax that is as surprising and as shocking as one has ever seen.Like in the first film the acting is again first class,especially by Yves Montand who plays brilliantly.But the performances of Daniel Auteuil,Emmanuelle Beart (who plays Manon) and a great supporting role by Yvonne Gamy (who is responsible for the extraordinary climax) are also of the highest quality.Yes this is a real actors movie. But the surroundings are yet again superb and brilliantly shot by Bruno Nuytten,some of the shots are so beautiful that it seems like a dream.One setting is gone though and that's the house of the guardian of Manon.The location of that house reminded me a lot to the house of General Makabe (Toshiro Mufine) in the great adventure movie Kakushi toride no san akunin or The Hidden Fortress by Akira Kurosawa.But still,that doesn't take away the strength of the images in Manon des Sources.Everything comes to an end in one brilliant scene in which the old lady Delphine (played by Yvonne Gamy) tells Cesar that the hunchback that he betrayed and,in a way,killed was actually his son.This confession is so riveting yet beautifully acted that it doesn't seem too much. It is a righteous ending to a very good 4 hour movie experience wisely cut in two.  9/10  (currently number 96 in my all time top 100 list) "},{"Title":"Well worth using in the classroom","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have been showing Jean de Florette and Manon des Sources in my French classroom for the past ten years.  What I find most fascinating about this process is that for many of the students, it is their first experience in watching a foreign film with subtitles, and initially they are not too receptive to the experience.  But very frequently, after having seen Jean de Florette ( I show it in first year French), they are so anxious to see what happens that they go and rent the sequel on their own and want to discuss it in class.This film and its sequel are studies in human nature, in addition to being traveloges of some of the most beautiful countryside in the world.  Some of the observations that the students have made about the characters is that they refer to the land and the water with reverential terms.  The characters' downfalls are brought about usually because of their inability to accept their restrictions.If you want two films to use in a French classroom where the scenery is beautiful, the dialogue is usually understandable and the storyline is acceptable to the general public (since we all have to answer to the school boards and the administration), these are the films to use.  In addition, if you haven't seen them and you want to just lose yourself in two remarkable films just for the love of good films, these are the ones. "},{"Title":"should be watched twice in youth then in age.","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A superb movie that works on so many levels....I first saw this and jean de florette as a teenager and was satisfied by the happy ending I thought it was then but now older, wiser and much more experienced in life,I have watched it again and was brought to tears by the tragedy of the ending I never truly appreciated or realised before in my youth.I like this movie manon and jean de florette for tapping into the humanity of us all, how easy it to make wrong choices and actions not seeing the consequences to others and to ourselves, only seeing the immediate goal. How many things I would change now if I could.....a 10 for a truly human movie and of course for great acting, beautiful countryside and music that only serve to compliment it. "},{"Title":"Compelling French Movie","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This, along with its other half Jean de Florette, has to be one of the best movies ever made. The great storyline is really brought to life by excellent photography and some very solid and believable performances by a pretty much flawless cast (I thought Manon was used a little too much for just looking pretty, but I can hardly blame the director for it). It was aired here in the uk with each part a week apart, which spoiled the flow somewhat but it's testament to the quality of the film that I made a point of seeing the second part. A few hints here about some secrets coming out helped ;0). It's great to see characters that aren't 'black and white' (I *felt* for Cesar during his talk with the old, blind woman even after all he'd caused) and I only wish more films were made like this. I only wish my French was better so that I could have spent more time watching the great actors rather than reading the subtitles, but dubbing would never do. And Manon herself; I can well see how she would drive someone mad with love. You don't need subtitles for that. I registered just to vote for this film and I gave it 10/10. This, along with Taxi, have really shown me that French cinema can be so good I'm apprehensive about seeing any more; nothing could ever come as close, surely? It's one of those few films I've seen where after seeing it you want to see it all over again right away, even knowing what happens, as the atmosphere and acting really draw you in. It was aired here in the early hours of the morning, which means fewer people might have had a chance to encounter it but the stillness of the early hours definitely helped the film take me away to rural france for a few hours...  "},{"Title":"a sequel that's even better than the original!","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wow. I loved the first movie, Jean de Florette--probably because the original story by the great Marcel Pagnol is so terrific. I assumed that I would like this sequel but was pleasantly surprised that I liked it even more than the original. If I recall correctly, Leonard Maltin felt the opposite. Oh well,...at least one of us must be correct! This story is so exceptional because it took the intricate plot and machinations from the original and created the best plot twists and surprises. I won't divulge any more than that--it would ruin the movie for you! Although Gérard Depardieu is not in this movie (to find out why you'll need to see the first film) and that is a shame because his acting was so graceful and charming. However, he was only slightly missed as most of the same cast returns--with the major exception being Manon--ably played by Emmanuelle Béart. Watch it!By the way, parents may want to watch the film before they let the kids see it. Ms. Béart does some nude scenes that are quite titillating. "}{"Title":"One Of Best Films Ever (with Part 1, Jean de Florette which you need see first)","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When this movie ends, you will be devastated - and haunted forever by it. Here are the tragic consequences of pettiness, jealousy and evil scheming - graphically presented in a stunning two-part movie (Gerard Depardieu delivers a tour de force performance in Part 1, the movie Jean de Florette, which you need to see before seeing this movie, Manon Of The Spring). This brilliant French opus has been largely ignored and/or forgotten here in America but it sets a standard few American films of its time came close to achieving. I loved it so much I went out and bought the VCRs and recently (with great difficulty), the DVDs (which are hard to find, sadly). Few American movies come close to the greatness of this film duo and their memorable impact. "},{"Title":"Sheer perfection","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I decided to do my review/praising of Jean De Florette here on the Manon Des Sources board. After all, it is not a sequel, but a continuation of the same story.Being made at the same time, the beauty captured in Jean De Florette flowed effortlessly into Manon Des Sources. I just find these two films so entrancing in every way. It's drama and tragedy of the highest order without a single ounce of melodrama to spoil its earthy and honest depiction of rural life in France. It is, as a friend on IMDb said, the ultimate Greek tragedy, but in France. It is true that I have never seen tragic irony done so well as as at the end of this film. It's pure film-making at its very best set against the most rustic scenery and music one could hope for.I am here speaking on behalf of both films, which at this late stage of the calender year, are currently my favourites this year. The effectiveness of the ending of Manon is owed in huge part to the way the character of Cesar is built throughout Jean De Florette, and so together I give these films a resounding 10/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful sequel to Jean de Florette","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Emmanuelle Beart is Manon, the beautiful daughter of Jean de Florette from the film of the same name which continues the story of the farmer who was tricked out of his land by unscrupulous neighbors. Beart as Manon is breathtakingly gorgeous, perfectly cast as a shepherdess who while leading a flock of sheep and bathing in the nude is looked upon by the son of the man who destroyed her fathers life. Manon discovers the secret and plots revenge on the evil doers.Manon manages to pay back the people who did her father wrong in this equally picturesque and emotional follow up to Jean de Florette. I would recommend watching the two films one after the other. "},{"Title":"Amazing film","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having adored Jean De Florette, of which Manon of the Spring(or Manon Des Sources) follows on from, I found this film every bit as amazing. Once again the cinematography shimmers and the scenery is some of the best I have seen in any film. There is also a haunting score, a compelling story and a genuinely moving script, and Berri's direction is paced perfectly to suit life under the scorching sun. The performances are every bit as impressive, Emmanuelle Beart is alluring and very believable, and Yves Montand and Daniel Auteuil are once again outstanding, particularly Auteuil when he tries to atone. Overall, an amazing and I think poignant film. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Qualifies as a classic Greek tragedy.","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have many favorites, and this is one of the crème de la crème. This is a visually stunning film more like beautiful photographic montage. It is simple, tragic story well told, unlike many of today's plots - implausibly lame, suffering on a CGI crutch for 85 minutes. The simple story is about enduring truths which have been the mainstay of the Greek classics and Shakespeare Our human strengths, our failings, our virtues, and our vices. The story may be a fiction, but its kernel is not. It is stories and story telling like this which has kept our rapt attention for four thousand years.First we should understand that this film is NOT A SEQUEL, but the second half the novel by Marcel Pagnol which would have been too long as a single film, and out of necessity, was shot as two. The first half is titled, Jean de Florette. Neither film stands alone as satisfactory because, obviously, it would be incomplete, and naturally, is also important that the two halves be viewed in sequence. For a fairly dispassionate précis of the plots, I suggest reading the ones on Wikipedia and the discussion boards, so I won't be repetitive here. JdF & MotS were both shot at the same time in 1986 with a budget of $17 million making it/them the biggest budget French films up to that time. JdF grossed $86M worldwide, and of that sum, only $4.9M was from the USA. MotS grossed $56M worldwide, of which only $3.9M was from the USA. In other words, culture films are not a good fit for the American viewing audience, and the gross revenue numbers bear this out. The rest of the world seems to bear out this conclusion.Foreign language films rarely do well in the USA for the simple reason that the vast majority of the viewing audience are unilingual anglophones who do not wish to burden themselves with having to work at understanding their entertainment - they wish to merely consume it. If it requires the work of reading subtitles or thought, it becomes unpalatable. This film requires your attention and thought!But to be fair to the US viewers, the subtitles are at times incomplete or inaccurate, and unlike the spoken word, they do not convey the emphasis or importance of certain bits of dialogue well. The plot is woven steadily throughout the film, so the viewers with no understanding at all of the French language are missing essential dialogue, and therefore plot.The bottom line is this You will either be entranced by these two films and love them, or you will be bored by the first 15 minutes, and you'll translate that into bad film. If your highest quality level of reading is Marvel comics then I suggest you stay away from this one.However, I recall years ago walking into a video store where this was playing on all the monitors. All the patrons in the store, ranging in age from 5 to 75 years, were standing transfixed watching this film. There was something magical about it! "},{"Title":"The Carnations of Wrath","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In Manon des Sources, the second chapter of his novel, L'eau des Collines (1963), Marcel Pagnol uses the same approach as he did in the first chapter (see my review of Jean de Florette on IMDb), posing questions and providing answers in a more or less convoluted, drawn-out way, the better to keep the viewer's suspense high.The first and most important question in this chapter concerns the soothing of our bad conscience following the less than satisfying conclusion of the preceding chapter. We feel perturbed for having resigned ourselves to accepting the outcome, the success of Ugolin's project, which we never totally rejected, at the expense of Jean's project, which we by now wish had succeeded. How will Pagnol liberate us from this disturbing feeling? We already know that Pagnol is not interested in introducing a Deus ex machina to discharge our anxiety. He will again proceed objectively, relying on the psychology of the different characters involved.The second question concerns the two new characters who appear on the scene a grown- up Manon and Bernard Olivier, the school teacher. We hope that they will be the ones to provide us with a more satisfying resolution to the first chapter. But what is done is done. The only liberation from the sense of guilt that we feel must be a plain, straightforward type of revenge on Ugolin and César for their crime. However, Manon appears to be so sweet and innocent that we feel that she could not possibly be the tool for revenge, no matter how well-justified. The presence of Bernard, then, offers a solution. Pagnol presented Bernard in such a way as to leave the viewer totally unconcerned about his character. So, we think that perhaps he will be the implement of vengeance against Ugolin and César and the rest of the village.When the perfidy of César and Ugolin is fully exposed, our conscience is partially appeased by Ugolin's suicide. But César's retribution will be more terrible yet, in what is one of the most dramatic endings of any film I have ever seen. Eventually, it is not certain that we applaud this ending either, as no matter how devious Ugolin and César were, we cannot totally erase the positive feelings they and their project inspired in us at the beginning of the first film.For the interpretation of the three leading roles, film director Caude Berry chose three exceptional actors, each with a unique personality and film presence. In the role of le Papet, we could not have imagined anyone other than Yves Montand, native of Marseille, a fabulous actor with more than sixty films on his resume, cabaret singer, and at one time candidate for France's presidency. This aging character of César, cantankerous at times, a happy strapping fellow at other times, a sensitive and vulnerable human being, is Montand himself, and vice-versa. As for Daniel Auteuil's performance, his attainment of the well-deserved César for best actor in 1987 for these two films, says it all. Finally, Emmanuelle Béart, who also won a César for best supporting actress in 1987, fills the role of Manon with grace.There are two additional brilliant actors in the films. First, there is the picturesque and harsh landscape of Provence. From the first minute of Jean de Florette until the end of Manon des Sources, we are seduced by the gorgeous images of the Provence countryside, and certainly by the love the director shows for Pagnol's work and the atmosphere it evokes. The second actor is the village itself, as portrayed through the different village characters, shown as little vignettes scattered throughout the films. We are thus introduced to the little community, from the cul-benit (blessed-ass), Anglade (Jean Maurel), to the secular, socialist, anti-clerical mayor, Philoxène. All these characters bring much authenticity to the story.Jean's musical theme is the overture from Giuseppe Verdi's La Forza del Destino, which Jean-Claude Petit weaves occasionally together with some expressive music to underscore some of the most dramatic moments of the film.The themes are the city versus the country, modern versus traditional, good versus bad, and memory versus oblivion.Pagnol does not consider the country life as a perfect universe, without conflicts. He illustrates the violence that can result from the peasants' deep attachment to their lands. Pagnol exposes us to the tribal mentality of the villagers against foreigners, such as the inhabitants of the nearby village of Crespin. The only outsiders accepted by the villagers are the pillars of a village society the priest, the doctor, and the school teacher. These outsiders are accepted for the obvious reason that the village needs them to exist. Finally, Pagnol shows us the deep motivation of Ugolin and César that is also easily understood by a city-dweller making money.Pagnol's message is thus humanistic in so far as, without ridicule or Manichaeism, he presents the motivations and different points of view of each of his characters. On the same humanistic level, these stories demonstrate that not withstanding apparent differences, such as social, regional or physical, all people are alike and deserve to be treated humanely. However, in that respect, Pagnol's philosophy is a little naïve. The reconciliation of the villagers with their past wrongdoing toward Jean Cadoret, symbolized by the marriage of Manon, occurs only when they understand that Jean was actually one of them. So the community of humans beyond differences that Pagnol proposes as an ideal only exists here because Jean belonged to the village. As such, according to Pagnol, the village life is idyllic, but for the eventual presence of harmful individuals such as Ugolin and César.In spite of Pagnol's naïve idealism, the films still succeed, because we are ultimately able to tie up all the loose ends, and to reconcile the warring factions through family and blood ties that transcend any geography. "},{"Title":"Breath-taking and bewildering!","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've seen quite a few French movies when I was in French class in high school. This one Manon des Sources (Manon of the Spring), is a very fascinating and entertaining movie. Fighting for land can go on for ages, when a uncle and his nephew try to gets some springs to help with their garden, they had to go by some family members to get it. Gerard Depardieu played a hunchback who was killed in an explosion, and the niece is being eyed on by the nephew of his scheming uncle. This movie got a lot of emotions and the wonder in plenty packed there. After the hunchback's death Manon(Emmanuelle Beart) would be playing her harmonica in her uncle's memory. In one scene, she's playing in the nude, and the nephew couldn't believe what he is seeing. Later on in times the pressure gets heavy for the scheming family, and the nephew gets the strange bow and sews in to his heart. That's very extreme. The uncle finds out about the bow after he commits suicide. The results are sad, and the scenes are very moving as well. A very big keeper, it's also a fine European gem! 5 stars! "},{"Title":"A film of authentic power","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After depriving their neighbor of the water on his land, an action that led to his untimely death, Cesar (Yves Montand), a rich landowner and Ugolin (Daniel Auteil), his malevolent nephew are now prospering but, in Dr. Martin Luther King's phrase, the arc of the story bends toward justice. Manon of the Spring, Claude Berri's conclusion to his darkly lyrical Jean de Florette is a film of authentic power and true cinematic poetry that has the epic sweep of a Shakespearean tragedy. Its strikingly gorgeous photography of the French countryside would by itself make the film memorable, but the combination of the music, the character-driven story, and towering performances by Yves Montand (Cesar), Daniel Auteil (Ugolin) and Emanuelle Beart (Manon) add up to a richly satisfying experience. Still saddened by her father's death, the surviving daughter Manon, now eighteen years old, tends her sheep in the lonely mountain hills of Provence. Cesar suggests to Ugolin that he get married to continue the family name but is not prepared for him falling with love with Manon, who is interested only in the local schoolteacher Bernard Olivier (Hippolyte Girardot). Her indifference to Ugolin turns to contempt when she overhears neighbors talking about the part he played with Cesar in blocking the water to her father's land. Her revenge is not unexpected but is perfectly fitting and the story comes full circle in a final revelation that is devastating in its bittersweet irony. "},{"Title":"A brlliant, complex film","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I chanced on this movie completely by accident. It was in the wrong box. It opened with some goats and French subtitles. I thought, oh boy, this will put me to sleep. Yet the movie works on many levels on one, it is like a complex detective story, with tiny clues sprinkled throughout gradually coming together at an overwhelming ending. On one level, it is a comedy, poking fun at pompous scientists and ignorant folk. On another, it explores unrequited love, a topic the movies usually avoid. On another, it about the lush scenery and quaint village life in France. Yves Montand is a brilliant actor. He packs so much depth into every second he is on screen. He feels like a real person. It is a movie about faces, memorable, complex, elderly, even ugly faces. This movie is the very opposite of fluff. "},{"Title":"Watch Jean de Florette first","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After I had seen the movie Jean de Florette, which I liked a lot, I already knew there was a second part called Manon des Sources. Hoping that the second part of the series would be at least as good, I had some very high expectations about this movie. I already saw it a couple of days later and I sure wasn't disappointed by it. But if you haven't seen Jean de Florette yet, than I suggest you don't even bother watching this movie. I'm not saying that it is impossible to watch this movie on its own, but I'm convinced that you will miss a lot of the meaning when you haven't seen what happened to her family in the first movie.Manon des Sources more or less begins where the first movie ended. Many years have gone by since her father died and since Soubeyran and Ugolin bought the farm from her mother. But Manon, who now has grown up into a beautiful young woman, still lives in the hills as a goatherd and comes to realize that not only the two new owners, but the whole village knew of the existence of the spring. Because of a small accident with one of her goats, she finds the source of the spring that not only provides Ugolin, but the entire village of water. She decides to take revenge and does exactly what the two men had done a few years earlier she blocks the water, leaving the entire village without water...What I really liked about this movie - next to the fact that it once more offered some very nice performances, a good story and interesting characters in a beautiful setting - was that it answered some questions that the first movie didn't answer. The open ending of the first movie was OK, but now that I've seen the second movie, I must say that I like it even more. If you liked Jean de Florette, than you certainly will not be disappointed by the sequel, because overall this movie offers more of what you have seen in the first movie. Many of the characters haven't changed, the village still looks the same, the story hasn't changed a lot... The main difference between the two movies is probably the fact that this time the emphasis doesn't lie on the struggle between the two men and Jean on one side and between man and nature on the other side, but more goes for the option of revenge.Many say that Manon des Sources couldn't live up to the high expectations that they had after seeing the first one, but for me personally, this movie was as good as the first one. That's also the reason why I give this movie exactly the same rating. Again it doesn't deserve a rating lower than a 7.5/10. "}{"Title":"Emmanuelle Béart is the movie","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A wonderful cast, it is Emmanuelle that makes the movie. Every second she is on the screen, she takes your breath away. Just like every guy in the movie, they are taken by her beauty. though the sub titles were poorly done on the video copy that I had rented, the movie was a surprise. Even for a PG rating, the story kept your interested in what was going to happen. Though the story doesn't pick up its draw until the conversation takes place. Done poorly in my opinion, I felt the explanation could have come in pieces during the movie instead of having it all come during the conversation with the blond woman. It seemed rushed to me. Still, once the truth is known, the film takes on a entirely different feel. A truer grit. But like I said before, it's Emmanuelle keeps you watching. "},{"Title":"Extraordinarily Moving and Tragic","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie even more than Jean de Florette and I'd strongly recommend seeing this after you've seen Jean de Florette. It makes a lot more sense and gives you a much bigger payoff if you've seen the other movie first.The remarkable thing about this film is that you end up pitying Yves Montad's character and wishing that things might have been different.  After growing to despise his character in Jean de Florette, you end up wishing him better than he gets in this movie as he is dealt one horrible blow after another.In the end, the viewer comes to realize that this awful character is very human--that it's not such a large step from common human vices such as greed and covetousness to the place he ends up.  I found myself wishing that he had made different choices earlier in his life to avert the tragedy he brings on himself here.The character Manon is very sympathetic in this film.  You wish things had been better for her.  In a way you also wish there could be some reconciliation--something that could probably never happen.This film is a masterpiece of tragedy. You'll find yourself moved and wishing that these flawed people could've had something better from life.  You find yourself caring about them and wishing that their flawed lives could be redeemed. "},{"Title":"A true masterpiece","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Lets get the critical verdict over and done with nice and early. This and Jean de Florette are both emotionally touching movies, well acted, well scripted, well filmed. But the real beauty of this film is Emmanuelle Beart. The section where she is shown washing herself in the spring on the hillside is an image that will go with me to my grave. Possibly the most arousing piece of naked femininity this side of Jenny Agutter in Walkabout. "},{"Title":"I loved it what more can I say.","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw Jean de Florette and then Manon des Sources after more that a few friends suggested I saw it. This is definitely my favourite foreign film series. One day I had a meal with a couple of friends who suggested that we grab a couple of movies for dessert. On their discovery that I had not seen J.D.F. and M.D.S. they Immediately grabbed both. These 2 movies are in my top 10 list of Foreign films. I later showed these 2 movies to a girl friend, who didn't like films with subtitles. She now does not like films with subtitles &#133; With a few exceptions.P.S. May I take this opportunity to thank Eric and Sue for selecting these movies.  "},{"Title":"Part 2, as good as part 1","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After the events of Jean de Florette, Jean's daughter Manon grows to adulthood as a free spirit, living off the land. Manon is aware of the role of Papet and Ugolin (who is profoundly attracted by the adult Manon) in her father's death, but she had not realised the complicity of the local people in letting Papet exercise his patriarchal influence so malevolently. Having discovered the true source of the spring, she blocks it and the village slowly begins to die of thirst...The chickens of part 1 come home to roost most satisfactorily in part 2, which is every bit as good as its predecessor. There is no Gerard Depardieu in this one, of course, but to compensate, Emmanuelle Beart is very moving, convincing in her portrayal of a good person driven by revenge, and heart-stoppingly beautiful. Montand and Auteuil are again first rate, and the story progresses to a most satisfying conclusion including the plot development the audience has wanted to see since it was telegraphed in the first movie.Watch Jean De Florette first, though. "},{"Title":"Above average sequel in which Manon seeks vengeance for what happened to her father","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The second of two films based on Marcel Pagnol's novel , being perfectly adapted , including heartrending interpretations , superb photography and spectacular outdoors . This is a magnificent follow-up to Jean De Florette dealing with life a Provencal village in the 1920s , there two scheming countrymen planning their neighbour to fail his crop and ruin him by means of traps , as the city-born hunchback Jean (astonishing Gerard Depardieu who had his real-life wife Elisabeth Depardieu as screen-partner) chances for survival fade without water for his rabbits . As in drought-ridden Provence there is a single spring that is blocked by two nasty farmers . This sequel concerns on the adult daughter of the dead hunchback called Manon (Emmanuel Beart who subsequently married Daniel Auteuil) , as the action switches 10 years on , she plots vengeance on the two men , (a veteran Yves Montand and his rat-like nephew excellently played by Daniel Auteuil) , whose greedy conspiracy to acquire her her father's land caused his death years earlier. As there takes place as fight for a fertile piece of land. The vendetta proves greatest than she could ever imagine .This devastating follow-up takes up the tale of envy , deception , ambition and jealousy in 1920s rural France . This following is almost as good as the original , though results to be a less involving effort than its predecessor . The first and second installment were simultaneously filmed at a cost of 17 million dollars , a real French record and was a successful box office . On the whole this picture turns out to be sensitive , colorful and with great dramatic effect thanks to interesting as well as thought-provoking script by Gerard Brach , Polanski's usual , helped by the same director Claude Berri . Very good acting for a French all-star cast , such as Yves Montand who gives a touching performance , Daniel Auteuil is once again extraordinary as the dim-witted farmer and a gorgeous Emmanuel Beart as beautiful but shy shepherdess . Enjoyable support cast such as Hippolyte Girardot as the local schoolmaster , Margarita Lozano , among others .Rich cinematography by Bruno Nuytten , plenty of color with the warmth of a French countryside in summer . Emotive and sensitive score Jean-Claude Petit , including Giuseppe Verdi music . This well lauded and awarded motion picture was compellingly written and directed by Claude Berri , along the first part he creates an imposing achievement ; together they make up a dramatic masterpiece . It was showered with prizes , as British Academy  the best adaptation , screenplay and actor Daniel Auteuil ; and French Cesar to actress , Emmanuel Beart , and actor , Daniel Auteuil . Rating  Essential and indispensable watching . Well worth seeing . "},{"Title":"Memorable, moving and humane...","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" French actor, producer, screenwriter and director Claude Berri's thirteenth feature film which he co-wrote with French screenwriter Gèrard Brach (1927-2006) is an adaptation of a novel, L'Eau des Collines - Jean de Florette and Manon des Sources (1964) by French author, playwright and filmmaker Marcel Pagnol (1895-1974), which was inspired by true events. It was shot on numerous locations in the Vaucluse department of Provence in the southeast of France and is part of a duo logy which was preceded by Jean De Florette (1986). It tells the story about Manon Cadoret who still lives in the highlands of Provence ten years after her and her mother Aimeé had to sell their property to Cesar Le Papet Soubeyran and his nephew Ugolin Soubeyran. Manon has become a shepherd girl and lives a quiet life, but when she one summer day encounters Ugolin who now is a successful farmer, bad memories are awakened. Struck by the now grown up Manon who he has not seen since she was a little girl, Ugolin falls head over heels in love with her. But Manon still remembers what he and his uncle did to her family, and she has found a way to reveal their secret.Like the first part of this epic story, this continuation is subtly and acutely directed by French filmmaker Claude Berri (1934-2009) and with it's ardent milieu depictions and efficient narrative structure, it draws an incessantly engaging portrayal of a young French woman who has been waiting several years to get justice for what happened to her family a decade earlier in time. This reverent sequel from the mid-1980s, produced by French producers Pierre Grunstein and Alain Poiré (1917-2000), is a co-production between France, Italy and Switzerland and has a powerful score by French composer Jean-Claude Petit, based on Italian composer Giuseppe Verdi's Italian opera The Force of Destiny (1862), which reinforces the film's atmosphere.Notable for it's wonderful production design by production designer Bernard Vézat and cinematography by French director and cinematographer Bruno Nuytten which is as present here as in the first segment, this historical period drama becomes an in-depth study of character that examines themes such as family relations, faith, morality and love, and is impelled by Yves Montand, Emmanuelle Béart and Daniel Auteuil's compassionate acting performances. A memorable, moving and humane film which gained, among other awards, the César Award for best supporting actress Emmanuelle Béart at the 13th César Awards in 1987 and the KCFCC Award for Best Foreign Language Film at the Kansas City Film Critics Circle Awards in 1988. "},{"Title":"How to do revenge!","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When this film was released in Australia, it preceded the release of 'Jean de Florette', the first episode in what really is a continuing tale. Therefore, viewers were mystified by the story, even if they were impressed by the performances. 'Jean de Florette' appeared some months later, too late for cineastes to see Manon again. Luckily, the two are now being presented as a package, giving filmgoers a chance to see the two in the correct order.The result is very impressive indeed. The French continue to give us lessons in movie-making, and this duo was a change from the New Wave that showed us all how movies can be made. Emotions are to the fore, and Manon has revenge imprinted on it. 'Jean de Florette' gave us a hint, as the young Manon listens - and sees. She doesn't say much, but her face tells us that she is thinking through a resolution.I'm reminded of Nicole Kidman, in 'Dogville'. The character, Grace, is put upon by the locals, just as is Manon. The American treatment of revenge is different, with a different kind of violence. Dogville's conclusion is shocking and heart-rending; Whether you regard Emmanuelle Beart's face as more expressive than Nicole Kidman's is probably a very personal thing. But Manon's cold fury is a cinematic masterpiece, and we are well-prepared for the finale. This movie is so good I've no desire to read the book! "},{"Title":"Revenge and redemption, a la mode.","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Filmed at the same time as part one, Jean de Florette Manon Des Sources sees Jean's daughter, the eponymous heroine, if that's the right word, played by Emanuelle Beart, wreak her revenge on Papet and Ugolin (played by Yves Montand and Daniel Auteuil) who selfishly and cruelly drove her beloved father to ruin and an early death. Indeed she goes further and punishes the whole village population, complicit in her father's death by their silence and non - intervention, by blocking the source of the vital water supply. Like its predecessor, the film evokes Thomas Hardy, in its depiction of rural lives mixed with tragedy and cosmic coincidences as well as Greek Tragedy - it can't be coincidence that Papet learns his true relationship with Jean whom he treated so callously from a blind woman named Delphine, recalling of course the Delphic Oracle of ancient Greece. Again like its predecessor, the film is engrossing, beautifully shot and acted, transporting the viewer into the less than idyllic everyday existence of village folk in the early part of last century. There's no doubt that Ugolin and Papet deserve their come-uppances and there's no attempt to paint them as deserving of the viewer's sympathies. That's partly to the credit of the two actors, who give rounded performances covering a variety of emotions. With Ugolin, we get the humorous sight of him chasing Manon throughout the hillside dressed up for a safari, proclaiming his hopeless love which turns to the pathetic scene where he declares his love for her in front of the townsfolk where her natural rejection tips him over the edge to his suicide. As for Papet, the schemer of the two and idol of Ugolin, he too gives up on life after the death of his nephew and again we see his decline beautifully acted by Montand in his beggar at the feast walk past Manon's wedding group to put flowers at Ugolin's grave before the lengthy scene with Delphine where the awful truth causes him to give up on life albeit in a less dramatic way than Ugolin. Beart as Manon says very little apart from a couple of emotional outbursts of love (for the young teacher she later marries) and hate (when denouncing the Soubreyers), playing up her silent avenger part in proceedings. The rest of the cast are vivid with strong comic turns by many. The direction is sure, the scenery caught masterfully in a variety of different shades of light. A modern classic and well deserving of the acclaim and success it achieved on release. "},{"Title":"Great Drama Concludes","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The rating reflects this film and its predecessor, Jean de Florette, taken together. Picking up a few years after the first film ended, the grown daughter of the hunchback farmer who was deceived by neighbors Montand and Auteuil seeks revenge against the pair. Gerard Depardieu is missed but Montand and Auteuil again give wonderful performances in reprising their roles as the greedy farmers. Beart is lovely if somewhat one-dimensional as the vengeful daughter. Berri again does a masterful job of showing the beauty of the French countryside while infusing the story with great drama. The story reaches a satisfying and heart-wrenching conclusion. "}{"Title":"A Masterpiece.","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Claude Berri's films Jean De Florette and Mano Des Sources are absolutely great and can be seen individually in terms of understanding things; that is, one does not need to see Jean De Florette to understand what is happening in Manon Des Sources. And you could very well be satisfied with just watching Jean De Florette. However, viewing the two films is a kind of emotional treatment. Now, I am not very much for emotion in film. But the two films are so perfectly planned to give exactly the right treatment that even I, the most heartless of film viewers, was shaken to the point of no return even after having seen it for the third time. It is the most perfect shift of point of view that I have ever seen. At the beginning of the first film, we see the Papet and Ugolin and meet them and basically hang out with them, as would say Tarantino. Then, we see Jean's point of view of the story and feel his misery. We learn to be shocked by Ugolin and the Papet's doings. Then, in Manon Des Sources, our pity for Jean is transmitted to his daughter Manon. After that, our sympathy falls to Ugolin and the Papet. However, the films are flawed by Berri's faithfulness to Pagnol's work. There is something about the dialog that sounds fake and TV-like. Also, Berri in Manon Des Sources with Girardot and others has the same problem as Coppola in The Godfather Part III with Sofia and the actor who plays Anthony He is too family-oriented and chooses very bad actors. "},{"Title":"So amazing","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've already reviewed Jean de Florette so there's not much more to say really about Manon de Sources. Storywise it pretty much carries on from the first film, with Florette's daughter Manon now blossoming into a beautiful young woman, (Emmanuelle Beart at her finest)and determined to take revenge on the men who caused her father's death, and the villagers who simply watched. The themes explored are different with much more focus on the effects of revenge and regret but, thanks largely to being filmed back to back with Jean de Florette keeps up the same feel as the first film. You do need to see both films together but you can be sured of a wonderful cinematic experience, ending on a note that will leave open mouthed and possibly with tears in your eyes. "},{"Title":"The Saga Continues with Vengeance and Revelation","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rating 7 out of 10. Directed by Claude Berri. In this sequel to `Jean de Florette', ten years have passed. Jean's daughter, Manon, has been living in the area near where her father died, she has been tending goats, has a dog, but has been living in poverty.At the end of &#145;Jean de Florette', we see Manon realizing that the Soubeyran's had blocked off her father's water supply, the movie ended with a horrified Manon. Early on in this concluding installment to the story, Manon realizes that the people in the nearby village knew about the water spring on their land but did not say anything. Some of these people were even distant cousins to Jean, but only the Soubeyran's knew this at the time and did not share this information.Near the halfway point in this movie, Manon discovers the source of the water for the whole village, she has her revenge by cutting off the water of those who killed her father. A bold and brazen move, but one that sends a strong message. This all seems very sensational and theatric, but the director's message of philosophical justice comes across in a satisfying way.The climax of the movie contains surprises that I won't mention here. While shocking, the viewers will find themselves thinking that they should have realized these plot points during the first movie. While this is a great movie, I thought the first installment was better, therefore, `Manon of the Spring' gets a 7 out of 10. I think the two movies should have been released as one long epic, it would have had a greater impact. "},{"Title":"Ahhh, quelle delight!!!!","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Exquisite photography and the acting of Auteill knocked me out.  I'm used to his handsome leading man portrayals in The Widow(maker)? and more recent movies.  To watch him play a dimwit was SOOOO convincing, I can't get over it.  Obsessed with love, this poor guy is shown in self-destruct mode.I have ordered the predecessor, Jeanne de Fioret (not exactly sure of title) and am interested in why Yves Montand as the father now becomes the uncle. Since it was released only 6 months later, I'm not sure why the disconnect was made.  Could it be because of the incest issues?Having just seen Le Circue Rouge with Yves playing his leading man roles, I couldn't even recognize him as the old man, replaying in his mind his one true love.  That ending is rather too neat, I agree, and, while quite photogenic, a little hard to believe.  Nonetheless, the purity of that girl was well displayed and acted by Emmanuelle.  I do wish her young man was not quite so swishy-looking, but maybe it will help educate us not to judge by appearances.The community spirit in that small town was all so inspiring and pure, thinking of the corruption in my own small town's government.  They worked together, and were not afraid to show disdain for the mayor, while we bow and scrape before our petty, corrupt councilmen as though they were people of quality and education.  AS a citizen warned me, Local politics are no less corrupt than national politics.  No wonder we are a nation in denial, where appearances mean everything, substance nothing.  These people, even the 'bad' ones were not as successful in their deceit as we are today; even those who had engaged in the original act of silent complicity had the grace to feel guilty about it and to verbalize their built.  The 'J'accuse' scene was quite powerful, and showed a general form of naive purity that I quite envy .  Do you suppose that nature still exists in that small town today?What a great movie script, plot, photography, acting......  everything was great but the Hollywood ending (made in France).  I believe Yves MOntand died this same year, 1991 at the age of 70. "},{"Title":"Even Revenge Has a Price","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One is so saddened by the cruelty shown in Jean de Florette one would think any sympathy for the two men would be impossible. Manon, the daughter of the cruelly treated hunchback, has stayed behind and is living with an old woman. She is utterly beautiful. Ugolin, who has done her great harm, falls madly in love with her, after he sees her bathing in the nude in a little pool in the rocks.. His uncle, his co-conspirator in the manipulation of the spring in the first movie, wants him married so he can carry on the family name. However, he is not an attractive man and she is both frightened and repulsed by him. She watched him dig up their concrete, releasing the water they had trapped, shortly after the death of her beloved father. Manon gets her revenge by finding an underground source for the water and bringing fear and drought to the population that had wronged her family for no reason. the whole community is beside itself and she blames the two men in the public square as they desperately try to go on. The acting is so precise and believable. The movie is so tight and so terse that we are in on every moment. And we learn that decent men sometimes do terrible things. What an outstanding movie. "},{"Title":"at times as powerful as part 1, and at other times not at all","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I saw Jean de Florette, I thought that Yves Montand jumped at the chance to play the role of Cesar Soubeyran (aka Le Papet), but he actually refused the role when first offered and only took it when his wife died. I have to wonder if he got the scripts for both movies or the first one, since in Manon of the Spring his character actually deepens and might be even more interesting to play (albeit not quite as villainous, he really does have an arc here), but at the same time the story dips somewhat in quality. It's not for the entire running time of the film - mostly it's in the third act, when the film turns into an unbelievable yarn full of revelations and twists to make it into a happy story of the utmost redemption (with maybe a bit of tragedy in retrospect to be sure). But Manon of Spring shows why having a strong ending, especially when a story runs from first part to second almost four hours in length, is very important.This time it's more about the 'legacy' of the Soubeyrans as it's 10 years later and, for reasons not made totally clear, the daughter of Jean (de Florette) is on her own as a shepherdess (her mother, also for reasons not totally clear, is singing opera again, which is odd since in the last film she said she couldn't do it anymore, but whatever). As she goes about her daily routine the Soubeyran nephew Ugel, played by Daniel Autreil, notices her going about her business (indeed, at one point, very nude and dancing around), and he falls in love with her. Of course falling in love is tantamount for him, even as his uncle demands that he marry and continue the family blood-line.Of course there is a lot of emotional baggage for the maybe 18 year old Manon (Emmanuele Beart, pretty much immaculate in beauty to the point I'm guessing that's why they hired her, some talent notwithstanding), and the question one asks is not so much if she'll take revenge on the wealthy people who drove her father to die and make her family sell the home via trickery with the spring, but when, and by what methods. This is also, of course, a PG movie and done in a classical style, so it would have to come from something much trickier. How she lays out her payback is really clever and makes for a compelling second half of the film (or maybe one quarter I should say) and it ends up involving most of the town itself.I think that with this story this time what's so effective is Berri's direction as a contrast in style with the material; this could very well be like a (semi-romantic) western set in the French countryside, with a lot of wide landscapes and greenery and land that can be walked around on, and while it's shot with an eye for beauty and the music scoring compliments it, the emotions are rather dark and twisted underneath. Autiel is still the actor who still has some complex emotions to play, but here it's not really about deception of this Florette farm-owner but about whether or not (or how soon/what to say) to ask this woman to be his wife and have his kids... which seems pretty close to impossible. Autiel is still very good, but somehow the character isn't quite as complex this time as in the first film - rather the whole dynamic is hinged upon what Manon knows and what he doesn't.It's not really Beart's fault that she doesn't get much to play here, but I wonder if Manon was better developed or had more to do in the book this is based on. Part of it is that she's supposed to be shy, but to this extent(?) I think this adds to what comes out as the over-wrought melodrama at times - she either looks concerned or cries through much of the film, maybe once or twice she has some joy to her - so it leaves her as kind of a not badly but slightly underwritten character. On the opposite side Montand does everything he can with what's he's given to do and makes this old man very sympathetic as he comes to grips with what he's done. A lot has to happen for that to really take place, but Montand is always there, even when (maybe especially when) the script lets him down with what amount, to me, to be soap opera revelations about lineage and who is really who in this story (if you can take a guess it might almost count as a spoiler... maybe).Manon of the Spring carries a lot of terrific craftsmanship, natural and wonderful acting, and some colorful supporting characters (well, maybe the real suitor for Manon is kind of two-dimensional, if that). I just wish the last 20 minutes weren't so disappointing. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Coloration","Date":"10 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A beautiful but shy shepherdess (Emmanuelle Béart) plots vengeance on the men whose greedy conspiracy to acquire her father's land caused his death years earlier.Directed by Claude Berri, it is the second of two films adapted from the 1966 two-volume novel by Marcel Pagnol, who wrote it based on his own earlier film of the same title. It is the sequel to Jean de Florette.I wish I could say I got into this film, but I just did not. This was probably my fault and not the fault of the film, just not being in the right mood for it. So my middle-level rating should only be seen as preliminary. Most likely it would go up upon a second viewing. "},{"Title":"Dramatic sequel with a great Yves Montand","Date":"22 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This part two sticks dramatically to the first one. The wonderful girl Emmanuelle Béart delivered an interesting performance. Yves Montand did a great job here showing all the repertoire of this psychological character profile. He was really a great actor, chapeau. But Daniel Auteuil was also very credibly in this role until the end. Bravo. Finally, Claude Berri directed again like a master. Thank you for these two very nice films. Don't expect a fast paced story because it has a slow but surprising countdown. For all that likes the surroundings South of France this is a rich experience to not miss. See also the other highlight La Fille du Pusatier from the same writer Marcel Pagnol. Vote 8/10. "},{"Title":"Jean de Florette / Manon of the Spring","Date":"2 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Two part film, that was 1st released as two separate features. Terrific telling of a complex story of intertwined farming families in rural France in the early part of the 20th century. The acting is mostly of the highest order. Yves Montand, one of the most suave men in history is completely believable as a rough hewn, self-centered farmer, Gerard Depardieu, also cast against type, as a gentle, educated city born man trying to make it as a farmer also is astounding. Almost as good is Daniel Auteuil as Montand's not-very-bright son. Only Emmanuelle Beart, gorgeous though she may be, doesn't quite convince me as the wild woman of the fields. Some of it is performance, some of it is how perfect she looks. The story is wonderful in a Dickensian sort of way, with clues and character elements showing up early, only to pay off three hours later. I love the first part even more, somehow it feels more truly tragic and dense, the 2nd part just a bit too neat by the end. But still a grand, intelligent, great looking entertainment. "},{"Title":"Really is a masterpiece, just watch it.","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" no doubt its a masterpiece. movies like these cannot be produced on a regular base, its a beauty for all those people who are sick of today's computer effects based movies. Water, jungle, flowers, rocks, natural atmosphere and a beautiful face (Emmanuelle Béart) what else u want in a movie. Though she does not show too much of her assets (there is very brief scene of nudity) but her beauty was on peak in 1986. Emmanuelle is totally irresistible in this movie. story is excellent, all actors performed very well their characters and this is why its overall rating is above 8. I watched it in french luckily subtitles were available in English and after watching this i thought where the hell was this before, i should have seen this before.So guys don't wait and just watch dis classic. "}{"Title":"Excellent conclusion to Jean de Florette","Date":"26 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Manon des Sources is the second part of Jean de Florette. It's important to point out that it is a continuation of the story not a sequel. It takes on the narrative ten years down the line where Papet and Ugolin are reaping the benefits of cheating Jean from his land. Meanwhile Jean's daughter Manon (the beautiful Emmanuele Béart) roams the surrounding hills with her herd of goats - a constant reminder to the two men of the terrible injustice they committed against her and her family. To make matters a little more complicated Ugolin falls in love with this now gorgeous young woman, while she in turn falls for a local teacher. Manon still understandably holds a huge grudge against the men who she knows were indirectly responsible for her father's death, and the villagers too who she discovers knew of the scheming but did nothing. When she discovers the source of the water that feeds the village her revenge is set into motion...As a pair of movies Jean de Florette and Manon des Sources are a terrific example of the French heritage film. These movies play upon notions of nostalgia for a bygone era in France. The rural setting is beautifully evoked but more importantly the storyline is consistently strong and compelling, with great performances from all actors across both movies. If anything Manon des Sources is the greater of the two films, as it essentially satisfyingly concludes the storyline and gives the closure that we the audience want. The villains meet suitable ends and Manon herself finds true happiness. This summary may seem very hackneyed to anyone who has not seen them but these movies are handled with such a beautiful touch that their traditional narratives seem perfect. That said, the ending does provide us with a great little twist in a magnificent scene between Papet and a blind woman called Delphine. This revelatory scene in a graveyard offers a whole new dimension to the film and adds to the overall whole immeasurably.Jean de Florette and Manos des Sources are I suppose old fashioned movies in many respects. But they are old fashioned in the best ways. They offer quality cinema without patronising the viewer and have enough twists and turns and emotional involvement to satisfy the most jaded of cinema fans. A definite treat. "},{"Title":"Good film, great theme, but drop-off from predecessor","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a sequel to Jean de Florette and really should be seen after seeing that film. The previous film was emotionally powerful in a number of ways and showed man in a good light and in an evil light, the evil being more potent, disconcerting and appropriately troubling. Manon is effective, especially Daniel Auteuil's performance, but lacks the complexity and challenge of the first film. But Manon continues to explore the human condition in all its pettiness, meanness and fitful goodness. For American audiences, many of which are delighted by the cotton candy of E.T. or the spurious badness (also a kind of cotton candy) of the recent Batman movie, this film will be baffling if it is not absorbed fully. However, I can imagine very few viewers who want to bear witness to actual evil. Thus, Ms. Beart's beauty as Manon, the lovely countryside, and the French village ambiance will trump the evil of Ugulin, his uncle and the hear, see, do no evil villagers. A very good film that displays convincing evidence for why so many people believe in Original Sin. See it. "},{"Title":"Well Of Loneliness","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've already commented on the first part of this timeless story (Jean de Florette) and sought to embrace both parts in one comment but always in the back of my mind has been a thought that I didn't do right by this second half so here I am again to give it equal time. Whilst it's true that the films are to a certain extent self-contained the optimum way to see them is one right after the other as some enterprising theatres show them. Quibblers will mourn the absent Depardieu but if viewed chronologically his presence is felt in every frame of Manon and rightly so. I've been reading just a few of the previous posts and I have absolutely no argument with those who hail these as the Best Films of the 1980s; as a richly rewarding viewing experience they are unmatched even in France where great films are as ubiquitous as hot dogs as Coney Island. The acting in both is outstanding led by an Yves Montand at the very top of his game but it would be churlish to isolate him, magnificent as he is, from the brilliant support he gets from the likes of Depardieu, Daniel Auteuil and in this second part Manu Beart who somehow contrives to invest Manon not just with heart-stopping beauty but also an other-worldliness so that she seems part of the landscape she inhabits rather than a human being and, if you will, a belle dame sans merci, given her actions. I've seen them singly and together several times and each time I discover something new to marvel at. Truly the test of greatness. "},{"Title":"I agree 90% with Chris Middlebrow  but have one point to dispute","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Chris Middlebrow's review was beautifully written. It's almost the exact review that I would have wanted to see on this film -- part of a perfect pair of interrelated films. However, he is incorrect in saying that you must see Jean de Florette first. I saw Manon first and then Jean de Florette.The two films are a puzzle that only when fit together make a whole. There are clues in both films and, in each case, only seeing the opposite film will provide the answer to the clues. You have to see both films, in either order, to get the full picture and the full beauty of the story.So there is not necessarily a sequel or prequel.A suggestion might be to do what I did by chance I attended the film with a friend who had seen Jean de Florette first. He had his eureka! moments while I was being mesmerized by a perfect jewel of a story. The next night or soon after, I went by myself to see Jean de Florette and had my eureka! moments. Then we compared notes. We had each gotten different messages from the movie based on the order we had seen them in. We were able to get a much richer experience from the movie by viewing it in the opposite order and comparing our impressions.So the order of viewing isn't important. The circularity and resultant synergy of the two films make it a masterwork. "},{"Title":"Excellent sequel.","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This and Jean de Florette, when combined, are up there with the best French movies ever made. I didn't like the second bit as much as the first (going on the sole reason that it was a bit draggy at times), but without it, the entire story is incomplete, so there you go. It was very nice to see all the characters again from part one & watch their individual fates change over time. There are some very good moments in this movie that completely shock you--that's all part of the greatness of Manon of the Spring. "},{"Title":"Stunningly portrayed sequel to Jean de Florette","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This foreign film is not to be missed, but watch the first movie, Jean de Florette first. And watch the subtitled version if you don't speak French.In this film, a grown up Manon confronts the neighbors who destroyed her father and caused the pain, hardship and devastation wrought by her family's enemies when she was a child. Having lived as a mountain recluse for an unspecified period of years after the loss of her family farm and the death of her father, she is provoked to wreak vengeance, and with satisfaction, comes a surprising revelation about the history of her parentage. Please see my comments on Jean de Florette at http//comments.imdb.com/CommentsShow?91288-10 "},{"Title":"unforgettable","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     I can speak French, so it's perhaps easier for me to sit through a French film.(Although the accents in this film are equivalent to Southern/countryside American accents.)   This film, just as beautiful as its precedent, put tears in my eyes quite a few times. The slight, but engaging music worked so well with the landscape.Pretty speechless as to what to say else, except that it's one of my favorite films yet! If you get a kick out of flicks with great acting, you will be electrified by this one. Not to sound cliche/ or anything.-Sep "},{"Title":"payback is a bitch","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The second half of Claude Berri's elegant two-part Provençal epic shares with 'Jean de Florette' the same sun washed, arid landscapes, the same rich tapestry of events, and many of the same hardy peasant characters. Here again is the unscrupulous landowner Le Papet and his weak-willed simpleton nephew Ugolin, along with the beautiful but untamed Manon, now grown to womanhood and living wild in the hills, where she decides to fight water with water (or a lack of it) by blocking the source of the vital spring supplying the nearby village.The sequel ties up all the narrative threads left dangling at the end of the earlier film (and as a result is more plot-heavy than its predecessor), but Manon's revenge against the men who (indirectly) murdered her father isn't as sweet as it should have been. After driving the love struck Ugolin to suicide (by simply ignoring his pathetic advances), she virtually disappears from the story, leaving Le Papet to a fate of his own design, outlined in some lumpy exposition before the heartbreaking conclusion.The rich local flavor and surprising unpretentiousness make it a worthwhile and often moving drama, but despite the title the film belongs to Yves Montand and Daniel Auteuil. Emmanuelle Béart, as Manon, doesn't have more than a dozen lines of dialogue, and her fashion model looks are a distraction. "},{"Title":"Sequel fails to live up to expectations.","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The full title of this film is Manon des Sources. Part II of Jean de Florette. The original version of Manon des Sources in 1951 was directed by Marcel Pagnol and told the story in one four hour long marathon. Later Pagnol elaborated the story in his novel L'eau des Collines. In 1986 this was made into the two-part film under the faultless direction of Claude Berri. The two films were made in succession so they can quite rightly be regarded as two parts of the same film. Unfortunately hints and clues abound in part I making part II little more than a perfunctory exercise, albeit admirably performed by masters of the art, with an inevitable unfolding of events. After the death of Jean the teenage Manon (Emannuelle Beart) tends a herd of mountain goats in the hills above César's farm whilst her absent mother is a member of an opera company in Marseilles. As she grows up Manon gradually pieces together bits of village gossip until she realises how the villagers have remained silent while César connived to get the piece of land and spring from her parents' farm. She then accidentally stumbles on a way of getting her own back but with unexpected consequences. By the end of the first hour the film drags due to the slow telling of the story and also the sparsity of characters. Suddenly it comes to life as we meet many of the other villagers including the mayor and the priest. There is so little to tell that it pales in comparison with Jean de Florette despite possessing many of the qualities of that film i.e. superb acting, direction and photography. It is little more than an ending tacked on. As even the twist at the end was signalled in Part I, I would have preferred a single but longer film telling the whole story at one viewing. I was surprised at the large number of reviewers who found the final twist unexpected; I can only conclude that today's cinema audience, having been weaned on films in which everything is explicitly stated, is unable to read messages hidden in the film.I am glad to report that the problems with subtitling I commented on in J de F have are no longer apparent apart from the intrusion of orology; also the occupation of Jean's father is now satisfactorily rendered as blacksmith in place of the previous cryptic farrier.I have not seen the 1951 version but critics consider it better than J de F and M des S. Let's not forget that Pagnol was The Master so perhaps his way was the right way? I wish they would put his version on TV one day then we can tell for ourselves. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite foreign films","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was a very interesting movie to have seen. i saw this movie during my film history class and i really enjoyed it.  this movie is very tragic and it makes the viewer feel very depressed after watching the movie. i think i enjoyed this movie more because i saw the first part  Jean De Florette if i had not seen this movie i would not understood it and probably would not have enjoyed it so much.  when i saw this movie i was very disappointed because i felt that the characters did not get what they deserved. Manon was this young woman who lost her father because all of the townspeople would not tell her father that their was a spring on his land because he was a city guy and also a hunchback.  when manon found out she was furious so she decided to block off the water supply to the town so all the men would get what they deserved.  but i thought manon was better than that and she did what she thought was right for her father by unclogging the well.  but i also found this movie to be very ironic because we find out towards the end of the movie that Papet, the neighbor that did not want Jean to succeed with his land because he was greedy and wanted the land to himself.  Because of the selfishness and greediness Papet lost his only living nephew by hanging himself from a tree.  The ironic part of this movie is when Papet found out that Florette, Jean mother, had given birth to his child, a hunchback.  It was a very tragic movie one that u feel very sorry for Manon and all that she ha dot go through.  the way this movie ended was very interesting on how u see Papet reading his letter to Manon telling her that he is given her all of the estate because she is her granddaughter. And that on the same day he dies we see that Manon is about to give birth to her child.  this movie was very well made i recommend to everyone but i also recommend to see Jean De florette before you chose to watch this tragic movie. "}{"Title":"Must see!","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a movie I recommend to friends who don't like movies with subtitles. this is so good that before you know it you are wrapped up in it like a great book. You will not even remember you are reading. It is just a great movie subtitles or not. "},{"Title":"Classic Sequel to a Classic First","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A masterwork of French cinema featuring a emotionally powerful performance by Actress, Emmanuelle Beart.  Follows up on the main events in Jean de Florette to depict the vengeful urges of a Manon, the daughter of a disgraced man who seeks to get back at those responsible.  Also, the film gets a fine performance from legendary French actor, Yves Montand.  One of the best French films of the 1980s, and of the closing period in the 20th century.  Manon of the Spring is directed with finesse and deep emotions by Claude Berri. "},{"Title":"Fantastic sequel to Jean de Florette","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This sequel to «Jean de Florette» is excellent. The first one is a bit better but «Manon des sources» captures the heart.Now, Manon has grown up and Ugolin his now the owner of the land once owned by Manon's father, Jean Cadoret (Depardieu in «Jean de Florette»). But soon enough, Manon will find out what really happened to her father.Great acting by Yves Montand and Daniel Auteuil. Emmanuelle Béart is superb as Manon.An excellent movie!9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"great film, but try the original - it's even better!","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really liked Jean de Florette and Manon des Sources, they are great films - but the ORIGINAL Manon des Sources from 1953 is even better (directed by Marcel Pagnol). Give it a try - you won't regret it!I just looked up the votes for the original there have only been 5 voters so far but 3 of them gave it a 10 and the other 2 gave it a 9. I added another 10! "},{"Title":"Simply terrific!","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Marvellous - so was Jean de Florette. It's years since I last watched these two terrific films - must watch them both asap.I should also read Claude Berri's book.These two films make you realise how great films can be.But very few tremendous films get released in cinemas these days. Why?OK, I know why - just as well there's videos, DVDs, the internet and other avenues these days.So, like I said, gotta hunt out JDF & MDS pdq.Regards, Frank.  "},{"Title":"Great, but with several reservations . . .","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As film-making, this one is every bit a 10, but, on sober examination and thought, at least this viewer finds the Claude Berri realization on-screen of a Marcel Pagnol novel less than consistent and more than arbitrary, in that what underlies belies what is on the surface. More importantly, to me at least, is what seems to me to be Pagnol's noir perspective to his sunny Marseilles trilogy in this rural romp of a memoir. In fact, the Jean/Manon pairing is a study in the insular countryside's essentially incestuous ambiance, more so even than the superficial bumpkinesqueries of the locals, who are presented as considerably less than civilized in their private and public personae. To me, the hero of this bookended set is the sad and sorry figure of Ugolin, that retarded but noble and totally decent individual, who would, and did, rather die than hurt his beloved. Daniel Auteuil, herein, limns a film character as memorably as any I have ever seen, even if far too belatedly. He reminds me of a fine American film actor who never achieved fame but notched more than a few memorable characterizations, usually as either a heavy or a not-quite respectable or heroic type. Think his first name was Scott but can't recall the surname, even if I have the given correct. It's like the kid who brought Jsmes Dean to life on the telly, but who has yet to hire the press agent to put him on the superstar map. I have no idea as to Auteil post-Jean and Manon, but this performance alone should ensure him his place alongside the great Gallic film stars. Final thought here, methinks Berri must have omitted, or shortchanged at least, a basic theme or element in the original novel, unread here, for the simple reason that the surface has completely upstaged the undergirding, and the fact, to me at least, that the REAL story is that of Soubeyrans, whose lost letter launched a life of emptiness and greed, and whose granddaughter heartlessly condemned her second-cousin to suicide. Color me jaded and less than a romantic. This pair of films is a study of the dark soil rather than the invigorating sunlight of Provence. "},{"Title":"It was OK","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Manon of the Springs deserves a three out of five stars. It is the sequel of Jean de Florette, which was directed by Claude Berri. Both of these movies demonstrate the selfishness, love, and misunderstanding of humans. The cast of these movies include brilliant actors such as Yves Montand and Daniel Auteuil who play their characters very well. In the Manon of the Springs Emmanuelle Beart plays the daughter of Jean de Florette.  However, the story seems never-ending with all of its irony and the film seems like there will never be a conclusion to this terribly tragedy. The film Manon of the Springs is a French film that lasts about two or more hours. The subtitles are frequently hard to read because they are on the screen for what seems to be only a few seconds. Yves Montand and Daniel Auteuil both perform their roles very well, and with a great deal of passion. Emmanuelle Beart plays her part of young  goat herder who finds out about the terrible lie that Montand and Auteuil have been keeping secret that caused her father Jean de Florette to die in the first film. The director also chose beautiful locations for this film in the Southern part of France. The actors do play their parts very well, but the film seems never-ending because of great many uninformative scenes. Scenes of death last more than necessary and some scenes are just played out far too long to stay interesting. The film is a terrible tragedy of a father finding out that he had caused the death of his only son. If you enjoy sad tragedies this movie is definitely something for you to see. However, make sure you are up speed reading the subtitles, and that you have seen  Jean de Florette because if you do not the movie will make no sense to you at all. It will either make you cry or make you extremely frustrated.  "},{"Title":"The Empire Strikes Back","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  !!!WARNING!!!  Do not read this if you have not seen the movie.Come on!  The Luke I am your father was a little too much to swallow. Jean de Florette was near perfect.  So what if it left you feeling down. That doesn't justify making this disney sequel.  Don't get me wrong, the movie was well made and entertaining but it doesn't hold a candle the OG one.  Ugolin does look like yoda though. "},{"Title":"Darling Buds of Mai","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Manon des Sources' is a curious film for two reasons. Firstly, it's a sequel that actually feels like the second half of a story, rather than another run-out for an old, tired formula. If you haven't seen the original, the plot can be surmised but the structure of the film makes little dramatic sense, the whole film has the feeling of a coda to another, greater, story. Secondly, the film (whose aesthetics, and music, have since been comprehensively ripped off in the U.K. by a popular series of beer adverts) presents an image of a comically rustic, idealised France, where a young man wandering in the hills might, if he is lucky, stumble across a naked Emmanuelle Beart, dancing in the sunshine. And yet despite this, the story is a tale of tragedy and dark dealings, making this film a French equivalent of 'The Darling Buds of May', only with added death. In spite of this the film, and Beart of course, are not without charm. But you might find it hard to take seriously whenever that harmonica refrain is heard. "},{"Title":"i didn't like it","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Manon des sources, or Manon of the Spring, was (cinematically speaking) a good movie, but there was a few things that i didn't think should have even been in it. I find that some of the major parts of the movie are a little messed up, for instance when Ugolin sewed the ribbon to his nipple, I say that's messed up. Other then that, I think that the over all theme of the movie is astounding. I personally didn't like the movie itself, nor was i happy with the acting itself, but the message that the movie delivers I did like. Cinematically the movie was well made, from the lighting to the angles to the choice in location, the movie was beautifully made. The acting of a few people was fairly poor, for instance I believe that only Emmanuelle Beart was the only person that was even slightly believable, and that only comes from the fact that she didn't have many lines to speak. Another thing that makes the movie be even worse then the actual acting was the subtitles, often it made the movie unbearable. Somes they were to fast, other times they were too slow. Needless to say, if I hadn't been forced to watch the movie for a class I'm currently taking, I probably wouldn't have watched the movie, but that's just me. "}]