[{"Title":"Those darn warmongering govies....","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"48 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  So let me get this straight. This teenager wants to expose this secret government laboratory... by building an atomic bomb with material he steals from the facility and taking it to a science fair. And he wants to expose this facility because... they didn't tell anyone they were a secret plutonium facility and thereby make themselves a target for espionage and theft?So, as I said, his solution to the warmongering military authorities building atomic bombs is to build one himself. (And they're warmongering because they want to build atomic bombs because hostile countries with a doctrine of overthrowing countries to spread their political beliefs would do the same to the US if they could because they also have atomic bombs, right?) Then when the government officials learn that this kid has stolen weapons grade material and has built a bomb with it, they have to gall to take over his mom's house while she cries What gives you the right?!Then, and get this, then, when he learns the government has found out he has stolen weapons grade material and built a bomb with it, and he threatens to set it off for no other logical reason anyone can think of other than not wanting to get thrown in jail for something HE did, everyone acts surprised when the government acts ready to kill him to stop him and everyone thinks that's just a terrible thing. No, wait, they want to kill him not just to stop him, but also to keep the facility a secret.... after a whole bunch of people already know what's going on.And when the bomb almost goes off because this genius kid was too stupid to know what he was doing, he gets to walk away as a local hero because he built a bomb with weapons grade material that he stole from the facility and almost wiped out his friends, family, everyone in the town and surrounding areas including the mean government officials who were ready to kill him because he threatened to set off an atomic bomb with material he stole from the facility.Riiiiigggghhhhhhtttt.........  "},{"Title":"Wow, this one is amazingly bad","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" We are asked to respect a high school kid(Paul Stephens who builds a nuclear bomb, and admire how he lightheartedly carts said device in a science fair, endangering the lives of literally tens of thousands people. If this comedy had been a wacky, Marx Brothers/Airport type farce, that wouldn't have bothered me in the slightest. But is comedy (which doesn't contain a single laugh)insists that we admire the arrogant little creep. I kept wishing that Jack Bauer would come in and shove a knife in Paul's kneecap.Marshal Brickman never directed a feature film after this, and I can't wonder why. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but...","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I remember watching this movie in the 80s, and thinking it was a good film. There was, however, one major problem that I had with the film - the fact that the main protagonist seems to be a dummy when it comes to anything other than science. Forgetting about the fact that Paul, one of the main characters, essentially exposed a bunch of people to high- grade plutonium (no mention about any medical crisis for all the people around Paul after the happy ending), the kicker comes when he's finally confronted in a hotel in New York by John Lithgow and a bevy of military men who would like nothing more than to lock him away for a long time. Paul's nonchalance comes out in the exchange, They can't do anything to me. Why not? Because I'm underage. HUH? You're smart enough to build a freaking nuclear bomb by yourself, including smart enough to know where to get some explosive material needed to blow the bomb up. You're also smart enough to have fooled a high-security system with a bunch of frisbees and a helpful girlfriend in order to get the plutonium (and smart enough to temporarily cover your tracks by inserting shampoo into the jar so it's not immediately noticed as missing). But what in the world makes you think that they'll let you go because I'm underage? I suppose the script writer needed to show a little naiveté - after all, if Paul knew the full gravity of what he was doing, he might not have done something as reckless as he did. Instead, he might just have gone ahead with an expose without needing to win first prize at a science contest. "},{"Title":"Not even funny...","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I don't even wanna talk about it, I just wanna cut it down and leave it for dead. Or with other words, don't watch it unless you wanna make fun of it later! It's a half lame movie for little kids who haven't had a physics class yet and who's parents are willing to explain that something like that is never possible in real life. Here are some examples why (to get you started)- The material being so highly concentrated I would imagine when he opens the hatch to get the jar out he'd immediately lose consciousness and die within minutes. No yellow rubber gloves are gonna protect him from the radiation.- It looks like he's going for an implosion design with his bomb (like the Nagasaki bomb). That's really smart. Especially since the gun design (Hiroshima bomb) is far easier to build, but maybe he is aware that the implosion design will have a far greater efficiency so he can incinerate far more people with it, if that's what he wants? (That's where another thought occurs Why is he complaining about the morality of the lab when he builds a bomb of his own?) - Then there is more unprotected working with the material. Even if the material was only slightly radioactive for some reason, his nice fluffy hair would have fallen out halfway through building his device. At the least we would have seen lots of vomiting! To sum it up, tired of writing this as I am, it's just all horrible anyway! I can't understand why a movie with that name couldn't have been a bit more interesting, realistic and possibly talk about the real Manhattan Project instead! "},{"Title":"Entertaining enough....BUT....","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film is entertaining enough, in fact it is quite exciting. However, in a real-life scenario, the end result would not and could not have had such a clichéd Hollywood ending, so in that respect it sort of resembles a fractured fairytale. The storyline is credible enough with a bit of imagination stretching, the acting is tolerable, only the irony is laid on a bit too thick. I found the attitude of the principal character to be much too cynical, unrealistic and extremely condescending, even for the likes of some precocious, science-savvy prodigy. Getting back to the entertainment value, the plot progresses expectedly only it thickens toward the direction of the surrealistic, though the basic concept is actually pretty frightening. However, the movie is watchable with its impressive cast; a young Cynthia Nixon, John Lithgow, Chris Collet et al. I have mixed feelings about this film, I did enjoy watching it, but when I began to rationalize it began to appear quite nonsensical. So, if you intend on watching it, simply keep your powers of logic and common sense subdued and it will remain an enjoyable experience. "},{"Title":"A bomb all right","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was subjected to this utter nonsense at a friend's house. I won't go into why. At first I thought it wasn't bad. But as the plot continued, I thought someone must have spiked the punch and I was high on LSD. This is one of the silliest movies ever made. There are so many stupid ideas one has to wonder if it was designed to make fun of movies as a whole. The brilliant kid wants to build a bomb to expose the lab for making plutonium? Hey, pick up the phone and make a call. He thinks that he can't get into any trouble because I'm only a kid. Who told him that? For a bright boy, he doesn't seem like it. He breaks into the lab and steals plutonium... that ought to be worth 20 to life right there. He's Edward Teller in disguise and builds an A bomb with his Mattel Do it yourself kit. Yeah... sure. Best of all, he handles the plutonium with his mom's dish washing rubber gloves?!!! He'd be dead in no time. He takes his bomb to the big fair to show off? To show off what? That he's a complete nincompoop? Even the other nerds know better than that. If I hadn't been waiting for another friend in order to leave, I would have exited this complete nonsense as soon as he started playing cutesy with the plutonium strapped to the back of his toy car. This was really, really bad. 1 star for Lithgow desperately seeking a plot. 1 Star for Nixon trying ever so hard not to break out in uproarious laughter while Collet tries to explain why he wants to make a bomb. "},{"Title":"This review gives praise to an overlooked but deserving film.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"24 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  THE MANHATTAN PROJECT is a seriously underrated film.  It's categorized and advertised as a comedy, but in fact it's more accurately categorized as a dramatic thriller with light elements.  The problem is that anyone expecting to see a comedy will be disappointed because the film is not as funny as a comedy needs to be.  That, I believe, is why it was not as popular at the box office as it deserved to be.  However, the film is an extremely smart dramatic thriller, and anyone screening it with that expectation -- and knowing its main characters are extremely bright high school kids -- will not be disappointed.  THE MANHATTAN PROJECT is not a perfect film, but it is an excellent one. "},{"Title":"oddly fascinating","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know why, but this movie has a strange fascination that makes me want to watch it.  Not a great movie, but passable.  But as far as Before They Were Stars, someone needs to realize that the highpoint of John Lithgow's career is NOT a stupid TV show about aliens.  He was a big star WELL before this movie came out.  He had two Oscar nominations and won an Emmy.  Meanwhile, the other two known stars in this movie, John Mahoney and Cynthia Nixon were also quite well known before their TV roles, each with over 10 movies under their belts by 1986. "},{"Title":"Impractical, but a good story","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"18 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't understand why this movie is so underrated.  The movie has a really good plot, and I really like how there is comedy combined with the serious plot.  I especially like the jokes about the government.Theyâ&#128;&#153;re gorillas, they can hurt you.  If you try to talk it out with them, theyâ&#128;&#153;ll lock you in a room somewhere and throw away the room.What did you want us to do, put up a neon sign saying 'secret weapons laboratory'? "},{"Title":"Pretentious Preachy Unwatchable","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"26 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Terrible waste of celluloid and John Lithgow's talent.  Whinny arrogant self centered punk builds bomb to prove his own genius without considering monumental stupidity of act, then arms the bomb to get himself out of the jam he's put himself in, holding 10's of thousands of lives hostage, including his loved ones.  Eventually, the situation is happily resovled, where he shows no remorse, and smuggly grins and quips at his own cleverness till the end credits.Christopher Collet's character is totally unlikable, see him in First Born... same annoying attitude.  Also about a kid who is incestuously fixated on his mother's relationship with her boyfriend. "}{"Title":"Can nuclear weapons be funny?","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Anti-Gravity Belts and Shrinking Rays are okay...unless you are making grandiose references to Oppenheimer and portentious speeches about real nuclear weapons on real planets where they can be made only with two really toxic materials. But even if plutonium could really be stored in sports bottles in a transparent case in a room with where a guy plays with lasers, one can't help but wonder Why did the boy genius walk out of the lab but then drive the plutonium out of it in a remote-controlled car after cutting a hole in the building with the laser? Didn't anyone notice the hole he left in the building, the fence, and in the line of trees beyond the fence? Would all the world's super-pure plutonium be guarded by an old coot who appears to be legally blind and a thick besides? Why does Cynthia Nixon ask all their friends to drive to where a nuclear bomb is? Why does Paul need a written statement about the pure plutonium lab if he has the pure plutonium himself? Why does Paul's Mom forget to shampoo? Oh, that one actually does get answered.There are too many howlers to believe in this thing. It came from the same guy who wrote SLEEPER, in which the nonsense science was part of the comedy. WAR GAMES is more plausible but it ends with the same silly speeches. Of course if you ever do rid the world of nuclear weapons you merely make the first new weapon all the more valuable. Oh, well. Maybe a comedy about plutonium is a job no writer can manage. "},{"Title":"If you like clich'e you'll love this movie","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A boy genius builds an atomic bomb with plutonium he steals from his mother's would-be boyfriend. A barely plausible premise but what the heck it's a movie. I can only imagine the producers and actors all anticipating the acclaim that they hope to achieve with this ripoff of 'War Games'. 'War Games' featuring Matthew Broderick and Ally Sheedy was clever, hip, interesting, funny at times and believable everything that this movie is not. The first scare is John Lithgow as a love interest with Jill Eikenberry. He is not likely to set feminine hearts aflutter and Jill looks great except that her hair looks like it lost a battle with a wombat. As to the cliché's (forgive me if I leave out a few dozen, as there are so many) 1) The kid opens everything with a handy nail file from his nail clipper that he always happens to have in his pocket. He even opens pin-tumbler locks which I assure you are not amenable to nail files. 2) He breaks into the lab to steal the plutonium, swaps it with a bottle of shampoo, then packs everything back into his gym bag, EXCEPT the plutonium which he tapes to the back of a remote control car. You see if he just put the plutonium in his gym bag with all the other stuff (including the huge remote controller for the car) there would be no reason to fire up the enormous Argon-Ion LASER BEAM which he uses to cut a hole in the building to smuggle out the plutonium. And of course the cutsey part where the dodering old fool of a security guard would have no reason to stumble around in dark with flashlight looking for god knows whatever while the kid zooms the car around. Duh! 3) Lithgow brings the kid a puzzle where you are supposed to get four balls in each corner, the kid sets it down and spins it. Eureka problems solved! Only you can see that coming a mile away. And the grand prize cliché is at the end, when they all must clip the six detonator wires SIMULTANIOUSLY! GASP! to prevent the impending nuclear explosion. Except that they only have (I bet you know already) FIVE wire cutters! But guess what? The kid whips out his handy-dandy nail clipper to save the day! TA-DA! Whoooo Maybe I'm being harsh and taking advantage of twenty years of hindsight, after all lasers now fit on key chains instead of taking up entire rooms, but seriously the technical direction in this movie is awful. Despite all that it is entertaining and if you have the opportunity watch it. And while you watch take a good look at all the actors that you will never see again after contributing to this bomb. "},{"Title":"Idiotic example of 1980's smart kids movie...","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I beg to disagree with some of the reviewers who believe that this film is some sort of deep commentary on the Cold War mentality of the 60's and 70's, coupled with sharp insight into the madness of the nuclear arms race.This is a simple-minded WarGames wannabe, with totally unsympathetic characters (including the stereotypical idiot adults who can barely tie their shoelaces) engaging in wildly improbable/impossible activities.This is an excellent example of why snot-nosed, self-righteous kids are not allowed to vote.Minor Spoiler Hey, my self-gratification and desire to win the science fair surely trumps any concern for public safety or property rights. Plus, I get to feel like some sort of public-policy activist while I'm doing it! Yet, all of this might be forgivable, if the movie was any good. But it's not. Save your time and money. "},{"Title":"Plutonium Grade Movie","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Two important names in this film one is mega star John Lithgow & little known Christopher Collet. Both do a great job in a film that really is a thrill ride. John Lithgow has been in numerous films most of them big time films. Christopher Collet has been in about 10 films but this one being the most notable. Even by todays higher movie standards the film is still very watchable. It really is worth a look. The story is about a whiz kid that decides to build a nuclear weapon to win a New York science fair. He uses some very clever tactics to get some of the purest but most dangerous plutonium ever created. What happens when your walking around with a bomb capable of killing millions of people, well for one thing, everyone wants to stop you. So check out a fun weekend afternoon movie that is family friendly.  "},{"Title":"Definitely underrated, but also definitely not a comedy...","Date":"25 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie probably belongs on a lot of lists, but this belongs in the category of being a comedy, the same way that baseball should be extended to eighteen innings to better compete with golf. One list that this movie would be on would be If it weren't for another movie, this one wouldn't have gotten made. The movie that opened the door for this one is WarGames which this movie has one theme in common, How close to Armageddon are we, really?. While I did have problems with some of the movie's minor points as to how the bomb came to be built, the choice by the editors to edit out some of the more dated comments that occurred after the science fair was a good move, especially in the post-9/11 world, given the Science Fair was held in New York City. "},{"Title":"Oh! Those young men and their darling little nukes. (spoilers)","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Manhattan Project, I suppose, is an anti-nukes themed comedy/drama. Christopher Collet (some might remember him from Firstborn, Sleepaway Camp Part I, and Prayer of the Rollerboys), stars as teen Paul Stevens, who discovers a clandestine nuke plant in his upstate New York neighborhood. I suppose, in the interest of showing the real dangers and instabilities of nuke-powered weapons, Paul gets the awful idea to build his own atom bomb for his science project. (I think, too, that this story may be a reference to the court case a few decades ago in which a kid built a bomb and when they sued him, his defense was that he got all of the information from publicly availalbe materials--just like Paul does in this movie). Only problem is, somehow, the timer on the bomb accidentally gets initiated, and Paul, along with the help of the high-level nuke plant worker (John Lithgow) and some military bomb experts, has to try to keep the damn thing from detonating. Actually, less of the movie is about these panicky moments when you wonder whether or not the bomb will actually go off. Instead, most of the movie focuses Paul putting the contraption together. Certainly not too realistic (I don't what kind of explosive the kid in the court case had built), and in fact, you'd probably curse Paul throughout the movie for being so damn stupid playing around with junk like that.It is a good nostalgia trip, however, for those who adore a rare selection of 80s movies. Pop it in some lazy afternoon and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Can't suspend that much disbelief","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If the beauty of film is that it encourages us to briefly suspend our disbelief and enjoy experiencing a different world, The Manhattan Project simply demands too much suspension of disbelief to make this possible.Almost every plot point in The Manhattan Project is an absolute impossibility in real life, even though the dramatic power of this film ostensibly derives from the notion that something remotely like this could really happen. From nuclear radiation triggering detectors without hurting people, to a single rent-a-cop defending an entire nuclear weapons lab, to one teenager doing in a month what took Oppenheimer and company years, to the U.S. military letting national security breaches walk away into the sunset, there is just no way to focus on the story when faced with so many intellectual insults. On the bright side, the science in the movie is presented well and seems fairly accurate, so it does seem like the filmmakers at least tried to make something special out of an insufficient screenplay. The Manhattan Project is not a terrible movie, but it does suffer from too many inexcusable lapses to be called good. Just like the most realistic character in the movie, this film is a bomb.  "},{"Title":"WarGames without the charm","Date":"7 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Scientist John Mathewson (John Lithgow) has improve the purity of plutonium. The military sends him to Ithaca to perfect the process. He likes his real estate agent Elizabeth Stephens (Jill Eikenberry) and tries to befriend her son Paul (Christopher Collet) by showing him around the lab. Paul is a smart inventive teenager who decides to steal some plutonium and make a nuclear bomb for his science fair project. Jenny Anderman (Cynthia Nixon) is the girl and the friend.This has a bit of WarGames but the lead kid doesn't have the charm of Matthew Broderick. Of course who has the charm of Ferris Bueller. The lead is a teen brat stereotype without the funny sensibility. It spends too much time with montages and slow action. It also makes the mistake of concentrating a bit too much time on the adults. John Lithgow is such a great star that this mistake is understandable. As in many of these 80s caper movies, there is a lot of unreal unbelievability but one must accept such things. The movie struggles mostly with the pompous teen. He is a spoiled teen without any of the comedy. However it is fun to imagine a teen building a nuclear bomb, and defusing the bomb in the end is kinda exciting. "},{"Title":"No subtlety to be found here, but it's not bad","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Manhattan Project is a fairly entertaining movie, so long as you keep it out from under a microscope. Still, those holes are inescapable. Like how did Paul get the resources to fashion a nuclear lab? More than that, how would a high-schooler know how to handle radioactive materials? Can' really sweep that under the he's a bright kid rug; we're talking about resources (or maybe it's completely plausible; hell, I'm not a whiz kid). And didn't any Medatomics personnel notice that four-week-old hole in the wall? Putting that all aside, I kinda like this movie. Mostly because I'm a Lithgow fan, and the big bomb defusal scene packs some suspense. But also for superficial reasons, like Cynthia Nixon's house. And the locations, there's some pretty scenery here.6/10 "},{"Title":"Return to the 1980's-- when films were stellar and public point-of-view was different.","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was surprised that some did not enjoy this 'classic' 80's film-- I for one have to disagree. First thing that annoyed me is that Christopher Collet is the 'star' of this film, yet IMB gives John Lithgow top billing-- Really? This is unacceptable. This is a film about a young man (Paul) who is brilliant but comes from a broken family with an absentee father and feels protective of the person who cares for him-- his mother! John Lithgow comes into the story line secondary to Paul. The most enduring character is the lead character Christopher Collet-- who, out of lack of any other worthy extra curricular activity, decides (after meeting the man who wants to date his mother) to build a '1st Place' nuclear bomb (science project) with plutonium absconded from a lab where mom's new boyfriend works (a boyfriend Paul doesn't particularly respect) -- shades of 'The Graduate'. Any political correctness about the 'war- mongering lab' comes from Paul's girlfriend (Elizabeth) who is much more so an activist than Paul. The film is a great example of 1980's film genre-- shades of 'War Games', 'Ferris Bueller', etc. The film conveys to me a story about a sharp young man who is struggling to find himself after his brilliant (architect-father) and mother have separated. Without continuing to ruin the film for those that haven't seen it I say watch it-- it's excellent! If you missed out on the 1980's, well, I am so sorry for you! I saw it when it came out in 1986 and have always loved it, especially now, when I desire an '80's' mood. Enjoy this film for what it is and immerse yourself in the public consciousness of a bygone era! "}{"Title":"Pretty good science-fiction thriller","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Manhattan Project is a thriller... maybe a little too aware of its own social importance, but it has some very funny scenes (the science fair's a laugh riot, especially for anyone who's ever been in one). And the dramatic parts are great, too.It's just, when you start digesting the movie, it becomes a bit absurd. It doesn't take a nuclear weapons geek to realize that the government would rather make the purest plutonium on Earth in Los Alamos, New Mexico, where it already owns a county or two of desert sealed for your (and their) protection from spies and leaks of nasty stuff, and not Ithaca, New York. Even the plutonium plant in West Valley, New York would be a bad place for such a thing, because all the plutonium there is regularly inspected by a UN agency, and the plutonium in THIS movie is military plutonium which the Departments of Energy and Defense would rather NOT have the IAEA inspecting.Also, OK, nuclear physicists get horny and date cute real estate agents. They try to make points with the families of such real estate agents. But do they sneak teenage kids into their top-secret plutonium production laboratories? Not in this world.By comparison, the clinkers dropped in the scenes where the teenage kid is actually processing plutonium pale by comparison. All through that sequence, I was thinking Someone's been reading 'The Curve of Binding Energy,' John McPhee's extended interview with nuclear weapons designer Ted Taylor, which contained an unclassified outline of how to build a nuclear weapon. Let's just say that the screenwriters SKIMMED The Curve of Binding Energy - the details would just bore most people reading this review. But you have to give them credit for doing much more homework than the usual Hollywood screenwriter.So, I have to give this movie credit for touching all the bases of a good science-fiction thriller. It gets decent scores for technical accuracy, and it was ahead of its time on a lot of things (excimer laser isotopic separation's all the news, these days - the Australians, who are basically sitting on top of a huge part of the world's uranium reserves, have been playing with the process for some time, now).The rest of the plot... the romantic stuff just gets the viewer to the point where serious theft of fissile materials happens. It's actually funny in a way that Oedipal jealousy drives the early part of the film... that BASTARD! Putting moves on my Mom like that! I'll show him... I'll, I'll, I'll STEAL his PLUTONIUM, THAT'S what I'll do! And really, what's this kid's PROBLEM, anyway? He's got study dates with a girl built for sin, and he's POed because his mom's dating someone considerate enough to show him a million-dollar excimer laser? Stranger things have happened in real life, but I dunno... it blew my willing suspension of disbelief away for a while.But it's a good film. Worth ONE viewing, at least. "},{"Title":"great (old) movie for teens","Date":"21 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" One day, when I was a 12 years old boy, I was at the sea in the summer and in the afternoon right after the dinner in the most hot hours of the day I watched this movie in TV. I always liked stuffs of science, physics and chemistry. The Manhattan Project was so great that I always wished to watch it again. I was amused by this film, I found it great and really awesome. From time to time this movie was coming up in my mind. However, I was never able to watch it again when I was a teenager. I remembered the story, the atomic bomb, the kid building it; and with the help of a web search engine I was able to get the title of the movie. So today - in the year 2012, 13 years later - I managed to obtain and to watch this movie again and in its original language as well. This movie has made me make a jump in the past, and this is what I liked the most. The movie itself is no more up-to-date for today's people. It's indeed a movie for teenagers of the '80-'90, like I was in the past. The film shows the most absurd things possible (making a nuke at home? stealing plutonium from a lab in a clear plastic bottle?) and so is the story absolutely unrealistic. But if I were a teenage in the '90 again, i'd like it a lot again. This movie really made my fantasy fly as a kid. Great memories, great film. Let alone what is for real possible in real life. From the eyes of a child, this movie results in a good mix of science fiction and thriller. "},{"Title":"Manhattan Project-Bombed Away-Science & Movies Don't Mix **","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Absurd film. This is exactly what you get when Hollywood tries to go scientific-in this case nuclear physics.A young lad, a prankster with a brain, together with his girlfriend steal plutonium from the lab. His mother has become friendly with scientist John Lithgow.With the nuclear material, our young lad has made a small bomb. The FBI and other federal agents are after our young hero. They point rifles to his chest.The best part of this ridiculous film was how the dynamic duo were able to pull off their caper.Then of course, we must have the deactivating of the bomb, and how that's done before the deadline and mom and the girlfriend rushing up to our hero at film's end. Let's go beyond this and pursue how this recalcitrant should have been tried for stealing this material and placing the northeast in such jeopardy.The film is a miserable one. It made me think of my miserable chemistry teacher and how she tortured me. The film tortured me as well. "},{"Title":"Totally unlikable protagonist, waste of time, go rent Wargames!","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Tedious, preachy movie with bratty, smug, arrogant protagonist... you're hoping, hoping, hoping that he gets killed!  Only John Lithgow is any good, but they give him a lame, self-righteous and overly long speech at the end... don't waste your time... go rent Wargames!  A much better and smarter anti-war film! "},{"Title":"A great 80s flick for a weekend afternoon","Date":"11 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" First I was 12 when I watched this movie on the ol' VCR. If I were to rate this film based on what I know today (December 2012) then it's a bit (sarcasm) far-fetched albeit still a good story with good actors. Find Robert Sean Leonard nearly two decades before House, MD! But I digress... Think about the film in a mid-80s mindset. No Google, no wikipedia...just Encyclopedia Britannica and this thing they called a library way back in the day. The general public didn't have a clue about radioactive isotopes or computers in 1986 and the information wasn't at our fingertips like it is today. So let that go and enjoy the film. Summary The quirky whiz kid who is seemingly a rube in areas outside of all things science and tech is sheldonesque in nature. John Lithgow plays a great lead proving early on why he's been nominated for two Oscars. The caper used to extract the plutonium is pure genius and fun! The film falls into three categories according to IMDb Comedy, Sci-Fi, Thriller. It's a blend of all three...oh and Comedy is first because it's in alphabetical order, not because the film is foremost a comedy.For those people who are 35 and up this is a great film to sit down with the family and watch for good clean fun, a great story, a little US history (perspective only as we were in a nuclear arms race in the 80s), and inexpensive entertainment.Who cares if the green stuff would be deadly outside the lab, forget the reality and enjoy the film. It's a good one! "},{"Title":"idiotic '80s flotsam","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Here's a textbook example of all the post-'ET' rip-offs pitting bright teenagers against bad grown-ups, in this case packaged like an updated manual of mid-1980s commercial movie-making clichés. It's all here the playful young smart-aleck prodigy (with attractive single mother and sexually active girlfriend); the wicked agents of federal bureaucracy; the solitary, sympathetic adult (as usual, a scientist); lots of distracting high-tech hardware; and a topical message. In more talented hands all these familiar ingredients might at least have been assembled with some style, but the comedy (?) plot (about the whiz-kid and his home built nuclear device) includes more lapses in logic, more contrived cleverness, and more implausible plot twists than even a teenage fantasy of this sort can support. Rule of thumb never trust a movie that assumes its audience is less intelligent than the characters on screen. "},{"Title":"Hubris","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There are some things man was never meant to know.  Or at least high school kids.  The story is interesting in its concept smart kid builds nuclear device and is barely saved from blowing everyone to smithereens.  (Vide War Games.)  Its execution however makes one squirm with discomfort rather than suspense.  First, the acting isn't bad.  John Lithgow is especially effective in his scenes with Jill Eikenberry -- a genuinely nice guy just trying to get along.  The rest of the performances are adequate.  But the character played by Christopher Collett is truly abrasive.  His scientific intellect is honed to a razor edge, as we find out near the beginning when he arranges a small explosion in the lab drawer of a fellow student who is his rival in science class.  Hilarious. His smugness is almost unbearable.  And science is about all he's good at.  He realizes that Lithgow is hitting on my mom (innocently enough) and resents him for it.  He doesn't seem to know what an Oedipus complex is.  He asks, Who's Anne Frank?, and isn't being rhetorical.  Worst of all, he doesn't really care about his non-scientific ignorance.  He's only a few steps removed from the maniac in Pi.  The plot is simply unbelievable.  He may be extremely clever but unless he has some sort of PSI power as well, he could not disarm the alarm system in two shakes of a lamb's tail -- let alone unfailingly operate the complex robotic systems in the laboratory. And without so much as a previous glance at it, he knows that the inner wall of the lab can be cut with a pen knife, and he knows just where to cut it too.  He may be superhuman as well.  Radioactive plutonium is still radioactive, even without having reached critical mass, isn't it?  And although rubber gloves may stop larger particles like protons, they don't provide much protection against gamma rays, do they?  I may be wrong, but at least I'm willing to admit my ignorance, which is more than this egocentric showoff is able to do.  The first time I saw this movie it was fascinating, especially the first half, not the last part, which deteriorates into a familiar pattern.  But I saw it again recently and found it more irritating than anything else, because of Collett's character and because the plot was so full of holes.  At least I HOPE it was full of holes.  If it were so easy to throw together a nuclear weapon occupying a space the size of a trombone case, and to do so in only a few weeks, I'd hate to think of what might happen if some religious fundamentalist antimodernization Ludditic cryptolunatic saw the movie and it gave him ideas.   "},{"Title":"A boy builds a 50 kiloton atomic bomb for a science fair project, whoops","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is the third of the four feature films directed by Marshall Brickman. It is ironic that the title is THE MANHATTAN PROJECT, because Brickman wrote Woody Allen's films MANHATTAN (1979, see my review) and MANHATTAN MURDER MYSTERY. Now, that's what I call throwing a name around! In this film, in order to escape Central Park perhaps, the location is shifted to Ithaca, New York, the location of Cornell University. They have lots of scientists there, but sshhhhh, I am telling you that only on a need to know basis and you must keep it to yourself. There are lots of FBI men around and they have guns. Brickman's first film was SIMON (1980, see my review), which was not entirely successful, and his second was LOVESICK (1983, see my review), which was an excellent romantic comedy. This film moves into new territory, and by that I do not just mean Brickman has temporarily migrated upstate. The film stars the 18 year-old Christopher Collet as a science prodigy who decides to build a small atomic bomb in order to try to win first prize at the National Science Fair. John Lithgow is excellent as the nuclear scientist who romantically befriends Collet's divorced mother (Jill Eikenberry with her bright blue eyes, and by the way you may have noticed that for at least three decades now all women in American movies are divorced) and from whom Collet steals the necessary plutonium. He has a very jolly girlfriend played by the 20 year-old Cynthia Nixon (no relation apparently to Tricky Dick), who helps him sneak out of the top secret lab. The film is very amusing and Brickman, who co-wrote the film, has added several very punchy comedic lines of dialogue, as one would expect from a Woody Allen author. Brickman does an excellent job of directing, and this film really is a good one. Naturally, the atomic bomb's unprimed detonation mechanism is accidentally set on timer by 'a spontaneous neutron emission'. Those neutrons really never could control themselves. Can the bomb be defused before it destroys 'New York, Pennsylvania, and Canada' as a worried Lieutenant Colonel puts it while his men brandish their sniper rifles and machine guns? It is all good fun and also rather hair-raising. Also, there's a message in there somewhere. "},{"Title":"outstanding (cries out for a remake)","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" i gotta say,i loved this movie.it's very well crafted.the atmosphere of the film is fantastic.i loved the way the film is lit.the characters are well constructed and believable,as well as being sympathetic.the acting is first rate.the music score couldn't have been better.the suspense is built to just the right point and isn't over done.the movie is almost two hours long but it moves comparatively quick for a movie of that length.i'm actually surprised there wasn't a sequel or that there hasn't been a remake.i think a remake(especially set in in present times)has the potential to be an interesting movie if done right with the right director/producer/cast.anyway,for me,The Manhattan Project is a 9/10 "},{"Title":"You got to be kidding !","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Strictly targeted for the teenage market, this bomb reinforces illegal and unacceptable behavior in an off handed way.  A fine cast is wasted on a story best left untold.  If the writers ever had any message to convey it is lost in this unreal movie of improbables.  The writers would have you believe that a high school student constructs a 50 meg-a-ton atomic bomb in a relatively short period of time with little or no facilities at his disposal.  Then after being seconds away from destroying Ithaca, New York and its population, he becomes the hero of his peers.  If you ever wondered how Columbine High could happened, take a look at this farce.  John Lithgow, a fine actor in his own right, deserves better.  "}{"Title":"Okay, at best","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An interesting movie, which actually raises some questions regarding nuclear stockpile, and the oppressive government associated with the 80s. The story is a boy genius associated with the nuclear facility near his town, steals some radioactive material and makes a nuclear bomb for a science fair. He is discovered, but flees, and manages to return to the facility with the bomb, but trouble ensues. It is interesting to see some TV stars, before they were stars (John Lithgow for one), but the movie is a Sunday afternoon TV movie, at best. "},{"Title":"Had more holes than the Titanic","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Totally unbelievable story about a pair of kids who penetrate a highly classified, super secret government bomb making lab. There were so many flaws in this thing that I never could get interested in it. The dialogue, which was supposed to be tense, was just corny beyond belief. No drama either, I don't know, maybe it was a comedy, eh? Loser film. "},{"Title":"at least the ending was suspenseful","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Another entry in the extraordinarily-intelligent yet naive teenager nearly starts a nuclear war/disaster flicks of the early through mid-1980s.It's hard to believe that two people would be guarding a nuclear facility and would be outsmarted by someone they are twice or thrice as old as.  It's even more unbelievable that the twenty-something playing teenager would be able to steal highly unstable plutonium and not disease himself or others while it was in his possession.  Unbelievabler still is the notion that a bunch of introverts at the science fair would save him and the bomb from the government, in the name of science  (the plot may have been more interesting if they stole the bomb and used to promote their own agenda.)However, those who choose to watch this movie will be well rewarded with great acting(seldom seen in many of the actors later works) and suspense in the last half-hour or so when the unplanned consequences come to a head.     "},{"Title":"Pretty good cold war thinker.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has some real quotables in it that boosted the ratings for me. Christopher Collet's character is a little too perfect, and at points you wonder what his intentions (and the plot) really are, but at least this keeps the movie somewhat unpredictable. "}]