[{"Title":"Why don't you just sit there and bleed a while before you taste some real pain","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"43 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Classic Eastwood and great fun from mid-'80s as produced and directed by the fine man himself. I have to say this is an ideal role for Clint, like Dirty Harry Callahan in the army. I truly love his exaggerated macho-characters because they're so amusing and provide so much fun for a Clint-fan like myself. In here he's a real monster unpitying, blunt, tough and almost sadistic but like most of Eastwood's characters he isn't all that cold, even Sergeant Tom Highway has his sensitive side. In this case he reads women's magazines and tries to reconcile with his ex-wife.Script is filled with obscene language and lots of hilarious, legendary one-liners that kept me laughing pretty hard. Of course I understand why critics don't necessarily like Heartbreak Ridge. We don't have to watch and wait far to find out what the flick is all about, first scene tells it all. This movie is shameless and far from being intelligent but that doesn't mean it's boring. What the hell, it entertains and finally that's what counts. Quote from the film You can rob me, you can starve me...and you can beat me and you can kill me. Just don't bore me. "},{"Title":"Probably one of the most quotable movies of the 80's","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"52 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Among my husband and his buddies, this movie is like Shakespeare -- they quote from it often and well, so often and well, in fact, that the quotes are just part of their vocabulary and the source is forgotten.  It does have more than its share of witty quips, even for me, a lowly female ;).I really do like this movie.  It makes me miss the 80's, when it was still considered acceptable to be a patriotic American, and movies that glorified America and the military could be made without the felt need to apologize left and right.  And of course Clint Eastwood is clever and attractive as always, as the hardcore Marine lifer who's trying to discover his tender side in time to reunite with his ex when he retires. "},{"Title":"A sharp and very witty film.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"37 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Watching Clint Eastwood work his magic on the big screen is something for a movie lover like myself to treasure and in Heartbreak Ridge, Eastwood really unleashes it here.Eastwood stars (and directed) the film as Thomas Gunny Highway, a very seasoned and highly decorated, but a troublesome U.S. Marine gunnery sergeant. Highway begins what may be his last tour of duty and along the way, he deals with a rowdy and undisciplined bunch of recruits (Mario Van Peebles being the most sarcastic and cocky one among the bunch) and turns them into reliable soldiers, Major Powers (Everett McGill), a higher-ranking officer who totally dislikes Highway, and tries to revive his relationship with Aggie (Marsha Mason), his ex-wife who isn't afraid to tell him about the misery that she has suffered.The film runs at a brisk pace and Eastwood saves the best scenes for last when he guides the squad into Grenada to find a medical school where the students (mostly Americans) are held captive and the shootouts are well-done. Plus, the humor in this film is sharp and very witty although some of it may be offensive.Heartbreak Ridge does remind me of the one film that I've seen made by the late Samuel Fuller - The Big Red One. There are a few differences that seem notable, but both films bear a strong resemblance and appeal. "},{"Title":"Vintage Clint!","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"32 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood is at his best in the role of Gunny Highway. This is mostly a really excellent flick about patriotic values, military camaraderie and old grizzled military veterans. Gunny Highway comes across as the exact fellow you would want covering your ass in any tough situation you could possibly imagine. And Eastwood plays him perfectly with steely resolve, devotion, humor and a healthy touch of irreverence. Its great to see the transformation of Highway's squad, as well as the final moment of judgment for the totally hateful, obnoxious and bureaucratic Maj. Powers. (Oh, if only such b*****ds would get their deserved comeuppance in real life in such a manner, what a beautiful world it would be!)The only real fault is the attempt to compare a minor police action in Grenada with Vietnam and Korea, I guess we're not 0, 1 and 1 anymore. I mean, give me a break, Korea and Vietnam went on for years and killed millions! Grenada involved a couple of hundred casualties over a couple of days. Please! But I suppose in 1986 the American people were desperate for some kind of heroes. Its just that that kind of jingoism would have been much more appropriate after Desert Storm than Grenada. That being said, its still a very good movie with a fundamental message about values, loyalty and comradeship that we could easily have more of these days, besides, Clint is just great! "},{"Title":"one of the most HILARIOUS war movies ever!!","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have to say that I really enjoyed watching this movie.The grizzled, maverick war veteran, Sgt. Tom 'Gunny' Highway must be one of Clint Eastwood's more comedic roles (apart from the 'every which way' films) He had me bursting out laughing every time he even opened his mouth. One particular line that had me in stitches was when he was telling a cadet to put his Kevlar helmet back on by 1900 hours 'or he wouldn't have a head to wear it on'-pure class!! I've always liked Clint for his tough no-nonsense roles. This one is no exception! As a matter of fact, there were plenty of 'laugh-out-loud moments in this film to keep everyone happy-like the smart-ass remarks from the punk cadets.The showdown between Highway and 'The Swede' was highly enjoyable, too.'Heartbrake Ridge' is certainly a lot more lighter and easier to swallow than the similarly-themed 'Full Metal Jacket'.This film certainly passes as perfectly adequate, undemanding popcorn viewing. "},{"Title":"Who's the leader of this club that's made for you and me?","Date":"18 July 2012","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The de facto role of the United States Armed Forces will be to keep the world safe for our economy and open to our cultural assault. To those ends, we will do a fair amount of killing. - Lt. Colonel Ralph Peters The weaker and poorer a country is, the more dangerous it is as an example. If Grenada can succeed in bringing about a better life for its people, some other place that has more resources will eventually ask, 'why not us?' - Chomsky Clint Eastwood stars in and directs Heartbreak Ridge, a dumb propaganda film about US military actions in Grenada. Made with Pentagon support and constructed in the mould of 1950s war films (particularly Take the High Ground and Sands of Iwo Jima), most of which saw tough-guy Sergeants (John Wayne, Richard Whitmark) grooming misfits for war, the film stars Clint Eastwood as Gunnery Sergeant Highway, a no-nonsense warrior who takes a band of delinquents and builds them up into hard-as-nails killers.All the genre's clichés are here Highway is the tough daddy disciplinarian whom the group slowly learn to love, his grunts are all rebels and misfits who learn to heroically do their duty, and high ranking military men outside of Highway are presented as being inept goof-balls. As is the case with all these films, the very non-conformity of Highway and his boys &#x96; their supposed dissidence and individuality in the face of state ideology &#x96; disguises/facilitates their absolute conformity.Ridge climaxes with Operation Urgent Fury, the 1983 US invasion of Grenada. Before this the film shamelessly parrots the line of Pentagon spin-doctors. Eastwood and his grunts do not invade the tiny island of Grenada, instead they go to Grenada to rescue US tourists, school kids and students from evil soldiers. One must remember that the official pretext for invading Grenada back in the 1980s was the protection of American lives, specifically 800 students at the US run St George's University of Medicine. In reality none of the students were in danger, none wanted to leave and the invasion was actually designed to oust Maurice Bishop, the people's revolutionary who rallied the islands few thousand inhabitants against Prime Minister Erich Gairy. Within months Bishop had put in place policies which irked Carter and Reagan, who were all at the time busy overthrowing/assassinating similar democratically elected leaders and/or left-wing movements in Africa, the Middle East, Asia and Latin America.Bishop achieved more in a few months than anyone expected, Grenada reaching a 9 percent cumulative growth rate, unemployment dropping from 50 to 14 percent, agriculture diversified, cooperatives developed, imports dropping from 40 to 25 percent as a result of sustainability measures, literacy rates jumping to 98 percent, a free education and health system being established, the number of schools tripling and various industrial programs set in motion.At the time, Grenada's turn-around was praised by the World Bank. But Carter would adopt an adversarial attitude and put in place a program to assassinate Bishop and isolate the tiny Caribbean island. And so the UN Mission in Grenada is bugged, Bishop's party is infiltrated by the CIA, Western media begins to spread propaganda with the aim of discouraging tourists, the CIA begins a destabilisation program and rumours are spread about Soviet submarine, missile and air bases being present on the island. As far as the public is concerned, the tiny island of Grenada is a rouge, terrorist state. When all these rumours are debunked by journalists leading up to the invasion, the major news chains refuse to air retractions. Meanwhile the CIA begins planting bombs at local rallies, inadvertently kills several civilians and sets about trying to weaken the island's economy. This goes on for roughly 4 years.Prior to the invasion, The CIA begins to sew discord in Bishop's Party. Bernard Coard, Bishop's childhood friend and co-revolutionary, begins to break away from Bishop. Coard stages a coup and arrests Bishop, but Bishop is set free by a crowd of some 10,000 Grenadians, all staunch supporters. In response Coard's men apparently massacred Bishop and his closest followers. To this date no one knows where the orders came from and who committed the murders. Coard blames the CIA, the CIA blames Coard. Coard is a free man today. Gairy was given diplomatic immunity in the US. Coard's actions were used as a pretext to invade the island; these plans were drawn up years earlier.To facilitate the invasion the US constructs an unbelievable hoax in which it is stated that the Organizaton of Eastern Caribbean States had asked the US to invade the backwater island in order to protect other Caribbean islands from Grenadian aggression. The invasion takes place, its date of execution designed to distract the public from American casualties and failed US policy in Lebanon (250 US troops dead days earlier). Declassified documents would reveal that US bombing runs systematically targeted Grenadian factories; one of the first targets was a canning plant which helped Grenadians can their own food (rather than relying on foreign companies).The Pentagon claims that weapons of mass destruction were found, which are years later revealed to be rifles manufactured in the 1870s and two Bren guns circa 1950. The US puts in place an interim government, rigged courts and tribunals are set up to assign blame, lawyers and judges are paid hush money, neoliberal polices are put in place to favour foreign investment, state enterprises are given over to foreign private interests and modern consumer capitalism is officially brought to Grenada. In 1991 the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights find that throughout this pantomime the US Government under Carter and Reagan had violated a slew of laws and articles. The report was released when US F16s were bombing Baghdad.4/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing for the always-cool Clint Eastwood. See instead Full Metal Jacket and Cox's Walker. "},{"Title":"Clint's funniest","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had forgotten how funny this film really is. Shown on British TV last night, I found myself laughing like a loon all the way through it. Being a big fan of Eastwood, it's been quite a while since re-viewing this mini classic. And although it does take a drastic turn at the end, with a slightly misjudged comment on war, this is by far his funniest movie.I also found that his character is his most interesting. A hard, no-nonsense gunnery sergeant who looks for advice in women's magazine is a dream characterization. And the one-liners are perfectly attacked.I did find Mario Van Peebles character a little annoying, but then I suppose that was the whole point, and it's always good to see Marsha Mason, who I think is totally underrated as a screen actress.But this is Eastwood's movie, through and through and a real delight. See it, but don't take the ending too seriously. "},{"Title":"Action and comedy in a military setting","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an enjoyable, if somewhat cartoonish, adventure. Eastwood plays Gunnery Sergeant Tom Highway, a career United States Marine who won the Medal of Honor at Heartbreak Ridge in Korea. As he approaches retirement, Gunny Highway takes on the task of transforming a bunch of misfits into a tough Reconnaissance Platoon in time for the 1983 invasion of Granada.  The film is uneven, with some moments that are brilliant and others that are embarrassingly bad.  The film does not contain an accurate portrayal of Marine Recon, but it does deliver excitement and a good dose of humor. Besides, Clint Eastwood as a salty old Gunny is something that had to happen! "},{"Title":"not a keeper","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Disappointed with this movie. I wouldn't put this on my top 200 list. The plot is thin. The storyline is so unrealistic. The result is a bit sophomoric. I expected better and unfortunately, didn't get it. I got tired of Clint Eastwood's gravely throat talk after the first 10 minutes. The script seems to be made up of a combination of terse, smart-ass and cute one-liners all strung together. I'm not sure what Marine Corps is being depicted here, but it sure isn't anything manufactured in the United States. I can't believe that the U.S. Marine Corps seriously considered using this movie as a promo for Toys for Tots (until they heard the language). I suppose it's worth remembering that this was produced in 1986. The only thing that Mario Van Peebles was missing were the perfunctory warm-up leggings when he was singing on stage. (Or maybe I just missed them.) "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"23 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Directed by, and starring Clint Eastwood, of whom I have been a fan on either side of the camera; I have to say that I was extremely disappointed with his work here.It is formulaic to the point of prescription. I don't think I see any scene in this movie that I haven't seen elsewhere. An already quite clearly ageing Eastwood is far too old for the part. He just sleep-walks his way through the role of a grizzled platoon leader, out to whup some misfits into shape. The humour is entirely predictable. The jokes come trudging-up with the inevitability of an old soldier, when they really ought to have faded away. There's the inevitable personal conflicts, a little bit of love-interest in the form of a female bar-keeper, and so on. Even the combat sequences are pretty stagy, with unimaginative location-work.I've watched it two or three times, now. Each time I wonder if I fell asleep or something and missed the good stuff. But not so; it's exactly what it is a completely formulaic military vehicle, but one in which the wheels don't actually fall off; they were never fitted in the first place.Shame on you Clint. Though your other stuff's made up for it. "}{"Title":"How about just a LITTLE realism?","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I normally don't complain about the realism of Hollywood's portrayal of the Armed Forces in it's movies, but this one is just too far out of bounds to let go. Marine recon units are the equivalent of Navy SEALS or Army Rangers. They are elite units, and discipline is strict. Back-talking your superior, whether officer or enlisted, is not tolerated a bit, and would not be attempted by junior enlisted men. Right away, you would have eliminated about half of the dialogue in this movie. Oh, well... They did get one thing right, though. Winners of the CMH (Congressional Medal of Honor) never have to salute anyone. They will always be saluted first, and will return the salute. "},{"Title":"More of the same old Clint...","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Made during the Reagan years, Heartbreak Ridge was designed to appeal to the ruling administration's conservative values, maybe to acquire official approval, but certainly not to deny the odd buck or two. As movies go, it's neither the worst nor the best, rather a repeat of the Eastwardeque formula witnessed in Every Which Way But Loose, only this time in a proud US military tradition.Eastwood comes across as a convincing hard-nosed gunnery sergeant. But the role demands little extra than the Philo Biddo persona - cussing, fighting and generally resisting the rules whenever it suits.However, while Eastwood's role convinces, the other characters are simply cardboard cutout clichés - the mouthy recruits, the disappointed ex-wife, the long-suffering confidante, the antagonistic Major. The plot could've been lifted directly from a third instalment of the Every Which Way But... and dropped into Dispersed Pattern Material cammies.There's little in the way of true story progress except that a bunch of spoilt recruits become real soldiers - watch the Granada battle-scenes and make up your own mind if this comes off as a convincing military drama. Highway barely develops as an individual, except to retire. He experiences no epiphany or growth.One could be excused for believing this is a serious attempt at examining the life of a Vietnam veteran in the modernising US Marines, lost somewhere in the past and unable to accept the loss of compatriots on Heartbreak Ridge (of the title), but simply because it doesn't portray the deliberate infantile revenge-plot of movies such as Rambo and Commando; however, Heartbreak Ridge is a poor example of an authentic military story. It's a vehicle of the Clint Eastwood film-studios instead. "},{"Title":"It's heartbreakingly Awful","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Clint Eastwood is one of the most talented people in Hollywood Acting, Directing, Writing & Producing, he's excelled at them all and truly is a living legend, so how the hell he came up with this rubbish I don't know? He plays USMC Gunnery Sergeant Tom Highway, hard as nails and vastly experienced but lacking motivation and still haunted by his experiences in The Korean War. His fire gets lit again as he takes over a platoon which has lost all discipline and prepares them for the Greneda invasion, in which he eventually leads them. it's a good idea for a movie but horribly executed. Trust me, every cliché' in the book is used here, from the drunk who finds redemption, to the misfits licked into shape, to the nasty officer who gets his comeupence. That's bad enough but the main reason I hate this film is the portrayal of USMC soldiers. It's actually insulting it's so bad. Marines refusing to obey orders? A Gunnery sergeant fighting (physically) with a Major? A Marine Cpl more interested in a (dire) musical career than The Corps? Never. Not in a million years. I can't understand how an acknowledged patriot like Mr Eastwood could show the United States Marine Corps in such an inaccurate way? Apart from that, the invasion of Greneda was nothing to be proud of. A tiny little island which never had the slightest chance of fighting back. I'm a big fan of Clint Eastwood and I've seen all his movies. This is the only one I would label ROTTEN and, sadly, I give it 2 out of 10. Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Twenty Year Redux","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw this film when it was made. I looked at parts of it today and see it hasn't improved any. It was contrived to be a major combat film when there was relatively little major combat. Some of the one liners sound like they were invented specifically for the film. I cannot conceive of a recon outfit falling into that much disarray because of a previous NCO. Were there other NCO's? The guy that stole from the Gunny would be dead meat to me. Poorly acted,directed and generally the worst film that Eastwood did. And I have liked all of his films,even though they are always overacted.I can understand why the DOD,the Army and (too late) the Corps wanted nothing to do with it. What amazes me is that I hear it is pretty popular at LeJeune today. "},{"Title":"A deeply touching movie.","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not sure I know what a spoiler is, but you could read the script of this movie and still enjoy watching its great collection of actors.Beyond the story actually being told, this movie provides the viewer with some insight to the military mind and persona. Including real Marines on the cast wasn't truly necessary, but provided an additional level of realism. The marital and drinking problems common among servicemen (especially lifers) are richly shown in this highly realistic drama. The movie locations will be recognized by many Servicemen, ex-Servicemen and their dependents. Likewise, the action will be all too familiar.Clint Eastwood portrays a hardened, grizzled old-time Marine who transfers into a training battalion, only to be confronted by an old-time rival and a commander who will top your list of people to despise, especially if you were ever in the service.Besides being sad, funny, and entertaining this movie is quite true-to-life. Watch it once to enjoy a really good movie. Watch it a second time for the education it can provide.Oh, in validation I wasn't a Marine. But I was an FMF attached Corpsman. "},{"Title":"One of Clint's Finest","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Being an avid Clint Eastwood fan since the age of 4 (thanks Dad!!), this is one of my favourites. It's ability to be tongue in cheek whilst being comically accurate is brilliant. Highway's one liners are some of Clint's best, and although this film isn't entirely serious, it is based on what the military unfortunately is really like without being too heavy. Love it, love it, love it, and I defy anyone to take this film too seriously, and not feel the same. My favourite line has to be, when Highway is lying in a police cell, having been arrested for being drunk and disorderly after an argument with his ex, corporal Jones is pushed into the same cell after causing a brawl - out of the shadows comes Highway's low drawl You can rob me, you can starve me, you can beat me, and you can kill me....just don't bore me. Genius. "},{"Title":"Good movie, who cares if its not 100% realistic","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love all of the comments about how unrealistic this movie is...guys relax its a movie.Apparently the movie industry should be putting big warnings up on the screen sayingWARNING The following movie may contain scenes that are not 100% realistic. If this offends you please stop watching the movie and order the documentary channel.Think about what you are saying when you complain that this movie is not realistic... do you bitch and whine because the Matrix isn't real? Sit down, shut up and enjoy the movie for what it is... fiction. "},{"Title":"Excellent Eastwood movie","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first started to watch Heartbreak Ridge, I expected another Clint Eastwood kicking but in some war movie.  I was right, but I was wrong expecting this to be bad.  Clint Eastwood is great as Tom Highway, a gunnery who must train troops and prepare for Grenada.  He gives an excellent performance and he shows who his character really is and how good it is.  Mario Van Peebles does really good as Stitch Jones.  He shows his character well and I enjoyed it.  The war part, which came mainly at the end, was cool enough.  The directing was really good and all of the other actors were good.Overall this movie is very cool and I recommend it to any Clint Eastwood fans.  Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"What a HORRIBLE movie","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is just so bad in so many ways. I was in the Corps when this movies supposedly takes place and I can tell that Eastwood got it all wrong. From the way he roles up sleeves, they are too low they should rolled up at least one maybe two more times, to the attitude of the Recon Team. Recon Marines are some of the most disciplined and highly motivated Marines you will ever see. Not the malcontents that we see in this movie.I understand that he first pitched this to the Army and they turned him down. And at the LA screening of it active duty Marines walked out in droves. "},{"Title":"What a crap movie","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" First off I am a big Eastwood fan ever since Rawhide and even his guest appearance on Mr. Ed. However this movie is trash. First off, I am a service brat and a veteran. Whenever, there is a CMH Winner (I know it's awarded and the holder is a recepient) on a base everyone knows it. A CMH recepient is saluted, without reguard to rank, by everyone on the post. A four-star general salutes a CMH recepient. The fact that the Annapolis major would disrespect him would never, repeat NEVER, happen. The other problem is showing FORCE RECON as a bunch of ne'er-do-wells is ludicrous. It would be like showing Special Forces troopers or SEALS as anything but elite and squared away. The fact that his own men who had seen him in uniform did not recognize the CMH in his fruit salad is unbelievable and that any member of a RECON platoon would raise his hand against a GySgt (which could net the perpetrator 10 years in the stockade) is beyond anyone's imagination. And lastly, to my knowledge there has never been a CMH recepient that has switched services. I have known one CMH recepient (I will not identify him) he was awarded the Medal as a lieutenant and basically had it made from then on. He retired as a colonel and always had great duty. They are taken care of with a capital C. "}{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I cannot believe that anyone could consider Heartbreak Ridge anything but a truly dreadful film. Totally unconvincing as a depiction of military training or of War (and I have experience of both) it is full of corny one liners and is truly one of the worst war films of all time. Of particular lack of merit is the fight with Swede and the ridiculous T shirt gag that is endlessly repeated. There is also the low budget fight scenes in Greneda with these supposedly elite soldiers (having received the benefit of Gunny Highway's training) bunching together and chatting like a group of tourists. When I first saw it I really thought that it was a spoof. Clint should be ashamed of himself. "},{"Title":"What a pathetic joke.","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" As an active-duty Marine, from the moment I saw colors going at about 1630, with Taps being played (that goes at 2200), to the Company Commander screaming in a Gunny's ear (a CMoH winner), I knew this movie was gonna suck. Stitch Jones would never have made it out of Parris Island alive much less make it through a Recon indoc. Indeed, that Brig Rat would never ever have come back to his former Recon platoon after being busted down. Without Eastwood's acting, this movie would have been worse than anything Woody Allen ever made. Also, the portrayal of a Recon marine in the guise of Peeble's pathetic character was an insult. A careful check of the credits reveals that there was no military technical adviser and that is one of the biggest problems with this movie. A Hollywood writer is about as knowledgeable about the Marine Corps as I am of Nuclear Physics. "},{"Title":"One of Clint's best films","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Clint is great as Highway, a rough and tough Marine who takes a bunch of punks and turns them into soldiers who go out and fight in Greneda. Clint spouts off some beautiful lines in this film and at times, the movie is almost a comedy. The ending is great; Clint sees his woman, they smile, and walk off as a parade is playing Halls of Montazuma. Does he kiss her? No. Because Clint is cool and doesn't do puss roles like Kevin Spacey or Brandon Fraiser.  "},{"Title":"Breaks the hearts of every Marine","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Another fantasy movie about Marines. Any resemblance to the truth is pure coincidence. First, recon platoons are not part of regiments or battalions. Recon platoons are part of the Division Headquarters. Recon platoons are made up of the best of the best and no recon platoon would have ever looked as sloppy as this one did in the beginning.Second, companies are commanded by captains, not majors. When the major reported to the colonel as Graduated from the Naval Academy, 1971 would never happen. The colonel already knows the major's background.Also every Marine knows the Medal of Honor ribbon and every one seeing the Gunny with the ribbon would have immediately recognized that he was a Medal of Honor winner and would have immediately given him the highest respect, including the Major. The Major would have been so glad to have the Gunny in his outfit that he would been kissing his butt.As for the Gunny firing an AK-47 at his troops to get them accustomed to hearing it fire - pure fantasy. He would have been busted out of the Marine Corps if that happened. What he would have done is take his troops to a firing range and under controlled conditions fired the weapon down range. This is done often with units to familiarize them with the sound of enemy weapons.As for the accidental firing on the shooting range, unlikely. By the time a Marine is selected for a recon platoon, he is already highly trained in weapons and he is not likely to make a boot camp mistake.I could go on and on about what a crappy movie this is but enough is enough. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood does John Wayne","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Highway (Clint Eastwood) is a hard-nosed Korean and Vietnam war veteran. After the latest drunken rampage, he gets his wish and gets sent back to the Second Recon Battalion, Second Marine Division. His new CO is the strict arrogant Major Powers (Everett McGill) who has never seen conflict. He's given a bunch of malcontents to lead. His platoon leader is the nerdy bookish Lt. Ring (Boyd Gaines). He needs to get his squad into shape and then they are sent into Grenada to rescue university students.Director Clint Eastwood breaks out all the clichés. He does it well. It is all gung ho militaristic rah rah. The most memorable part of the movie is the T-shirt bit. It's a relatively fine John Wayne movie. It's not really trying to be more. "},{"Title":"Standard 80s boot camp flick","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" What was it about the 1980s and films sets in boot camp? That is what I kept wondering to myself while watching Clint Eastwood's effort in the sub-genre Heartbreak Ridge. I also wondered how much there really is to say about a pretty average film that doesn't attempt to say anything at all. Let us find out! The opening credits feature military archive footage in black and white that slowly take us to a holding cell in the summer of 1983, featuring a jailed Eastwood telling stories to the other inmates about his time in the Marine Corp. It is during this sequence that the photography turns to color, and we to a present day mindset where Eastwood's Sgt. Highway is a washed up has been. The film's title is a reference to the military campaign during the Korean War where Highway tells one character he went to college, but as we find out later, is where he earned the Medal of Honor.Heartbreak Ridge might be the first film where Eastwood acknowledges his age. Speaking in a gruffer snarl than we have heard from him in previous films, he seems to be settling into the 'wise old grump' personality that he would continue to develop for the rest of his career. Eastwood feels older than ever as he attempts to whip some ridiculously insubordinate Marines into shape before the invasion of Grenada, especially when he says to one of them, Shut your face, hippie! The main problem with the film is that we spend too much time with Highway and the recruits in boot camp. At over two hours in length, the movie might have benefited if it cut out some of the subplots and shenanigans, which take up over half the film and rely on a sense of humor that feels extremely dated over twenty five years later. These scenes might have been more enjoyable if the supporting cast had been at least halfway decent. Instead, we have Mario Van Peebles as the main (i.e. most annoying) comic relief, and a cartoonish villain in the form of Everett McGill playing Eastwood's Commanding Officer. And a subplot involving Highway's ex-wife feels underdeveloped and leaves much to be desired.So where does that leave us, exactly? While this may be THE film about the 1983 U.S. led invasion of Grenada (I can't think of any others), it disappears against a decade full of military training films dealing specifically with a boot camp setting. I promised myself I would not mention the king of this sub-genre that was released a year later, Full Metal Jacket. While Kubrick's film certainly provides some chuckles with the delivery of the drill sergeant's insults, Eastwood's film depends on humor to get it through most of its running time, hardly any of it actually being funny. When it finally does get serious, it does not go all the way, and really ends up only being a film where Eastwood gets to act old and mean around a bunch of younger slobs in 80s attire. "},{"Title":"Marine Issue","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Heartbreak Ridge stars Client Eastwood who also produced and directed. Although now a two time Oscar winning Director, the difference in production values is obvious from this with say Flags of our Fathers. Heartbreak Ridge would had got the nod from Warner Brothers because it would be relatively low budget with Eastwood the highest paid star doubling as director and it shoes in the production values.The film was an oddity for its time. War films were the rage in the mid 1980s but they were introspective as they looking back at Vietnam more critically.Eastwood plays Gunny Highway the tough, no nonsense marine sergeant who has to get his unit back in shape. He also hopes to rekindle romance with his ex wife.Mario Van Peebles plays the cocky black guy who is irritating because that is the way he is written but was designed to attract the urban hip crowd for the time who dug Eddie Murphy films.The film was known for its swearing at the time of its release, this would now be considered to be mild. Its rather hokey, predictable and overlong.The marines comes of age when they have to invade Grenada to rescue some hostages. The action sequences cannot come quick enough. This is a typical Eastwood film for its time where he makes an action picture for the masses but also trying to say something but the message is rather gung ho. Still he had plans to direct Birdy and White Hunter, Black Heart over the next few years, films for critics. "},{"Title":"Eastwood Does it Again","Date":"12 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Grand Torino' was great, but 'Heartbreak Ridge' held my attention longer, until the Grenada incident. The wordplay is super; the Marines rejected the film because they think like Maj. Powers, i.e. 'politically correct.' Who cares if the scenes were filmed in CA rather than NC? It's an economics lesson. Pendleton is closer to L.A. than Camp LeJune.I particularly liked the way Highway 'picked' on a particular 'uppity' negroid; equally to whites. The film industry is hiring too many blacks when they only form about 12% of the U.S. population. In film and commercials, blacks are portrayed at way more than 12% of the population. Ditzy and horny blonds can have their negroid boyfriends. I'm sure glad I'm old and I don't have to put women in the category of being tarts for blacks for all the wrong reasons. 'Heartbreak Ridge' doesn't discriminate against anyone; it simply tells it like it is. "},{"Title":"THE DIRTY COUSIN","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this movie is what i call the DIRTY COUSIN, that is, it's the Dirty Dozen updated. a gungho sarge whipping a buncha losers into winners and preparing them for battle. there's even the characters to match. Eastwood is Lee Marvin, and pretty good at that. Mario Van Peebles, overacting as usual, is John Cassavettes, and a weak one at that. there's a huge guy named Swede that is the Clint Walker of the film. & there's the same situation where Eastwood fights the Swede to prove his formidable strength to his troop; the same thing happens with Lee Marvin and Walker. weakling Boyd Gaines is the skinny equivilant to the neutral George Kennedy. and of course there's the bad guy Lt. played by Everette McGill that is the shadow of Dirty Dozen's Robert Ryan. and there's Eastwood's old war buddy who backs him up and is hard as nails and had wartime expirience with him, this the equivilant to the legendary Ralph Meeker's too-small role in Dozen. okay, okay, enough comparisons already. the surprise here is that i liked the DIRTY COUSIN even better than DOZEN. while it's corny and dated (Mario Van Peebles cannot be more 80s) it's a very entertaining movie from beginning to end. you get a lot of action and a lot of good times, even if the jokes aren't too funny. it's very tuff sitting thru Peebles acting as if he were playing guitar and rapping in a redneck bar (and having fans at that), but it all grows on you, somehow, by the end. and hey, speaking of end - there's a different ending on the DVD. SPOILER in the original that I saw on cable, a character named Profile, played by Tom Villiard, died in the battle at the end in Grenada. but on the DVD this isn't shown. who knows why. and Bo Svenson is wasting in a tiny role playing the guy who Clint's ex wife just kinda likes - leaving room of course for Clint. the romance in the film doesn't slow things down like in some war films (the YOUNG LIONS). and so, all in all, i really liked the movie. for it will not bore you, that i guarentee!!!  "},{"Title":"No easy push over.","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This might not have been one of my favourites by Clint Eastwood, but as it is it remains purely macho entertainment with plenty of crude quips and Eastwood chewing up the scenery with his no-bull attitude. At times it was amusing to wait upon what degrading comment would come out of his mouth towards his rebellious recruits or higher ranking officers. Eastwood as the tough, grizzled and razor tongue Sgt. was perfect for the role.Gunnery Sgt. Tom Highway is a highly awarded relic of past wars, but is finding himself constantly in trouble with the law with his boozing ways. He's given one more chance which sees him heading back home to train-up a ramshackle recon platoon, while aggravating superiors and hopefully reuniting with his ex-wife.Very formulaic, but reactionary new breed vs. old dinosaurs format where the times have changed, but when it comes down to it war is war&#x85; where rules and polices count for nothing when you're trying to survive. Back to traditional planning, which makes a difference when you got someone who knows what they're doing? The platoon's attitude at first is rebellious, until Sgt. Highway puts them though the ringer to show what they can achieve and from this they learn to respect him over time because of what he sees in them&#x85; despite what other officials have in mind. Most of the film/or narrative spends with Eastwood clashing with superiors, training/motivating his recruits and trying to rekindle his relationship with his ex by trying to understand her. So after the 90 minute mark, the combat hit's the screen and this is where the recruits are thrown right into it with their yahoos being silenced as what they experience truly humbles them. It opens up their eyes to the fact that war isn't games and heroics but looking after your fellow mates by making the right decisions. The exhilarating gunfire is well implemented, but does lack the punch.Eastwood keeps it nitty-gritty with his economical direction, if maybe a little too long-winded in its length. James Carabatsos's thinly plotted material can play up some comedy elements, but they do fit to what's happening around it. There's also a good commendable cast to boot. Everett McGill as a Major going at loggerheads with Eastwood was a great sight. Mario Van Peebles is quite colourful as one the recruits and Marsha Mason has a lot bite as the ex-flame. There's quite likable support by Eileen Heckart, Arlen Dean Snyder, Boyd Gaines, Tom Villard and a small part for Bo Svenson. "}{"Title":"Yeah, I like this one","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The review listed dismisses Heartbreak Ridge as a forgettable and even avoidable war movie. Hmm, interesting. I own this movie on VHS and it is one of my favorite movies. I have seen it at least 10 times, and I am pretty sure it is not a war movie, but an outright comedy!!! No wonder the other reviewer was disappointed, he was looking for something it is pretty much not there. I get a good hearty laugh every time I watch it. Caution, you will miss many of the jokes if you see the movie on network TV, as many of said jokes are somewhat raunchy and are censored. Mario Van Peebles is hilarious in this movie, only outdone by Major Powers (Eastwood) with his dry humor. I emphatically recommend this movie, as a comedy.  "},{"Title":"My favourite Clint Eastwood film","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A most enjoyable film that I can watch time and time again. I don't care if it's real or not it shows Clint in his usual role, A winner. The best part is that it doesn't fall for the usual soppy Hollywood ending of getting killed at the end by  a stray bullet. "},{"Title":"Imperialism for the weak minded","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The climax of the movie comes when the US military invades Grenada which seems to have no standing military and only weapons purchased by mail order. Obviously going into such dangerous ground means that all the invading soldiers are heroes. It is hard to drum up tension for such a mild finish. Did Clint Eastwood need to be such a tough drill sergeant to prepare his troops to do this? A few boy scouts with bad attitudes could handle this assignment. It is not necessary to have a war movie for every US conflict no matter how petty. Perhaps we need a scene where the soldiers debate bringing their bathing suits to use after the morning's fighting is done. Clint Eastwood did better working with monkeys. "},{"Title":"If you believe this I have some swamp land in Florida for sale.","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I went to USMC boot camp in 1977, rose to the rank of Private First Class. In 1978 I went to Junior OCS, and again in 1980 Senior OCS, when I was commissioned as a 2nd Lt. Finally, in 1985 I attained the rank of Captain. I completed my service in 1990.With that said, I can assure you that there was nothing right, accurate, or plausible in this movie.However, I am a sucker for Clint Eastwood, and he was fascinating to watch in this movie. Watch it, but please do not assume this has any resemblance to the Marine Corps.I recommend it as a generic military movie. Without Clint, I would have given it 2 of 10, with him it gets a hearty 5 of 10. "},{"Title":"strong war drama","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood gets a chance to be a drill sargeant in this movie, and it works well.  I thought he gave one of his best performances in this movie, and I thought he was very funny as well.  I know its a little slow at times but it's still a strong action/war/drama.  The combat takes a while to happen but when it does it's well directed and believable.  The supporting cast is strong too, especially Mario Van Peebles as the king of rock and roll.  But its Eastwood who dominated the film and gives a strong and funny performance. 4/5 "},{"Title":"not a very good war picture","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was supposed to be an account of life in the military. It was pretty thin. The war sequences were phoney looking and dull. The acting was uninspired, as was the plot. Once again Hollywood tries to cram to much life into to little time. Skip this one. "},{"Title":"My way, or the 'Highway'... Tom","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a beautifully made, good old buddies in the service of our country styled story. A military movie based on a true short story, of the conflict, a 'Hostage' crisis in the faulklen Islands, directed by the man himself, Clint Eastwood. I remember, thinking, Eastwood's voice is at ground-zero, gravely and harsh, but it sure fits the hell into this character Gunnery Sgt. Thomas ' Gunny ' Highway. I watched in amazement, Clint is a dinosaur in this mean-as-nails-Marine film of hard driving male soldiers, who live on the edge. They fight for their country, beer, women, sports and of course the right to play, rock & roll. As the over the top. 'Stitch Jones' (Mario Van Peebles) and his guitar, is a cross between a rock-star and a used car salesman. It was just one of those poetic justice moments for me, when Tom Highway runs into Stitch after being left behind on the gray hound Then there's Aponte, a screwball and Profile, a slacker with a desire to take it easy. Lance Corporal Fragatti, a wise-guy with an attitude of wanting to do the army his way, then Quinones, a friend of all the above, and maybe the biggest of the instigators! The irreverent Everett McGill, as the adversary to Tom Highway, Major Malcolm A Powers, a regimented 'pain in the ass'. Thats right, a regular government mule, standing in the way of the working man's hero Highway. All together through, rain, mud hot 'LZ's' jungle fire fights , hostile terrorists and foreign lands to conquer, in the desert heat, no problem....it's Aggie, that Tom cannot make surrender to him. With, the Swede coming after him and the ever serious (Moses Gunn, as) Staff sergeant Webster they all will have to bend their 'Will' to the Highway. He is a solid old war-horse that keeps on going till it's all done doing.The action was fun, the cast of wild-dogs and misfits is a perfect fit and this is another very well crafted Clint-flick, that works for me any day. Recommended for those who enjoy Eastwood or not. (*****) 10/10Ten-hut, IMDb.com...dis-missed. "},{"Title":"I guess we're not 0, 1 and 1 anymore","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Heartbreak Ridge is a bad film. There are cliches stacked on cliches. The only depth I could find was how the elite unit was depicted as demoralized and slack. I took this to be a symbol of USA at the time. The films message would be that USA had allowed itself to go sloppy and now was the time to do something about it and resume it's journey along the path to predestined glory and of course world dominance.This film has one quote that is so funny it is gut wrenching I guess we're not 0, 1 and 1 anymore (reference to Vietnam and Korea). Was going to war with the small island of Grenada (population today 93,000) a way to get even with the world for losing in Vietnam (and not winning in Korea)? Makes you wonder, doesn't it? ) "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Clint Eastwood stars, directs and produces this very fine tale of a hardened US Marine who takes charge of a group of misfit recruits. He has to show these men how to be marines, while at the same time fighting against his superior officers, his new platoon and his feelings for his ex-wife.Heartbreak Ridge is a very gritty and realistic feeling movie, Eastwood delivers a typically brilliant performance, and his direction is very compelling. The whole cast lends great support, but Eastwood undoubtedly steals most of the credit.Packed with humorous moments, clever and interesting dialogue and plenty of easy to like characters; not to mention some pretty decent action.8/10 A fine film "},{"Title":"Very unique !","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" As far as I know, this is the only movie that focuses on the rescue mission in Grenada in 1983. Although there are a few geographical, continuity, and factual errors in this film, it's one of those movies that just seems to get better each with each viewing. Some of the supporting acting is a bit weak, but Clint Eastwood, Marsha Mason, and Arlen Dean Snyder turn in very convincing and well-portrayed character performances. The role of Gunnery Sergeant Tom Highway was chosen by Eastwood at the exact perfect point in his film career. Particularly impressive are the quotes throughout this film. It's just one of those movies to sit back and enjoy. "}{"Title":"tgchan says YES!     / www.tgchan.pl","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I know it is going to be good! The only question is how good!? Let's start watching it.28minutes - I enjoy it a lot so far. It is really interesting because main character played by Clint Eastwood is unpredictable, you never know what will happen next with him. Movie is full of funny situations, lines and you really can't wait to see more.1h 13minutes - OK it is getting a little boring... It feels like everything went in slow motion and I'm not talking about fancy special effects here... I still want to see more though 1h 33minutes - every time they leave military base the movie is getting dull... The good thing is that those moments last only a couple of minutes. I think the statement I made at the beginning was...hmm... let's say... a little overenthusiastic...1h 48minutes - lol... really...? I didn't think this is gonna be that kind of a movie... bulletproof good guys, zero causalities and the enemies who can't shoot...oh my dear god...WAIT!... one good guy just died!The movie is a little retarded and cheesy... but it is funny as well, especially at the beginning. I really hoped for something else... half of it is good and the other half is just eh... Maybe I jinxed it with my first sentence...?If you like Clint Eastwood/army or both, you shouldn't be disappointed... BUT I WAS ! tgchan's rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Good movie made on the wrong coast.","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie with the exception that it was filmed on the wrong coast. I'm a Marine from the 8th Marine Regiment, 2nd Marine Division, which is the unit they are supposed to be in. It definitely is not Camp Lejeune, NC. No mountains there. If it had been shot on location it would have been perfect. As for the Recon being as undisciplined as they were, it was on the extreme side of reality. Recon did get away with a lot compared to other grunts but there are perks to being in an elite unit. Most of the actors did a pretty good job portraying Marines. This is in my top three movies about Marines. Being a Marine is a part of my life I will never forget. One last thing, it was said the Marine Corps disowned this movie officially when it came out. This was said because of the foul language. Reality, Marines cuss, and often, it is a fact. The move was only for PC reasons. Ask most Marines and they liked the movie. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ain't no such thing as too much Clint Eastwood, baby. A hard-nosed, hard-living Marine gunnery sergeant clashes with his superiors and his ex-wife as he takes command of a spoiled recon platoon with a bad attitude. The real centerpiece of the film is its acting, mainly that of Eastwood. I like this type of film, as it reminds me of German movies where it's more about the characters and their environment. Great performances help to enhance this amazing story of warfare and courage. I give it a rating of 7 out of 10 because it's flawed but good. Watch for Eastwood's best performance of the 1980s in this 1986 film. "},{"Title":"A superb representation of the time and the event","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" In October 1983, after I had heard that the Marxist prime minister of Grenada had been murdered in a pro-Soviet coup, over my lunch hour I literally ran down from the Alaska State Office Building in Juneau (wherein I worked in the Alaska State Library) to the Alaska Federal Building and breathlessly burst into the Congressional offices. To my friends there, I hoarsed out that the government of Grenada was now illegitimate, that it was open season for anyone to liberate Grenada, and to get on the phone to Sen. Ted Stevens' foreign affairs staffer and ask him to tell Ted that we could turn the Cold War completely around if we acted militarily FAST.I am sure it wasn't just me thinking this. In any case, staffers reputedly brought the decision to act militarily to President Reagan on the golf course, and after a few moments ... in the tradition of Teddy Roosevelt ... he said YES, and Operation Urgent Fury was launched. (Granted, Maggie Thatcher's Commonwealth feathers were ruffled and *she* was furious, but President Reagan brought her around with his great Irish charm.) And our liberation of Grenada was indeed the boots on the ground military turning point of the Cold War, leading to our - and everyone's - Cold War victory *without* a World War 3.What people have forgotten is that just before, our Marine barracks in Beirut Lebanon had been suicide-bombed and in that post-Vietnam era, our national morale was rock-bottom. On 1Sep83, there had also been the Red Air Force's ... unanswered ... massacre of Korean Air Lines flight 007, which had flown over Sakhalin Island - maybe unintentionally, maybe not, but nonetheless ....Seldom have a nation's feelings ... and actions ... transformed so quickly as ours did with our Grenada operation.Clint Eastwood's depiction of the Marine Corps and that military operation may be in some ways flawed, but nonetheless is an excellent depiction of all this and the of Marine Corps community's ready response.For veterans like myself - Army draftee, Stateside and West Germany, 67-69 - it can be enjoyably funny. It was the first time I had ever heard the phrase cluster f**k. We might keep in mind, though, how we reacted when Russia threatened our inner national security zone, when we criticize Russia's reaction to our own machinations within *its* inner national security zone today in Ukraine. If we don't, we could escalate this situation into nuclear holocaust overnight.Lou Coatney "},{"Title":"Crusty Clint is still not to be messed with.","Date":"7 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of Clint Eastwood's most accessible 80s movies, Heartbreak Ridge sees the gruff actor on very fine form. Though the war is hell core that fills out the last quarter via a rather silly gun toting rescue mission in Grenada does lack conviction. The film wins its stripes courtesy of James Carabatsos' razor witty script and the sub plot involving ex wife Aggie (Marsha Mason). For all its macho posturing and training routine shenanigans (you will wish we could have stayed at boot camp once Grenada arrives), at its heart is a very tender movie about a man who can't let the career go, and the wife (ex) who simply lived hell each day as her man was off at war (Korea/Vietnam et al).That said, it's the comedy that has made the film one of the most quoted film's of big Clint's career. Be it Eastwood himself tossing off witty put downs to his rag tag band of men, or the likes of Mario Van Peebles hilariously looking like some punk version of Michael Jackson, there's a lot of fun to be had in every other frame. There's even a guy here whose thighs are bigger than Sly Stallone! So, yes there's many stereotypes here, none more so than Everett McGill's fresh out of school prig Major Powers, and for sure the ending is never in any doubt what so ever. But get in line and enjoy the fun whilst noticing that it does have under the surface themes well worth our time as well. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Eastwood's Dirty Highway","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" So it may not be the most original of its kind and as predictable as it is, Eastwood's 'Heartbreak Ridge' scores high on sharp humour with some hilarious lines and the comic flair of the actors. Eastwood plays the blunt, tough and sometimes ruthless Sargeant but he does it with a touch of humour that is very subtle and he is finely supported by his castmates. James Carabatso deserves credit for those laugh-out-loud one-liners. The story 'Heartbreak Ridge' is imbalanced but it does move at a zippy pace. Despite limited screen time, Marsha Mason shines as the former/not-so-former love interest. Mario van Peebles does an adequate job. To sum it up, this isn't a film that demands to be taken too seriously but to entertain and that's where lies its strength. "},{"Title":"Eastwood Military Action.","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Clint Eastwood plays gunnery sergeant Tom Highway, a tough but rogue military man(and occasional alcoholic) who is often in trouble with his superiors, when he isn't getting in bar fights. He has a distinguished war record(Korea & Vietnam) that gets him some begrudging respect from his colleagues. He is given one more assignment to train an unruly and disorganized young platoon into shape, before they are sent off into action.Eastwood is believable as the profane and ultra no-nonsense sergeant, but this film is ultimately too long and predictable to succeed, and strangely resembles Stripes, just from the military's point of view! Still, it does contain good(if familiar) action scenes. "},{"Title":"The Only Eastwood Film I Felt Lacked","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" To date, it's the only sub-par Clint Eastwood film I've ever viewed. Eastwood is his usual bad-ass self, no complaints there. His ever impressive appearance and voice are ever potent, no doubt about it. See the film is beautifully shot, I'' give it that, but all the other characters are so over-shadowed by Eastwood. Some might argue, Hey, it's a Clint Eastwood film, you know, The Man with No Name, Josey Wales, Dirty Harry, but in all of those films his co-stars had very good roles as well making the whole story very interesting. The one-liners are definitely enjoyable, yes but I craved more out of the writing. The characters were so darn bland, and a few had little sub-plots but none were developed that well.The battle at the finale could've been a tad more intense, all leading up to a lack luster climax. If you came in just for the one-liners, as some tend to do with his films, then I guess you'll be satisfied. As for me, I was expecting much more. "},{"Title":"1983 Grenada","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" this was a good film and i really did enjoy it.the plot did get a bit cliché towards the end but was immensely enjoyable and there was a certain degree of comedy value to this film.Clint Eastwood did a good job of playing Gunny Highway and as usual there were some excellent quotes which are very memorable and can be applied to situations in everyday life. in my opinion the best quote is quite frankly sir, your beginning to bore the hell outta me! . this is much easier to take in compared to other war films and is well worth watching. top stuff from a top actor and is definitely in the same league as some of Eastwood's other movies "},{"Title":"A bit of a disappointment yet enjoyable to watch.","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was serving on a U.S. Navy ship at the time when two scenes for this motion picture were filmed onboard.  It was an exciting day when the crew was told that Malpaso productions and the Mayor of Carmel Ca were to arrive and use the ship for the filming of an upcoming movie. We were told that we would be allowed to watch the filming and to extend all courtesies to the filming crew.  However after the film came out I had to admit I was somewhat disappointed.  It actually had nothing to do whatsoever with HeartBreak Ridge and resembled a 50's era B war movie.  The overall plot was something that had been essentially done before i.e. aging War veteran is assigned to shape up a platoon of misfits and malcontents who desire to serve and do good but lack motivation and discipline which of course will be provided by aging veteran.  They at first resist and despise their new teacher then come around to accept and embrace him as their mentor.   Along with the main plot are subplots involving Clint Eastwoods character locking horns with a young Major who regards him as an antiquated military man and Marsha Mason as his ex wife (who was more convincing in her military spouse role in Cinderella Liberty) who still cares for him but grew tired of sharing him with his real true love The Marines.  It was set in present times and I found it hard to take that any one who served in Korea still on active duty would only be an E-7 and still be in a Combat role.  Also a Marine Recon unit is an elite well trained well disciplined lot and their behavior would be nothing like that exhibited by this bunch led by Mario Van Peebles who does however turn in a great performance.  But it's a Clint Eastwood movie and there is always something about Clint Eastwood movies that make them entertaining to watch and Yup Heart Break Ridge is one of them.        "}{"Title":"Highly enjoyable but flawed portrait of Marine life","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Heartbreak Ridge is set in the early 1980's, around the time of the conflict in Grenada.  The movie centers around the training of a less-than-skilled recon platoon, facilitated by Clint Eastwood's Tom Highway character.  This movie is one of my favorites simply for the colorful language used throughout by Eastwood, as well as his typical stone-faced behavior in the role of the Gunnery Sergeant.  The film is flawed (I'm certain many Marines laugh for the wrong reasons while watching it), but as it goes with any movie you should check your brain at the door before viewing.  "},{"Title":"Humdrum Hill where Police Academy meets The Dirty Dozen","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This mediocre film consists of 3 strands very different in mood and content. The great problem with it is that it never reconciles these elements.The first strand is a cartoonish raw recruits training film containing all the stereotypes we have seen many times before the wise cracking black one, the well built one, the nondescript one put in to be killed off (maybe?) and of course, the officious Major who hates the guts of the hero, the foul mouthed Gunny Highway as played by Eastwood.This training has all the verisimilitude of Police Academy, less so actually, since at least the police recruits knew that its not a good idea to threaten your superiors with physical violence as happens here. The scene where the well built Swede, about 7 feet tall and with arm muscles the size of a normal man's chest, is easily defeated in hand to hand combat by the 60 year old Eastwood, is laughably bad to say the least.That is merely one of many things that would have gotten a court martial in real life; others include almost shooting the Major or firing live ammo at the recruits. All these things would be acceptable in an outright comedy film but the problem is that the comedy is so broad that it undermines the apparent seriousness of the rest of the film.Gunny's potty mouth runs rampant in these scenes and the film would have been improved by some reining in of this. Less is definitely more when it comes to obscenity. Fortunately he is more verbally restrained during his attempt to rekindle a romance with his ex, the film's 2nd strand. This part has quite a different tone, that of a romantic melodrama. It's OK, but not memorable.A third strand emerges about 20 minutes from the end. Like Police Academy the recruits must be tested in battle, to show that Highway's unorthodox (and probably illegal, for good reason) methods have really be more effective than the rule book. But whereas in Police Academy the tone remains light, here everything suddenly darkens. The enemy is shown being gunned down, corpses are strewn around and one is even shot at point blank range by Gunny.Then, one of the recruits is killed- maybe. I say maybe because someone says don't let him be dead Gunny and Gunny replies it's not up to me. This is then never mentioned again and the apparent death of one of their pals does not dampen the celebratory mood.I do think this film would have better if those involved had decided what genre they were making. Is it meant to be a broad comedy or a serious film with comedy interludes? A less lazy script and tighter editing would have helped. As it is, it is more Humdrum Hill than Heartbreak Ridge. "},{"Title":"This is what I call a feel good movie !","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Eastwood rarely disappoints . This one is pure fun 80's style . It wouldn't have been made today &#x96; it's too politically incorrect . People are swearing , there is no America is bad , war is bad message , the soldiers are portrayed as human beings not mindless killing machines. The movie sends a win with yourself message without being sappy . Actually it's one of the funniest movies I have seen. A great war comedy. There are many one liners and situations that are worth mentioning , but I just don't have time to write them all. My favorite is the joke with the waitress at the beginning of the movie and the t-shirts. There is some action in the last 30 minutes of the movie.It's fun to see how Eastwood's character interacts with his recruits and other people . Clint really fits the role of old fashioned soldier . It's good to see a REAL man in the leading role &#x96; something which is so rare in today movies. I also have to mention Mario Van Peebles as the adorable hippie rock singer Stitch. It's strange he didn't made a big career . He's charming and talented. Marsha Mason is lovely as Aggie.The movie is lighthearted fun , yet it wants the audience to respect the veterans , because nobody who wasn't at war can't really understand them . They are too often unappreciated and subject of jokes and attacks from society . No , this is not a pro-military movie . Even if it is considering how many anti-army and anti-war movies were made this one is a refreshing change . It's unpretentious fun , people , just like Top gun . It was made mostly to make the Americans feel better , but the amount of USA patriotism here is small , so everyone can enjoy it . Don't look for meaning of live and enjoy it .I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Good Action Movie","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have always enjoyed this movie for many different reasons. One thing that people may not know about this movie is that it first was going to be about the Army and not the Marines. Clint's band of misfits were supposed to be Army Rangers. When Clint approached the Army for assistance they didn't want any part of it. The Army's Be All You Can Be image may get tattered. So Clint approached the Marines and they were glad to help him with his movie. I believe in the movie the Sergeant Major is in the bar looking at old pictures and telling the corporal about Heart Break Ridge and mention was made about he and Clint being in this battle as Army soldiers before they joined the USMC. In the Marines they have special units of Recon and Force Recon that are similar to Army Ranger and Army Special Forces units. So it became a Recon unit for the story. In real life it was the Rangers who freed the medical students at the campus from the Cuban soldiers. So this is why Clint tried to enlist the Army's help. With the current world climate today I am sure the Army would help Clint make his movie today. Anyway it was a good action movie with comic relief and a few different story lines working together at one time. Worth the rent. "},{"Title":"Misleading","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" After 13 months in Korea at the time, I was about ready to come home while Heartbreak Ridge was being fought. In the first place the battle of Heartbreak Ridge was mainly fought by the 2nd Infantry Division. Secondly, the major units of the Grenada Operation was the 82nd Airborne Division, and the 2nd Rangers of the US Army. The movie pretty well is factually incorrect in that the only participants in the Grenada Operation seemed to be Marines. Usually when you see something in regards to the Korean War (the forgotten war), it would seem that the Marines were the only ones there. In fact, there was only 1 Marine Division, but many Army Divisions that fought that war. Of course Hollywood has always took liberties with the facts. "},{"Title":"As fun and tongue in cheek as war can be.","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't know quite what it is about Heartbreak Ridge that makes me enjoy it so much. I first saw it in the cinema upon it's theatrical release and have since worn out my VHS copy which I later replaced with the DVD. I even watch it when it's on TV.I am not a person that is prone to having heroes or being a 'fan' of celebrities but Clint Eastwood is about as close as I come to having a hero of the big screen. Clint has a quality about him that even though as an actor he can seem wooden or awkward at times he has that gleam in his eye that allows him to carry of comedy with some aplomb. He is the comedy opposite of Jim Carrey.In Heartbreak Ridge his character Gunney Highway has a real chemistry with Mario Van Peebles 'Stich Jones' from the moment they encounter each other on the bus. Highway is a gruff old-style marine gunnery sargeant with a gravel voice who chews nails but has a strong sense of responsibility and cares greatly about his men in the Recon platoon.This is shown when he first appears to the men under his command. they are a rag-tag bunch who are not fit to be called marines. The Major in charge only cares about his beloved 1st Platoon and lets discipline go to pot just so 1st platoon can use Recon platoon as whipping boys in training. Highway stops Recon platoon from lounging around and makes them train hard. He explains to the Major that if Recon are not properly trained they just get dead.Cue the training comedy antics and personal drama with Highways branching plot line involving his ex-wife. It's all done in a fun way with rivalry developing between 1st Platoon, the Major and their drill sargeant and Highway and the Recon platoon once the Recon platoon realise their self-worth.This all eventually leads up to the conflict in Grenada in which Highway and Recon platoon Kick butt. There is some sadness with the death of one of the platoon members in combat and Highways romantic involvement is finally resolved.It's not a brilliant film but is the type of character driven films that can suffer repeated watching which is more that can be said about some of the critically acclaimed high art or films with a twist ending that can only be watched once as it is spoilt once you know the ending.Heartbreak Ridge's ending might be obvious but it is the journey there that makes it worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Over the Hill Crazy Bastard","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Gunnery Sergeant Thomas Highway (Clint Eastwood) wants to go out with action. Putting his military life before his own has left him along the side roads. He has one last chance to change things before hanging up his boots. He request to be reassigned but is not expecting what lies over the hill. He is reassigned to the Marine 2nd Recon Battalion. His platoon lacks every instinct and discipline needed to survive in combat. Gunnery Highway is the man who can instill the fire to uplift these young punks and bring them unto courageous victory. He has yet another setback which he hasn't been able to grasp love hasn't been all that good for Highway. Now that he is back in town of his ex- wife Aggie (Marsha Mason) he wants to find out what went wrong. This is another entertaining film that enhances the rugged, gruff, and yet romantic personality of Clint Eastwood. Profanity and action with a twist of comedy and romance has won me over with another favorite that Clint Eastwood accomplishes as he directs and portrays Gunnery Sergeant Thomas Highway. Favorites of the movie were the non stop comments. Foul mouthed but yet full of whit, which always seemed appropriate for the situation. Improvise, adapt and overcome is one of my favorite lines that Highway uses. Gunny Highway uses this in his techniques of training through out the film. There is an episode when the troops were on a hike and Gunny maneuvers him self behind the troops. He begins open fire and displays that death is at the feet of the platoons. The lesson was to survive by improvising, adapting and overcoming the situation. The troops thought Gunny was one crazy bastard. Over a period of time, and training they learned to expect the unexpected, adapt to all situations and overcome what is given to them. The troops learned the survival techniques which are needed to overcome the enemy. "},{"Title":"Good film for the time","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a good film for the mid-1980s, when the Cold War was still going strong and it was clear who the enemy was.  Eastwood gives a good tough-guy performance as Tom Highway, a no-nonsense, combat hardened Marine.It's a bit disappointing to see that many people who reviewed this film refer to Eastwood as a drill sergeant, which he is not.  The Marines are not raw recruits and it's not boot camp.  By their various ranks, these men have been in for awhile.Overall, it's a good film, with a few far fetched scenes that were typical at the time.  3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood plays an ex-Marine sergeant named Tom Highway, who has to put a new platoon into shape for combat at the Grenada war. In the meantime, he's trying to get back to his ex-lover and insists the help of his own crew. Of course, the story sounds routine, but the personalities don't and with Eastwood giving his usual tough guy approach, the result is an entertaining movie. It's about 15 minutes too long, but features many enjoyable moments and a great war finale. The opening is a unique tint display of war scenes that perhaps Eastwood's character was in. It's familiar to what he did in the opening credits of The Outlaw Jose Wales and repeated in Space Cowboys. It offers a sort of camaflouged feel to an army picture which is good because the clothes they wear are camaflouged usually, anyway. As for the supporting cast, Mario Van Peebles is the best part as a sort of looney soldier that doesn't take Eastwood's attitude too seriously. This isn't the best Eastwood, but it certainly isn't the worst.  "},{"Title":"The development of men","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Heartbreak Ridge is about taking men and developing them into more than they thought they could be. The Recon. unit is full of strong personalities, each that develop in their own way and as a group. The relationship between Sgt. Highway and his former wife is why I put this movie as one of Eastwood's best. It is similar to Eastwood allowing Genevieve Bujold into his space in Tightrope. "}{"Title":"Eastwood saves this Film!!!!","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The reason I like Eastwood so much is because I think he's almost a modern day John Wayne, except vastly superior, since I didn't care too much for Wayne at all. Anyhow, the only thing I thought that saved this film from being a silly, childish, run of the mill 80s yarn is the appearance of Eastwood. The misfits are the same bunch I'd expect to find out of the graduating class of those silly Police Academy movies. Otherwise, this film is only half-serious where it focuses on more of Eastwood's character's life. The most memorable scene in this film is where the 300 pd, 7ft. Swedish hulk gets his butt kicked by Eastwood, and the fight scene between the drill sargeants in the pond.  "},{"Title":"Enjoy it and don't take it too seriously.","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All our great actors enter their Autumns, when they can no longer play the roles we've come to love from them, and age forces them into some casting adjustments..For all the love of Clint Eastwood's Unforgiven, I prefer Heartbreak Ridge-where Clint still can flex his muscle, as a crusty old Gunnery Sergeant, short-timing it to mandatory retirement. A hero who just won't ever change from the spit and polish gung-ho Marine he was 25 years ago.Sure it's corny in places, and even more corny in others, jive in some places, and ultra-jive in others. It's a throwback to the War movies we grew up with-where the US was the good guys, and the good guys always win, although not without at least one unfortunate casualty.Something tells me this movie may earn more than a few criticisms from the militarily wise. For us ignorant to the real ways of the services, we don't mind a bit.  "},{"Title":"Dress Right!  Well -- Okay, Left.","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Clint made this during a sort of transitional stage, between movies that (had he not made them) would have gone straight to a drive-in movie and those that provoke thoughts running slightly deeper than how to keep your orang-utan amused.In Heartbreak Ridge, Clint is the gravel-voiced, much-decorated, combat-experience Marine Gunnery Sergeant whose new job is to snap a reconnaissance platoon out of the self-indulgent, rebellious indolence into which its been allowed to lapse. Nobody who hasn't been through what Clint's character has been through can understand him. His officers are morons -- one sadistic goon from supply and a mousy new lieutenant who brags about his ROTC in college. It take the whole movie for Clint to show them how the cow ate the cabbage. The plot is positively hoary. Patton had the same job. So did Gregory Peck in Twelve O'Clock High and John Wayne in too many movies to list. It's always enjoyable to see a rough, tough man's man walk into his new command and rip everybody a new one.It's kind of amusing too in its own flamboyantly retrograde way. You ought to hear Gunny insult his men by calling them ladies and muttering that, though he may have just done them a favor, that doesn't mean they're going to swap spit in the shower.There's a bit of combat at the end, in Granada, which we invaded in order to save the sons and daughters of wealthy Americans attending an offshore medical school in St. George. Not to worry though. One man is killed but he's quickly brushed over. And the men go into battle with bullets zinging around them while exchanging the usual wisecracks and sometimes whooping with joy. It's not meant to be a serious depiction of life in the Marine Corps -- I hope -- but rather a cassation that reassures and numbs the mind at the same time. It would have gone over quite well with the teens at the drive-in. They could have rolled around in the back seats and fogged up the windows while Clint and his wife, Marsha Mason, had the kinds of arguments about family versus job that John Wayne suffered through so often.It was shot at Camp Pendleton in California and in Puerto Rico. It's almost an insult to the Marine Corps. The men in the platoon have let their hair grow out and some wear earrings. They dress and act like slobs. They openly insult their sergeant, who is a Medal of Honor winner, and threaten to do him physical injury. It was tougher than that in the Coast Guard. I mean it. Sure, in boot camp the Swedish maids were young, radiant, and eager to please but the Swedish language does not have a word for medium rare so we had breakfast in bed with steaks that were invariably overdone. On the other hand I taught night school for some years at Camp Lejeune and the students, admittedly a select group, were as sharp and responsible as any that I've taught anywhere, and smarter than most. The Marines I knew would have looked at this the way you and I might look at Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. Kind of amusing but in no way meant as more than a cartoon fantasy. "},{"Title":"An Unfortunate stumble for the master of cool","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I start almost every Clint Eastwood film review by saying the same thing...I am convinced I am the world's biggest Clint Eastwood fan. The man is the master of macho and can make the Sahara desert look cool. Unfortunately he isn't perfect and despite directing and starring in this outing doesn't save it from being average at best and just plain bad at its worst. Heartbreak Ridge advertises itself like a war movie but in fact is 90% tough as nails 'teacher' takes a band of unruly 'students' and turns them around and 10% action on an island somewhere. Eastwood growls and grumbles his way through the movie as awkward young marines try to test him. The problem is that the young crew really don't fit into the story. They look like they belong in Dangerous Minds (similar story but very different setting) rather than the Marines. A half hearted attempt to put romance to the film has Eastwood trying to get back together with his ex-wife. Unfortunately the chemistry between everyone in the film is little to none making this barely passable as entertainment. Certainly most of the entertainment comes in the last half hour as team finally mobilizes and goes to war on the island of Grenada.In case I haven't mentioned it twenty times Clint Eastwood directs and stars in the film. There isn't anything wrong with his character, in fact he has quite a bit of depth but he's also not incredibly likable rubbing everyone the wrong way from his ex-wife to his higher ups. It just isn't one of his best roles and far from his strongest. Mario Van Peebles is one of the oddest inclusions in this film. While he has a fun character in Stitch, the character makes little sense being in this film. However, Van Peebles and Eastwood actually have some bizarre chemistry that works. Marsha Mason plays Eastwood's estranged ex-wife and unfortunately for her (multi-Oscar nominated actress) her character is barely existent. She is vapid and forced into the story to have some romance and soften Eastwood's character. Arlen Dean Snyder is Eastwood's friend and partner. You certainly get a sense of history between Eastwood and Snyder but they don't explore it any. Snyder is some sort of weak comedy relief. Boyd Gaines is the cocky strong arming Lieutenant that fights Eastwood at every turn and is destined to get shown up in the end.The biggest problem with Heartbreak Ridge is simply that it drags. You expect them to go to battle but it seems like they will never make it. There is also never a pinnacle turning point when Eastwood breaks through to his team and makes them respect him. Instead it just seems he beats them into submission and suddenly they will follow him anywhere. Writer James Carabatsos is a former Vietnam vet but clearly that doesn't necessarily translate to a good film even with a powerhouse director and star. I'm still surprised Eastwood would choose to direct this given the script and plot is just simply not good. It tries to carry itself as dark comedy and a war movie but it never lands in either campy. Overall as much as I love Clint Eastwood I would never choose to sit through Heartbreak Ridge. Every direction it goes with the exception of the last half hour in battle just isn't fun to watch and will leave you wondering when it will all be over. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Heartbreak Ridge a musical comedy about&#133;. U.S. Marines","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Folks, I shouldn't even be here. I should be dead -- dead from laughing so hard at this uber-silly movie, that is. Hey, can a person actually die laughing? Don't know, but this movie surely would be a great way to test that question.An aging Clint Eastwood, playing a discipline-challenged U.S. Marine Corps gunnery sergeant named Tom Highway (as in, it's my way or the Highway), gets a new lease on military life by being assigned to lead a bunch of Marine recon soldiers who are even more lacking in the discipline department than he is. The premise is so unrealistic it defies belief. The thing that strikes me is that every one of them &#150; Eastwood's gunny sergeant included &#150; should have been mustered out of the Corps a long, long time ago. But had that happened, we wouldn't have a movie now, would we?So what we get is a movie that is so silly, so unashamedly ludicrous (The Dirty Dozen and Major Payne come to mind), that it actually had me glued to the tube just to see how far they were going to go with it. They went pretty far. All the way to Grenada and back. It was just layer upon layer of war-movie clichés, stereotypes, funny names, oddballs in uniform, snappy one-liners, military jargon and crude language, all against a backdrop of a Marine Corps that could only exist in some sort of mystical alternate universe (I think that place is known as Hollywood). *Note in the trivia section that both the U.S. Army and the U.S. Marine Corps disavowed this film. All said, though, I actually recommend this movie! So bad it was... really bad, but hey, it was still quite funny and should be especially amusing to those of you who were ever in the service. I myself was in the Navy - the parent company of the Marines, BTW.I would love to watch this movie in a room full of current and former grunts &#150; especially the Recon types. I bet the laughter would be excruciating. Incidentally, after seeing this movie, I'm wondering why the U.S. Marine Corps even has to bother with recruiting drives. Why are they always begging for a few good men when it's obvious that the U.S. Marine Corps is actually just one big laugh riot? Who knew?? I'm surprised people aren't joining up in droves. "},{"Title":"Heartbreak Ridge is far more homo-erotic than Top Gun","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just saw this again, and not only is it bad, but there is so much footage with men running around in short shorts that you have to wonder what Clint was going through. I think the only thing that keeps this from being a gay cult classic is that most of the men are eighties ass ugly. Anyway, seriously folks, this is really a terrible movie with the world's worst third act. Nothing here that hasn't done way 100X better someplace else. Go watch Unforgiven for the eighth time. "},{"Title":"Eastwood's best","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have enjoyed Clint Eastwood's movies.  Along with In the Line of Fire, I think this is his best.  It is cleverly written with some very funny dialogue and, in spite of the centrality of the Eastwood character, it brings out very entertaining performances from the supporting cast.  Marsha Mason and Mario Van Peebles are particularly strong and, of course, the Marine Corps comes out well.  This movie offers quite a strong story but good mature entertainment as well.  I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Okay movie, but not quite accurate.","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie was fine, but I disagree that there is anything accurate about it. There is absolutely no way any Marines would have had non-reg haircuts, would have talked back to a Gunny. A Gunny would never fire a rifle at a platoon on a PT course, and unlike those in the movie, Marines know to keep your finger straight and off the trigger until you're ready to fire!. I could go on and on, but then I know I am being too picky. Those are all minor issues anyway, the most inaccurate part is the constant insubordination. It just never happens like it does in the movie - never. When you are part of the Corps, you don't have to look for these errors, you just can't help but seeing them. I liked the movie, I just don't want someone to think it is accurate - although it gets better as the movie progresses. I've been in 8.5 years so far. "},{"Title":"Eastwood makes this film or it would break","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film would be forgettable, if not for Eastwoods performance.  Eastwood is a strong actor, and the character he plays is made for this film.  Its funny, exciting, and very military.  Peebles, and one the combat scenes is too over the top.  I guess this is for contrast in the film.  I will enjoy watching this film a second time, and give it a 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"wtf","Date":"9 August 2011","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ridiculous. Just as Devils Brigade took a dump on First Special Service Forces, this p.o.s. depicts Marine Recon as a bunch of incompetent screw-offs. Whoever wrote this farce failed to learn anything about the marines prior to writing this steaming turd. I suppose that the presence of Mario Van Peebles should have been the first hint this movie would be a stinker, but I gave it the benefit of the doubt and watched anyhow. Honestly one of the stupidest movies I have seen. I noticed another review stated that they did not use any military advisors. Well it shows. I generally like Clint Eastwood movies, but, Wow! what a shame. "}{"Title":"Eastwood can be that bad ?!","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Gosh i wasn't expecting such a bad film from Eastwood! I have not liked all the movies I saw from him (I found Space cowboys very bad for example) nor really loved any to be honest, but I wan't aware that he made such a crap film! Heartbreak Ridge is one of the most clichéd film I've ever seen.Its directing and editing are very weak, its cinematography is generally quite poor (apart from some Sergio Leone look-alike shots like this beautiful close-up on Eastwood's eyes), and its acting... well I have to admit that I unfortunately saw this film on French TV and it was badly dubbed (dubbing is already something I generally can't stand but it's even worse when it's that badly made!). So I couldn't judge the voice-acting but just the body-acting, and I found it generally either over-acted or under-acted. Some sequences are just awfully static. I also couldn't judge the dialogues but I suppose the dubbing generally kept the main aspect of them so I suppose I would have hated the original dialogues too!As for the subject of this film, it's kind of silly army and war are shown like games. There's nothing serious enough nor funny enough to allow us to think that it could have been a kind of critic of army/wars. So it sounds like a clichéd stupid patriotic speech, without any real touch of humanity and reflection on consequences of conflicts etc. A useless movie, really... "},{"Title":"Vintage Clint Eastwood, as a tough Marine drill sergeant Tom Highway.","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" As I was watching this movie my immediate thought was I wonder if his name was chosen because of the old phrase 'My Way or the Highway'?. I can't answer that but it sure seems appropriate.I saw this on streaming Netflix.We right away get a glimpse of the character Clint Eastwood plays in the opening scene when he and a bunch of others are in a jail holding cell, swapping stories. When a large, mean-looking guy comes up and says derogatory things about Marines, Eastwood gives it right back to him. When the mean guy tries to beat him up, he is subdued in a couple of seconds, then Eastwood goes right back to his stories. He plays Sergeant Thomas Highway, a by-the-book, no-nonsense platoon leader who received a medal of honor many years earlier, in a battle few even knew about, at Heartbreak Ridge. But now he sometimes drinks too much, gets in fights, and is getting close to the mandatory retirement age. (He was actually about 55 during filming, and looked real good.) So most of the movie is about Highway getting re-assigned to his former post and put in charge of a rag-tag platoon of men who were lazy, disrespectful, and hardly ready for possible battle. Which he does quite admirably. Lots of funny stuff in there also, and many great one-liners. Also, Highway's former wife, Marsha Mason as Aggie, still lived and worked in the community as a bar hop so they could rekindle their animosity towards each other. I really like this movie, even though I waited almost 25 years to finally see it. After getting his men in shape, they were called to assist in a raid on Grenada, to recover a group of American students being held there. They turned out to become the heroes of the fictional invasion. There really was a 1983 invasion of Granada, to safeguard Americans living there during a coup. "},{"Title":"Fond memories","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although this film is far from classic, it holds fond memories for me. I was stationed at Camp Talega, located on Camp Pendleton with the 1st Recon Bn in the mid-80s and have several buddies who were used as extras in this film. There are also scenes filmed in places where I lived my daily life as a Recon Marine all those many years ago. 1st Recon left Talega in the late 80s, but the camp still stands and still looks much the way you see it in this film from 1986. Lot's of great Marine one-liners, but overall a very unrealistic portrayal of what Recon was like. The unit is supposed to be 2nd Recon, but was filmed at 1st Recon in California. My buddies enjoyed hanging out with Clint while making this film and I bought a copy just to see the faces and places of that era in my life. "},{"Title":"classic Eastwood character,  Gunny Highway","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Clint Eastwood has created some of the most memorable characters in the movies Josey Wales, Philo Beddoe, the Unforgiven, Dirty Harry, and Gunny Highway. A hardened combat vet, an unarmed Gunny takes out a huge bodybuilder named Swede and a knife-wielding thug. He does not back from a big bar owner (Bo Svensen) armed with a club. He trains his men like a real marine would- tough, hard, uncompromising, and by the book. Gunny is a patriot and a creature of war. He is the best guy to have on your side in a fight. Out of combat, though, Gunny cannot stand authority and is awkward with women. Having said all this, it is a fairly average war movie. Mario Van Pebbles's Stitch Jones role is funny but distracting. There is nothing interesting about a Reconn team helping to take Grenada. However, the movie is a must-see because of Gunny Tom Highway. "},{"Title":"comment to user","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" User djecatepec stated I mean, give me a break, Korea and Vietnam went on for years and killed millions! Gee, I don't know where you got your history lesson from, but the total casualties from both the Korean & Vietnam wars was less than 100,000 Americans, not the MILLIONS you exaggerate it to be... unless of course, the U.S. killed 900,000 Koreans & Vietnamese! You guys just love to inflate figures (like the way the Democratic Presidential candidates love to inflate the Iraq war figures). But, what do we expect from liberals; they love to be very liberal with their figures and stats.... "},{"Title":"Fun, but not realistic","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When this movie came out, I had been out of the service for about eight months. I thought this movie was entertaining, and fun just for the back-and-forth between the Marines. I was in the Navy for 6 years and spent 4 of them on a helicopter carrier that ferried 2000 Marines around (just like the one they used late in the movie), so I got to know what they were like.Which brings me to my problems with the movie - The lack of respect for GySgt. Highway's Medal of Honor. First of all, a CO in Maj. Powers' position would have thanked God and BuPers (Bureau of Personnel) for sending such a highly decorated NCO to work under him. Yes, he had his run-ins with the law, and he did deck Powers' buddy during his last tour at Lejeune, but the respect for the MOH would have been evident. Powers NEVER saluted Highway first, as custom dictates. Also, his troops would have been scared to death to tick off such a decorated NCO, who are almost God-like in their stature in the Corps.- The total lack of discipline of Highway's men. Never would have happened. The squad bay looking like it did, the Marines in civilian clothes during duty hours? No way, dude. They wouldn't have been playing pool in the barracks. Thy would have been out training. Plus, they would have had their hair high and tight long before Highway's arrival. And the rebellion fueled by the Swede's return. Pure fantasy, although the fight between Swede and Highway was cool. Highway's attitude - on Swede starting to become a Marine - was pretty good.- Lt. Ring. A necessary foil in a movie such as this, but totally unrealistic. Yes, ROTC officers aren't always as gung ho as Academy officers, but they aren't THAT clueless. Asking him what college he went to? I wouldn't want him leading my unit.There are other minor things that bother me about the movie, but but I still watch this movie whenever it is on because - plain and simple - it's Clint, and Clint's the man. "},{"Title":"Heartbreak Ridge Is A Bit Of A Dubious Movie","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Heartbreak ridge is a bit of a dubious movie as you're getting one of the best Eastwood-performances ever but sadly enough it's done in a rather weak movie. Mind you, it's all by all a very entertaining movie which never bores but it raises so many questions that you can't escape the feeling that director Eastwood forget all sense of reality, especially knowing that this same man shoot pictures about jazz legends and so.... The story is absolute nothing....an American Marine-officer who lives for the army must train a bunch of useless t**ts who are just caring about rap music and girls...and you get it, Eastwood makes it possible to train them as an elite-platoon who were of crucial sense in the Grenada-war. The film lasts 130 minutes and not once there is a sense of criticism even if the soldiers (and even Eastwood himself) are humiliated in the worst way there is. The whole movie the soldiers are complaining that they have to do some sports but once the call is there for war, you see them carrying the stars and stripes. Yeah, pacifists will have no one good word for it, be sure of it. But as said just like if you are considering to throw this film in the bin you are facing the strong performance from Eastwood who must play his most coolest performance ever! The man with the iron face is full with scars from battles he fought (he was a hero in all the big wars) and he comes over as the most dangerous killing machine ever, even Dirty Harry would run for his life! The rest of the movie you will forget the day you wake up again, naaah watch it ... it's entertainment but you better not tell anyone that you picked up something interesting from it.... "},{"Title":"Not meant to be a war flick, just good entertainment...","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As has been said here by others, the combat scenes are less that realistic and the general attitude probably doesn't reflect a true Marine outfit. However, this was not meant to be a Platoon or Full Metal Jacket. Just your standard Clint Flick and as always it is thoroughly entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Eastwood's ability to play a good tough guy makes this film","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood plays the combat-hardened Gunnery Sgt., Tom Highway, who has a hard time staying out of trouble when he's not fighting a war. He's put in charge of a group of undisciplined recon marines and his personal objective is to whip them into shape at any cost. Though this isn't one of the best military movies ever made, Eastwood's ability to play a good tough guy makes this film. There are a few things that keep it from being a great film. Some of the supporting cast aren't top caliber and come across a little hard to take seriously. And probably the one thing that bothers me the most is Eastwood's repeatedly verbally reminding us that a marine is supposed to Adapt, Improvise, Overcome. He must have uttered those words a half dozen times throughout the movie. I think more than twice is overkill and the constant reminder made it a little less meaningful. He does have some good lines and plays the part well. Though cliche, I enjoyed his I-Don't-Give-A-Rat's-Ass-About-The-Rules attitude when dealing with his inexperienced superiors. He was going to do what he thought best. I don't think that's how it really works in the marines and I doubt he could actually get away with as much as he did in the real military, but it makes for good entertainment. *** (out of 4) "},{"Title":"Hackneyed, hokey and contrived -- but good!","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is contrived and artificial and shows off the worst of Eastwood's tendency to portray invincible men.  The dullness of the movie is minimally relieved by some essential spark that shows through the barrage of stereotypes of people and scenes.  The scenario of gunnery sergeant breaking down the troops is done with a compelling rawness to it in contrast with (for example) the same work in An Officer and a Gentleman.  Eastwood's character is close to an unwanted but mandatory retirement, and this adds an engaging undercurrent throughout the movie.Most of the other stereotypes are similarly leavened of their tedium by some originality, but only enough to barely keep us awake. These include 1. Tough warrior clueless about his woman. 2. Men go into battle and miraculously enemy fire seems to miss them even when they are in the open in front of enemy guns. 3. Tough-man warrior-repartee from Eastwood. 4. Tough experienced warrior in conflict with paper-pusher from military academy.If you notice how much I use the word tough here, it is forced into every part of the movie in typical Eastwood fare.  There is no sense of vulnerability to his character nor intimacy in his relationships with men or women, only his overwhelming need to keep up his pretense of being more than a man while giving less.  That said, there is no denying that he gives a convincing portrait of an aging warrior who has looked Hell in the face and outfaced it.Even the movie's ending is contrived and make-shift, but somehow it is done with a deftness of minimality that combined with Eastwood's character's looming retirement makes the ending acceptable.It is in these contradictions that the movie lives and manages to be watchable without being much fun to watch. "}{"Title":"Disposable star vehicle-cum-recruitment poster","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Gunnery Sergeant Highway (Clint Eastwood, with a bristly crew-cut and an even bristlier voice)--a decorated career Marine with the usual personal problems--takes on a raw bunch of recruits (real fire-pissers), training them for battle and eventually invading Grenada. Highway snarls at this goof-off platoon, The Marines are looking for a few good men, and you guys ain't it! If this doesn't sound familiar, it's because you haven't seen many movies. Poorly-written, badly-edited, overlong macho-drama from director and star Eastwood, the cinematic equivalent of a paperweight it keeps a solid cast bolted to the ground without so much as one genuine emotion to give the picture lift-off. Profanities are slung about, mostly used for comic relief, and yet the constant insults--and gay slurs--are ugly and depressing...and rather curious in a movie so filled with bare-chested rabble rousing. Marsha Mason was a good choice to play Eastwood's ex-wife, but her role (as scripted) is ridiculous, and the halfhearted send-off the picture gives these squabbling lovebirds fizzles out like a dud grenade. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Improvise, Adapt, Overcome","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" My favorite Clint Eastwood film is Heartbreak Ridge. Not even in the Dirty Harry films is Clint Eastwood more the Clint Eastwood the movie-going public loves.In this one Clint is a Marine Corps lifer who has come back to his original Fleet Marine unit to train a really ragged bunch of gyrenes who have an attitude. And as we learn had previously been in the care of another lifer who was coasting towards his retirement.Coasting is not in the Eastwood creed, it's not something he ever did in any film he was in. Halfway during the film we learn that he was the winner of the Congressional Medal of Honor back in Vietnam. But that fact has probably kept him from being busted out of the Corps because Eastwood can be pretty nasty and insolent, even to superior officers.The guy he's assigned to, Everett McGill, has a grudge going into the new assignment. Eastwood slugged a superior officer who was a friend of McGill's, an old classmate from Annapolis.Clint's also got a domestic situation, an ex-wife in the person of Marsha Mason. She's working and keeping company with a redneck bar owner, Bo Svenson. I loved Mason's scenes with Eastwood in Heartbreak Ridge, they remind a whole lot of the way John Wayne and Maureen O'Hara behaved in their best pictures.Clint's the man in Heartbreak Ridge. Whether it's Marine Corps regulations, Marine Corps training, Marine Corps politics, the man lives his creed, he overcomes, he improvises he adapts, but always in his own way.Director Eastwood selected a really good supporting cast besides those already mentioned. Really good in their parts are Arlen Dean Snyder as Eastwood's best friend the sergeant-major on the post, Eileen Heckart as the widow of another of Eastwood's Marine Corps friends and his landlady as well and Mario Van Peebles the 'ayatollah of rock and roller'.One part I really liked, my favorite in the supporting cast is that of Boyd Gaines as the young lieutenant who is in charge of Eastwood's platoon. Most people would remember Gaines from his role in the later years of One Day at a Time as Valerie Bertinelli's husband, but I think this should be his career role. He's a callow youth who grows up under pressure and even as an officer comes under Eastwood's tutelage. I like the way he stood up to Everett McGill's browbeating when McGill was trying to throw the book at Clint. Character can be brought out in a lot of ways.The climax of the film is the United States invasion of Grenada to both overthrow a Marxist stooge of Castro and rescue American civilians stranded during an uprising. It was nice to see Eastwood and the rest of our fighting force get the welcome they deserved for a nasty job, well done.And Heartbreak Ridge is a nearly perfect Clint Eastwood, that deserves a well done. "},{"Title":"Our Forgotten Mini-War of 1983","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Granada Incursion is recalled like an afterthought today. If people recall any military affairs of the Reagan White House they most likely recall the Iran - Contra Affair (and it's star turn by Col. Oliver North) or the tragedy of the Marine Barracks suicide bomb in Lebanon. Granada was a brief event - almost a stunt. But it did bring back a modicum of respect to the military, even if there were some snickering about the rescue of vacationers by the armed forces (it was the rescuing of American students, by the way, at a Granadian medical school). After the Vietnam War, the U.S. was shying away from large scale troop commitments and conflicts for awhile. But in Gerald Ford's administration we had a bloody victory recapturing the Mayaguez from Vietnamese sailors, and in Jimmy Carter's we had the botched rescue attempt in 1980 to get the Iranian Hostages home. Granada was clearly better handled than those two events.There is some irony in Granada. The events actually put the Reagan Administration into a position of avenging a man who openly hated it. President Bishop of Granada was a Communist and wished to turn Granada leftward. He openly condemned Reagan. Unfortunately there are always fissures even in totalitarian movements. Bishop was moving too slowly for some others. He was killed in a coup by elements of the Granadian military who Castro was supporting. The fact that Americans were in Granada drew us into the matter. The Americans were rescued, and by our efforts Castro's allies were defeated (and the murdered Bishop avenged!).HEARTBREAK RIDGE was made three years later (1986), directed by it's star Clint Eastwood. While not among his greatest films which were to come in the next twenty years, it is a good production. He is a tough Marine who dislikes authority. He has risen to the rank of Sergeant, particularly through his war record (it turns out that he was one of three survivors of a grueling war fight along a small ridge - hence the title - that earned him a Congressional Medal of Honor). But his career has never gone as far as it can, and he is facing the end of it either in retirement or in court-martial due to his frequent drunken escapades or scrapes with the brass. He is given his last chance shaping up the worst bunch of misfits in the Marines base. At the same time Eastwood has married and divorced former military gal Marsha Mason. At first the marriage seemed working but Mason got fed up that whenever Eastwood had an opportunity to retire on his first rate combat record he resigned up to go to another action or war. They have been divorced for some time, and as he is approaching the end of the military road Eastwood wants to reunite with Mason. But she is hard to his advances (although she is apparently interested enough in his welfare). The culmination is when they almost seemed reconciled, but she sees through his soft approach (You flanked me!, she accuses him), and she throws him out. Later, after a night in the local jail for drunkenness she bails him out and tells him they can't continue unless he respects her terms.The misfits in Eastwood's platoon include Mario Van Peebles, Tom Villard, Ramon Franco, and Mike Gomez. We watch as here Eastwood manages to bring these different misfits (Van Peebles thinks he's a potential musical entertainer) together. This despite the heated rivalry of another platoon, whose sergeant outranks Eastwood. It culminates in a victory of Eastwood and his men over the others in a war maneuver game (including a slug match Eastwood has with the Sergeant - Major). Finally comes the actual combat in Granada, and how Eastwood and his men acquit themselves proudly in it.Besides the others, note Moses Gunn as a sycophantic sergeant who is in the command of Eastwood's rival. He's a real piece of work.The film actually works. This is ironic as Granada is (in retrospect) a slight affair of our history - a footnote. The one film of note made of it was a worthy and watchable war film. In comparison the one movie (made in it's period) about Vietnam (THE GREEN BERETS) was a wash-out. One had to wait until after Vietnam was receding into historic nightmare that films like THE DEERHUNTER and APOCALYPSE NOW (and even FORREST GUMP) came along to show what was that war like. For all that made Granada forgettable to Americans, HEARTBREAK RIDGE manages to capture the story quite well. "},{"Title":"A good Clint film","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have always liked this film.I am not normally into War films.But, this one is good.I really liked Clint & Marsha's characters. They made the film for me.Their characters were written well.But, this character, 'Stitch' Jones, of course I understand the reason for this character. You got tired of him the second the character appeared & you just want him to go away.A point here, there was NO draft at the time when Granada happened. So, if all of these men had to sign up ON THEIR OWN to get into the Army why did not ONE of them are about doing a good job before Gunny took over? Yes, I know, just a point in the script.And, another point, having a commanding officer who not only went by the book but OVER DID THE BOOK. We saw the same in Good Morning Vietnam.A good film. "},{"Title":"Best military movie of 1986","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Of the three successful movies having a military theme released in 1986 this is by far the best. I am a 34 year member of the military having duty in both the Air Force and the Army and have been in combat. I have watched Heartbreak Ridge many times and continue to be impressed with how closely it mirrors military life. The only unrealistic theme is the open disrespect that Gunny Profile has for Major Powers. In the real corps no sergeant would do this no matter what his opinion might be, at least not in public. Nonetheless most scenes ring true to my experiences in the military. As I near the end of my military career and am looking at my last deployment in the next month or so, I am beginning to experience some of the same emotional conflicts so accurately portrayed by Mr. Eastwood.As comparison, the two 1986 military movies receiving more acclaim, Top Gun and Platoon, were much less realistic. Top Gun was a rousing good story, but as a flight surgeon with many pilot friends who agree, it was moderately unrealistic. Fighter pilots can have their wild moments but not in their aircraft. They are highly trained professionals engaged in extremely dangerous but necessary activities. A moment's inattention will end in disaster and they know it. Platoon is a complete flight of fancy with absolutely no relationship to reality, but then it was never meant to be realistic. It was a war protest movie made by people who have continuously demonstrated their contempt and hate for all things military that was intended only to degrade the military. It isn't worth watching. The only worse military movie than Platoon that I am aware of is The Thin Red Line which, in the attempt to denigrate American soldiers who fought in the South Pacific, actually was incredibly insulting to Japanese soldiers who frequently fought to the last man and NEVER groveled for mercy as the movie maker wants us to believe. "},{"Title":"One of Eastwoods less notable but still great performances","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Heartbreak Ridge, set in 1983, is about a tough as nails career marines named Thomas Highway. He takes over a ragtag recon platoon, and overcomes their behavior, interference from the commanding officer (Major Powers), and his own drunkeness to form an elite platoon. ******SPOILER***** Sent to Grenada, they liberate St. George University, and take a hill, losing a few men in the process. Highway and his men cement a bond that can be only forged in combat, and at the same time he reconnects with his ex wife Aggie. This movie is a great interpretation of the militarys state after Vietnam. Bored, low on morale, mischievous, with a mix of tough vets, cocky as hell recruits, and officers who don't know what the hell their doing. It seems like a fair movie about the marines, showing the great sense of pride that is held by being one. Without Clint Eastwood, I would have vomited when i first saw this movie. His coarseness and blunt speech is just what people would expect from a marine drill sarge. His best line in the movie is when he first meets the platoon, grabs MArio Van peebles ear, turns to peebles, and with this eeeeeevvvil grin on his face, says Your Ass is Mine..A good movie altogether, id recommend it to Eastwood fans and war movie men. Also a good movie for history buffs, as it talks about in good detail two wars, Grenada and Korea (Vietnam is mentioned, but not as thoroughly discussed as the other 2)7 stars out of ten is the rating for me. The reason is that its Clints film, and the supporting acting isn't very good. Great action scenes, pretty historically accurate, and the vintage footage of Korea at the beginning is very cool. Go see it! "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has got to be one of the funniest war films ever made. It does get serious near the end but the build up is superb. Clint Eastwood is in fine form as are the rest of the cast, (wouldn't you just love to smack Major Powers in the mouth). I must admit that the romance part could be done away with without degrading the film itself one jot but that also provides a few humorous moments.I watch this film often and am never disappointed. I would recommend you watch this and just enjoy it, over analyzing any film will ruin it.  "},{"Title":"Good Entertainment, but Silly","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Pretty good movie, with Eastwood playing Gunny Highway, a crusty old Marine Corps. DI.  But let's leave it at that.  Just about every other scene in this is absolutely silly, just plain dumb.  I mean, I can assure you, having been there myself, that Marine Corps. training is nothing like depicted in this movie.  Recruits falling out in formation with wild ass looking hair and earrings?  Yeah, right!  But, hey it was 1986, what do you expect?  "},{"Title":"Absolute tripe ... one of the worst movies I've ever seen!","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've just checked out the reviews of this film. Are there two films by this name starring Clint Eastwood? Because I can't believe anyone could find anything good to say about this abysmal piece of tripe. Surely even Americans must cringe when they watch it. I was going to question Eastwood's judgement on accepting the part but then noticed that he produced and directed it. Stick to acting Clint, you're (usually) very good at it. "},{"Title":"One of the best USMC recruiting films ever made.","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This review contains what some might consider spoilers.I heard once that the script was originally written with the US Army Rangers as its backdrop, but that the army didn't want to be associated with the production.  Well, I can see why - Gomer Pyle, USMC gave a truer representation of the military than this film.  But that's not what bugs me about it.  Cartoonish action scenes, dopey plotting, and outlandish depictions of military life have combined to make some great films.  What bugs me is the complete re-writing of the pop-history of the Grenada operation.The bit with the bulldozer?  That was Army Rangers at the airfield.  The unit trapped in a building by two armored vehicles?  Navy Seals.  The long distance call for fire?  82nd Airborne.  The 'liberation' of the med school? Army Rangers again.  It's bad enough that this film rolls all those events into one platoon (and don't get me started on the concept of a recon platoon with one lieutenant, one sargeant, and twenty privates), but it usurps those events from other branches of the armed forces without even crediting their existence.  Thanks to this film, in twenty years the popular memory of Operation Urgent Fury will only contain the Corps.Semper fi. "}{"Title":"Dirty Harry joins the Marines!","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood plays a recon officer who is given the assignment of whipping some new boys into shape before the invasion of Grenada.. An overall ok movie but overlong and Granada isnt exactly great war opus material..Clint does a good job though and holds this movie together.. on a scale of one to ten .. a 5 "},{"Title":"straightforward war pic and damn proud (and good) of it","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" For anyone thinking of checking out John Wayne's the Green Berets... don't. Instead, go to Heartbreak Ridge. You might ask if it will have the same kind of action, since one is Grenada (where it took all of about a day or two, give or take a few minutes) and the other is Vietnam (which, you know the story). Doesn't really matter, since it all comes down to taste and execution. Perhaps if you're a hardcore John Wayne fan you'll dig that piece of military propaganda, but even casual Clint Eastwood fans will find something enjoyable about Heartbreak Ridge, which embraces the Marines while also taking a good long snap at bureaucratic BS and people who get in the way of someone who is perpetually a hard-ass who gets everything right in his place. Or, to put it another way, Ridge provides us with the Dirty Harry of the Marine corp, which is enough to make it something interesting on its own.Why the comparison anyway? Because they're two examples of gung-ho military Americana made for the masses. But, and this is the biggest but, Eastwood is the more confident filmmaker and star, and with his film as a star vehicle as well as straightforward Recon-man-whips-men-into-shape-for-battle story he takes charge with plenty of good, witty lines and a sense of camaraderie with the male characters. Hightower is Eastwood's character, someone who must have been somewhat easy to play but also a lot of fun, the only real conflict for him coming in trying to recconect with his former girl (Mason) and in rubbing up against the even harder-ass Major. Around Hightower are a cast of near-classic misfits and complainers- chief among them the Ayatollah of Rock-and-rolla played with total glee by Mario Van Peebles in one of his best roles- and off they go in getting ready for a battle which takes place so quickly it fits just neatly (and awesomely) enough into the last half hour of the film.It's a given to see much of Eastwood's style as no nonsense. The most we get from Eastwood trying to show-off as it were would be a tracking shot following two guys, or maybe a close-up or too. It's so unfussy that one almost wishes Eastwood might try something that might POP off the screen or give the final battle something to chew on. But it is what it is and it's great to see it that way, since the technique doesn't change what's already worth while in the script. While the story itself isn't without a couple of flaws- the romantic relationship subplot doesn't really work well past the hey, we have problems that go way back... and it starts to get better just because it's convenient to the plot deal- anything with Eastwood barking and quipping lines at and with his men, just some of Eastwood's classic facial expressions we know and have seen many times, make Heartbreak Ridge a fine achievement for him.It's not as devastating a portrait of the marines as say Full Metal Jacket or Jarhead, but it doesn't need to be. For Eastwood this is a chance to make a Clint Eastwood picture out of the marine corp, and it's very entertaining to see him do when it's at its best. And, unlike the Green Berets, it doesn't paint *way* unrealistically what it's like to go into the LZ. In fact, there may be a few watching who might want to join up just because someone like Clint may be a Recon leader. Crazy to say? Just watch. "},{"Title":"Horrible military movie","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am an active duty Marine and when I saw this movie I just couldn't believe all the corny stuff they had put into it, it made the movie completely unbelievable, boring and a waste of 130 minutes. The only good thing to come out of this movie are a few key one-liners, and even those are mildly humorous at best. I was embarrassed to watch this movie, for myself and Clint Eastwood, who I consider a great actor. The only highlight to this slow-paced, boring movie is the last 30 minutes when they are actually in combat, but the bad acting combined with the poor direction kill any sense of satisfaction from sitting on your couch for 2 plus hour staring at your TV. If you must see it, rent it on dollar movie night, because if you spend any more, you will definitely be disappointed. I now know why it has taken me almost 20 years to watch this movie, now if I could only go back in time...  "},{"Title":"Only for the real Clint Eastwood-fans","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It seems to me that, since Clint Eastwood has won several Oscars with Million Dollar Baby, some people believe he's one of the greatest directors ever. I admit that his latest work is really very good, not to say excellent, but movies like this one show that he had to go a long way before getting there.Heartbreak Ridge is situated in 1983, when Gunnery Sergeant Tom 'Gunny' Highway (Clint Eastwood) rejoins his old recon unit in the Marines. He's a battle hardened and decorated veteran from the Korean and Vietnam war who will have to train his new unit. But that unit isn't exactly what you expect from a platoon of Marines. They are all lazy and more interested in style, music, drinking and in chasing women, than in training for combat missions, let alone in fighting the enemy. But Highway isn't just the average drill sergeant either and he'll teach them what it is to be a real marine, something that will be very useful when they have to go to Grenada, where they will have to rescue the American citizens and fight the Cubans. In the meantime he also tries to reconnect with his ex-wife, who still sees him as a gun-ho, who has always been more interested in the army than in her...What you'll see is the typical Clint Eastwood like we know from the Dirty Harry-movies. He's a grumpy macho who doesn't speak much, except with his fists. I'm sure that many people will love that, but I don't like him all that much in this kind of roles. In fact, I didn't like this entire movie... It felt a bit too much like an advertisement campaign from the Marine Corps and not all that much like a movie. If you don't know what I mean You have the average nonsense of going to battle and beating the hell out of the enemy without getting hurt all too much yourself, the even one man of us can beat the entire army of the enemy'-feeling, the Stars and Stripes waving in the wind and some marching music on the soundtrack to emphasize it all even a bit more. I know that many men prefer this kind of war movies, but I certainly don't.Nevertheless, I have to admit that not everything about this movie is bad. I sometimes had a good laugh with it too, especially when he tried to make up with his wife and therefor started reading women's magazines. But overall this movie couldn't convince me all that much and that's why I give it only a 5.5/10. This is only for the real Clint Eastwood-fans. "},{"Title":"Pleasant war drama","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Seems funny now, but after Vietnam Hollywood didn't really have much to work with in terms of contemporary military action.  Which leads us to a grizzled Clint, ancient vet of the Korean War and wrapping up his military career as things heat up in Grenada.  The kid ages gracefully like nobody's business and (eventually) meshes very well with his young platoon.  An attractive Marsha Mason plays the romantic interest.  "},{"Title":"The Damned Don't Bitch","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" First of all, excuse the title of this summary... it was a comment, or maybe better a statement of fact often thrown at me personally as an army recruit during the Vietnam War era; one that holds as much truth today as it did so many years ago.There are a lot of war flicks but what very few really detail or appreciate is the training that is put into each soldier, Marine and sailor in our armed forces. I like 'Heartbreak Ridge' for its simple approach to the humanity of each Marine and that in a hot LZ, there's still nothing like having an old vet who knows the ropes.The military never has enough 'Gunny Highway's' to pave the road for the next generation of soldier who finds him or herself in harm's way.As far as the accuracy? The movie could almost be called a work of fiction except that we did go to the island of Grenada and we did liberate those students.I recommend this flick to those who can logically separate the politician from the soldier and understand that warriors have no say over when or where they fight. They dedicate their lives to their country and land upon any shore, anywhere at any time because they are patriots.... "},{"Title":"Pretty Unrealistic, but Who Cares","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I know for starters that this movie is not realistic at all. But I don't care really, I still enjoyed it.This movie was a perfect mix of comedy, action, and Clint Eastwood. There were a lot of moving scenes, a lot of funny moments, a lot of great lines, and a lot of Clint as his best.Clint Eastwood gives a career-building performance as Sgt. Tom Gunny Highway, the hardened, career marine who is assigned to this new band of so called marines. Everett McGill is well-cast as Major Powers, Highway's new oppressive commander. Moses Gunn was also well-cast as Sgt. Webster, Highway's rival. Eileen Heckart was very good as Little Mary Jackson, the bartender at the local bar favored by marines. Arlen Dean Snyder was fun as Choozoo, Highway's old war buddy. Boyd Gaines was enjoyable as Lt. Ring, the wimpy leader of recon platoon. Marsha Mason was decent as Aggie, Highway's old love. Mario Van Peebles was actually good as Stitch Jones, the ayatolla of rock n' rolla. Vincent Irizarry, Ramon Franco, Mike Gomez, Rodney Hill, Peter Koch and Tom Villard completed the crew of recon platoon.With comedy well thrown in with action, Heartbreak Ridge is sure to be fun to anyone.9/10. "},{"Title":"Tough Eastwood","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Recap Gunnery Sgt. Thomas Highway seems to find himself in constant trouble both with military superiors and civil law. But he is also a highly decorated war veteran and generally the meanest, toughest ... you can find around. As a last chance before retirement he is assigned to a run down platoon of Recon Marines. His task is, against their will, put the platoon into shape and combat efficiency (and lead them in the invasion of Grenada). At the same time he prepares for retirement and life outside the military, not an easy task for a career soldier.Comments Most of it is a mean and tough Eastwood, fighting hiss will through with sheer determination and muscle. Not too much depth and introspection, but still very entertaining and his style fits the movie very well.So, what you get is a lot of determination, testosterone, muscle, guns and at the end a little history in the invasion of Grenada. There is the subplot of his attempts to adapt to a civilian life, mostly by trying to get his ex-wife back. It has definitely a role to fill but is a minor on. Highway, and the movie, is still very much military. Don't expect anything else, or you will be disappointed.Eastwood dominates this movie very much, both in acting and directing. There is total focus on his character and it is only Mario van Peebles with his wannabe rocker Corporal Jones that get sufficient screen time to really do an impression. van Peebles to me, rarely is the mark of a quality movie, but here he is very good for this character Stitch Jones. But both he and Highway is very one-dimensional and would benefit from some depth.However, with the movie running over two hours I can't see how there would be room for any such development. It was probably a very wise decision by director Eastwood to cut most of that. The result is a very entertaining (yes very gung-ho - but that can be entertaining) military and war movie, set in a little unusual time (not WWII or Vietnam).7/10 "},{"Title":"You been freeze-dried or doin' hard time?","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The poignant opening frames, accompanied by a drum roll, which show black and white footage of soldiers from the forgotten meatgrinder that preceded Vietnam&#151;the Korean War&#151;fade into a scene in a big city jail, where Marine Gunnery Sgt. Tom 'Gunny' Highway (Clint Eastwood) is holding court... profanely. No kidding, the expletive-laden, obscenity-charged language in this movie from start to finish is not only fresh and funny&#151;I never knew there were so many words for sex organs and sex acts&#151;it would leave half an hour of dead silence in any showing of the film on commercial television. ...For my complete review of this movie and for other movie and book reviews, please visit my site TheCoffeeCoaster.com.Brian Wright Copyright 2008 "},{"Title":"Sounds like Clint's personal fantasy to me","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Looking back at the movie, I wonder sometimes if this was a case of Clint acting out his own personal fantasies. In this movie he gets to be the tough as nails Gunny Highway, who has been in action in both Korea and Vietnam. There is plenty of patriotic imagery to be found throughout the film, and the film feels like a recruiting poster for the USMC. And of course there's the heavy combat towards the end of the film.I did enjoy the film, but did not take it too seriously. The reason I didn't is because Heartbreak Ridge runs into problems when it comes to realism. As others have said, recon units are elite units with members who hold themselves to the highest standards at all times. Members of recon units are not the shoddy, lazy, poorly disciplined men seen in this film. They are consummate professionals, and would have undergone so much training and weeding out to make the accidental firing on the range unbelievable, as well as the general undisciplined behavior of the unit at the beginning. "}{"Title":"LOVING THE BULLET","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Heartbreak ridge is a bit of a dubious movie as you're getting one of the best Eastwood-performances ever but sadly enough it's done in a rather weak movie. Mind you, it's all by all a very entertaining movie which never bores but it raises so many questions that you can't escape the feeling that director Eastwood forget all sense of reality, especially knowing that this same man shoot pictures about jazzlegends and so.... The story is absolute nothing....an American Marine-officer who lives for the army must train a bunch of useless t**ts who are just caring about rapmusic and girls...and you get it, Eastwood makes it possible to train them as an elite-platoon who were of crucial sense in the Grenada-war. The film lasts 130 minutes and not once there is a sense of criticism even if the soldiers (and even Eastwood himself) are humilated in the worst way there is. The whole movie the soldiers are complaining that they have to do some sports but once the call is there for war, you see them carrying the stars and stripes. Yeah, pacifists will have no one good word for it, be sure of it. But as said just like if you are considering to throw this film in the bin you are facing the strong performance from Eastwood who must play his most coolest performance ever! The man with the iron face is full with scars from battles he fought (he was a hero in all the big wars) and he comes over as the most dangerous killing machine ever, even Dirty Harry would run for his life! The rest of the movie you will forget the day you wake up again, naaah watch it ... it's entertainment but you better not tell anyone that you picked up something interesting from it.... "},{"Title":"One of Eastwood's best.","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ***Starring Clint Eastwood, Marsha Mason, and Mario van Peebles.Eastwood portrays a gritty man who served in both the Korean War and the Vietnam War.  He is know assigned to a training camp to train some 80s hippies.  But when war comes up (Grenada), he must lead his trainees into battle.Both Eastwood and van Peebles do a fantastic job in their roles, and Eastwood has yet another great movie on his list. "},{"Title":"Standard Eastwood TBS fare","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As more than a few observers have noted, USMC Recon is a creme de la creme fighting unit, on par with any ultra-selective military branch you can imagine. They simply do not accept goofballs. Tom Villard, Boyd Gaines, and Mario Van Peebles may be fitting choices for Porky's or One Crazy Summer, but certainly not a hardcore combat picture. Still, the gravest technical errors can be overlooked if brilliant storywriting or performances warrant doing so, but is either evident here? Clint deserves credit for amusing audiences as the rock-hard drill instructor, demonstrated by his I've drank more beer, pi**ed more blood, and banged more qui** than all you numb nuts put together tirade. His acting and directing methods, however, tend not to change much from film to film. I remember watching Heartbreak Ridge on TV and confusing its slow-moving battle footage with that of The Eiger Sanction, while having dreaded flashbacks, in the wake of the obligatory Eastwood hick-town bar scene, of Every Which Way But Loose. "},{"Title":"Adequate, But Could Have Been So Much More","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood's direction loses its way in this film about an old-washed up Marine drill sergeant (Eastwood) who trains a group of misfits so they can fight in Grenada.  The film starts out as a sort of smart comedy, but then deals with the horrors of warfare and the realization that there will almost always be casualties of war.  Mario Van Peebles is superb as the head misfit, but his character becomes less imperative as the film progresses. Marsha Mason is totally out-of-place as Eastwood's ex-wife.  Average overall, but could have been one of the best and most important films of the 1980s.  2.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"Awesome movie one of Eastwood's best","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Communists will rule the day they messed with Gunny Highway. This movie is full of some great one liners and some real funny dialogue. It's about a drill sargent (Eastwood) who's coming close to retirement and is thrown into one last combat mission(Greneda). Very Entertaining. I give it 9 1/2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Will reward a patient, accepting viewing.","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Clint is a legend.  This is one of his movies.  That alone should give Heartbreak Ridge the right to at least one viewing.Now, it's true that there are elements of this movie that I wish I could just airbrush away.  Van Peebles' character is so dated in the early-to-mid 80's that he is painful to watch at times.  (Peebles does a good job, it's the character that makes one wince.)  Being the real thing, it is bad-retro, not good-retro.  (How soon we forget!)There are also elements that will appear to the present-day viewer to be cliche.  If the movie were made today, they would be.  In '86, they were not yet so.  If you can look past the things that are what they are due to chronological issues, you'll have overcome the limitations.This movie is about the final experiences on-duty of a lifelong gung-ho marine.  I invite a grown-up, patient viewer to give it a watch.  As with many films, it rewards acceptance.I confess  I watched this movie at a formative time in life, and have re-viewed it upwards of 12 times (I own it on VHS) so I come at it with that as part of my response.  My sweet wife needs a footrub while watching to stick it out.  (Then again, that's how I get her to stay on the couch with me through the Simpsons, too.)  I would speculate that you'll come out somewhere in between.  Just as well, 'cause neither you nor I want me to be rubbing your feet.  ) "},{"Title":"Maybe Eastwood's Worst Film","Date":"9 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film centered around a painfully obnoxious and immature group of soldiers and their hard-nosed sergeant. The soldiers, led by the ever- noxious Mario Van Peebles, were a group of losers that seemed to have escaped from the local Youth Guidance Center. Every time Van Peebles opens up his mouth, it's another negative racial stereotype against black people. He never stops with the lame quips and wisecracks I'm the Ayatollah of Rock n' Rolla; I'm funkadelic, Mac's the name, lovin's my game; take that suckas; It's a beautiful day and I'm ready to play; I should be home watching The Flintstones. Those are just a few of the dozens of lame utterances coming from Van Peeble's mouth. He never shuts up. All were uttered in the heat of battle and you just wanted him to get shot. Then, he fires about 200 rounds in a med. school dorm and a beautiful blonde steps out of the shower and drops her towel. Can we say gratuitous nudity? Then, there's the fight between old man Eastwood and a recruit who is 6'7 and 300 lb. of solid muscle. Eastwood dispatches him as if he were a 5 year old girl. How? He grabbed his arm and the guy cried uncle. Took one second. This marks the first film where Eastwood lost his voice. He barely whispers everything. "},{"Title":"Overlong comedy/drama war action with Eastwood as a tough marine...","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  HEARTBREAK RIDGE isn't one of Clint's best movies. The story is too disorganized and goes on for a length beyond the limits of its thin material--but fans of Eastwood will get their money's worth. Even without a role that has him in the saddle, he's the toughest, gutsiest hombre who ever took some recruits and got them ready for battle. And the script gives him plenty of one-liners which he delivers with that confident Dirty Harry style whether he's addressing his men or his superiors. My favorite line With all due respect sir, you're beginning to bore the hell out of me!Everett McGill is the marine Major who gets the short end of the stick from Clint. Marsha Mason has a totally irrelevant role as the romantic interest, Clint's ex-wife. They battle endlessly and hers is a role that could have been eliminated without doing any harm to the storyline. Mario Van Peebles has fun with his role as a cocky, guitar-strumming singing marine. Eileen Heckart and Bo Svenson are wasted in thankless roles.Summing up much ado about nothing--but Clint is fascinating with his one-liners. "},{"Title":"Heartbreak Ridge","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I knew immediately from the title who the lead actor was, I think that's pretty much the only thing that persuaded me to watch it, so I did. Basically Sergeant Thomas Highway (Clint Eastwood) is a hard, tough veteran of Korea and Vietnam back in the United States Marine Corps, and he is assigned to train a reckon unit. These young soldiers look like a bunch of rookies, and Highway met one of them, Corporal 'Stitch' Jones (Jaws The Revenge's Mario Van Peebles), so as Gunnary Sergeant he is going to be pretty tough. Highway gives strict discipline, forcing the soldiers to wear the same top as him, get up very early in the morning, go through gruelling drills and exercises, and they are sick of it. The recruits slowly go up a gear in their training, so Highway does slowly grow in confidence that they can go to war in a real battle, and eventually they do. While Highway tries to rekindle something with waitress Aggie (Marsha Mason), he and his now real soldiers fight against the enemy on the beaches of Grenada, and they come back triumphant. Also starring Everett McGill as Major Malcolm A. Powers, Moses Gunn as Staff Sergeant Webster, Eileen Heckart as Little Mary Jackson, Bo Svenson as Palace Bar Owner Roy Jennings, Boyd Gaines as Lieutenant M.R. Ring, Arlen Dean Snyder as Master Sergeant Major Choozoo, Vincent Irizarry as Fragetti and Ramón Franco as Private Aponte and Tom Villard as Profile. Eastwood is alright as a swearing dill sergeant reminiscent of R. Lee Ermey in Full Metal Jacket, well actually quite a bit of the film is reminiscent of it, with a little mix of what became Jarhead. You won't mind the first training half, and the second half with loads of guns blazing and an explosion or two is alright, it isn't a very inventive film, but it's not a bad war drama. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Sound. Okay! "},{"Title":"Eastwood's Best","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For me, a great movie is one that works as well, or better, on the second and subsequent viewings as on the first. Heartbreak Ridge amazed me the first time I saw it, and it just keeps getting better.Gunny Highway is the most interesting of the many great misfit tough-guy characters Clint Eastwood has brought to the screen. Tom Highway grows and changes in the course of this film, challenging inner demons more daunting and dangerous than anything either the Cuban Army or the U.S. Naval Academy can throw at him. The viewer does not know until the end if he will master them or not -- and maybe not even then, because the character really doesn't know, either -- but he has decided to give himself wholeheartedly to the effort, just as he had done as a kid on Heartbreak Ridge. When he studies a Cosmo advice column like a captured enemy battle plan (been there, done that), I laugh to hide my tears. Even when one has seen the ending (many times), it does not lessen the suspense and anxiety that lead up to it.I give it a 9 rather than a 10 because all the characters first appear as two-dimensional types, coming to life only as the story unfolds. Maybe this was intentional, to hasten the story. Maybe this reflects the nature of first impressions. In any case it is just a minor annoyance, one that becomes less obtrusive after the first viewing. Entertainment, action, romance, humor, and wisdom -- Heartbreak Ridge has all the good stuff I expect from a movie. A keeper.   "}{"Title":"A greatly misunderstood movie.","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nearly everyone I know who likes this film says that they like but didn't quite understand it. Other people hated it and also didn't understand.The story is pretty simple. You have Clint Eastood playing Gunnery Sgt. Tom 'Gunny' Highway (or drill Sargent for those not familiar with Marine talk). If I am not mistaken one of the other drill Sargent's is played by a real drill Sargent.Gunny is brought in to train a group of of marines who lack a certain amount of military discipline. He quickly starts to work on them. Treating them with sadistic cruelty. But we have also see other sides of Gunny too, such as the drunken brawler who is arrested for urinated on a police car and a guy who reads women's magazines so he can get back with his ex-wife.OK, so we know that this bunch of losers will do good in the end. The characters are both interesting but also Cyphers for a bigger message. Gunny is perhaps too much of a hard-ass, the marines shout too much (all the US Marines I have met in real life are very quietly spoken and polite...and have skinny legs...a result of the badly designed marine workout program), the Mayjor is too much of a idiot to really have been transferred from supply to commanding an active unit and so on. I also don't think a recon unit would have ever had such bad discipline, as they should be the best of the Marines.Full of a lot of witty dialogue played with a straight face, military situation humour (such as the need of credit cards on the battle field), gay jokes (funny, but was not acceptable in the politically correct days of the 1980s, but more acceptable in the post south park era) and so on.The message ultimately is that soldiers are not people who love war, nor is their behaviour an acceptable part of modern civilized society, but they exist to serve the greater society. There are other messages here too, but ultimately for most people these messages get lost.Still one of my favourite movies. "},{"Title":"Just, what the hell was that???","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Such an amazing actor and pretty good director made such a silly thing; the amount of nonsense in this film takes it to the bottom 100.But, lets not talk about what is wrong with this movie, lets talk what can be done to improve it.1) Highway should talk about Vietnamese prostitutes with his wife, not with some strangers in a prison. I'm pretty sure she'd forgive him easily and he wouldn't have to read some crappy magazine articles about relationships.2) The young officer (the one with glasses) should be a bigger nerd. He should be a hunchback, drink only tea, wear Winny-the-Pooh T-shirt, always go to bed before 9PM and ask mum for permission if he wants to go out to play chess with his friends.3) The discipline of Highway's soldiers (before he started training them) could be even lower. They should rape women, cows, drink gasoline, plan killing Nepalese prime minister and watch The Days of Our Lives.4) Highway's ex-wife should date with mjr. Power. She wanted stability, didn't she. And the film would be more spicy, Highway would have another reason to hate Power and vice versa.It's just a tiny bit of some ways to make it better.3/10 (still a few good jokes, pretty good acting and war scenes)  "},{"Title":"Lacks Realism","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood is very highly regarded in Hollywood via his performances in films like THE GOOD THE BAD AND THE UGLY and DIRTY HARRY . He`s also well regarded as a director with films like PLAY MISTY FOR ME and UNFORGIVEN , but what a lot of people forget is Eastwood has starred in or directed plenty of poor films like FIREFOX , THE EIGER SANCTION , THE DEAD POOL and HEARTBREAK RIDGEThe worst thing about HEARTBREAK RIDGE is its totally unconvincing portrayal of the modern American marine corp. I can`t say I rate the USMC as the best fighting force in the world but even so I reckon that any ex US marine watching this film would feel insulted by the way the troops are portrayed as being undisciplined wide boys and pop star wannabes . They volunteered to be marines so why do they seem to be so reluctant to follow orders ? So much for professionalism . Worst scene is where Cpl Stich Jones tells Eastwood`s character to  Hit the road Jack and don`t come round no more no more no more  The battle scenes - which seem to take an eternity to come - are also unconvincing especially the bit where the marines overcome a Cuban machine gunpost with a bulldozer . Strangely there is a scene where the marines have to communicate to their commanders via a public pay telephone and this actually did happen a couple times during Operation Urgent Fury though not for the reasons shown in HEARTBREAK RIDGE . I also believe I`m correct in saying the only USMC deaths in the operation were three marine pilots who were killed when their Cobra helicopter gunship was shot down.Deaths resulting from OP Urgent Fury American - 29Cuban - 71Grenadan Military -110Grenadan Civilian - 45     "},{"Title":"Eastwood's best role","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Unfortunately, not his best film to go along with the tailor made Gunny Highway persona. Clint is in rare form and the one liners are hilarious. Well worth the watch even as irritating as Mario Van Peebles and Marsha Mason are as Eastwood's undisciplined anti-Marine and his completely used up trailer trash ex-wife. But maybe that's what they were going for? A sequel would have been fun without all these silly distractions. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Old soldiers never die","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  HEARTBREAK RIDGE (1986) **1/2 Clint Eastwood, Marsha Mason, Mario Van Peebles , Eileen Heckart, Bo Svenson. Clint directed himself as a grizzled Marine facing his toughest challenge building raw recruits into fine soldiers and his ex-wife, who he still loves. "}]