[{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The multiple sequels.","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Poltergeist II (1986) was the second film of the Poltergeist Trilogy. With the amount of money the first film made. the studio decided to make another film. The principal players from the Freeling family are here (sans Dominique Dunne, for reasons known) along with an old friend from part one. A new character is added to the mix as well. Poltergeist II is darker than the first one (if you can believe that) but not as brilliant as the first one.The Freelings have moved away from the remnants of the home. After the horrific events of part one, things can't get any worse (or can they...). An evil entity is following the family on the run. For awhile things are relativity calm. They've set up a new residence (with a family member) but the family has fallen on some pretty hard times. But they're about to get even harder. A dark man has been visiting them hurling religious epitaphs at them. Like a family house guest he doesn't want to leave and is even more bothersome than a Fuller Brush salesman or a religious solicitor. Does this strange figure intended to harm the Freelings or is he a person from the family's past?A scary sequel. Not bad, if you want to follow the exploits of the Freelings then this movie is for you. Poltergeist II is a worthy sequel. I enjoyed it very much. Followed by the final entry in the Poltergeist trilogy, the ever so dark and (surprisingly frightening) part three.Recommended. "},{"Title":"A fun sequel to watch","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Poltergeist II The Other Side is a very interesting movie despite the fact that the plot was rather subpar.  My favorite movie of all time is the original Poltergeist, and this movie is a respectable sequel.  I like it because of the character Kane, for one, who gives the movie another ghostly dimension.  Julian Beck was wonderful in the film as Kane.  Also, the children remained good actors, especially the late Heather O'Rourke, who played Carol Anne.  This is another strong performance by the young actress, and would have gone on to be a wonderful adult actress later in life had she lived.  All in all, I give it a 7.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Decent sequel overshadowed by poor post-production","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have seen this sequel to Poltergeist many times and have always enjoyed it as much as I did the first movie. You will find that most people who dislike this sequel do so for the simple fact that it's a SEQUEL to the original 1982 Steven Spielberg produced hit (surprise surprise!) and Spielberg was nowhere in sight this time around (so what!), not everybody cares about whether a big director is involved with a movie/sequel or not including myself.The sequel is written & produced by Mark Victor & Michael Grais who co-wrote the original with Steven Spielberg and follows the doomed Freeling family four years after the original classic left off...I have always regarded Poltergeist II as a worthy follow up with it's flaws (which it is) and can still not understand how this movie made it's way from a running time of 130 minutes down to a mere 91.Its obviously down to MGM rushing the movie's production and ordering pathetic cuts. Some of this movie's editing is really poor and it's a shame because the movie is actually pretty good and only really falls apart at the end when you can see how bad a hack job this movie really received. They should have dropped The Other Side from the title because you only get to see it in the movie for about 2 minutes and what you do get to see is a rushed not-finished mess of a finale.The Poltergeist franchise should have been sold to UNIVERSAL (The company Steven Spielberg first approached about the original). They would have given this movie the justice it deserved. As for the third movie I really don't care nothing could have saved the third movie from being bad. Even with it's problems, I still loved the character's from the first movie, the plot was on the right track and introduced us to one of the most memorable villains in horror sequel history, the evil Reverend Kane brilliantly portrayed by Julian Beck, and while not being as productive as the original, the special effects held up too.Wrapping everything up, this movie is a decent sequel and has the advantage of retaining most of the original cast from the first movie (minus Dominique Dunne who was murdered by her boyfriend shortly after filming the first movie) and there are some really good classic moments in this sequel, one being... The Vomit Creature!...check your Tequila for strange worms swimming around in it next time!.7/10 "},{"Title":"The dangers of drinking the worm in tequilla graphically displayed.","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This sequel was okay at the theater when I saw it, but it wasn't great.  Kind of an average film that adds plot points that really are a bit weak.  We find out in this one that it was not necessarily the fact the little community was sitting on an old cemetery that was the problem in the first one, but rather that the house was over some burial ground of a cult.  There is also this really old man that is a bit creepy wandering around looking for Carol Anne and the Freeling clan.  I just think they wanted to add a more physical enemy, someone you could focus on.  The family is now living with grandma, but strange stuff starts happening again.  For some reason they want Carol Anne.  An Indian guy comes to their aid and gives them advice and there are a series of happenings, but this one just isn't as good as the first one as it is very slow in places.  The ending was just plain lame and only makes this one worse than it is.  As not good as this is though, the next Poltergeist makes this one look a lot better.  Some good scenes here and there, but ultimately this one disappoints.  Though there is that memorable scene with the worm. "},{"Title":"They're Back","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While not as good as the first one this movie was interesting. It was well made and featured many of the same actors and actresses as well as a few new ones, who all turned out excellent performances.The story line was solid and thought out. I particularly felt that Julian Beck's character Cane was a nice addition. He was chilling to watch on screen as a antagonist to the family. Will Sampson as Taylor was also an interesting character. R.I.P to both actors and to O'Rouke.Overall a good film but one that can not possibly hold a candle to the original.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A seriously underrated horror sequel, better than most","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Despite the fact that 'E.T.' was released the same year, the first 'Poltergeist' was still quite a hit at the box office and with critics and viewers. The studio wanted a sequel, something that I don't think anyone expected to happen. I mean the end of the first one didn't really leave the door open and there weren't many questions left to be answered. But 4 years later we got one anyway, but like most sequels it was met with a mixed reaction. I've never understood why, and like many others, I feel 'Poltergeist II' is a vastly underrated and under-appreciated film.Pros Excellent performances from the returning cast members and the newcomers. Another great score by Jerry Goldsmith, which has classic themes and some memorable new ones. Has a darker and more sinister atmosphere than the original. Plenty frightening moments and images. There's also a few nice, sweet moments. Awesome creature and visual effects. Provides a pretty interesting back-story on the spirits. A terrifying villain in Reverend Kane. Well-paced. Some more cool set pieces, especially the one set in the garage.Cons The finale isn't bad per se, but the villain is done away with too fast and easily.Final thoughts A sequel this good doesn't come often. Unlike some other part 2s, like 'Amityville II The Possession' for example, this one has heart in it. It isn't just another poor attempt to cash in on the name of the original. That's a sequel to be proud of.My rating 5/5 "},{"Title":"So-so first sequel","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Poltergeist II The Other Side is a mostly average sequel to the superb 1982 horror movie about unfriendly ghosts terrorizing a suburban family. This movie is not real bad like most people say it is (I did like some of it), but it's not real good either. Poltergeist II takes place in Arizona, which is where the Freeling family now resides. But no matter where you go you can't keep a nasty ghost down, and those pesky spirits are back to terrorize the family once again. Where the first film was scary with a great sense of humor, the second film comes off more funny than scary. Not a good sign for a horror film where you're expected to be scared. And there isn't much scares this time around. Plus, the special effects this time around aren't as effective as they were in the first film. Nevertheless, the effects received another Oscar nomination, which to me was surprising. If there's anything to like about Poltergeist II, it's the acting. JoBeth Williams, Craig T. Nelson, Heather O'Rourke, Oliver Robins, and Zelda Rubinstein are all back reprising their roles from the first film, with a few new faces add to the cast. The new cast members add some spark here. Will Sampson is very good as the Indian medicine man who also happens to be an exorcist, and comes in to help out the Freelings; Julian Beck makes a strong presence as the evil preacher who happens to be the leader of the ill-mannered ghosts (Beck was reportedly very ill when he made this, and it shows on the screen; he died right after filming completed); and the great veteran actress Geraldine Fitzgerald has a nice small part as Grandma Freeling. So to sum up this film good acting, bad story, so-so effects, which makes for an average movie.*** (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Mixed bag of a sequel","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In this follow-up to Poltergeist, the Freeling family call on the big Native American fella from One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest to help them once again defeat evil malevolent spirits that seem to not like them very much.As with virtually all sequels this one is inferior to the original. However, the first film wasn't all that great and this one isn't a complete washout either. The story is modified somewhat from the first episode so that now the source of the poltergeist unrest is attributed to the dead followers of a cult leader, as opposed to the dead disturbed by unscrupulous property developers. The change has really only been made so that they can have a sequel to be perfectly honest, however, it does mean that the series is able to introduce the evil Reverend Kane. Kane is probably the best character in the series and his scene where he confronts the Freeling family on their front porch is the scariest and most well-crafted moment in any of the films. Julien Beck is excellent and unforgettable as the skeletal preacher. The rest of the cast play it strictly by numbers, although once again Heather O'Rourke is fab as the little girl. The other daughter is completely written out of this film with no explanation. Although it's a well documented fact that the actress who played her, Dominique Dunne, was murdered shortly after the first film was released, I still don't think it would have trashed her memory to have explained her absence; quite the opposite in fact.The Poltergeist series was perhaps most famous at the time for its spectacular visual effects and this film is no exception. The demon Kane is a well rendered creation, and there are a number of cool 80's effects throughout. Unfortunately, though, it all ends in a somewhat underwhelming finale where the family enter some vortex or something. I think it would have been better if they had cut back on the special-effects here and simply re-introduced Reverend Kane, as he was much scarier. But I guess having a big effects-laden ending is one of the in-built rules of the Poltergeist movies sadly.Overall, there's good stuff in this sequel but it's ultimately squandered on a rubbish ending. "},{"Title":"underrated but terrific sequel","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It seems as though most people will give a sequel a bad rating just for being a sequel. I think this is the case with Poltergeist II. Though the sequel may not have been written and produced by Steven Spielberg, it still retains the same qualities as the original feature. The Freeling family are still quite likeable and despite the past events they have not lost their sense of humour; the special effects are top notch, Jerry Goldsmith's spooky music sends shivers down your spine and the cast deliver, in particular the late Julian Beck as Rev Henry Kane. What an uncanny and intense performance! MINOR SPOILER!!!! Watch P2 at dead of night and hear him sing God lives in his only temple accompanied by Goldsmith's awesome score and then tell me it doesn't scare the hell out of you and you're a liar in my eyes! In my humble opinion, the scene with Kane approaching the family's house and asking the father to let him in, ranks among the most terrifying scenes in movie history! Genius!Verdict So all in all P2 deserves to be recognised as a compelling and most riveting sequel that should have gotten the recognition it deserves. I've seen it dozens of times and the excitement and fun has yet to wear off. Just watch it with an open mind. It's well worth it.  9/10  "},{"Title":"Aw sweetheart, that wasn't Daddy upstairs in the bathroom. You know that.","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" PoPoltergeist II is just as good as its predecessor.This time a preacher named Henry Kane starts to harass the Freelings and they must once again try to save themselves. Returning is Craig T. Nelson as Steve, JoBeth Williams as Diane, Heather O'Rourke as Carol Anne, Oliver Robins as Robbie, and Zelda Rubinstein as Tangina. New characters are Julian Beck as Kane, the evil preacher and Will Sampson as Taylor, who comes to help the Freelings. As the movie progresses, the Freelings soon discover the terrible link between Kane and the Beast.The acting is great. Craig T. Nelson and JoBeth Williams give flawless performances, just like the last time. Julian Beck flawlessly gives Kane an air of creepiness. Heather O'Rourke gives another flawless performance of her own. Will Sampson does very good as Taylor.The special effects are perfect. They look just as amazing as what we saw in the original movie, albeit in a different way.The script is perfect. Mark Victor and Michael Grais expand on Poltergeist (1982) very well, providing a lot of insight into the original movie.Poltergeist II matches its predecessor because it still manages to capture the magic of the original. "}{"Title":"They're here, again!","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Poltergeist II is one of better ghost/horror sequels I've seen, a story where the Freeling family moves to a new house, but followed by the supernatural, in the form of Reverend Kane.Being a movie made in the early 1980s, like its prequel, it still holds a great amount of horror, as its elements will grip you and send chills down your spine. This movie doesn't rely on gore and violence to make it entertaining, but rather relies on the ghosts' presence and their frightening powers that they are able to unleash onto the unfortunately family, highlighted also in very polished and keen special effects.The screenplay and story by Michael Grais and Mark Victor were well-written, giving us a captivating and exciting plot, and the direction by Brian Gibson is solid and thrilling like the original. The cast of characters gave another superb and heartfelt performance.Overall, it's a good continuation of the original Poltergeist, but also works great as a sequel with its unique storyline superb acting.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"because of Dominique (web)","Date":"3 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well, hadn't she been killed by her real ex-boyfriend, i'm sure that the big sister would have rejoiced this Freeling family again! Strangely, her absence is never explained in this sequel, nor the next one. In all cases, the best thing of this movie is again the incredible cast because the parents and the kids are really the best family ever made for screen. Then, i'm straightforward and i acknowledge that the movie hasn't the quality of « P1 ». The great difference is that « P1 » was about ordinary getting extraordinary while « P2 » is totally extraordinary  with the opening of a native exorcism, you can only expect ghosts afterward! The characters of reverend Kane, very creepy, and Taylor are a bit too Old West for me. Sometimes, i thought i was watching the episode « Showdown at Malibu Beach High » from Baywatch (SE3EP6). And notice that the pair would be the next two victims of the curse (read about the stunning anecdote of Nelson visiting his grave !). However, there are good scenes in the movie, especially when the father becomes infected. At this moment, i thought to « alien » and « Prometheus » and it was a surprise to discover on the credits that the monster was designed by Giger. If it's still difficult to understand the explanation about the light and why they need Carol Ann, what i will remember definitely about the movie is that Carol Ann said that she didn't want to grow up and that her last words to her dying Grandma was « i love you », the same she told her real mother at the end. "},{"Title":"Another Curiously Frustrating Horror Film Sequel","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" JAWS 2; HALLOWEEN II; THE RAGE CARRIE 2&#x97;all of them horror film sequels that I can only label as curiously frustrating, in that there's enough in them to like, but just as much to be skittish about. This is also true of POLTERGEIST II THE OTHER SIDE, the 1986 sequel to the highly acclaimed and highly successful 1982 Steven Spielberg co-produced/co-written horror film classic that Tobe Hooper (of THE Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE fame) directed, and which ranks with THE SHINING as one of the few true horror classics of the 1980s.The film picks up one year after the events of the original, as the Frelengs, led by Craig T. Nelson and JoBeth Williams, have now moved off to a desert suburb of Phoenix, Arizona while trying to get a new start, living with Williams' mother (Geraldine Fitzgerald). Nelson is having a rough go of it trying to be a vacuum salesman; he had been in real estate, but the Cuesta Verde incident left him out in the cold. When Fitzgerald passes on, however, it lets open the door for some literal ghosts of the Frelengs' past to haunt them. They become terrorized all over again; and this time, getting in contact with both the famous medium Tangina Barrons (Zelda Rubinstein) and an Indian (Will Sampson) well versed in the supernatural, they figure out why. Back in the 19th century, a group of White settlers were confronted by Indian warriors in what was to become the Cuesta Verde Estates, resulting in a horrific Sand Creek-type massacre that resulted in a mass graveyard that Nelson's former employers had built Cuesta Verde over. The spirits of those survivors, including especially a deranged preacher named Kane (Julian Beck), have come back to snatch O'Rourke and to lead them to the Light because they are still not at rest, but they seem to have no intention of bringing her back. Rubinstein and Sampson insist that the Frelengs must return to Cuesta Verde to confront Kane and his minions by entering the Other Side, that netherworld between life and death that Williams and O'Rourke crossed in the original. In between, though, they are confronted with a whole host of horrific things, including a Vomit Creature, and a supernatural chainsaw that threatens to tear Nelson's station wagon apart as they head out for Cuesta Verde.Unlike a lot of horror films, POLTERGEIST II maintains a good solid position of having five of the principals from the original film (Dominique Dunne, however, had been killed in real life shortly after the original film had been released), plus the solid special effects work of Richard Edlund, who had worked on the original. What POLTERGEIST II lacks, however, is the effective and incisive direction of Hooper and both his and Spielberg's understanding of the genre and of family. Mark Victor and Michael Grais, though they co-wrote the original's screenplay with Spielberg, somehow fail to grasp those concepts of the original; and Gibson, who directed the 1980 film BREAKING GLASS and later did 1993's WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT, is not really in Hooper's, let alone Spielberg's, league. The mayhem may very well have been accelerated from the original, but that doesn't necessarily mean it's better.Two additions, however, do work quite well. Sampson, a real-life Native American who starred in films like ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST and THE OUTLAW JOSEY WALES, is extremely good as the Indian shaman who, along with Rubinstein, assists the Frelengs in their confrontation with the ghosts. And Beck is incredibly grisly and frightening as the deranged preacher out to permanently possess O'Rourke; he comes off as a supernatural version of Robert Mitchum's role in the 1955 classic NIGHT OF THE HUNTER.The most welcome return on POLTERGEIST II, besides Edlund's special effects, is Jerry Goldsmith's intense orchestral score. These things do keep this film from being just another Hollywood exploitational sequel. But what is there is still strangely empty; and that, in the end, is due to the absence of both Spielberg and Hooper in the basic involvement of things. "},{"Title":"God is in His Holy Temple","Date":"27 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Way underrated sequel to the masterpiece, Poltergeist. This film in some ways, was a lot more terrifying than it's predecessor, especially in the character of one Reverend Henry Kane. Just about the creepiest character I can remember from any horror movie! The scene where he walks up to the house to see Carol Anne, is as eerie as they come. The tension of that scene is physically tangible, as he & Mr. Freeling (Craig T. Nelson) have a match of wills, as Kane tries to enter the house. Then he walks off & disappears! CREEPY! The scene at the outdoor mall is just about as creepy, as people walk right through Kane, as he follows & talks to Carol Ann. Julian Beck as Kane, looks like a walking skeleton with just skin, hair, & those malevolent huge eyes! Better casting has rarely been seen! Also of note, is the foreboding music score that accompanies these scenes. They'd lose quite a bit of potency, without that menacing score.Also of note, is where Mr. Freeling is finishing up a bottle of Quervo Gold tequila, & becomes possessed by Kane, then vomiting Kane out, who was lurking like a Mescal grub at the bottom of the bottle! Then Kane crawling out from under the bed with no legs, vaguely looking human, then turning around & smiling. Ranks right up there with Frank's resurrection, from Hellraiser, as one of the best in horror! Sadly, the ending killed the full potential of this film. It was if the movie ran out of ideas, & it did, abruptly! Still in retrospect, this film is a classic, & deserves to be reassessed 26 years later. "},{"Title":"Not as good as first movie","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Poltergeist II The Other Side (1986)This sequel was not as good as first movie at all, it was decent follow up.I found this movie a little be more creepy then first movie as the tall old man Taylor , Man was he really creepy.I found some parts of the movie a little dull at times, I did get little bored at times, didn't flow like the first movie.The ending was really nice (Maybe little cheesy for nowadays) and fits in with the the movie.The acting was really good from the whole cast, 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A fun little sequel, Poltergeist II The Other Side doesn't hold a candle to the original, but is still a creepy, good time...","Date":"4 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As I've mentioned in other reviews this year, I've been going through a ghost-phase since Janurary. Over the past six months, I've watched at least 4 or 5 ghost-themed movies each month, generally at least one per week. This is because I have always had an interest in the paranormal, and also because I want to work on a short film based around ghosts, so I'm researching the genre.I stumbled back onto the Poltergeist series around the time this new phase started, and just a few days back, showed the first sequel (this film) to a friend who had never seen it despite being a fan of the original.Poltergeist II The Other Side is directed by Brian Gibson, and written by two of the writers from the original film. Unfortunately, it appears that Tobe Hooper and Steven Spielberg had nothing to do with this film, despite their incredible involvement with the original.Most of the original cast returns, including Craig T. Nelson, JoBeth Williams, Heather O'Rourke, Oliver Robins and Zelda Rubenstein. They are joined by newcomers including Will Sampson and Julian Beck. (And yes, I will acknowledge the death of Dominique Dunne from the original film, explaining her absence as well as Beck's death during production. It does make the alleged Poltergeist Curse seem more real, but I don't want to address that in this review.)A year after the original film, the Freeling family is living with Dianne's (Williams) mother Jessica (Geraldine Fitzgerald). Steve (Nelson) is having a bit of trouble adjusting, and the children Robbie (Robisn) and Carol Anne (O'Rourke) are doing decently, it seems. After it comes out that Jessica is clairvoyant, and suspects Dianne and Carol Anne are as well, she passes away, leaving the family hurt.Soon after, a mysterious and eerie man named Henry Kane (Beck) begins to appear to the family, threatening them. As it turns out, the spirit Kane and his ghostly followers (undead spirits who refuse to enter the light) got a taste of Carol Anne when she crossed over in the first film, and are now intending to follow her for his evil purposes. In order to protect them, Tangina (Rubenstein) sends Indian Shaman Taylor (Sampson) to help protect the family and help train Steve in the ways of a spiritual warrior.The film for what it is, is quite fun and eerie at times. While not as inventive as the original (which is my mind, is maybe the best haunted-house/ghost film of all time), it does supply a lot of good, creepy scares and some decent creature effects. Particularly memorable is a scene involving a terrifyingly designed creature that looks like a cross between a fetus, a skeleton and a reptilian human, who is born via vomiting, and a fun little scene where the family is attacked by a floating chainsaw. (which seems to be a reference to Tobe Hooper, director of the original film and the first two Texas Chainsaw Massacre movies)The acting is also very good. All of the returning cast members are very likable and have a great built-in chemistry from the first film. And newcomers Sampson and Beck are wonderful additions. Particularly Beck, whose frail Southern preacher villain Kane is truly frightening, with the ability to get under your skin.However, the film also has many flaws. For starters, it is extremely fast. At only 90 minutes, it runs as the shortest film in the series, 8 minutes shorter than the third film and nearly a half hour shorter than the original, which causes the film to be quite rushed. I've seen on websites that numerous scenes were deleted, and I seriously wonder why they weren't included, as the film felt too short. In addition, nowhere near as much happens in this sequel as does in the original. Usually sequels are bigger and bigger, but this one goes the opposite route and makes the film feel smaller. Less scares, less creatures, less of everything. Some of the effects are also very shoddy (including some pretty foul stop-motion animation). And finally, the ending is very brief and anti-climactic.Those complaints being said, this is still a solid film with some great creeps. It's one of those rare horror-sequels that works well and feels like it has a reason for existing. I quite like this film, and would recommend it to fans of the original. And hey, at least its better than the awful third film. I give Poltergeist II The Other Side a pretty-good 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Decent Follow Up","Date":"23 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A nice sequel to a classic supernatural thriller/horror film from 1982. It has certain sweet scenes that I feel helped the film. Definitely not as good as the first, but still as great as a sequel can be to 'Poltergeist'. Maybe not a flick for everyone, but should be fine only for people who enjoyed the first.The only real flaw is the short sequence on the other side. It's a shame that they deleted quite a few good scenes, it's even worse that there is no way to see them. This sequel is very underrated. It paid great respect to the original, with lines, camera shots, creepiness, and sequences. A good example would be an extreme close-up on a TV, and the camera slowly tracking away.It continued the story well. The special effects are amazing here too, as is the acting. It does loose the realism of the first. Also the actor who plays the villain is brilliant, he was scary. I hate that they never mentioned the elder sister or even dedicated it to the actress, who played her. There are very small flaws, however overall a good faithful sequel to the original.Check it out if you really enjoyed the first. "},{"Title":"Thin, Scary Sequel","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Poltergeist II is a good movie lost in a bad one. The back story to the original film is revealed and it quite good but the movie falls apart when it should deliver.The film opens up with a Native American being given a spirit to help combat a strong presence located back on the property in which the house from the 1st film was located. He senses that the family is in trouble and goes on a search for them.The movie eventually reveals the real reason behind the first haunting and why the Poltergeists are back again. The movies' main villain is The Preacher Kane. He will do anything to get Carol Anne back to lead him and his followers into the light.All of this is quite interesting but the movie fails to deliver on its premise. For one, there are way too many false scares. Characters dream about being pulled underground by dead bodies. Dead bodies appear in a mirror. Dead bodies which turn out to be closet items appear. This really cheats the audience. Also, take the scene where about 50 ghosts are walking on the lawn. You look at that and get a chill but then, we never see them again. We hear some beating and stomping in the house and that is it. And another scene has a character in grave danger only for it to suddenly go away. Was he actually in trouble? When the ghosts come back, they do so through a plastic toy telephone and Heather O'Rourke delivers a weak They're Back line. No where near as chilling as They're here. The acting in this film is very good and keeps the movie from sinking. Once again, you really feel for these people. JoBeth Williams is effective but not as good as she was in the first film. Julian Beck is quite scary as Kane but he isn't given much to do and the film could have benefited from more scenes with him. Were there some scenes cut out? I would like to see deleted scenes with Kane. And of course, I still think Zelda Rubinstein was born to play Tangina and her presence is always welcome.The monster and the ending of the film feel very rushed as if they had no time to develop them. Don't ask HG Giger to create a monster for a film that will hardly be used. And the final battle isn't much at all. It is a convoluted scene of special effects and confused editing.There is a lot to like in this film, but you will walk away from it feeling empty, especially about the forced funny final moments. You get insight to the events from the first film but don't expect new and exciting scares. "},{"Title":"A sequel without soul","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The first movie of course is one of the best horror-terror movies of all time.The movie scare to they all generation of the 80's and still scare new generations.That what happen because 2 important thingsTobe Hopper and Steven Spielberg. This time this masterminds are not comeback and you can see the result of that.The movie simply don't have soul,don't have the magic of the first movie,don't have the scares,the terror,the chemistry,the emotion,the mystery nothing of the original movie.This movie feels like a chapter of THE TWILIGHT ZONE of the 80's (i see better chapter in the series than this movie) so this nothing great or special of this movie that deserves your attention.Believe you not lost something not see this movie...If you wanna see a good sequel of the 80's see FRIGHT NIGHT 2,CHILD PLAY 2,ALIENS to say some movies. "},{"Title":"They're Back!","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Inevitable sequel to smash-hit original is far less effective horror wise, with the melodramatic story of how the ghosts were not left behind when the Freeling family moved, but instead follow them to their new home. The chief ghost(a sort of creepy old man who led a cult) is determined to seize Carol Anne, and use her to guide the ghosts out of limbo, and through the other side...Trying to make sense out of the bizarre happenings is futile, film is only concerned with over-the-top F/X sequences that blindside the viewer, and result is a nonsensical sequel that serves no real purpose; though cast is still good, the film is not. "}{"Title":"Dull","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Containing none of the chills and thrills of the first this lame movie goes nowhere slowly.The final act is poor too.The cast look as bored as i was.im suprised this ever got to a third movie.a very bad sequal.avoid.1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A depressing mess of a movie","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There are so many things wrong with POLTERGEIST II that it's not worth listing all of them. Suffice it to say, I find this movie very depressing, mainly because of Heather O'Rourke and her untimely death after making POLTERGEIST III. It's difficult to watch a movie about evil characters trying to kill Heather when you know she died as a kid in real life. The other depressing aspects are everything else in this movie story & script, acting, special effects, etc. It's bad and nothing works. The scene when Craig Nelson vomits that monster is stupid. The horror elements are totally disjointed and don't make any sense at all. But the worst thing about this sequel, aside from the scenes taking place on the other side, is the fact that this big budget movie is only 87 minutes long and yet if feels like it's three hours long. Such a short running time for such a big studio project is ALWAYS a bad sign (a lot of stuff must have been edited out) and in this case, it's true. Take away the time for the opening and closing credits, and the movie is probably 77 minutes long. That's only 1 hour and 17 minutes. Avoid this mess. "},{"Title":"simply awful","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I really have to start my review lampooning the decision to make a sequel to Poltergeist, a well crafted ghost story by Tobe Hooper and Steven Spielberg, whilst no classic was well made enough, with some good chills and good effects. But Poltergeist 2 seems to have been made by people who had no idea of what made the original so worthwhile - it ends up a completely unsuspensful mess, and such may well be the worst sequel of all time. We begin by meeting the freeling family after the events of the first movie (homeless and living with jobeth Williams' mother), after an absurd opening featuring shamans and Indians and excavating... until carol Anne sees a mysterious figure at the mall, which turns out to be Reverend Henry Kane, who wants Carol Anne. Add to this mix is an Indian played by Will Sampson, who tries to protect the family. If this sounds jumbled, you should see the movie. The major Problem with this movie is a complete lack of any suspense whatsoever. Any decent horror movie worth its salt has suspense, or tries to utilise it because that is what terror is all about, the long silences waiting for something to happen, the build up to it... Poltergeist 2 simply does not even try in this area,For example when carol Anne sees Kane at the mall, menacing and staring at her, in order to build up the tension, Director Brian Gibson didn't need to show us that Kane was a ghost, any director with any idea of suspense would have let us make up our own minds, as soon as we see Kane walking through people and things we know straight away what he is and any suspense vanishes. as a result pic becomes predictable and boring the effects are hammy and aside from Julian Beck,(who gives the movies only high point with a terrifically creepy performance)Jobeth Williams and Craig T Nelson look bored to death. It says an awful lot that i rated the 3rd instalment higher than this drivel, and believe me that was no classic by any means. "},{"Title":"The magic is gone","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The poor family from the first Poltergeist film think they're safe, after having moved and thrown out the TV. Well, they're wrong. Now living with grandma, they soon discover that the nasty ghosts and goblins are back - led by the nasty reverend Kane, who for some reason wants to get his hands on little Carol Anne.The original is a classic - this one isn't. It's got quick-cash project written all over it. The effects are less than special, the plot leaves a lot to be desired, and it just feels sloppy and uninspired. Poltergeist managed to be funny, scary, dramatic, and overall entertaining - all at once. The sequel is just boring, albeit we do get to see Craig T Nelson acting all coked up for some reason.The plot is little more than a thinly disguised allegory over the importance of the concept of family (see how the dad feel's inadequate, starts drinking and literally turns into a different person). All talk about how the family must stick together feels strange considering that one of the kids from the first film isn't in this one, and no explanation is given either (yes, I know the actress was killed shortly after the first one - but still...).There's also a subplot about psychic powers that just doesn't go anywhere. Most of the film is just talk, talk, talk. Occasionally there's a cheap jump scare thrown in there, just to keep people awake. But considering the anticlimactic ending, you might as well stay asleep. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Undistinguised sequel with the likable family pursued by diabolic forces","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This second installment concerns about the young Freeling family(Jobeth Williams, Craig T Nelson, Robbins, O'Rourke and no Dominick Dunne but was suddenly killed) again, various months later and in a new house. Then appears the otherworld Beast in a ghostly apparition as the evil reverend Kane(Julian Beck.)It seems all of his supernatural powers have just about sent over the edge. The nasty reverend back from the other side and he wishes the good Carol(Heather O'Rourke), but with help her family, united to psychic Tangina, an Indian American(Will Patton) and the Granma(Geraldine Fitzgerald)confront against the weird being.This inferior sequel from original (produced by Spielberg and directed by Tobe Hooper) contains spooky scenes, intrigue, suspense and dazzling special effects by Richard Edlund. The performances are uninspired and is badly paced with flaws and gaps which cause lack common sense and no coherence . Spectacular music score by the master Jerry Goldsmith and colorful cinematography by Andrew Lazslo. The complete project collapses under a regular direction by Brian Gibson(1944-2004). He was a director with no much success, and a biographies expert, such as  'The Josephine Baker story and Tina Turner' ,and also directed 'The Juror, Still crazy and Camarena story'. Followed by a third sequel starred by Heather O'Rourke who surprisingly deceased, Tom Skerrit, Nancy Allen and Zelda Rubinstein, usual in the tree parts. The motion picture is classified PG-13(Parents guide) for violence, tense events and intensity. This pointless sequel and occasionally plodding will like to strange deeds buffs and Poltergeist trilogy fans. "},{"Title":"Crappy, crappy sequel","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one incredibly moronic movie. It begins with magical spirits flying up a man's nose (he looks like a telekinetic coke addict), and then goes down hill from there.The older daughter from the first movie is missing and no attempt is made to explain her absence. The rest of the family is back, though, headed up by stoner parents JoBeth Williams and Coach (a.k.a Craig T. Nelson, who is painfully bad in this), who both have really bad hair. Once again they're plagued by spirits from beyond. Who do they trust? The annoying Native American guy who sits around their backyard, speaks in half-assed proverbs, and does nothing for about an hour of screen time? Or the silly-beyond-words Reverend Kane, who sings asinine bible songs at the top of his lungs? Who cares? You'll be too busy laughing at this film's unending parade of goofiness.The first movie was really good- it held your attention, had interesting effects, and had some very scary, eerie sequences. It wasn't perfect, but it was an enjoyable movie. This flick is ridiculous. It has a few okay moments whenever the main monster shows up (He first appears after Coach vomits him up!).  He's pretty cool looking, but you don't get to see him much. The rest of the movie's effects sequences are completely preposterous. In one scene a kid is attacked by his own braces. Then Coach sits on a ghost. That's about it.Pointless scenes drag on, filled with boring dialog about the family's power when they work together, blah, blah, blah, and the characters all become so annoying that you'll wear out your fast forward button. If you make it to the end, you'll be treated to an absurd sequence where the family goes into the spirit world and floats around like Christopher Reeves' Superman. These scenes are so incredibly goofy, I simply cannot do them justice here. If you think you know goofy, just wait. The movie A Goofy Movie wasn't as goofy as this movie. The key word here is goofy.You will laugh at this movie, but not with it. This movie tries very hard to be funny, but fails miserably. Take for instance the classic closing scene Annoying Native American guy and Coach look at Coach's car. Coach says How can I make the car happy? Annoying Native American guy says It wants to go home with me! So Coach gives him the keys and he drives away- but then the family realizes that they need a ride home! D'oh! They chase after the car as the credits roll. That's the film's stinger, the scene they thought would cement this movie in the hearts of film goers everywhere. Instead, I'd like to cement it in a crate at the bottom of the ocean, mobster-style.I hated this movie.  "},{"Title":"sequel inferior","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The house is gone. Tangina Barrons is digging at the site and finds the Indian burial grounds. She is joined by Native American shaman Taylor. The Freelings have moved in with Diane's mother Jess in Phoenix (without the older daughter). It's been a year and their insurance claim is in limbo. Steve is struggling selling vacuum cleaners. The evil spirit of Rev. Henry Kane is after Carol Anne. Jess dies after telling Diane of Carol Anne's abilities. Tangina sends Taylor to help the family.The death of Dominique Dunne needs to be acknowledged. Her character vanishes as if she never existed. It leaves a big hole especially since her scream is such an iconic scene. This sequel is essentially setting up for a repeat with Taylor as the new outside help. I don't like Taylor and he's not really necessary. Kane has a nice creepy look but he would be more effective at night. I don't understand why his scenes happen in the daylight. It also rewrites the cause of the original. I really don't like the retcon. The original's idea of the cementary is far superior putting the cause down to greed. On the other hand, the best has to be the limb-less creature coming out of Steve. It's a very memorable creature design. Overall, this could have been a functional stand alone movie. The retcon is problematic. As a sequel, the sense of inferiority is never far. "},{"Title":"One of scariest movies of all time","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Poltergeist (1982) is a very scary movie. But this movie is scarier. This is one of the scariest movies you will ever see. It has a great story line. It also has great acting. It also has great special effects. If you do not get scared of this movie then no movie will scary you. This movie is very intense. Heather O' Rourke was a great actress. This this movie. All the Poltergeist movie are must sees. And this is the best one. Julian Beck was a great actor. Craig T Nelson is a great actor. J.o.B.e.t.h Williams is a great actress. Oliver Robins is a great actor. The Poltergeist movies is one of movie series you do not want to miss. "},{"Title":"Pretty good in a time when sequels weren't very good","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Having a taste for Carol Anne's life force the evil cult leader and his victims want their spirits freed. Made in a time when sequels were usually cheap cash ins and one if any of the original cast would return, Poltergeist II production values are welcomely high, with the majority of the main cast returning. The only family member absent from the film is Dana, (sadly actress Dominique Dunne was murdered in real life) the reason for her character's absence however is never explained. The late director Brian Gibson's Poltergeist instalment is more interesting when JoBeth Williams and Craig T. Nelson reprising their roles as Dianne and Steve are acting the hell out of it or when creepy Kane played eerily by the brilliant late Julian Beck is on screen with the visual effects, floating chainsaws, possession and heroic spell castings taking a backseat. The special effects are nearly 30 years old and while some don't hold up they're still pretty effective for the narrative. That said, the practical effects are outstanding, notably a vomit monster scene where Kane comes out from Steve (Nelson) and begins to take form like something from The Thing or Hellraiser. There are some touching moments in the first half with the death of the Grandma but also oddities especially after she dies, they seem to get over the death quickly and the formalities involved, like arranging a funeral never happen.Writers Michael Grais and Mark Victor give a solid cult back story and the ghoulish Kane is more scary than some of the effects setups whether its wire braces attacking the family or desert scenes which could rival The Exorcist Heretic bizarreness. The late Will Sampson who plays Taylor the medicine man is notable. There's comedy littered throughout and many creepy moments, ghouls in mirrors, head tuning dolls, evil tequila worms, zombies and skeletons bursting out from nowhere which add to its appeal.While it does expand the mythology it's not a touch on the first, but to Gibson's credit part two is all aboveboard in a time when sequels weren't very good. "},{"Title":"Good Supernatural Sequel!","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" JoBeth Williams, Craig T. Nelson, Heather O'Rourke, Oliver Robbins, Will Sampson, Julian Beck and Zelda Rubinstein star in this 1986 horror sequel. In this entry, the Freelings, Diane (Williams), Steven (Nelson), Carol Anne (O'Rourke) and Robbie (Robbins) are once again terrorized by dark, supernatural forces. The late, Beck plays Reverend, Henry Kane, an evil spirit who is the cause of it all and is determined to have Carol Anne lead him into the light with his minions. The late, Sampson plays Taylor, a Native American, medicine man who helps the Freelings fight against him and Rubinstein also reprises her role as psychic, Tangina who is Taylor's friend. This is a good supernatural sequel with a good cast, neat effects & great score by Jerry Goldsmith as usual. I recommend this. "}{"Title":"A relatively poor sequel that is void of tension and suspense","Date":"24 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Freeling family has survived the intense ordeal of the supernatural from the first movie. They move into Grandma-Jesshouse, hoping to wipe the slate clean with everything and start fresh. When Grandma-Jess abruptly passes away, things begin to go downhill. Carol's abductor from the first movie shows up as a ghostly apparition (Reverend Kane) He's a religious nut that is responsible for many deaths. With the help of a mysterious Indian Shaman named Taylor (Will Sampson) The Freeling's are forced to battle evil once more. I saw this years ago and remember being thoroughly underwhelmed by it. It turns out that this was the case on my second viewing as well. The first movie wasn't perfect, but it was an extremely well crafted film that knew how to entertain. Steven Spielberg's presence is sorely lacking in this one and everybody just seems to go through the motions. With all due respect to director Brian Gibson, he doesn't have the flare or vision of Spielberg. Like a lot of sequels that are here to make cash, it feels awfully contrived. The emotion I felt from the family is nowhere to be found in this movie. One of the reasons the first movie worked so well is the cohesiveness of the family. It felt genuine and I believed them. The cast tries their hardest in this movie to make it feel real, but I wasn't buying into it this time. Spielberg is fantastic with family drama in his movies and Gibson isn't able to pull that off. We get some lame boo scares that pale in comparison to the first and there is no tension to be found. It lacks humor, something the original did very well as well. I know those that are reading this may be getting annoyed at me comparing this sequel to the original with so many things, but I can't help it. Any praise for this film? A few things. I did like the continuity from the first movie. The effects certainly hold up well. I won't spoil it, but wait until you see the braces moment involving Robbie, and the tequila worm. The acting is great, definitely not their fault. JoBeth Williams is solid as the mother, putting her all into the part. Craig Nelson is excellent, too. I didn't like how his character shrugged everything off for a while. He was in no position to disbelieve things after the first movie, didn't make much sense. I also felt they didn't go far enough with his possession storyline. That was really dark and had the ability to be something memorable. It's too bad it was so half-assed. Heather O'Rourke is one of the best child actors I've ever seen. She came through like a champ for her age. Zelda Rubenstein's presence wasn't needed in this movie. She gets on my nerves to begin with and her small part felt inconsequential. Julian Beck is one of the scariest horror villains in history. If this movie wasn't so disappointing, I truly believe Julian would get the credit he deserves. You won't find many things creepier than Reverend Kane. Will Sampson is OK. Geraldine Fitzgerald has a mere cameo, but added class to it. The storytelling is very jumbled at the end and left me feeling very confused at some of the events that transpired. This movie isn't horrible, but it lacks the spectacle of the original. I haven't seen Poltergeist III in many years, but I remember it being worse than this movie. This is worth a look if you've seen the first movie, but you're better off sticking with the original. This movie had potential, but failed to capitalize on it in a big way5.2/10 "},{"Title":"They're back!!!","Date":"16 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I don't know if these will count as spoilers but I will list it just in case.The ghastly ghosts and edge of your seat suspense that made you cringe and cower in the original return in this heart pounding sequel filled with jolting state of the art special effects. The Freeling family may have settled into their new home but the spirits of the dead have not given up their desire to possess Carol Anne. Led by Kane, a demon disguised as a preacher, the spirits attempt to convince Carol Anne to join them on the other side but when plans fail, Kane unleashes the hellish fury of the Poltergeist on the Freelings which forces the desperate family to turn for help to a mysterious medicine man, a medium, a grandmother and most of all to each other.This film starred Heather O'Rourke, Jobeth Williams & Craig T. NelsonPoltergeist 2 is better than the first in my opinion, I love this film, I watched this film recently and it is such a shame that Heather O'Rourke died so young because she had a really promising career ahead of her. R.I.P Heather god only takes the best.****/***** Very good "},{"Title":"Sound and fury signifying nothing . . .","Date":"3 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Poltergeist II The Other Side is sound and fury signifying nothing, a good-looking special effects show that contains no less than a flying chainsaw, a set of killer braces and a creature excised from the human body through vomiting, yet it can't find a cohesive foothold to string any of those ideas together. Then again perhaps they couldn't. How exactly do you build a narrative that leads to killer braces? It isn't exactly news to report that Poltergeist II The Other Side is a sequel to the hit 1982 thriller, but the surprising news is that this movie does everything wrong that the original film got right. Like The Exorcist, key to the success of Poltergeist was that the characters were so grounded in reality that when the supernatural stuff started to happen, it leant the effects a degree of credibility. This sequel goes the other way around so we feel the effects but the characters are simply there to be knocked around.That's too bad because Poltergeist is one of the rare horror films that actually earns the right to a sequel by virtue of ending on a note so melodramatic that we might have been disappointed if someone didn't find a way to get that family out of their funk. That film, you will recall, ended with the Freeling family fleeing their house as dead bodies popped out of the ground before the house was sucked into oblivion. The family, now homeless, checked into the Holiday Inn.As much as Poltergeist II The Other Side is valid enough to continue their story, it does not, however, live up to the original. The story is silly and the characters feel like cardboard cut-outs, with witty little jokey dialogue, when it isn't laced with supernatural hoo-ha. The supernatural stuff in the original was mounted on a semi-plausible idea their house was mounted on the grounds of a relocated cemetery. Here there's some nonsense about protection from evil forces and the protective force of the family bond. This is filtered through Indian mystical nonsense and something about a 200 year old religious sect that wants Carol Anne's life force back on the other side. Whatever.The story picks up a year later, which is a problem because the two movies were produced four years apart. That means that the little blonde Carol Anne, who was five years-old in the original is six now and played by Heather O'Rourke, who is actually nine. That gives us the agonizing sight of watching a nine year-old playing a six-year old. Why not just set the movie four years later? Anyway, the story deals once again with the Freeling family, Dad Steve (Craig T. Nelson), Mom Diane (JoBeth Williams), and the kids Robbie (Oliver Robins) and Carol Anne. The teenage daughter Dana is absent here and never mentioned even in dialogue. They have moved in with Grandma (Geraldine Fitzgerald) after their house was sucked into oblivion. Naturally, Dad refuses to buy a TV.The hole where their house once stood is under investigation by the medium Tangina Barrons (Zelda Rubenstein) and a Native American mystic named Taylor (Will Sampson) because there's a presence. What that presence is steps on the premise of the original film. In the earlier film, it was explained that a real estate company made a strange decision to uproot the cemetery without moving the bodies.Now we learn that a 19th century cult sealed itself inside a cave at the urging of an evil minister named Henry Kane. Kane is alive and well and stalking around trying to capture little Carol Anne and take her back to the other side. It is hard to figure out exactly what Kane is, whether he's a spirit or some kind of satanic manifestation. We never know. There's some suggestion that he can manifest himself into a different forms but that is never really explained either. This movie is one long series of loose-ends.The movie is also one long series of special effects for their own sake. Hardly a scene in this movie isn't crafted without one. The back half of the movie is a strange venture into the mystical world that seems to be neither here nor there. Somehow the family does battle with the forces of evil by using their strong family lifeforce - nevermind the fact that one of their numbers, 17 year-old, Dana is missing. Somehow they enter the netherworld through a multi-colored Indian campfire, and I was never completely sure how they got out. I suppose I wasn't supposed to ask. It's a sad day when the only way to enjoy a movie is to stop questioning its overwhelming gaps in logic.The one thing that does work here is the performance of Julian Beck as Henry Kane. Dressed in the vestments of an 19th century minister, his face is skeletal with large teeth bared over curled lips. His voice is slippery and unnerving. There is something about his presence that, in a better movie, could have really come to something. He shows signs of what the movie could have been. More priest and less family bonding might have helped. You know what would have been a great sequel? This family in therapy. "},{"Title":"This sequel was a Tough Bug to Swallow...","Date":"20 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It's been about eight years since I saw the original Poltergeist movie. Recently Netflix obtained both the second and third films so I thought I'd give them a shot. I wasn't expecting much from this movie as the first Poltergeist really didn't require a sequel, in fact this sequel isn't even all that compelling. It drags along at a slow pace, doesn't contain much suspense, and only has one or two memorable moments in it. It seems the studio greenlit a poorly written movie just for the money, and not for a follow-up to a horror classic. Poltergeist 2 was a very bad movie with decent special effects, mediocre acting, and overall does not do any justice to the first film.I'll begin my review with the pro's. It was nice to see almost all of the original cast from the first film come back for this one. The acting was slightly above par as far as horror movies go, this at least helped me make it through the entire movie as much of the film was really establishing backstory and plot lines rather than horror and suspense. The special effects were also a plus in this movie as it is always a pleasure to see classic 80's pre-CGI effects. That always makes me smile and the artists did a great job with that. Probably the one single scene that really stands alone in this film is the infamous tequila worm. Having been possessed and swallowed by Craig T. Nelson, he then coughs this monster up and it squirms about on the floor quickly growing corpse like features and crawling off. I only wish this movie had more of that. The other great scene to applaud was that of Julian Beck when he confronts the family at their doorstep as the eerie spirit Kane.Okay now for the con's. It's hard to know where to start, but I feel the biggest problem with this movie is the screenplay is just terrible. It's just way more of the same but on a much tamer and lazy level. Much of this movie is just flashbacks of the first film (Which just made me want to watch Poltergeist again), very drawn out and boring plot conversations, and random Indian rituals. There is very little suspense going on in Poltergeist 2, really not until the last 30 minutes or so. Most of the suspense that does happen is just ridiculous such as the son being tied up in his own braces or Craig Nelson being thrown out of a chair. No suspense is even built up; the viewer sees Kane walking through people right from the start, or campy looking Indian corpses peeking through the mirror, or ghosts materializing on the front lawn. This movie has no jump scares, really no standout horror at all. It's a very forgettable movie. Even the joke in the end about the happy car didn't make any sense and came nowhere close to funny. Also what ever happened to the eldest daughter? I know that the actress Dominique Dunne died before this was filmed, but why scrap the role completely and without any explanation; like the audience wouldn't notice ha.Now for my conclusion, Poltergeist 2 is just not a movie I would recommend to anybody except for die hard horror genre fans. I honestly would not even recommend this film to fans of the first Poltergeist, skip this one and watch the third; that one at least has suspense in it as well as a creative storyline. This movie should never have been made as it adds nothing to the first film. Poltergeist 2 is the stale corpse of Tobe Hooper's masterpiece that Brian Gibson should have left in the ground. "},{"Title":"Good. Bad. Indifferent.","Date":"31 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A difficult one to sum up. Poltergeist II covers the whole scale. The first half of the movie has very much the same feel as the original; a normal suburban family getting on with life, whilst eerie things begin to occur in the background.The sequel to the excellent Poltergeist picks up four years after the original, and the Freeling family are still attempting to come to terms with the aftermath of their experiences and are struggling financially, unable to get an insurance payout on their home which mysteriously vanished in the first film; the family are living with Diane's mother.So far, so fairly good. The inciting incident occurs when Diane's mother suddenly dies, and the mysterious and very scary looking Reverend Tom Kane displays an unhealthy interest in Carol-Anne.Unfortunately, the main flaw with this film is that it's climax is devastatingly anti-climatic, we see the other side for the first time, but it is all very bizarre and unsuspenseful which ruins the film's impact, which until the final 10 minutes was reasonably exciting and scary.All in all, worth a watch for fans of the original, because this is a decent ride. Don't expect too much and you will most likely enjoy this good but flawed picture. "},{"Title":"From The Ghosts' Perspooktive.","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The other side is called a sequel but it's really a remake of the first film except from the ghosts point of view. It is really quite sad- the ghosts are living happily in suburbnia when all of a sudden a yuppie family moves in and starts watching TV. If I was a ghost I would have turned into a tree and tried to eat the wee kid too. So we basically see all the famous scenes from the first film but from a different angle. The wee girl trying to escape from the ceiling, and our ghost heroes trying to keep her; the house collapsing into a hundred little lights and colours is really the ghosts blood. That's about it. There's a funny one liner when the family first arrives and one of the ghosts says 'They're He-re!' So, not very interesting then. The annoying munchkin isn't in this as much as she was in the first which is a plus, although we don't see the man's face melt after he looks into the fridge with his eyes open. I was quite sleepy when I watched this so I probably missed some of the subtleties, but I think they really should have gone into the ghost back story more- how they were Native Americans and were chased out of their homes by Clint Westwood.Best Scene The only new scene of the movie where the ghosts escape and move to the local library. The scare the old woman who is packing the shelves and her hair goes all over the place before the end music starts- 'Who Ya Gonna Call!?' "},{"Title":"They're back!","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is the sequel to one of the best movies of all time. It stars Craig T. Nelson, JoBeth Williams, Heather O'Rourke, Oliver Robins, Zelda Rubenstein, Julian Beck, and Will Sampson. The movie centers around the family from the first movie (Dominique Dunne is dead but they don't mention her once) and they are broke. They stay at a different house after their other one imploded. Things go from bad to worse when they meet Reverend Kane at the mall. He goes to their house and tries to convince them that the Indian they're staying with is dangerous. After that, the ghosts come back and wreak havoc on the family.Mediocre but watchable sequel. The sappiness of it really annoyed me and the acting was over-dramatic at times. The special effects weren't near as good as the ones in the first. Heather O'Rourke does a fantastic job as Carol Anne. Julian Beck did a wonderful job playing Reverend Kane, who is the scariest thing about this movie. The music was composed by Jerry Goldsmith and was decent. Overall, the movie was was good but the sappiness and the bad editing really hurt the movie.Overall 5/10 "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After the destruction of the Freeling house, Tangina Barrons, (Zelda Rubinstein) and Taylor, (Will Sampson) discover the true cause of the events. He goes to visit them, Mother Diane, (JoBeth Williams) husband Steve, (Craig T. Nelson) and children Carol Anne, (Heather O'Rourke) and Robbie, (Oliver Robbins) living with their Grandmother Jess, (Geraldine Fitzgerald) and trying to piece their lives back together. Jess believes that Carol Anne has a special gift that's just like hers, which Diane refuses to accept. When Taylor finally arrives at their house, Carol Anne has accidentally released the spirits again. Reluctantly accepting his help, they put up one more fight against the spirits.It's not that bad, but it can't do much of anything with it's rating. It can't really do a lot other than come close to delivering the scares that others with more of a chance to push things can do. Bare that in mind and it can be a nice surprise, just don't expect the level of the original. The special effects remain amazing the second time around and the film is certainly scary and tense.Rated PG-13 for Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but no where near as good as the first.","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Freeling family is back for this decent follow up to the first. Where the main attraction of the first film was the dazzling special effects and clever dialogue, this one's seems to be the creepy, elderly priest Kane who walks around sining hymns and looking scary. This entry in Poltergeist gets too caught up in trying to explain what's going on, that it's hard to enjoy it and truly get scared. However, with that said, there are still quite a few scary moments and it's nice to see the family again. One thing that really bothered me though was that the eldest daughter from the first film (who was sadly murdered in 1982) did not appear with a new actress or even have an explanation for her absence. All in all though, this was pretty good, but no where near as good as the classic first one.My rating ** 1/2 out of ****. 91 mins. PG for language and violence. "},{"Title":"Better than average Sequel that doesn't hold to the original.","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After the traumatic events that plagued the original film, the Freelings have now moved on to Grandma Jess to forget all the bad things that have happened to them But those pesky ghosts can't give up on them. Seen here are an out or work Steve Freeling, a stressed to the bone Diane Freeling, an adolescent and out of control Robbie Freeling, a matured and adorable Carol Ann and NO Dana Freeling! Due to the tragic events that plagued Dominique Dunne's life, she was unable to return for this sequel, which is too bad because she was needed for the family value part of the film. Anyway, the family has been living a not quite life of solace in the suburbs of Arizona, when Grandma Jess, a sort of guardian for the family dies, and the ghosts are free to taunt the Freelings. From there, the Freelings have to band together and go up against the ghosts in order to free themselves for good from those lost souls. The usual otherworldly events follow. Typical sequel fare has much loved special effects to make up for the sometimes hard to watch cheesy scenes that deal with Steve. But the film's hard core scare fare is it's villain, Henry Kane. This is where the film took off. Kane is a nasty vile soul who is full of hate and rage. And he was portrayed full throttle by veteran actor Julian Beck, who is so creepy, and acrid, that in way shape and form, the film itself seems to crinkle and cringe every time he appears on screen. Basically a recycle of the first film, with more family values and less Spielberg-esque direction, makes for a worthy sequel, but only if you are that interested. True filmmakers that study the films for rhyme and reason should stay away, all others welcome! Not a bad film. "}{"Title":"They're back.","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ~Spoiler~Poltergeist II The Other Side was doomed from the start.  With neither Hooper nor Spielberg back on board don't expect a thoroughly satisfying experience.  I'm not saying it wasn't a good effort for the genre.  Much of the original cast is back (with the exception of the late Dominique Dunne), the effects are still superb today, and Julian Beck is creeeeeeeepy as hell.  I can't say enough about this guy.  He's reason enough to watch this sequel twice.  If his performance as Reverend Kane doesn't elicit some kind of emotion out of you, you are far too jaded.  It's the ending that kills the flick.  The ending was just too simple.  They go back to the house, go into an underground cave, and stab the evil entity with a cane.  And that's that.  It's too bland and lackluster when compared to the original frightfest of popping coffins and evil apparitions.  My favorite bit of the movie was when Craig T. Nelson swallowed the worm and ends up puking up a legless monstrosity--a legless monstrosity designed by H.R. Giger!  Can you say awesome?  Still worthy of a watch just don't get too excited. "},{"Title":"A Rather ordinary and flat sequel","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In 1982, 'Poltergeist' turned out to be a box-office hit, so it was inevitable that a sequel would be made.  However, Steven Spielberg, who co-wrote the screenplay and took part in the directing for the first movie, opted out. And his absence is felt in this rather flat sequel.  In the first Poltergeist, the tension felt by the Freeling family kept us riveted. That was up until the movie spoiled it all by going the typical 80's horror route.The problem with 'Poltergeist II' is that the whole movie is quite ordinary, just like the ending of its predecessor.  Instead of cutting deeper into the story and motives behind the poltergeist ghosts and the mysterious Reverend Kane (a creepy Julian Beck) , we are bombarded with special effects and standard horror devices (chainsaws, etc.). In the odd moments in which the movie tries to cover its plot holes, using a story about an indian massacre, the movie only succeeds in creating more confusion.  The tacked on cheesy ending doesn't conceal the fact that nothing has been resolved in this movie.  I guess the filmmakers were paving way for 'Poltergeist 3', in which the series takes a complete nosedive.  But don't get me wrong, I'm not saying 'Poltergeist 2' is not entertaining.  In fact, it does provide plenty of mindless entertainment. What I'm really saying is that it is a relatively ordinary horror movie.Rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"Great fun!!!","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A 4.8? Come on people this movie was good. The parts with Julian Beck are creepy. So creepy i peed in my pants while watching it at night. the plot was kinda off, but it still is a great movie. Too bad it was so short compared to the first.8/10 "},{"Title":"Poltergeist II The Other Side (1986)","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *** out of **** (very good, minor flaws)This very good sequel delivers even more thrills and chills than the first episode, and still very good ensemble acting, however it takes away direction leaving us with fair direction. When the Freeling family move into a new house, the spirits seemed to have followed them and the leader takes the form of a preacher called Kane (Julian Beck). The direction is lower-quality but still remains good. Everything else (and more) from the first, comes back/appears and makes this a wickedly scary presentation of horror and the occult.Rated PG-13 for Violence "},{"Title":"Deserving sequel","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Excellent sequel in what was meant to be an excellent trilogy.Spielberg and Hooper both walked away from Poltergeist when Dominique Dunne was murdered by her boyfriend. The shock and anger was too high for either of them to cope with the filming of the next Poltergeist installment, and the job went to Brian Gibson. Now Mr. Gibson isn't entirely unknown, but his list of directing credits is short and the titles themselves are obscure and not well known. I figure he must have had SOME help by the greats (Spielberg and/or Hooper) because the movie is not as bad as I figured it would be, considering who directed it.The story is still solid, and the characters are just as well developed. The acting is still quite convincing and the effects are actually more believable than in the first. However, you can definitely tell that it wasn't a Spielberg film. It lacks the feel of Spielberg's genius and drive that is so evident in the first movie.The casual mention of Dana being away at college nearly always brings tears to my eyes because of how she died; senselessly, needlessly, suddenly and violently. She was on her way to a brilliant acting career in a role she'd earned in the TV series V when it happened.The sequel is set and released four years after the first. The family now lives with Diane's mother, a brilliant clairvoyant who realizes the psychic gifts that Carol Anne possesses. Whether they are a result of her journey to the Other Side, or they were innate abilities is never made clear in the movies. (the books are ALWAYS better...almost always)Will Sampson was an incredible addition to Zelda Rubenstein's entourage of psychic connections. What side of the rainbow are we working tonight, Dr. Lesh? (Steven Freeling) He quite genuinely portrays a spirit warrior named Taylor, sent to assist the family in this newest visitation from the Poltergeist. Personally having had a bit of exposure to Native American culture, I must say that his depiction of the Native American spiritualist is very very good. If I met his character on the street, I would believe his credibility based on the actions taken by his character. Very nicely done.Also in addition to Sampson, we are given Julian Beck as the diabolical Henry Kane. Reverend Kane. What I sell is free. He is the epitome of evil, hate and despair all rolled into one uuuugly personification. Believably portrayed Darkness. I don't like Kane. *lol* If a character in a movie can make me have any emotion towards them, it's well done. I tend to be a bit detached from movies at times. So if it breaks through that, to me, it has been done well.Nothing really dies. Like a caterpillar becomes a butterfly, death transforms us into a different level of being. (Taylor)This sequel explains what happened in the first; why it happened. It delivers the storyline with an easy, steady flow even if production was rushed by the studio. There are a few holes and a couple of stutters in the plot due to scene deletions and the like, but on the whole, it still manages to maintain that easiness about it that I mentioned earlier. One of the things I loved about both of these movies is that the family was so real, so down to earth. They were your typical, middle-class family without the stereo-typical dogma usually associated with such a depiction. Their love and caring was believably and realistically portrayed.Other than Ms. Dunne, the original cast is back in this wonderful sequel to an amazing work. A good addition to any horror collection and rates an 8.2/10 alongside its predecessor, from...the Fiend .RIP, Dominique Dunne. "},{"Title":"YAWN!!!!!!!","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Boy this sequel was pretty damn lame - had none of the spark or life of the original (Which i loved) in spite of the original cast - i caught it on late nite TV and found myself flipping around from SNL to MAD TV to stay awake -a totally flaccid attempt. Wish i had something good to say about it - the ending is horribly cheesy with the family floating about in astoundingly bad matte overlays of fog and lightning. "},{"Title":"Great Acting and Story ruined by Uneven Script","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Poltergeist II is a good movie lost in a bad one. The back story to the original film is revealed and it quite good but the movie falls apart when it should deliver.The film opens up with a Native American being given a spirit to help combat a strong presence located back on the property in which the house from the 1st film was located. He senses that the family is in trouble and goes on a search for them.The movie eventually reveals the real reason behind the first haunting and why the Poltergeists are back again. The movies' main villain is The Preacher Kane. He will do anything to get Carol Anne back to lead him and his followers into the light. All of this is quite interesting but the movie fails to deliver on its premise. For one, there are way too many false scares. Characters dream about being pulled underground by dead bodies. Dead bodies appear in a mirror. Dead bodies which turn out to be closet items appear. This really cheats the audience. Also, take the scene where about 50 ghosts are walking on the lawn. You look at that and get a chill but then, we never see them again. We hear some beating and stomping in the house and that is it. And another scene has a character in grave danger only for it to suddenly go away. Was he actually in trouble? When the ghosts come back, they do so through a plastic toy telephone and Heather O'Rourke delivers a weak They're Back line. No where near as chilling as They're here.The acting in this film is very good and keeps the movie from sinking. Once again, you really feel for these people. JoBeth Williams is effective but not as good as she was in the first film. Julian Beck is quite scary but he isn't given much to do and the film could have benefited from more scenes with him. And of course, I still think Zelda Rubinstein was born to play Tangina and her presence is always welcome.There is a lot to like in this film, but you will walk away from it feeling empty, especially about the forced funny final moments. It is far superior to the 3rd film but the first one can't be beat.   "},{"Title":"Could have better, but I like it","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I cannot even begin to count all the times I have seen Poltergeist or even its two sequels, but they remain my favorite trilogy to this day.This one however was a bit of a disappointment to it's pretecessor. But I liked it all the same.  Even the third film didn't answer all the questions I wanted to know the answers to, but movies are strictly for entertainment purposes aren't they? "},{"Title":"There is Unrest for the Fearful Freelings","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS        One week after the original Poltergeist. A Native American tribe sent one of their own, Taylor, to guard the Freeling family who were attacked by evil spirits the week before. He meets Tangina Barrons at the place where the house used to be. They learn that some spirits perhaps followed the Freelings, who currently resided with Grandma.        Steven has found a new venture repairing vacuum cleaners. He doesn't do it very well. He also decides for the family to not get a TV after what happened last time. One afternoon while Diane, Robbie and Carol Anne went out, Carol Anne got lost but an old man (Reverend Kane) found her and she was soon found by Diane. The only thing was, only Carol Anne could see Reverend Kane.        That night, Carol Anne got a call from Grandma on her toy phone, and oddly, the very next morning, Grandma died. Before long, they encounter more poltergeist attacks, and meet Taylor. He moves in and tries to prepare them. He even fixes Steven's car after discovering that it was angry. Then one day, Taylor departs, telling the family they must go back to Cuesta Verde to face the evil where the house used to be. But before that, Reverend Kane stops by the house and ends up filling everybody with terror, then he takes over Steven's body to get at Carol Anne, but Steven reclaims his body and they all jump in the family station wagon to escape flying power tools.The car wouldn't start up and it was being attacked, but finally they escape and make it to where their house used to be. They meet Tangina and Taylor there and they end up crossing over into the other dimension. It was almost curtains for them, but it was Grandma to the rescue.         In the end, Taylor notices Steven's car is still angry and that it wants to come home with him, so Steven gives it to him, forgetting it was their ride home;        Pretty good. Almost as good as the first! You'll find that the original cast is here, except for poor Dominique Dunne, murdered in 1982, but instead of hiring somebody else to replace her, they went on without Dana, which was good because Dana was a pile.Also dead is Julian Beck. Stomach cancer in 1985, before completing the film. And, Will Sampson (Chief from One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest) died in 1987. And poor Heather O'Rourke died in 1988. But in conclusion, I recommend Poltergeist II! It's as good as the first!- "},{"Title":"What a sequel should be!","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Warning,spoilers from part one Now the original needed a sequel to better explain the story of Poltergeist,and the fact that they just got away from the poltergeist,not coming close to deafeating it.Here,you see one of the true forms of the poltergeist Kane(no not the wrestler).You also see the phycic from the original,and the Indian chief guy who helps them fight it,who also adds humor.Topples the first,and the best of the series!This is only Pg-13,so this would be a good family movie as well! "}{"Title":"Not a patch on the 1982 original, but entertaining all the same","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First of all, need to ask... where the HELL did the filmmakers find Julian Beck?! I remember seeing this film on television when I was about eight years old and my parents had to let me sleep in their room because I had been so frightened by Beck's voice (Let...me...in!; Because...I'm...smart!; God is in His holy temple! etc), appearance and old-fashioned preacher's clothing. It's difficult to think of him as an ordinary guy, drinking coffee with the cast & crew when the cameras weren't rolling!That's the ironic thing about this film - considering they obviously spent lots of money on makeup and special effects, the most affective and eerie element came in the form of old Julian Beck! What a waste of budget!Now for a couple of moans - Poltergeist was made in 1982, this sequel came four years later in 1986. This is obvious by how the original cast members now look - Oliver Robbins is now a teenager and Heather O'Rourke is not an ultra-sweet little girl. However, the events are supposed to be set just ONE YEAR after the first film, according to a line of dialogue from Steve (Craig T. Nelson).And I know the reason Dominique Dunne did not reprise her role as the Freelings' eldest daughter, Dana, was because she was sadly killed after the first film was released, but her character is not mentioned even once in this movie. Fair enough, she might not have been living with them any longer, but couldn't Diane (JoBeth Williams) have come off the phone saying, Boy, Dana's having a great time in Europe! or something?!The acting is so-so in this film (Will Sampson should NOT have been cast, and considering how brilliant Zelda Rubinstein was in her brief appearance in the earlier film, she overacts terribly this time round). Personally, I thought JoBeth Williams was outstanding as Diane in Poltergeist - worthy of an Oscar nomination. She is still good here, but doesn't get to get scream Get away from my BABIES!See Poltergeist II The Other Side, and make up your mind if you think the first one was better (it is!).  "},{"Title":"Haunting....","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is probably the most haunting movie I have ever seen. Julian Beck plays the scariest character in any movie to date.Ever since the first time I saw it I have been haunted by the looks and sounds of Kane (Beck).Plus , at the time of filming , Beck had developed stomach cancer , which was wasting the skin off of his face , and made him even scarier.One of the coolest parts of this movie is when Kane goes to the Freeling's house.Kane does possibly one of the coolest things ever done in a Horror movie.When Steve asks him how he knows about his family and what he is feeling , Kane puts his finger up to his head and says Because...I'm smart.It sends chills down my spine every time I see that.But , I won't tell any more about the movie.You'll have to see it for yourself.If you get nightmares from watching scary movies , then I suggest you stay away from this one.But if you don't , rent it , and you'll see what I'm talking about. "},{"Title":"A very worthy sequel","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"   A great first sequel to the '82 hit from Steven Spieldberg and Tobe Hooper. !!!SOME SPOILERS!!! This time the Freeling family is living with Diane's Mom in Arizona, where they try to put their lives back together. Suddenly, the evil force from the first film, Kane, returns to reclaim little Carol Anne. An Indian comes along to rescue the family from destruction and strange things happen. Mr. Freeling becomes possessed and throws up a worm creature, Robbie's braces go haywire(pun intended), and Kane visits the house in different forms. Exciting, great story, acting, effects, and music score. ***** out of *****. By the way, I don't know why people don't like the end of this movie where the family goes to the other side to fight Kane. I love that part! (LOL)  "},{"Title":"They're back","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This one is so much more exciting than the original and the are so many good actors Craig T Nelson ,Julian Beck and don't forget Will Sampson.Carol Anne and her family have moved to her grandmothers house and then guess what they're back.The family decide to stay at the house when they receive help from Will Sampson.I love Julian Beck's first appearance as Kane the Preacher he was made for the part but sadly died leaving Nathan Davis for the 3rd. "},{"Title":"good sequel","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  slow start, but it's a good sequel. I liked the idea of an 1800s preacher as the villain and an indian medicine man as the one trying to help out the Freeling family.  Performance by Julian Beck was superb, very good for an actor who hasn't been in many movies.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable...","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was a pretty good movie. I didn't like it as much as the 1st or 3rd, because it was a little...slow moving. The effects were good, and the acting was too. The evil preacher Kane gave me nightmares. Boy did he ever need a trip to the dentist. Not too scary, but a little gory. Let me tell you, someone IS credited in this movie as, THE Vomit Creature! Well, I say that for children viewing, kids who are scared easily shouldn't watch it, or kids...maybe 7 or under (unless they can handle scary movies). It's PG-13 rating should probably be lowered, though... RATING 7 Outta 10 "},{"Title":"Not as good as part one, BUT not too bad","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  As far as sequels usually go, you could do a lot worse than this one. The acting is still very good (especially the spooky preacher) and the the script tries to tackle some new ground instead of simply rehashing the first movie. You gotta love the possessed braces and possed tequilla worm scenes - too cool! I give this flick a 7 (the first is a 9 in my mind) - my only wish is that the preacher guy would have gotten more scenes. Also, be on the lookout for the Big Indian from One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest who seems to have escaped the asylum there to end up as a shaman here. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you'd think, worth a look","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This one is worth watching just to see Craig T. Nelson's encounter with The Vomit Creature, a truly classic moment in trashy cinema.  The rest of the movie isn't the greatest but it's at least entertaining with an evil Julian Beck stealing the show. "},{"Title":"Almost but...","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A good sequel up to the last 10 minutes, where they slap on a happy ending and another strange happy ending involving giving up a station-wagon. That aside, the special effects are excellent and the story is good, if not thinner than the original. A chilling performance by Beck with Williams and Nelson being good as always. I give this film a B-. "},{"Title":"better","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I preferred this to the original.It did have some low points but I thought Julian Beck who played Kane (aka THE BEAST) made this movie with his performance.Come to think of it.....it was probably only this that set it apart and without him I probably would prefer the first one "}{"Title":"Do NOT go into the light","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The original Poltergeist is one of my all time favorite movies.  This one really stinks.  Wait until you see the family flying through the void in one of the worst special effects fiascos of all time.  The character of Kane was one of the wickedest villains ever, too bad he was wasted in this film. Another scene depicts the Freeling's son Robbie being brutalized by his own braces.  Just ridiculous.  The actors from the original do an excellent job, but the plot was just plain bad.  The worst part, they don't even bother to explain what happened to the oldest Freeling sibling, Dana, played by slain actress Dominique Dunne in the original.  Uncalled for sequel to a classic.  "},{"Title":"Not bad sequel","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Most sequels stink but there are a few that are worth watching, this is one of them.  The family that was besieged by ghosts in the first poltergeist now lives with Diane's mother where a evil ghost preacher and his followers now haunt them. Good acting, direction and score. Of course, it's not as good as the original but still worth watching. "},{"Title":"One Redemption","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The second in the series.  Enjoyable, but not a favorite.  The one redeeming  factor in this sequel was H.R. Giger's (Artist for the ALIEN and Species  series) conceptual artwork.  The character of Kane (Immortalized by metel  group Anthrax on their album Among The Living) was nothing shocking until  that moment in the end where everyone is at the other side.  3 out of 4  stars for this one. "},{"Title":"Great sequel...","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While the sequel, Poltergeist II The Other Side, was never fully up to par with the original Poltergeist movie, then it has always been one of my favorites. And the reason for this was because of Julian Beck in the role of reverend Henry Kane. Man, that guy was spooky in that role, and he really carried most of the movie.Right, well the movie essentially picks up where Poltergeist left off, with the Freeling family, minus Dana, staying at the grandmother's house. Back at the original Cuesta Verde site, the foundation of the house has been uprooted, revealing a horrible tomb underneath, where people were lead to their deaths by a reverend who preached the end of days, and end that never came, but the reverend refused to release his congregation. Reverend Henry Kane is out to get the angelic Carol Anne and nothing can stop him.Story-wise, then Poltergeist II The Other Side isn't as fully thought through as the first movie. But it was still entertaining and it does have its moments. My personal favorites are all the scenes with Julian Beck.The effects were adequate enough for a movie back from 1986, but for some reason they were outdone by the effects in the first movie. Which was a bit odd.The acting in part 2 was good, and it really carried the movie quite a long way, with most of the original cast making a return trip to the screen.Like the first Poltergeist, I have seen Poltergeist II The Other Side so many times that I have long lost count. And it will probably always be one of those movies that I keep making a return trip to, no matter how many years pass by.Poltergeist II The Other Side is an entertaining movie, considering it is from 1986. And it is a must watch alongside with the first Poltergeist movie, especially if you enjoyed the first movie. This sequel is a well worthy addition to the collection of any horror aficionado. "},{"Title":"Never Drink The Worm","Date":"16 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a good sequel to the first film. It takes place only a little time after the first. Heather O'Rourke has gotten a little older since the first film, so you has many more lines in the film. I guess you could say it gives her character a little more personality. The father, mother and brother are the same from the first also, so that is good. A new edition is the mother of JoBeth Williams's character, Geraldine Fitzgerald. Now the biggest thing in this film is the character Kane played by Julian Beck. In the first film they gave the ghost a voice. Here they gave him a body and a really creepy on at that. Beck did an amazing job. The story line was decent but two things got in the way for me. They should of left the problem to Zelda Rubinstein's character. Instead they brought in this Indian guy and his acting was a little off. Also the ending of the film was interesting. Why they went with that ending, I am not sure. But still a great and scary movie. "},{"Title":"Spooky, if never as outright scary as Part 1","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Poltergeist is one of my all time favourite horror films. I loved the way filmmakers Steven Spielberg and Tobe Hooper created a haunted house chiller in the normalcy of suburbia. It gets under your skin so much, it makes you dread ever opening an airing cupboard again. And its a film that's aged gracefully. Its just as scary as the first day I saw it 20 years ago.Then four years later, out popped Poltergeist 2 The Other Side, but this time without Spielberg or horror maestro Hooper present. And the change is definitely noticeable. Its not that Poltergeist 2 is bad. It just falls short of what made the original so great.After the chaos in Part 1, the Freeling family moved away from Cuesta Verde, and what was left of their haunted house. Now they've moved in with Diane Freeling's (JoBeth Williams) prescient mother, Gramma Jess. But when she passes away, the spirits now have a clear path to the Freelings, and in particular, their youngest daughter Carol-Anne. Once again haunting their new home, the Freelings have help from Taylor (Will Sampson), an Indian shaman, who holds the family together until their final confrontation with the evil spirits.Poltergeist 2 is a passable sequel, but it hardly generates the scare quotient the original did. Poltergeist was an exhilarating roller-coaster ride of thrills and chills. Pt 2 has few thrills. The man in the directors chair this time is Brian Gibson. I can't say that I've ever heard of him, and I'm sorry to say this, but he's no Spielberg.Some of the shocks he comes up with are a bit inventive. Like when the Freeling's son Robbie has a nasty encounter with his braces. It comes alive right in his mouth and entangles him like a gigantic spider web.But elsewhere the scares it whips up are way out there. In fact as the film draws to an end, the shocks start to get a bit too silly for their own good. Consider this one. Steve Freeling (Craig T Nelson) is drinking tequila. At the bottom of the bottle is an evil worm. When Steve accidentally ingests it, it takes him over. For a time he turns evil, going completely over the top, and then throws up a hideous ghoul (or Vomit Creature as its called on the credits). Its a scene of such startling idiocy its almost embarrassing to watch.The film's saving grace is its supporting cast. Taylor is a great character. Will Sampson does a brilliant job bringing him to life. You really feel safe knowing that he's around, and his pep talks to the Freelings are inspiring and filled with wisdom.But the one character that makes you sit up and take notice is Reverend Henry Kane (Julian Beck), the demonic preacher after Carol-Anne. He only gets a couple of scenes but whenever he's around, the hairs on the back of your neck immediately creep up. This fella is scary just to look at. Julian Beck was dying of stomach cancer at the time, and his illness actually adds to Beck's already impressive performance. He looks so cadaverous and chilling. And his silky voice intensifies his frightening appearance. The scene where he tries to hypnotise Steve into letting him in the house is terrifying.Jerry Goldsmith also turns in another great theme tune, especially in Kane's scenes. But having the words God is in His Holy Temple thudding on the soundtrack is a bit much. The film overdoes it too, to the point of tedium.The film also tries to answer the questions left hanging by the first one. But the plot is made up of many ill-fitting odds and ends that by the climax, I was no closer to working out the nature of these spirits or their intentions.The ending is vaguely unsatisfying. I didn't get the impression of a battle hard won. The film was trimmed down from 130 minutes, so I'm told. So I have to wonder what was left on the cutting room floor. It would be interesting to see it restored in a DVD special edition some day. Perhaps the film and the ending would be all the better for it.Poltergeist 2 is a film that suffered from severe editing. You can tell. You can't shake the impression you're watching an incomplete picture. And that's why the film doesn't work properly. Its watchable, but the haphazard structure undermines the film at key moments. And it just doesn't penetrate your defences the way Part 1 did. Its better than the dreadful Poltergeist 3, but its only a mildly unnerving haunted house show. Not the ride in pulse racing terror that it should have been. "},{"Title":"Competent Sequel","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I really enjoyed catching up with the characters. I felt the movie had a descent script, very good acting, and some intriguing scares. The original Poltergeist remains my all-time favorite movie. I was excited when I saw this movie and I was not disappointed. JoBeth Williams delivers an excellent performance throughout this movie. She really conveys a mother who truly loves her husband and children. I especially like the message this movie delivers that the love of family can help you rise above unbelievable situations. I also enjoyed Heather O'Rourke in this movie. She was such a beautiful young child and really had good acting skills. I wonder how her career would have gone had she not passed away so young. Lastly, I thought the movie had some great scares! I'm glad that the movie received Academy Award nominations for its visual effects. They were very well done and I think stand the test of time with today's technical abilities. "},{"Title":"Great special effects compensate for this mostly shallow sequel.","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After the events that occur in the first film, the Freeling family is living with Grandma. Though, the supernatural forces won't leave them alone and now they're back and they want Carol Anne. So with help with a Indian guide and dead Grandma the family must battle a ghostly cult that was buried under their old block of land in the first film that will stop at nothing to get what they want.I'm not terribly a big fan of the original, so I wasn't expecting anything big and what I saw was a real mixed bag, just like the original. This film basically sets up what we already saw in the first film, with an opening that's rather interesting, but it suddenly falls into the original's formula with some idea's being changed around (It's no longer the TV, but a toy phone that's the medium to the spiritual world) and a feeling of deja vu. Though, it's not as engaging, it does lack the panache of the original and the special effects aren't as imaginative this time around, but still it's the film's strong point. The technical effects don't take over the plot and aren't overused which is a good thing. The make-up and special effects are visually good and that's especially when it picks up towards the end. It yields great monster designs and superb trick work and illusions are created. While the solid score by the experienced Jerry Goldsmith is another key factor of the film. It's rather haunting in keeping such an alarming mood. As well it was beautifully shot. There are some great scenery shots that overshadow some of the scenes and what's actually going on. What it sorely lacked was atmosphere, but otherwise it's mildly entertaining.Some problems that the film faced are that there are too much dwelling on what happened in the first film, the film's pace is quite slow, rather humourless, some rather meaningless scenes, a lot of talking that has no real interest and overall it's rather a pointless sequel with no meaning to the narrative when it finally finishes. It's not bad, but it tries too hard and becomes dramatically flat. It lacks the freshness and creativity to make it standout.In this one we actually see the other dimension and also we see the evil demons or spirits in physical form. It's a slow burner to begin with, as there are interesting theories thrown in and the story is more of mystical journey for the family. Meaning that it's great to be a family and that love keeps them together and stops evil from tearing them apart or something like that. The plot idea is interesting enough, but the story that we get doesn't take full advantage of it. There are some lively action and some mildly evocative and intense moments after 45-minutes or so. These short pockets of thrills go for shock valve (the worm scene). While the final battle against evil turns out to be a disappointing anti-climax and the lacklustre ending was just too sweet and cheesy to comprehend.The performances are nothing special, but just rather sound. Craig T Nelson, JoBeth Williams, Oliver Robbins and Heather O'Rourke aren't bad, but the family weren't as likable this time around. Zelda Rubinstein isn't as annoying like in Poltergeist, with a far less eccentric performance, but when on screen she's rather tame. Will Sampson as the spiritual Indian Taylor who helps out the family comes across as being intriguing, but his character comes across as wasted. Julian Beck as the deliciously evil spirit Kane gives a generally creepy and uneasy performance. His character would be the most interesting, but his presence is far and between.Its running time is rather short in length, but because of that it kept my full interest. It's not a must see, but if you enjoy the original you'll probably find something to like. "},{"Title":"good, but 1st is better","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Poltergeist II The other side i think was a good movie as the sequel, but i reckon the original, Poltergeist has to be the best because it's what started the trilogy and i enjoyed the gore, the violence and strobe light in the movie, made in 1982, i thought it was quite effective with the grpahics. I thought this one was less frightening because to me i think the creators decided to take the frighteness down abit as well, i would think the first one shocked everyone as this what happened to The Exorcist and then the 2nd one came out. I give Poltergeist II 7 out of 10. I was very sad to hear about Heather O Rourke as she died during the filming of Poltergeist III, it was a shock to everyone and to the cast that starred in the movie. However, Poltergeist III was dedicated to Heather as it was her Last Movie. "},{"Title":"The endearing Freeling family return to do battle against the supernatural in Brian Gibson's absoloutely brilliant sequel","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Four years after their house in Cuesta Verde, California was consumed by a violent explosion of supernatural activity, the Freeling family returned to the big screen in 1986's 'Poltergeist II  The Other Side' - and so did the nightmarish wrath of the undead. Brian Gibson's hit sequel finds the luckless Freelings - Steve ( Craig T. Nelson ), his wife Diane ( JoBeth Williams ), their young son Robbie ( Oliver Robins ) and little Carol Anne ( Heather O'Rourke ), living in Phoenix, Arizona with Gramma Jess ( Geraldine Fitzgerald ), Diane's clairvoyant mother. When Gramma Jess passes away, the troublesome spooks strike, this time in the form of a religious cult led by a maniacal preacher named Reverend Henry Kane ( Julian Beck ). Having made their contact via Carol Anne's toy telephone, they will stop at nothing to reclaim their 'angel'. Fortunately, psychic Tangina Barrons ( Zelda Rubinstein ) and Indian shaman Taylor ( Will Sampson ) offer a helping hand to the family, the two having unearthed the bodies of Rev. Kane and his followers at a dig where the Freeling house once stood, below the old cemetery. 'Poltergeist II  The Other Side' is an absoloutely brilliant fright fest that I highly recommend. It works a whole lot better than other sequels because it builds upon incidents from the the first movie and allows it's characters to grow. The Freelings remain a very likable screen family and the rest of the ensemble cast are great too. Julian Beck for one gives a wonderfully fire-and-brimstone performance as Rev. Kane and tragic young actress Heather O'Rourke as Carol Anne is a really sweet kid. Once again the special effects, provided by Boss Films and some based on H.R. Giger designs, are absoloutely stunning, breathing incredible life into such wondrously creepy creations as the memorable Vomit Creature and The Beast and Jerry Goldsmith's score too is simply amazing. "}{"Title":"3.5 out of 5 stars","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First of all let me say that I am a huge Poltergeist fan. I'm LOVED the first, and I think this is a pretty worthy sequel. It follows the same story, most of the same cast is back, excellent acting (Julian Beck & Craig T. Nelson blew me away!) I would recommend this to any Poltergeist or horror fan. "},{"Title":"O.K. first sequel","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Poltergeist II The Other Side is an average sequel to Poltergeist, one of my all-time favorite horror films. The Freeling family is back this time living with Grandma in Arizona. Also back are those nasty ghosts with one of them appearing in human form. Reverend Kane (the late Julian Beck in a creepy performance) is the head ghost who attempts to get a hold of Carol Anne (Heather O'Rourke) and take her with him to the other side (hence the subtitle). The Freelings get help from an Indian medicine man (Will Sampson) who protects the family and that tiny psychic (Zelda Rubenstein) who returns to lend a hand. There are a couple of scary moments in Poltergeist II but there's not as much scares in this one as in the original. The first film jolted you with scary moments galore. The second film has less than half the scares of the original. And that's disappointing. Poltergeist II is more funnier and scarier, and that's trouble. Still, it's not all that bad. It has good special effects (if not as good in the original), and some good performances by the cast. At least it's better than the deadly dull second sequel Poltergeist III. **1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"OK, but not great","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Not as good as the first but what do you expect.  Has little to do with the first movie either, except for the same family (and the same car).  Julian Beck is truly creepy as the bad guy, and Craig T. Nelson does a pretty good job, especially when he gets possessed.  Sometimes the horror is a bit over-the-top and seeing a family get scared at the same things over and over gets a little tedious.  Not many plot twists, but not too many predictable cliches either.  Overall, not half bad for a movie that had no real reason to be made. 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Julian Beck steals the show in a terrorfying role.","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This isn't the best movie ever made, but it is one of the scariest. Julian Beck's final preformance scared the hell out of me, what an amazing actor. Sometimes I feel like Kane is standing behind me when I'm trying to sleep and he softly sings God is in his holy temple. I've seen The Exorcist and I've seen The Blair Witch Project, I found both not scary, but this one scares me, a lot. "},{"Title":"Giger did designs for this?","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was just plain boring. The worm creature at the end was just laughable, which leads me to wonder how well they studied Mister Giger's original designs...Full of cliches and predictability. Definitely does not do the original movie justice.  "},{"Title":"Surely One Of The Most Ridiculous Sequels Ever Made","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Poltergeist was a pretty decent horror movie - a really good ghost story that, while it at times went a bit overboard, was still better than the average movie of its type. Given that it was well received and that it was pretty good, I suppose that a sequel (actually 2 sequels as it turned out) was inevitable. Like most sequels, it was probably also inevitable that the sequel wouldn't be as good as the original. Even with that expectation, Poltergeist II is a huge disappointment.You expect that a horror movie would be frightening. This one is just plain ridiculous - from beginning to end and at virtually every point in between. There's really no need for a big plot summary. Suffice to say that they have followed the Freeling family and aren't about to let them go. The cast is re-united. Craig T. Nelson and JoBeth Williams as the parents, with Heather O'Rourke and Oliver Robins as their children Carol Ann and Robbie. Tragically, the character of Dana (the Freelings' eldest child in the first movie) was left out of this one, because actress Dominique Dunne had been murdered by her boyfriend not long after the release of the first movie - one of the events, along with the tragic death of O'Rourke at the age of 12, that led to talk of a curse on the whole Poltergeist trilogy. It's unfortunate that the movie didn't include any explanation of Dana's absence, especially since it ended with a statement about the importance of family in battling the evil force. Zelda Rubinstein was back as Tangina, and Will Sampson introduced the new character of Taylor, some sort of native medicine man who has powers over these things. Of the returning cast, none seemed to me to put the same power into their roles as they had in the original. I thought they often seemed to be just going through the motions, as if they themselves realized that no matter how hard they tried they wouldn't be able to save this. As for Taylor, the character just seemed a silly addition to a silly movie.None of this was very frightening. The best I could say about it was that there were a number of scenes that made me smile or chuckle because they were just so plain dumb. Unfortunately, this wasn't a comedy. Steven Spielberg (who wrote and produced the original) had nothing to do with this project. Everyone else really should have followed his lead and stayed away from it, too. (2/10) "},{"Title":"Same Gang! Same Story!","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The first Poltergeist was so popular that they were compelled by financial reasons to make a sequel. Well the Freeling family has moved in with Grandma played beautifully by the wonderfully missed Geraldine Fitzgerald. They have no television set for the obvious reasons. Of course, Dana Freeling played by Dominique Dunne was not recast. Maybe she went off to College but I think it was kind of them not to recast the role as Dominique's tragic death. Anyway, Julian Beck who was dying when he was filming this role plays an important part. His character follows the family and causes trouble. Heather O'Rourke is still as cute as ever in her role as Carol Ann and Oliver Robins plays her brother in the film again. Craig T. Nelson and Jobeth Williams reprise their roles as done Zelda Rubenstein, the psychic, and the guy who played the Indian has an important role in making the strange occurrences go away. There are some changes and the story is not as good as it could have been but if you are Poltgergeist die-hard fans out there. "},{"Title":"Great sequel to Poltergeist!","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Poltergeist II The Other Side is a great sequel in My opinion to the first Poltergeist! It is really good and as spooky as the original!JoBeth Williams,Craig T. Nelson,Oliver Robins,and Zelda Rubinstein was very good and the new cast members Julian Beck and Will Sampson were excellent!Julian Beck was great as Kane!The way he looked and acted made him so scary!Will Sampson was really good as Taylor!The special effect is terrific!The score by Jerry Goldsmith was perfect!Even arguably better than the first with his new Indian themes and new ones mixed with the original theme!The end was great and it really gave Me tears in My eyes!I guess it was because it was so phenomenal with Jerry Goldsmith's music!If you liked Poltergeist and love horror and ghost movies and love to be scared  then I strongly recommend you watch this great movie soon! "},{"Title":"Interesting Sequel, But Really Not Needed.","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Interesting sequel to the box office hit of 1982 gets a little too smart for its own good early on. The thing that made the first so frightening was the fact that nothing was ever really explained. Poltergeist II The Other Side tries to give background into the events of the first and this is not really needed. For those with curious minds the sequel may be better than the original, but I felt that the audience was better off being in the dark about what was happening. Not bad, but really one of those films that was just used because of the enormous success of its predecessor. 2.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"buried secrets","Date":"2 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" OK, so Poltergeist II The Other Side has its strengths and weaknesses.The main strength is that they offer a further history of Cuesta Valley and why it saw the horrific events depicted in the first movie, and that they don't simply take the easy way to make a sequel by repeating every scene with extra shock value (although there is a REALLY gross scene at one point). I also liked it when the dad sings If I Fell.The main weakness is that without director Tobe Hooper, who directed the first one, something got lost in bringing the movie to the screen. Some -- fortunately not all -- scenes do come across as extrapolations of what the first movie showed.The only major character who doesn't return is the older daughter, since Dominique Dunne got murdered right after the first one came out, and so there's no mention of the older daughter here. The additions are a menacing clergyman (Julian Beck, who died during filming) and an Indian shaman (Will Sampson, aka the Chief in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest). In the end, it's an OK effort, but no where near as good as the first one. "}{"Title":"The Weakest of the Three Films","Date":"17 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Freeling family have a new house, but their troubles with supernatural forces don't seem to be over.While the second film has its fair share of good creepy moments (including Craig T. Nelson vomiting up some blob of goo), and I have to give them credit for bringing back the bulk of the original cast, it just does not measure up to the first film. Not even close.I suppose part of the problem was having a new director and new writer, taking the film in a completely new direction. Spielberg did not even produce this film. It was like he wanted nothing to do with it. And, personally, I was not enjoying the Indian aspect. The first film referenced an Indian burial ground (as a joke), but this film goes the extra step... and in my opinion, suffers for it. "},{"Title":"Poltergeist II The Other Side","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was expecting this sequel to the surprisingly shocking suspense film from producer Steven Spielberg and Texas Chainsaw Massacre director Tobe Hooper to be less of a thrill, but I was again surprised, from director Brian Gibson (Still Crazy). Basically, if you remember the events from the previous film, where the little girl was sucked into the television, the house was possessed by evil ghosts, and the house collapsed in on itself, the same family are back. The Freelings, mother/wife Diane Freeling (JoBeth Williams), father/husband Steve (The Incredibes' Craig T. Nelson), daughter Carol Anne (Heather O'Rourke) and son Robbie (Oliver Robins) have moved in with Diane's mother Jessica 'Grandma/Gramma-Jess' (Geraldine Fitzgerald) in Phoenix, Arizona. Obviously the family aren't taking risks with the memories of last time, so there is no television in the house, but of course the main ghost, or rather The Beast, seen in the form of Reverend Henry Kane (Julian Beck) isn't put off. The Reverend, responsible for the deaths of many of his followers in his past life, has only one goal with all his minions, to once again capture the vulnerable Carol Anne. This is hard for the nasty ghouls to carry out with the strong family love being overpowering, and of course the help of spiritually aware Native American Taylor (One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest's Will Sampson). He of course was sent by dwarf exorcist, or just paranormal expert Tangina Barrons (Zelda Rubinstein) who is busy exploring the site of where the house disappeared that year ago. After many near breaks in the family bond, hideous creatures popping up, loud bangs, high winds, crashes, and a trip to the other side to get Carol Anne, the family love ultimately triumphs. Obviously this sequel wasn't as good as the must see predecessor, but if you like to see grizzly things, a family torn apart by bright lights and apparitions, and a little girl saying They're back, then it's not a bad horror film. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Visual Effects. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"better than expected","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The first sequel to 'Poltergeist' has a lot going for it the original cast reunited, two new and very interesting characters, a good story and excellent, occasionally stomach-churning special effects, some of which are based on ideas by the ghoulishly-inspired design artist, H.R. Giger. But the film moves in fits and starts, and does not feel as tight or complete as the first film, nor is the ending as satisfactory. In 'Poltergeist II The Other Side,' the Freeling family has fallen on hard times and is now living with Diane's (JoBeth Williams) mother in Phoenix. Known as Gramma Jess to the rest of the family, the older woman is clairvoyant and knows Diane and Carol Anne are too. When she dies, things start happening. A demon spirit who appears in human form as Reverend Kane (Julian Beck) begins pursuing Carol Anne with the intent of taking her to 'the other side.' Concurrently, an Indian mystic named Taylor (Will Sampson) shows up at the Freeling's home and offers to help them in their struggle against Kane. Steven (Craig T. Nelson) is openly skeptical throughout most of the film, both of Taylor and the nature of the threat against his family and specifically, Carol Anne. Beck is wonderful as Kane, a pale, skeletal figure who literally looks as if he just stepped out of a coffin. Likewise, Will Sampson hits all the right notes playing Taylor, the Indian. He tends to speak in riddles for the most part, though occasionally he is blunt and to the point. There is a nice scene between him and Diane, where she becomes angry for him putting war paint on Robbie (Oliver Robins). What do you know about it? Taylor says flatly. You're not a man, are you? The expression on Diane's face is priceless. Another good sequence involves Kane confronting Steven on the porch and trying to get into the house and to Carol Anne. He tries to weaken Steven's resolve by telling him the others in the family don't trust him anymore, that they are turning more and more to Taylor for guidance. Kane's hypnotic influence seems to drain Steven's strength until Carol Anne calls out, which snaps Steven out of the trance and he tells Kane in no uncertain terms to leave. You're gonna die in there! Kane yells through the screen, his face and head more skull-like than ever. You're all gonna die! But if any single scene has earned 'Poltergeist II' notoriety now and forever, it must be the one featuring the Vomit Creature (see the end credits). Clearly an H.R. Giger-inspired creation, the creature appears late one night after Steven has been drowning his troubles by drinking a bottle of tequila, complete with worm at the bottom. He dutifully swallows the worm, which as it turns out is another manifestation of the Kane demon, and it possesses him briefly, leading him to attack Diane, who doesn't understand what has happened but cries out that she loves him. This has the effect of casting out the demon, albeit in truly grotesque fashion, as Steven literally throws up a full-grown, slimy monster that looks straight out of 'Alien.' It's an unforgettable scene, to say the least. The ending is too literal in its presentation and feels a bit rushed and forced; it's either too weird or not weird enough (hard to decide), but overall, 'Poltergeist II The Other Side' is a lot better than most people would expect and is quite a compelling horror film. As a side note, JoBeth Williams has never been more attractive, and the fine acting by her and the others is a major reason the film works as well as it does. "},{"Title":"A flawed but fun sequel","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Being a big fan of the original 'Poltergeist', it's fun to see the Freelings reunited (aside from Dominique Dunne, of course, who was murdered soon after filming 'Poltergeist') in this flawed but fun sequel to the original classic.The film introduces some interesting concepts to the Poltergeist mythos, particularly a great final performance from Julian Beck as the very creepy Reverend Kane (Beck died soon after filming due to stomach cancer - no, not the so called 'poltergeist curse' - Beck was fully aware of his condition whilst working on the movie).Despite another great performance from little Heather O'Rourke and professional performances from the rest of the cast (albeit not as inspired or memorable as their performances in the original), the film ultimately lacks the heart, warmth and quality of the original.As a viewer, you can't help but come away with the feeling that if a little more time, money and love had been bestowed on the production this could have been a better film.Still, there are some memorable moments and genuine spine-tingles in this sequel.Despite the rushed feeling to some parts of the production, for it's nostalgic revisiting of the family Freeling, the Kane character, the few memorable 'horror' moments and last but not least, the fantastic follow-up soundtrack by the great Jerry Goldsmith, I rate this film 7/10. "},{"Title":"Occasionally spooky, but nothing to rave about","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Steven Spielberg's small town ghost story was far superior to this lame attempt at a sequel that really goes off the rails.Brian Gibson's film drifts away from the central focus of the first film, the family, and rather delves into the mystique and the mystery of the Poltergeist, though not successfully enough to thoroughly entertain its audience. And where Tobe Hooper managed some real spine chilling scares, Brian Gibson opts for a rather less impressive array of schlock/horror type frights.The performances from Jobeth Williams, Craig T. Nelson and support are okay, but never anywhere near as good as their original turns, and while Jerry Goldsmith's music makes a welcome return, we are still left with a fairly ordinary supernatural thriller.Occasionally spooky and unnerving, but never anything to rave about.Saturday, December 18, 1993 - Video "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was a huge fan of the first movie and was glad to see the original cast back for the second. The special effects were not as good as the original Spielberg movie but were no where near the worst i have seen.Overall the movie was enjoyable and carried on very well from the first but as in all these movies the previous movie is kept to a minimum. The actor who plays Kane is a very scary character and i'm sure bumping into him would scare the bravest of people as he looks like death warmed up,a great character for the movie and keeps you on the edge of your seat all through the film. Overall a great movie of it's time. "},{"Title":"Better than what some hack sequels are.","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" My Take Not as good as the original, but does exactly what a sequel must do, minus duplicate its greatness. Once you see the first spooky scene and here Carol Anne says They're Back, you'll know what you're in for, a great and spooky sequel. Sure the original is better, 'Poltergeist II The Other Side is still very eerie and spooky. The excellent special-effects succeeds in producing a lot of frightening PG-13 stuff in the movie, but the story produces some thrills of its own (if the audience wasn't too busy trying to configure it).Adorable Heather O'Rourke returns in this sequel, and so does the rest of the cast including Craig T. Nelson, JoBeth Williams and Oliver Robins as the Freeling family, who must go up against another batch of otherworldly forces led by the Beast, in the form of a preacher (Julian Beck, who died after finishing this production).The story has its bright spots, yet what really to expect are the new parading Oscar-nominated (and sometimes silly) effects Richard Edlund and his gang have prepared. Jerry Goldsmith composes an underrated score and the performances are given a chance to shine. An underrated yet worthy sequel. All though they should have stopped here, MGM proceeded with POLTERGEIST III the following year. Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"As good a sequel as they could come up with.","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In POLTERGEIST II, those pesky supernatural ghosts turn up to haunt the same family that they taunted in the original, this time they are led by the evil Reverand Kane, who will stop at nothing to steal little CAROL ANNE & take her away with him & the ghosts, unless the little old lady who helped them combat the ghosts in the first movie can stop them. Although it lacks the spunk of the original, POLTERGEIST 2 manged to be a pretty decent sequel, gone is the daughter of the first film (Even though the actress died, I thought they could have still had another girl play her) the special effects are still outstanding, the acting good & there's several supernatural occurrences to rival that of the original. The direction was also well done & fans who enjoyed the original movie should find plenty to like here. Followed by POLTERGEIST 3 ***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Great fx, good story...up until the ending","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Title Poltergeist II The Other Side (1986) Director Brian GibsonCast Heather O Rourke, Jo Beth Williams, Craig T. Nelson, Zelda Rubenstein, Will Sampson Review The Freaky Freelings are back in yet another special fx filled haunted house flick! The freaky Freelings! The family who's house disappeared! On the first film the ghosts came in through the TV, on this one they are coming in through Carol Annes toy phone, guess these ghosts have taken a liking to ordinary house hold appliances. Of course this movie addressed the subject of Electronic Voice Phenomena way before any other films did. So hence the explanation for the ghosts in this series having a hard on for electrical appliances.I don't know why some people choose to call this sequel unnecessary, because in my opinion all three films in the series were necessary to explain who was after Carol Anne, what Carol Anne is capable of, and just plain rounding out the whole story. Plus Poltergeist II has some great continuity going on, it picks up right where the first one left off, even giving us some cool flashbacks to remind us where we last left the Freelings.In this entry we are introduced to the idea that Carol Anne, her mother and grandmother, all have special psychic abilities and are able to know things ahead of time and above all, can talk with spirits. Good...or otherwise.This film also introduces us to a few new characters among them is the films major villain..Kane. An old lunatic preacher who wants Carol Anne so she can lead them into the light the trick with that is that Carol Anne would have to stay on The Other Side in the spirit world to do so, and her family just ain't having that.Kane the preacher (as played by Julian Beck) is just one spooky ass character, it rains wherever he goes, hes always spewing out these spooky sounding church songs God is in his holy temple, and has a complexion that would make Joan Rivers proud. There's one really cool sequence where he has a conversation with Stephen Freeling in the porch of their house....spooky.We are also introduced to Taylor (played by Will Sampson). One of the most likable characters on the whole film, he is here to protect Carol Anne and the family with his knowledge of the spirit world, his Indian folklore and beliefs, and his ancient old sayings. He spends a lot of the film giving everyone advice about how they should live their life, and what they shouldn't be afraid of. He is this films Yoda. Also they introduce the Carol Annes Grandma, who as it happens also has psychic abilities, and is trying to help Carol Anne deal with her special abilities.Other then that we get the original cast back, with Stephen Freeling (played by Craig T. Nelson) who has some really funny lines in the film say hello to the magic munchkin for us!, Diane Freeling (played by Jo Beth Williams) who in this film also has psychic abilities and Robbie Freeling (who's got a bad case of killer braces), the only original cast member who is not back is the teenage daughter seen on the first film, who's gone off to college. The family is just trying to live a normal life after the events they experienced in the first film, only they refuse to have a TV in their house for some reason.You know how in certain films that center around little kids, they tend to have really annoying kid actors? Like for example Lucio FulcisThe House by the Cemetery? Well Heather O Roarke is not annoying in the least. In fact shes lovable as Carol Anne, shes right up their in un-annoyingness with Nute from Aliens. Shes was just a likable kid. In this one, it is set clear that the evil spirits are after her for a reason, she has certain abilities that they require.The movie, as is the case with all the Poltergeist films, centers around the importance of family love and togetherness vs. anything that will try to rupture that love. In this case an evil spirit by the name of Kane.The musical score is great, composed by Jerry Goldsmith and has a lot of choirs and angelical voices going on. It even goes as far as vocalizing one of Kanes church songs in a really spooky way. Loved that! HR Giger did the designs for the creatures in the film which are amazing in some instances and just OK in others. Amazing like in the tequila worm sequence in which Stephen Freeling barfs this gigantic worm out of his mouth....gross, yet amazing at the same time. This to me is one of the best sequences in the film. The visual fx are also top notch, we get a lot of spooky ghosts hovering about the house.Unfortunately the ending of the film is anti-climatic. Where the first two thirds of the film manage to be effectively creepy, the last half of it is just to mushy for me. It stopped being a horror film and turned into the kind of warm and fuzzy feeling you get when you watch films like Hook. Its not like Tobe Hoopers first Poltergeist film, which never stopped being a horror film, right to the very end. I'm sad to said that when we do get to see the Other Sideit is a tad disappointing.But putting this little hiccup aside, Poltergeist II The Other Side is a decent follow up to one of the best haunted house films ever made. It boasts some really good fx, and nice creepy moments that shouldn't disappoint any Poltergeist fan or any other person who likes good haunted house films. All except for that ending.Rating 4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Works more on the Sci-fi genre but is an acceptable addition to the Horror genre.","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Poltergeist II is a clear example of how sequels were in the 80's. Cheesy F/X, little scares, gore, and a villain as the main character.The movie mixes sci-fi with Horror in a clever way but sadly it doesn't manages to be stand out, it turns out to be a cheesy sequel to a great movie of the genre. But hey, that's what most of the 80's Horror movies were about. The whole family returns (including Zelda Rubinstein in almost a lead role) but Chief Bromden (sorry, I have to call him this way!) saves the day thanks and defeats the evil forces. Seriously, give it a try to Poltergeist II The Other Side. It provides one hell of a creepy scene  when the devil (disguised as the old man) walks on the neighborhood under a severe raining singing. The scene still gives me the chills.There's no way to compare this sequel to the superior original but if you have hunger for 80's Horror flicks then give it a try. It's fairly better than the awful part III that involves the whole mirror plot. "}{"Title":"Ridiculous piece of nonsense","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I watched this movie on a Halloween evening and I remember two giants disguised as some Marylin Manson pathetic freaks had disturbed me by knocking at my front door to ask for  sweets or other rubbish just before I began to watch it and I had had to evict them harshly. I may recall that here in France people are not used to celebrating Halloween - even though this commercial and advertising gimmick is growing more and more popular. Anyway the movie itself did not let great remembrance in me. All I can remind of is an untrue-to-life, unbelievable scheme about a little girl always harassed by a devil-involved clergyman who wants to abduct her or something like that. Somehow I remember I laughed during the movie at some moment indeed the clergyman follows the little girl in the streets and enjoys himself grinning at her deviously without a doubt to scare her. Well... one has time to waste. Another painful scene shows the little girl getting up at night to answer a call on her toy phone. I suppose this was a call from the devil or something just as stupid. Then the grandmother or any similar old fogey woke up to rescue the little girl and relax her. Personally I would have smacked her, sent her to bed after saying people do not get up at night to play with their toys. Third and last amusing point the devil embodies itself in a dental crown and threatens to wreak dental havoc wheresoever the family might go. "},{"Title":"Still good.","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was not as good as the first Poltergeist movie, but it is still good. I had to admit, it was scarier than the first one. The special effects are also a little better. But it is more bland than the first one, making it not quite as good. Worth a look. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Inferior, but watchable sequel to the mega hit original finds the family from part one starting over with their lives and moving on, but the ghosts from part one have followed them and keep going after the daughter because they claim they need her to lead them into the light. The special effects remain amazing the second time around and the film is certainly scary and tense.Rated PG-13; Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Suburban Nightmare Returns","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"   It had to happen. The first Poltergeist was such a hit despite its ridiculous plot that someone had to squeeze a sequel out of it. This movie forces a plot point out of a missing religous group led by a madman and then dreams up some very phony psychic mumbo-jumbo to try and hold it together. Julian Beck registers a very chilling performance and Will Sampson is trying to keep from bursting out laughing from this badly edited movie which more times than it can count suddenly jumps into another contrived plot point. The bad editing is a sure sign that this movie was rushed into production. The corpses in the cave are alledgedly real and were enough to suggest that some sort of curse was soon killing the movie's stars. This curse is actually just an urban legend although this movie did kill some careers. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Poltergeist II, while a decent enough movie in its own right, is such a let-down from the original. The movie opens kind of draggy, and the addition of Will Sampson's character is completely unnecessary. Why not just give more to Zelda Rubinstein to do, or even bring back Beatrice Straight. The visual effects are not very convincing and the music score is much more tired than the original. "},{"Title":"A highly entertaining sequel to the classic chiller","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I liked it. It was stylish, scary, and had great special effects. 7 out of 10. Rated PG-13 for intense violence and language. "},{"Title":"Stay away from the sequel.","Date":"24 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In Poltergeist II The Other Side, an evil spirit follows Carol Anne Freeling (Heather O'Rourke) and her family to their new home, having been attracted to the girl's life-force during her earlier visit to the 'other side'.This basic premise for the unnecessary but inevitable sequel to Tobe Spielberg's Poltergeist is actually pretty solid, certainly good enough to have influenced such recent horror hits as Paranormal Activity 2 and Insidious.Unfortunately, a dull script, uninspired direction, weak performances and truly absurd special-effects laden moments seriously let Poltergeist II down writers Michael Grais and Mark Victor fill the film with terrible dialogue, director Brian Gibson fails to match the magic of the original film, Craig T. Nelson has apparently completely forgotten how to act between films, and why no-one questioned the wisdom of a malevolent dental brace, I will never understand.Perhaps the only genuine chilling thing about the whole film is little Carol Anne saying that she doesn't want to grow up actress O'Rourke died only two years later at the tender age of 12, after playing the character one final time in Poltergeist III. "},{"Title":"Dud Sequel to Tobe Hooper's Memorable Ghost Story","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A lame follow up to the phenomenally successful and tremendously entertaining 1982 spook fest about a normal suburban family terrorized by ghouls.The same strong leads (JoBeth Williams and Craig T. Nelson) return, and I give this movie credit for not simply making a carbon copy of the first film the way so many sequels do, but this film is DOA. The screenplay is too obtuse and ambitious, working in a bunch of mystical hoo-hah involving Native Americans and a creepy demon who goes door to door like a traveling salesman. Not one moment in the film comes close to rivaling any number of thrilling moments in the first one.Grade D "},{"Title":"Decent follow-up to a classic","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Poltergeist II The Other Side is a rather okay sequel at times.**SPOILERS**After the destruction of the Freeling house, Tangina Barrons, (Zelda Rubinstein) and Taylor, (Will Sampson) discover the true cause of the events. He goes to visit them, Mother Diane, (JoBeth Williams) husband Steve, (Craig T. Nelson) and children Carol Anne, (Heather O'Rourke) and Robbie, (Oliver Robbins) living with their Grandmother Jess, (Geraldine Fitzgerald) and trying to piece their lives back together. Jess believes that Carol Anne has a special gift that's just like hers, which Diane refuses to accept. When Taylor finally arrives at their house, Carol Anne has accidentally released the spirits again. Reluctantly accepting his help, they put up one more fight against the spirits.The Good News Following up such a classic is at times very hard to do, yet this one does a pretty admirable job at being entertaining. The fact that it carries over from the first one and shows the family unit together that was so vital in the first one. Bringing it back relates them more. There is some good moments here and there that are worthy of mention. The entire vomit creature scene is full of great moments, including the creature itself. It looks great and pretty realistic since it was an actual prop. The entire selection of props in here are all actual rather than CGI, which makes them appear more believable than had it been done otherwise. The film does have a couple of big scenes that were pretty imaginative. The first attack in the bathroom is a great highlight, with some great special effects and an imaginative series that had a great sense of trying to be original. These all add up to a film that's far better than it should be.The Bad News There is one overriding problem with the film that is really hard to shake it's PH-13 rating. This really shouldn't be much of a problem, but the fact is, it has to retreat on it's horror moments to make it more acceptable for the younger crowd to not get too scared at it. That severely reduces the power of the films' potential when it has to scale back the reason for it's being to make it more acceptable. That is the main problem with the film, but it's not the only one. There is a couple times where what is eventually revealed completely contradicts what happened in part 1. The fact that it makes the family seemed destined to their fate instead of just being plagued by a random ghost attack. It really destroys the continuity of the two films. There was some slight scenes that never really felt right in terms of the continuation of the series. The film also has a very slow start, and takes a while to get going. It's all mostly exposition to get into the film, but it could've done with some cutting out to tighten it up.The Final Verdict It's not that bad, but it can't do much of anything with it's rating. It can't really do a lot other than come close to delivering the scares that others with more of a chance to ;push things can do. Bare that in mind and it can be a nice surprise, just don't expect the level of the original.Rated PG-13 Violence, mild Language ands children in danger "},{"Title":"Still a good movie, despite the changes of cast","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" All are back, except for Dominique Dunne who was murdered by her boyfriend. The Freelings are in a new house, but the same old problems just keep coming back to haunt them. There the meet Taylor(Will Sampson, Fish Hawk and Vega$) who uses his Native American magic to help fight evil. Since the mechanic was little help to Steve's(Craig T. Nelson) car. Then there's a man name Kane(Julian Beck) a reverend who's anything but holy. It a good thing the Freelings didn't invite him in. Kane was severely bad news. If it wasn't for the efforts of Taylor, the Freelings would have been in serious danger. Now in one scene while Carol Anne(Heather O'Rourke,1975-88) and Diane(JoBeth Williams) were in the bath, Steve was drinking tequila unaware of the evil worm inside him until too late, whatever it was, I glad it was out of him. Then there's the part after riding Kane, the got rid of the car completely, that to me was a tiny happy ending, at least it wasn't the house. Good movie, good plot, a ghostly experience you'll never forget. Rating 2.5 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"Will ruin your love of the first","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Poltergeist was an amazing movie. It was (and still is) considered one of the best Sci-Fi/Horror movies ever. Four years later, Poltergeist II the other side was released. The first dumb mistake was not mentioning anything about Daina. Not that she was a vital character in the original but she was part of the family. I know that the actress was tragically killed but they could of at least said something like Well, now that Daina's in University... The rest of the movie is pretty dull. I can't get over how pointless and stupid the plotline, effects and everything else was. They should of never made a sequel. And saying that only a year had past? Carol Anne and Robbie do not look 6 and 9. Try 9 and 12. Watch the original, forget about the sequels.  "},{"Title":"OK rehash.","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This fair sequel to Poltergeist is better than the original in many respects (performances, humor, scare factor). But it's burdened with a stupid script that destroys most of its chances. Julian Beck has a particularly threatening screen presence, but he seems to belong in a GENUINE horror movie and not in this just-acceptable rehash... "},{"Title":"Nothing is here... and it never came back.","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Not even Heather O'Rourke (may she rest in peace) could save this franchise. Tobe Hooper's/Stephen Spielberg's joint collaboration on Poltergeist made it my favorite movie ever; unfortunately, the success of the first movie is the only reason the next two movies were made. Not even the acting was immune to the switch in directors Brian Gibson utterly destroys the once-stellar performances of both Craig T. Nelson and JoBeth Williams (as Steve and Diane Freeling), so much so that the two wisely failed to show up for the third, and thankfully last, installment. Gibson then gave up to hand the failure to director Gary Sherman, who carried the same desperate storyline of Reverend Kane into Poltergeist III and who did only a slightly better job than Gibson (incidentally, the actor who played Kane in Poltergeist II, Julian Beck, also jumped ship). Both sequels rely on cheap jump gags, bizarre and unexplained twists, disjointed subplots, tedious dialogue, and weird and boring gore. The music in Poltergeist III, which is itself poor, lets you know everything before it happens, and Nancy Allen's performance greatly underscores the performance she gave us in Robocop. There is even a hanging thread in the third movie we never know what happens to one of the characters. Yawned throughout both. Total junk; if corny fright is what you're after, you'd be better off with a traditional slasher.With regards to the Reverend Kane plot, it was invented solely so Gibson could continue the franchise. To Gibson's credit, it would have been hard to pick up the story believably anyway, as the conflict in Poltergeist had been completely resolved by the end of the movie-- in typical Spielberg fashion, and possibly even as a warning by Spielberg to any would-be successors to leave the story alone. Gibson, however, could have worked harder to integrate the original and riveting antagonist with his sequel instead of, shall we say, booting it retroactively out the door. I'm sorry, but you can't rewrite a movie as huge as Poltergeist like that and expect its fans to accept you for it.Whereas Poltergeist was nominated for three Oscars, won a BAFTA film award, won the Saturn Award in three categories along with three other nominations, and was nominated for a Young Artist Award, Poltergeist II was nominated for only a single Oscar and two Saturn Awards, I can only imagine, out of pity; it won the BMI Film Music award presumably as a post-facto nod to composer Jerry Goldsmith, who didn't manage to clinch the Oscar for best music and original score in Poltergeist and who, like almost all of the other talent with the exception of flagship Heather O'Rourke, didn't stick around for Poltergeist III. Poltergeist II is also the first movie that received a nomination for a Razzie and, again, a Young Artist award nomination for Heather O'Rourke. But Poltergeist III simply got the cold shoulder, with just two nominations a Saturn Award for Zelda Rubinstein's decent performance and a Razzie Award for the same. Game over.While Poltergeist III could be interpreted as more inspired and creative than Poltergeist II with only modestly worse acting, a slightly faster plot, and a single quip by a side-actor that actually made me laugh, it was scorched by viewers and pundits, presumably, because everyone was now simply disappointed and tired. Heather O'Rourke, aged twelve, knew the original Spielberg-inspired ride was long due to be over too when she said, I hope to do a different character some day. I'm tired of this one, kind of. If there is a sequel, a 'Poltergeist IV,' I hope it's the last. Out of the mouths of babes. "},{"Title":"Let Down","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm a huge fan of the first film and this one's a letdown for reasons that could've been avoided with more effort. Firstly, Heather O'Rourke and Julian Beck are really awesome in their roles. Julian Beck just has this dark presence that speaks volumes. I like the story being told but two big problems. First off, too much comedy, far too much. They really made it hard to take the movie seriously with the constant shift between dealing out horror and Indian jokes. This really took away from the drama. Secondly, a really lackluster finale after a mild build up. The visuals in the first film were both haunting and outstanding. Here the writing really seemed to have taken a dip. Stick to the first one. "},{"Title":"A Watchable Follow Up to an Excellent Movie!","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie was at best, watchable. There are sequences that the experienced movie viewer will find laughable. There are however, some moments of genius. The early scenes after the Indian moves in are really touching. The butterfly scene in itself is worth watching this movie for, but only for the watching of this scene. The Family's reaction in overacted, but watch this scene, and this movie might prove redeeming...almost healing.... The Tequilla scene is worth watching (I'm ready to quit drinking!), and the evil of the Old Preacher, will leave most sleepless... Intent on watching Poltergeist III this week... hope it's as bad as this one... lol.. "},{"Title":"They're baaaack!","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I just rented the double feature of Poltergeist 2 and Poltergeist 3, so I get two for the price of one, how sweet is that? D OK, I'm a dork, I know. But over all, getting to the movie, I'd say that I enjoyed the second installment of the Poltergeist series. It of course wasn't as good as the first, but it had some fine horror movie moments and I loved some of the references to the first one.The family has moved away from the old house, hoping the problems won't follow them, but they do! Carol Anne starts seeing some spooky ghosts and an Indian offers the family help, warning them about the terror to come. Of course, they think that they out of harm's way. Unfortunately, the demons are coming to get them, but their main focus is to get Carol Anne. They posse her father and cause haunting visions in their home.Poltergeist 2 has some fine moments, like I loved the father being possessed. He was so scary and convincing of how evil he was being. Then that little annoying voice actress came back, that was a nice touch. I think that if you liked the first Poltergeist, you'll definitely enjoy the second Poltergeist.6/10 "},{"Title":"Poltergeist II-The Other Side","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Having revisited POLTERGEIST just recently, I was startled watching this sequel in just how far it deteriorates in overall quality from one film to the next. Native American mysticism and a crazed cult leader spirit desiring to capture Carol Anne are injected into the story of the sequel where we discover that the Freelings were living above a cavern containing the skeletal remains of a group led by Reverend Kane(Julian Beck)proclaiming the end of time was near..seeing that he was wrong, Kane doesn't allow them to leave. Kane and the restless spirits of his cult wish to have Carol Anne back after tasting what life was like with her presence, not ready to go into the light. Kane is now a demon, pure evil, and the Freelings need assistance from a Shaman in order to defeat him. The Freelings' powerful bond of love will ultimately determine their outcome against Kane, The Beast. The special effects sequences almost border on parody, not at all scary, but more unintentionally hilarious, such as when Robbie's(Oliver Robins)braces go amok or when Steve(Craig T Nelson)swallows a possessed worm in a Tequilla bottle, with Kane attempting to use him to harm his family, regurgitating it! This worm starts to grow back into Kane's humanly form! It's quite gross and would perfectly fit in a goofier monster flick, but the POLTERGEIST franchise was supposed to be a more sophisticated horror enterprise, and the remaining sequels just mercilessly ravage what made the first film so good. I couldn't help but wonder what JoBeth Williams and Craig T Nelson felt while making this sequel, an obvious decline in all areas from the first film, from the rather embarrassing plot to the dialogue they are forced to endure. The sequences where the family must go into the other side to stop Kane once and for all just buries the legacy this franchise might've had, but perhaps there shouldn't have been another film anyway. There wasn't lightning in the bottle twice. Heather O'Rourke is still adorable as Carol Anne, Zelda Rubinstein, in a glorifified supporting role, stops by to help the Freelings the best she can(..having delved into the history of what took place in the cavernous dwelling under their house), and Sampson as the Indian shaman is a charming, welcome presence who wishes to bestow wisdom to the family often just confusing poor Steve whose life has fallen on hard times thanks to the spirits which won't leave Carol Anne alone. You have lots of special effects as Kane's supernatural power surfaces when Steve allowed him into the house(..such as an electrical wire and running chainsaw that go berserk)and icky creatures designed by HR Geiger. Geraldine Fitzgerald has a small, but pivitol role as Diane's mother who informs her and Carol Anne that they are all clairvoyant..she serves as a type of protection against Kane. You can just sense that this sequel should've never taken place, merely a cash-in to repeat the success of the far superior original. Kane(..Julian Beck, whose cancer really brings an extra dimension to his character)is quite a memorable menace and this perhaps saves the film from complete crapdom. All the skeletons that reach out to attack(..including a nightmare dragging Diane underground)are effective. "},{"Title":"If the house disappeared then technically it's only missing. Not as bad as Poltereist III but still pretty bad.","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Poltergeist II The Other Side starts with an ominous conversation between an Indian shaman named Taylor (Will Sampson) & the magic midget spiritualist Tangina (Zelda Rubenstein) stating that they believe the evil is still after the Freeling family. Steve (Craig T. Nelson) his wife Diane (JoBeth Williams) & their two young children Robbie (Oliver Robins) & Carol Anne (Heather O'Rourke) are broke after losing their house & are living with Diane's Mother Jessica (Geraldine Fitzgerald) who suddenly dies one night in her sleep. Soon after Carol Anne receives a phone call on her toy plastic phone from her Gran, she starts to draw disturbing pictures & a ghostly figure dressed in black begins to haunt her. The Indian shaman Taylor contacts the Freelings to warn them & offer his help to protect Carol Anne whom is the target of evil spirits belonging to a long dead preacher named Rev. Henry Kane (Julian Beck) & his followers. As the usual assortment of ghostly goings on begin to happen Taylor convinces Steve that he & his family must face Kane on the other side & put an end to his evil once & for all...Directed by Brian Gibson I thought Poltergeist II The Other Side was a ridiculously bad film. Without the guidance of Steven Spielberg it's obvious this would turn into a disaster of otherworldly proportions! The script by Michael Grais & Mark Victor throws in all sorts of magical nonsense like the shaman who has the power to make leaves fly & talk to cars. The speeches he gives to Steve especially in a sequence in a desert are embarrassingly bad to sit through, the religious good vs. evil rubbish that comes out of his mouth really is cringe worthy. Poltergeist II The Other Side also adds this preacher character to confuse things even further, to be fair he makes for a sinister villain even if he isn't in it a great deal. The film is too slow for the first half & tries to cram too much into it's second. The supernatural attacks lack imagination & are dull, director Gibson fails to create, build or sustain any sort of atmosphere, menace or tension & I was literary laughing & shaking my head in disbelief at some of these scenes. When the family are attacked in their garage by a floating chainsaw, electrical wires & a few spanners was so lamely handled as to be totally ineffectual & who'd have thought a scene involving a possessed chainsaw could be ineffectual? The part when Robbie's braces come to life & engulf him had potential but Gibson does nothing with the scene except cover the kid in metal for a couple of minutes until it magically disappears. The best scene is when Steve swallows a worm thing while drinking & becomes possessed until he vomits a slimy monster that resembles Rev. Kane up & it continues to grow into a huge thing with lots of tentacles, unfortunately Gibson manages to mess this scene up as well trying to do far too much with obviously limited special effects & having this creature shoot blue laser bolts out of it's whatever it's meant to be, this is Poltergeist II The Other Side not Star Wars (1979)! Then it just simply disappears into thin air, these evil spirits aren't trying very hard are they? I also have to mention the horrible ending when the Freeling family finally cross over to the other side, again the special effects are lame, the love conquers all climax is puke worthy & as they all happily walk away they hug, shake hands & pat each others backs & to add insult to injury Poltergeist II The Other Side rounds off a really bad running joke about a car that made me hate this film even more. Technically Poltergeist II The Other Side is OK & considering it's supposed $19,000,000 I would expect so, having said that the special optical effects are generally quite poor & as a whole it's a bland unremarkable film in the way it's constructed. The acting is fair, I never really liked anyone that much but at the same time no one got on my nerves. Personally I think Poltergeist II The Other Side is a poor film that fails miserably at trying to be scary, adds nothing to the haunted house genre & the only positive thing I can say about it is that at least it's not as bad as Poltergeist III (1988). There are many, many better films out there for you to be wasting your time with this mess of a film, one to avoid if at all possible. "},{"Title":"Too much of an extension of the first movie.","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" One of the problems with this movie is that it relies too much on the events that happened in the first movie. The result is that the story is too silly and some of the events are recycled and the movie leaves an overall needless impression.Another example of how the movie relies too much on the first movie is the fact that the brought back the character Tangina Barrons. It is understandable why they did it since her character has grown into a well known movie character but I don't know, for some reason I feel that the movie would had been better off without her.And poor Craig T. Nelson. He tries very hard to make the unbelievable story line's and ridiculous dialogue's believable. It was a shame to see him struggle with the line's so much. He does his very best but the end result isn't always successful.Another problem I had with the movie is that it wasn't scary. Main reason for this is that there now is a main villain in an human form. Granted the the actor Julian Beck who portrays him is one scary looking guy but he seemed more like a psycho than a creep from another dimension. Yes, Julian Beck acts very well and even though he isn't the right villain for this movie, he was still one of the highlights. He also really seemed to be in serious pain by every line he delivered, I don't know if this has anything to do by his decease which claimed his life, or if it just is his way of acting. But it doesn't really matter, with this worthy last role he played the part of his life.But is this movie a complete disaster? No, far from it. There are some nice special effects and with Jerry Goldsmith composing an horror score you always have a winner.But anyway, overall a(nother) needless sequel that only might be recommendable if you also liked the superior first movie.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The Other Side is just as dull...","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Personally, I hated Poltergeist with a passion, but I can't really blame producers for wanting to further exploit a profitable franchise, especially not when I can watch these sequels for free on the television. The original Poltergeist, directed by Tobe Hooper but clearly a Spielberg-pastiche, is one of the most overrated and boring movies of all time and the sequels (this one as well as part 3, starring Tom Skerritt) are every bit as lame. At least this film didn't exaggeratedly use Steven Spielberg's name during the promotion campaigns but it IS very docile and obedient to his ideas. This means that part two once again is childish and very UN-spooky horror, filled with visual effects that lack the force of conviction and featuring characters you can't possibly symphatize with. The Freeling family, with their supernatural medium for a daughter, moves into Gramma Jess' house after the events that made their own house vanish into thin air. Pretty soon a bony old man (Julian Beck, who's about the only slightly uncanny appearance in the entire film) comes around to take Carol Anne back to the spiritual dimension...Why? I missed that part. The Freelings do get more assistance this time, from a big Indian fella (Will Sampson from One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest who I like more when he plays a silent character) and, hooray hooray!, the ultra-annoying Zelda Rubinstein, whose squeaky voice makes you want to pulverize her whenever she opens her mouth. The extremely boring screenplay and the total lack of humor in order to put thing into perspective a little make this a truly pointless film, only for die-hard fans of the first. The stupid, fairy-tale like ending nearly made me feel miserable...especially since you could see it coming from miles away. "}{"Title":"They're (Sadly) Back","Date":"12 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Poltergeist II (1986) ** (out of 4) A year after the events in the first film, the Freeling family moves to Arizona where they think their problems are over with but soon more mysterious things start to happen in the house they're staying at. Once again Carol Anne (Heather O'Rourke) is their main target but this time she has help from an Indian chief (Will Sampson). No one asked for a sequel to POLTERGEIST but horror fans know that when a film makes money they're going to eventually milk it to death. This first sequel certainly isn't a horrible movie but it doesn't live up to the first film and I can't see how anyone wouldn't be disappointed in the end results. There are two very frustrating things about this film and one is the screenplay. It takes the movie nearly an hour to get going and the entire time you're just sitting there wondering why this screenplay has been turned into a film. It really does feel as if we're watching scenes that really don't add up to anything because the filmmakers weren't sure where they wanted to take the material. Scenes just go on and on for no apparent reason and every once in a while we're treated to some sort of haunting just so the viewer can wake up to everything boring leading up to the haunt. When the film finally kicks into high gear and we get to the actual hunting's and showdown, by then it's simply too late as the viewer has lost all interest in what's going on. The second major problem with the film is the character played by Craig T. Nelson. I'm really not sure what they were trying but there's no question Nelson can be a fine comedy actor and the screenplay makes the poor choice at trying to show off this talent. There are all sorts of comedic bits thrown in and none of them are needed. For one thing they take away from the scare factor but they're also so poorly written that they never once get a laugh. Early on it really seems as if Nelson is in some sort of mad scientist spoof and it really goes against his character and how he was in the first film. Nelson is fine in the role and he's certainly just doing what he's been directed to but it just doesn't work. The performances are the one saving grace here as the original film members (JoBeth Williams, Heather O'Rourke, Oliver Robins) are all in fine form as are supporting players Sampson, Julian Beck and Geraldine Fitzgerald. The film is full of special effects and while they look nice none of them are as effective as what you saw in the first movie. POLTERGEIST II has the reputation of being a horrible movie. It's not quite that bad but it is rather pointless. "}]