[{"Title":"Kumiko and Daniel","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" As a huge fan of the Karate Kid trilogy, you'll have to excuse me while I give my first sentimental statement ever on IMDb. I believe in my heart that in that parallel universe where our favorite characters from film still live, that Kumiko and Daniel would be together today. Either Daniel would have gone to Okinawa to be with Kumiko or Kumiko would have come to the States to be with Daniel. Of course, we learn in Karate Kid Part III that Kumiko decided not to go with Daniel back to California. But in my mind, this is insignificant and has no negative implication for their future. Sure, they both would have had relationships with other people. But having been through what they experienced together, they would not soon forget the bond between them. You wouldn't forget someone that saved your life? Compared to Ali from Part I and Jessica from Part III, it is more than apparent that Kumiko was the love of Daniel's life. Whether it be two years or ten years after the end of Part III, Kumiko and Daniel would have eventually reconnected and continued to live their lives together. Now if you'll excuse me, I'm going to go crush a beer can on my forehead to reconnect with my masculine side. "},{"Title":"Wonderful childhood memories","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  I can't tell you how good it made me feel to recapture the joy I first experienced in the theater.  I was 12 years old when this came out.  The story and plot are simple, and the lessons are very clear.  They definitely don't make films like this nowadays.  Memories of me sitting in the theater alongside my grandmother, eating loads of buttery popcorn, and telling her about all the good scenes (she couldn't see well)I have seen this movie over 200 times, and never get tired of it.  I recommend viewing both The Karate Kid, and the sequel to at least get the full effect.Awesome 80's flick, and one I'm proud to own.  Five stars. "},{"Title":"The story continues&#133;","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  Two years after the success of the smash hit &#145;Karate Kid', it was inevitable that the forces behind this most entertaining movie were going to go on and continue the story. In &#145;KK2' we get to learn a lot more about the life of Mr. Miyagi and the development of his student, &#145;Daniel-san'. We once again get to see that fighting is only the last resort to your problems. There's plenty of adventure and conflict as our triumphant duo discovers more about the price of honour, the way one must fight when only the winner survives and the true power of friendship.After their triumphant victory at the &#145;All-Valley karate championships', Daniel and Miyagi continue their training, focusing on the honour and discipline of karate and the deeper powers of meditation. However, when Miyagi receives news that his father is near death, he and Daniel take off to the island of Okinawa where Miyagi's family lives. Upon Miyagi's return to his homeland, he is reunited with his long-lost childhood love, Yukie. Despite their youthful love for one another, Yukie was forced to marry Miyagi's rival, Sato, in an arranged marriage, causing Miyagi to flee Okinawa forever. Now his old rival is a powerful karate expert and a rich, embittered landowner who demands a final grudge match with the wise and elderly Miyagi. As Sato threatens Miyagi and his family, his nephew, Chozen, is out to fight Daniel in a battle of young wills. Both teacher and student are forced to stand up to their rivals in a matter of honour or shame and life or death.What I like about KK2, is how the story allows us to learn more about characters that we grew to love in the 1984 movie. Sure the movie continues where the last finished off, not like your normal sequel does. Yet it does show us a different side to what we saw in the original movie. I feel that is what a sequel is meant to do, be a little bit different and allows us to learn new things about characters that we already know. The story was once again written by Robert Mark Kamen, who I thought wrote the part about Miyagi's problems back home beautifully, as is the way that we see Daniel assimilate to the customs and traditions of the Okinawa people, and the way that Miyagi's problems in the end are Daniel's as well. I feel it always helps to have the same director back for any sequel, with John G. Avildson back to bring his touches into the story as well. The great part of KK2 has to be the return of Daniel (Ralph Macchio) and Mr. Miyagi (Noriyuki &#145;Pat&#145; Morita). The start of film has a most powerful scene between Miyagi and sensei Kreese (Martin Kove), where Miyagi teaches Kreese a karate lesson without even raising a sweat. The popular pairs return gives the story strength to continue on as it did. They also share quite a remarkable chemistry onscreen. It also good for the story to have Daniel &#145;fatherless', as he helps his teacher come to terms with the loss of his father, in one of the more emotional scenes in the movie. I must admit I like how Miyagi has faith in Daniel, even when he does not, (there is one scene where this reigns so true in KK2, and is probably the highlight of the entire film). However, Ralph shares a very special role with Kumiko (Tamlyn Tomita), as their characters fall very much in love with each other. Kumiko wants to be a dancer, and Daniel feels that she would be a successful dancer in America. Then there is the evil side to KK2. Sato, (Danny Kamekona), is still bitter about what Miyagi did to his honour before he fled Okinawa and wants a fight so he can reclaim what he believes is rightfully his. Sato's nephew Chozen (Yuji Okumoto) also has feels his honour has been shamed by Daniel, with most of the movie showing Daniel on the receiving on end of Chozen's fist. Yuji has appeared in movies such as &#145;The Truman show', &#145;The Game' and the 2001 blockbuster &#145;Pearl Harbour'.Karate Kid II also shows off some impressive Japanese locations. The Okinawa village used as Miyagi's was striking, as were the style of the homes, as a person from western society would not be accustomed to such a different lifestyle. There is also the wonderful music that accompanies KK2. Bill Conti's melodic musical score gives the movie great tension, and you have the music from the dancing hall which was live and upbeat. Yet the standout part of the soundtrack for mine has to be the Oscar winning hit, &#145;Glory of Love', sung by Peter Cetera. That is one song I like a lot.This movie is a great extension of the &#145;Karate Kid' story, which shows an uplifting story about overcoming the odds and staying true to yourself. Miyagi's strong &#145;anti-violence' theme continues in KK2, showing Daniel that the secrets of karate are that it is only to be used it when there is no other way. This movie is also very much about forgiveness, as Miyagi says at the start of the film &#145;A person with no forgiveness in heart, living worse punishment than death'. I could not agree more with that statement. Miyagi is the standout character in KK2, as he is always calm and rational, in situations in which most of us would not be, with his character going through a range of emotions that give us a much greater insight into him. If you are a Karate Kid fan than you have to watch what is a most satisfying of sequels.  CMRS gives &#145;Karate Kid II' 4 (Very Good Film)   "},{"Title":"As good as the first","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  Rarely does a sequel live up to the original. This movie is one of my personal favorites. It has taught me many lessons that I still hold dear. They don't make them like this anymore.I enjoyed the fight scenes. They were handled well. It was an interesting plot to see Mr. Myagi go back to face his old friend. A story of love and friendship that turned to bitter hate over that love. And of how true friendship and true love never really die, as Mr. Myagi saves Sato, even as Sato is cursing him with every filthy insult he can think of ( it's a PG movie, though, so instead of the profane and filth, you hear things like  lower than a snake's belly  and  no honor  instead of the more colorful words we hear in movies these days. ) I loved Mr. Myagi's response to what Daniel asked in the airport. Daniel sees a poster of a karate guy breaking a board and asks if Mr. Myagi can do that. Myagi's response?  Don't know. Never been attacked by tree. Live or die, man??? DIE! Wrong!! ( Honk!!! )Priceless and timeless...  "},{"Title":"Lessons in life not a brainless kick-ass movie","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" I am sorry to disagree with the comments of drlawyer since it only reflects the urge to see fight scenes. Karate kid 2 is a perfect sequel and shows the spiritual side of martial arts. Why measure a sequel with the 1st movie at all? Both, (Karate kid1 and Karate kid2) are unique and have complete story lines. Even for those who only saw the second movie, there is no gap due to the main flashbacks presented in the beginning of it. The acting is excellent and has no need for quick chopped up editing like now-a-days movies do. The grief and emotions connect with the viewer. I saw both movies about 20 times and could see them 20 times again. "},{"Title":"They should have ended the Kid chronicles with this one","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  The Karate Kid part II should have been the end of the Karate Kid Story. It was an excellent film and the story was a perfect conclusion to the Daniel/Myagi friendship. The heroine Kumiko was perfect for Daniel and in my imagination he stays with her and Myagi stays with his love from childhood and then both of them bring their ladies to the states. KK III was awful and the Next Karate Kid was just idiotic. These lame sequels don't come close to this installment which should have been the last or at least, if a third installment was going to be done, it could of had the couples form the KKII and their new lives back in the states. I love Karate Kid stories and in my imagination the story ends with this wonderful sequel "},{"Title":"A pretty good sequel","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" This film is the sequel to the huge 1984 hit, The Karate Kid. The film starts almost exactly where the first film abruptly ended, with Daniel(played by Ralph Macchio) winning the karate championship under the coaching of Mr. Miyagi(played by Pat Morita). Mr. Miyagi soon learns that his father is dying back in Japan and he goes there to see him one last time and Daniel decides to come along. Miyagi and Daniel run into an old nemesis of Miyagi and Daniel is repeatedly tormented by the nemesis' nephew. Daniel also finds a new love in the daughter of Mr. Miyagi's old lover.This is a generally simple film with a fine backdrop of the streets of Okinawa. Those who enjoyed the original Karate Kid should generally enjoy this predictable, but entertaining sequel. Another plus in the film is the playing of Peter Cetera's song Glory of Love in a cute scene involving Daniel and his new love and also in the end credits of the film. It is worth watching. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly well-made sequel","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  Daniel Larusso is back this time in Okinawa, Japan to visit Mr. Miyagi's home village, but upon arrival they discover it's being overrun by his old nemesis and his construction company.  The climatic fight scene in the vintage karate ring was about as good as a sequel can get and wasn't relying on the first film for material.  If you liked the first KARATE KID, this one is almost as good, but please; do not see the 3rd sequel, it is Macchio's worst film ever. "},{"Title":"You'd be surprised ...","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"18 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  One would have thought that no movie with a title like The Karate Kid Part II could possibly be any good.  One would have good reason to think this. One would be wrong.This is a loser-gets-the-girl 1980s teen movie.  It is the best of its kind. Even the original, I think, wasn't bad, although it's starting to show its age; the third movie was pure drivel; but this one bears repeated watching very well indeed, and I would recommend it even to people who despise, or think that they despise, the genre it belongs to.  Why is it so good?  I have no idea.  Pure luck, I suppose.  Changing the setting to Japan certainly helped.  Most teen movies are earthbound by their attempts to be hip and modern and can be dated to within a year.  This one was allowed to be timeless.I admit that The Karate Kid Part II will never be *regarded* as a classic, partly because so many people think that a movie with that kind of title cannot possibly be any good.  And they have good reason to think this. But they're wrong. "},{"Title":"A dark, sentimental, and captivating sequel to a great sports film","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" I loved the first Karate Kid. Despite it's predictable script, it told an original sports story with great characters, an excellent cast, some emotional moments, great music, and not to mention some great karate fighting scenes.Now, when the director of Rocky made a sequel two years later, I became shocked and rented a DVD copy of the film (just like the first) and watched it to see if it can catch my very interest. Then, after watching the whole thing, I was saying to myself, Wow. That was one heck of a great sequel!.Ralph Macchio and Pat Morita did a great job once again as the karate student and the Sensei master and the chemistry between them are as fresh as the first film. The rest of the cast did a great job as well with Chozen, who was by far the greatest villain in the franchise because he threatens to kill Daniel by any means necessary. The story in this sequel is also great, but it's even darker and sentimental (there's a scene where we learn that Daniel explains about his father's death which makes us feel sorry for him, thus adding a decent emotional core to the script despite it's schmaltzy moments, but I'll get to that in a moment) than the first with great music and fantastic karate fighting scenes.The pacing was great in the first film. In this sequel, however, it showed the ending from the first and started out well, but it gets a bit slower. Also, the script has some schmaltzy moments, but at least the romance between Daniel and Kumiko were enjoyable though.Overall, this sequel is as good as the first despite it's own problems and I'm shocked at the rating it received on this website because it's even worth watching as the first film. Go watch it! It's that good! "}{"Title":"Karate Kid, part 2 is a wonderful lesson in the art of filmmaking.","Date":"1 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" One of the few sequels that stands as good as the first one. It is very well written and the structure is perfect in terms of balancing the various themes (drama, romance, comedy, karate).The cinematography is beautiful with fantastic landscapes and vibrant colors and splendid frameworks.The story is more serious and more adult but as the first film, universal values ​​are demonstrated and explored in a creative and original ways. The music is a masterpiece and holds us since the impressive beginning (flashback scenes) to the sad but hopeful sunset after Miyagi's father's death, to the tea ceremony between Kumiko and Daniel, in my view one of the best romantic scenes ever made; to the climax of the wild storm and to the grand final confrontation. This is an underrated movie. Watching Karate Kid, part 2 is like having a good lesson in the art of filming. This movie shows how to tell a story, how to develop characters and their motivations, how to create a romantic\sensual scene without sex, how to compose a scene (just pause at anytime and you'll see a painting). All the details are important. The actors are really convincing and there's a lot of chemistry between them but that has already been established in the first one. The first Karate Kid is a classic and one of my favorite movies of all time but so is part II as well. For me they're at the same level. "},{"Title":"This time the likable and intimate friends , Daniel and Miyagi , traveling to island of Okinawa","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" The film starts where the first picture finished with the famous karate combat , proceeded by means of flashbacks . There John Kreese (Martin Kove) receives a strong lesson . Later on , teenage Daniel (Ralph Macchio) along with Miyagi (Noriyuki, Pat Morita) travel to Okinawa , but his father is dying . There Miyagi confronts an old enemy . Meanwhile , Daniel falls in love with Kamiko (film debut of Talyn Tomita who was actually born in Okinawa) and also gets enemies.This enjoyable following displays action , a love story , Japanese dances , fights and results to be pretty entertaining . This shooting on Karate Kid II, (1986) started ten days after the release of The Karate Kid (1984) and actually earned more at the box office than The Karate Kid I . Although set in Okinawa, the film was actually shot in Oahu, Hawaii . The island was chosen because of its similar climate to Japan, its large Okinawan population and the convenience of filming on US soil . Again the movie develops a feeling and agreeable friendship between Daniel and professor Miyagi . Attractive and perceptible performances from Macchio , Morita and Tamlyn Tomita . Besides , it appears as very secondaries and uncredited future TV stars , as B.D. Wong (Law and order) and Clarence Gilyard (Walker Texas Ranger).Colorful cinematography by James Crabe and powerful musical score by Bill Conti , usual of trilogy . The motion picture was professionally directed by John G Avildsen (also editor) . Avildsen has blended more Karate Kid and Rocky movies with such feel-good message stories , such as 'Power on one' and 'Lean on me' . It's followed by other sequels, 'Karate kid III' (1989) where Daniel again fighting his usual contenders ; and 'The next Karate Kid' (1994) directed by Christopher Cain , introducing a new Karate kid , girl , the two times Oscarized Hilary Swank . Rating  Good, the tale will appeal to trilogy buffs and beloved characters fans. "},{"Title":"very sentimental for me","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" I was only 4 years old when this movie was released. As I watched it growing up in the following years, I fell in love with that Japanese village. The rain and the wind. The greenery. I'm now almost 28 years old and I still love rainy weather or any inclement weather for that matter. Having said that, I believe this sequel follows up the first movie very well. Going to Japan and discovering who Myagi is and what his whole story is. The fact that Daniel falls for the first Japanese girl he meets is kind of stupid to me, a one in a million thing that works for the storyline. The final fight wasn't as climactic as the first. However, it is a fight to the death which made it more suspenseful. Overall, it follows the basic principle of the first film...karate is only meant for defense. "},{"Title":"The best of the 3 -  Maybe some spoilers","Date":"23 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" I really think this is the best movie of all three. Most of my friends who went to see the movie didn't like it or thought it was too weird. KK2 presents to us a darker, more gritty Karate Kid story in which the primary focus is not really Daniel but Miyagi. The scenery, although not really Okinawan(Hawaii)is compelling as are the characters. Chosen comes off as a bit more threatening than Johnny in the first installment and the interaction between Miyagi and Daniel does not disappoint. My only gripe is WHY ON EARTH DOES THE LOVE STORY BETWEEN DANIEL AND KUMIKO NOT EXTEND TO THE THIRD MOVIE??!!!!!!! Of course this fact does not really have as much to do with the second movie as the third I really considered it a letdown that she didn't appear in part 3 and the gal that was there was primarily filler and added nothing to the plot or character development. By the time the 3rd movie was released I began to have serious thoughts that Daniel might in fact be gay. Anyway for me the Daniel/Kumiko relationship was what made the second film. Also the love theme Glory of Love sung by Peter Cetera (Formerly of Chicago) was electric against the backdrop of the evolving love story between Kumiko and Daniel. Elizabeth Shue was realistic but not compelling and really there wasn't much energy between her and Machio in the first. The fight scene between Daniel and Chosen at the end was pretty brutal. This is one movie I can never watch enough and reminds me of that special time in my youth when it seemed that anything was possible. "},{"Title":"Good sequel to a classic film","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  The Karate Kid Part II is a worthy sequel to a classic film. The Karate Kid films to me were never really great martial arts film just films with decent martial arts sequences there were more of films based around friendship and finding self conidfeance. The realtionship between Myigai and Daniel is played very well the chemistry here is somewhat deeper than the first film. All in all a worthy sequel. "},{"Title":"A worthy follow up to the original.","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" THE KARATE KID PART II is a rare sequel to a hit film that manages to be just as entertaining & interesting as it's predecessor, despite being an unnecessary sequel. Picking up immediately where the first film ends, THE KARATE KID PART II recaps many moments from the original film & then closes off the original films story only to begin a new one six months later, which sees Daniel LaRusso & his mentor Mr. Miyagi travelling to Okinawa to visit Miyagi's dying father. While there he runs into his former lover & a former best friend turned sworn enemy, who challenges Miyagi to a fight to the death, over Miyagi having left Okinawa when he was a teenager, having taken his friends fiancée who was arranged to be married to him. Meanwhile Daniel finds a new love after having being dumped by his old girlfriend back in California & unfortunately for Daniel, a new enemy, in his mentor Miyagi's former best friends nephew, who is determined to make Daniel's life as miserable as possible. Will Mr. Miyagi be able to settle the differences & make up with his former best friend? or will he have to face his former friend in a fight to the death match? & can Daniel overcome & defeat his new enemy?THE KARATE KID PART II in my opinion while not as good as the first, comes close to it at times, it's a perfectly workable sequel, which much like the first, is made with heart & it shows. What I feel helps make the sequel a success is due to the fact that pretty much the entire crew returned here, the same writers, producers, composers, director & other behind the scenes personnel which helps create what feels like an extension of the original films plot, watching the original & then the sequel right after, makes it feel like one long continuous movie. Usually (as is the case with most sequels) they are churned out by greedy studio heads who want to save a few bucks by hiring hacks who will do anything for a dollar rather than bring back the original creators, but not so here, since thankfully COLUMBIA PICTURES realized that the success to the original KARATE KID was the heart & determination by the film-makers to make a good a film as they could & so they brought them back which helped insure instant success & judging by the fan & critical reviews & massive box office it was a wise choice. The acting is really good here, it was great seeing Pat Morita & Ralph Macchio return to the roles they made in the original & thankfully they haven't missed a beat, they really share great chemistry together. Director John G. Avildsen returns to the directors chair yet again & manages to deliver a great & well executed direction to the films story. Speaking of the story, it's just as engaging as the original, with plenty of good interesting characters & villains, great philosophical moments, fantastic martial arts show downs & an uplifting message & many surprising, touching moments that helps it rival the original film at times. The villains are fun, particularly Miyagi's former best friends nephew-a cocky, but very dangerous opponent for Daniel. To be truthful while the story does centre on Daniel at times, for the most part it's main focus is on Mr. Miyagi, in fact it's really his story, as we spend more time with him than we did in the first & lets not forget the scenery, which is really well captured on film, very scenic & beautiful to look at. The score is great & PETER CETERA'S GLORY OF LOVE song is beautiful to listen to. My only complaint? it's never played through to full fruition anywhere throughout the film, which is a shame!Highly recommended to fans of the first, THE KARATE KID PART II is a real winner & a great companion piece to the original. Followed by THE KARATE KID PART III***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Lost somewhere in all the criticism is a beautiful film.","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" I was a bit shocked when i saw how low this movie was rated. I think it is important that one does not compare it to the original. This is a movie about friendship, loyalty, life, and love. The film is beautifully shot with a great soundtrack. If you feel like picking it apart, you can find flaws in the writing. If anything it was a victim of the success of the first movie. If you have ever fallen in love, this movie will touch you. if you are looking for action, gory fight scenes..the title may lead you astray. This movie is about so much more than Karate. A wonderful movie for both kids and parents. Make some popcorn sit back and enjoy the film. "},{"Title":"Highly Entertaining But Not As Good As The First One","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" The Karate Kid Part II is the sequel to the 1984 surprise hit The Karate Kid.It reunites Ralph Macchio and Noriyuki Pat Morita reprise their roles as Daniel LaRusso and Mr. Miyagi, respectively.The movie was written by Robert Mark Kamen and directed by John Avildsen,who also wrote the screenplay and directed the first film.The story picks up where the first film left off.It finds Danny and Miyagi making an emergency trip to Okinawa, where Miyagi's father is dying. Here they revisit Miyagi's childhood sweetheart, whom he believes, had been wheedled into an arranged marriage with loose-cannon karate expert Sato. Little does Miyagi realize that the woman is still single; Sato is still around as well, however, and intent on resuming the fight with his old nemesis. Morita agrees; meanwhile, Danny is challenged by Kamekona's pugnacious nephew. The sequel remains highly entertaining but it pales in comparison with the first film.The plot was somewhat artificial,extremely predictable and highly manipulative especially with that of Miyagi's love story. Aside from that,the absence of Elisabeth Shue did hurt this film.But nevertheless,it remains watchable despite of not being magical like the first film. In addition to that, it did help that the movie has a hit song entitled,Glory of Love by Peter Cetera,which received an Oscar nomination for Best Original Song.Overall,the sequel remains highly entertaining despite of not being good as the first film. "},{"Title":"This not tournament.  This for real!","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" It is time to review this fine 80's film, but I must do so discussing a few elements from both the preceding film, The Karate Kid, and the subsequent film, Karate Kid Part III. Only by doing so can my review make sense.Let's get the basic's down first. This film, along with the previous film, are two of the greatest 80s films ever made, along with The Breakfast Club and Back to the Future. It's also full of great 80's music, most notably the fine tunage provided to us by Chicago.The film opens with characters already fully developed. These characters we got to know well in the previous film, so we were able to dive right into the story without having to endure development of unknown protagonists. The only new people we are introduced to are the ones we meet upon arriving in Okinawa. The character development there is very well done, and we meet both some protagonists and some nasty villains as well. Of course, one of the villains sees the light and realizes the error of his ways before we get to see a glorious fight between him and Miyagi, which would have been awesome. I kind of wish we could have seen such a battle. But we did get to see a great fight between Daniel and Chozen, a cold hearted punk with nothing but personal honor on his mind, even though he was a cheat and a coward.I really like Kumiko, the girl that Daniel fell in love with. I liked Ali in the first film, but not as much. Since in the beginning of this movie we are told that his relationship with Ali collapsed, we are left looking for Daniel's new love interest in the plot, and we find it in this gorgeous beauty from Okinawa. It takes a really long time to get the romance going but it was well done once it started....Chicago provided nice music for this. The tea ceremony scene was great for me, because at the end of it, Kumiko took the chopsticks out of her hair, which was up for the entire film, and the straight black Asian hair was allowed to flow all the way down her back. We are then interrupted by a typhoon, which provides the backdrop for Sato's transformation from evil to good, and Chozen's descent into shame and cowardice.To skip ahead into Karate Kid Part III, we learn that Kumiko does not return to the States with Daniel, and he is left womanless once again. He meets Jessica, but she is not worthy of discussion as they do not progress beyond friendship. The question remains.....if Daniel and Kumiko were so in love, and if her dream to become a dancer was so strong, why did she not stay with Daniel? He fought to the death for her! He put his life on the line in a death match with Chozen. As much as I love that character, I think she needs to have some sense slapped into her. In my mind, that is a serious, foolish mistake, but we are not exposed to this error until Karate Kid Part III, since Part II ends as soon as the fight is over.Overall, great film. I give it an 8, which I reserve for films that I can easily watch over and over again without getting tired of them. I highly recommend it, as well as Part I and Part III, which I have elected not to review at this time. The title of this review is the best line in the film.See my profile for my rating philosophy. "},{"Title":"A GOOD SEQUEL","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  I have to say this movie is very good, not like the original but very good job in acting and the fight sequence. The part with Daniel and Miyagi after the funeral is very emotional. Movie ranking= B+ "}{"Title":"An Excellent Continuation of the Karate Kid Story","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" While not quite as good as the original Karate Kid, this was an excellent sequel that has many of the qualities that made the first film great.Ralph Macchio and Pat Morita are once again impeccable as Daniel and Mr. Miyagi. In this film, they travel to Okinawa, and I loved the beautiful scenery there.I found the plot about Mr. Miyagi meeting again with and eventually reconciling with his old rival Sato to be very compelling, and I also enjoyed the romance between Daniel and Kumiko.The final fight between Daniel and Chosen is gripping and intense. For my money, it is one of the finest fight scenes you will ever see. Also, The Glory of Love by Peter Cetera is a beautiful song.This was a great sequel that did the original justice. In my opinion, this is where the series should have ended.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first movie, but that's a tough act to follow","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" The first Karate Kid film - which was extraordinary - had a lot of little elements which American teenagers could relate to. This sequel does not. But it has some other good aspects that work in a different way.The basic story is that Miyagi learns his father is dying in Japan, so decides to travel there and see him one final time. Daniel decides to accompany Miyagi, partially to study Japanese cultures, but also to spend time with his friend Miyagi. When arriving in Japan, Miyagi runs into a childhood friend who later turned into his enemy, Sato, who holds a lifelong grudge against Miyagi for stealing his girlfriend as a teenager. Sato wants to arrange a fight to death against Miyagi, but is willing to wait until the death and mourning of Miyagi's father, out of respect. During this time, Daniel meets Sato's nephew Chozen (a Karate expert about Daniel's age) and major tension starts between the two of them. Also, Daniel meets a girl his age named Kumiko, and romance is started between them.This movie has some beautiful scenery (although not really filmed in Japan, but Hawaii), some interesting words of wisdom from Miyagi, good music, strong performances, and decently choreographed fight scenes. I also enjoyed the story, I'd just note that - unlike the first movie - this movie is really more about Miyagi than Daniel.But as a fan of the first movie, I really liked Elisabeth Shue's character, Ali, in the first movie, and wish she could have been included in this. I don't think Kumiko is as interesting a character as Ali, nor is her chemistry as strong with Daniel... The writers should have been able to think of some way to include her. Maybe Ali could have come to Japan to study Japanese cultures with Daniel? And spend time with her boyfriend? That's just my quick idea of how she could have been included in this movie. But it's too bad she wasn't.In summary, I'd say if you really enjoyed the first movie, and grew fond of the two main characters (Daniel and Miyagi), then you'll enjoy seeing them together in a different interesting story (as long as you don't expect this to be equally as good as the first). But if you did not love watching the chemistry between them in the first film, then it's highly unlikely you'd enjoy this one any better. "},{"Title":"A Worthy Sequel","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" The Karate Kid, Part 2 is a sequel to the first one, which it picks up where it lefts off with flashbacks like the Rocky movies because John G. Avildsen has directed two of the Rocky movies. It focuses more on Mr. Miyagi's characterizations where he receive news about his father dying as he and Daniel LaRusso travel to Okinawa as they come across his old friend Sato, who wants to challenge him to death but Miyagi wants peace. His nephew Chozen causes trouble whenever Daniel goes he bullies throughout the majority of the movie. So, now it is up to Daniel to put in end of Chozen's hatred. In my opinion, The Karate Kid, Part 2 is a worthy follow up to the first one, and it may be even better. I thought the pacing in this movie is better, and I never find myself felt bored by watching it. The action in this movie is fun and exciting to watch. Although it is more brutal than what the first one did, but I appreciate that the movie is not trying to copy too much like what the first one did as the sequel stands out on its own. Ralph Macchio and Pat Morita are still great together as their chemistry continues to grow and more interesting. Also, I do love that we explore more on Miyagi's characterization and how he was originally raised from his old homeland before moving to America. Daniel's new love interest, Tamlyn Tomita as Kumiko was also really good, and she is probably my favorite. Bill Conti's score is extremely well done as well as the song Glory of Love by Peter Cetera. Chozen is also a good villain, and he always bully Daniel more than what Johnny did in the first. He is one-noted, but I like him. However, Sato is the only one that has more of a character than Chozen because of the grudge he had with Miyagi. Also, he is like Mr. Banks from Mary Poppins where he just goes into the wrong direction that he thinks hate always solve everything, which it doesn't until he redeems himself toward the end of the movie. The only issues that I have with the movie is that I get annoyed where the villains kept saying coward and Chozen (while I like him as a villain) always complains about Daniel insulting his honor. Also, I wasn't happy about Elisabeth Shue's character being dumb where she borrows Daniel's car and just completely wrecks it. In the first one, both she and Daniel were great together, and now it goes nowhere that they have to break up. That is like the issue that I had in Transformers 3, where they mention Megan Fox's character breaking up with Shia LaBeouf which I find it insulting. I am not against replacements, but it only works whether or not if I would like them. So that is what I thought of The Karate Kid, Part 2, I think its a great sequel, and I don't think it deserves a 5.8 out of 10 on IMDb; it deserves higher in my opinion. I give this sequel a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good Entertainment","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" Following the theory that success is not to be tampered with, director John G Avildsen has paired up karate student Daniel Larusso (Ralph Macchio) with mentor Mr Miyagi (Pat Morita) and poured them in to story little change from the original. Daniel gets beat up a few times, Mr Miyagi comes to his rescue, after a few life lessons Daniel wins the day, oh and he meets a girl and falls in love again too. That's slightly harsh as it's now set in Mr Miyagi's home lad of Okinawa, with a different reason behind the main bad guys actions. Plot In A Paragraph Mr Miyagi must return to Okinawa as his father is dying. Daniel asks to go with him, as Mr Miyagi is always there when he needs him. Mr Miyagi reluctantly agrees and upon landing it's clear why he was keen to leave Daniel at home, as an old love rival of Mr Miyagi, Sato, wants to settle an old score. Sato is Okinawa's top karate instructor, he and his best student Chozen set about making Miyagi and Daniels life hell. Ali (Elizabeth Shue) is quickly written out, with Daniel saying she fell in love with a soccer player from UCLA. Enabling our hero to fall in love in Okinawa with Kumiko (a stunning Tamlyn Tomita) and Shue is not missed. Sadly the villains of the piece are not a patch on the brilliant William Zabka and Martin Kove Johnny and Kreece) from the first movie. I'm not sure if the character of Sato (Danny Kamekona) is meant to be a gruff voiced clone of Kreece, with his nephew Chozen (Yuji Okumoto) replacing Zabka as his best student. But that is how it comes off, and it does not help with the sense of we've seen all this before. Despite the final confrontation being a fight to the death, it lacks the intensity of the first movie, and the victory doesn't feel as joyous. That said there are some good scenes in this movie, the ice breaking competition is a standout scene, as is Miyagi's confrontation with a bitter Kreece who is attacking his students at the beginning of the movie. We also get a dramatic rescue during a thunderstorm and a beautiful scene between Daniel and Miyagi on a beach after Miyagi's father dies. It's a great scene with Macchio tugging on the heart strings whilst Morita speaks volumes without uttering a word. Great work by both in this scene. Like in the first movie we have a great song. This time is an Oscar nominated song Glory Of Love by Perer Cetera. Overall I've rated it a generous 8/10 a significant drop from the 10/10 first movie. Losing points for weak villains and being almost a clone of the original. It's plus points being some good scenes (as mentioned above) the song and the acting of both Macchio and Morita who have great chemistry together. "},{"Title":"Karate in Japan","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" The Karate Kid Part II is an okay sequel. Despite the very weak story I still found it a good movie to watch. The story is basically about Mr Miyagi (Pat Morita) who has received news that his father is seriously ill and decides to set off home to Japan and visit him whilst being accompanied by his student Daniel (Ralph Macchio). But things suddenly turn turmoil once they arrive there with Mr Miyagi (Pat Morita) facing his old rival and Daniel (Ralph Macchio) having a new enemy. Like I said, The Karate Kid Part II is an okay film but a pity just how terrible the story is. Pretty lame to put it and with a better story the film would've been very good. Another downfall of this film was that there wasn't much fighting (Karate) that you would've been expecting to see. Acting from some of the cast especially by Mr Miyagi rival that played Sato was very poor. The thing that was good about this film or what I've certainly found good was that the story was set in Japan and more about the character Mr Miyagi this time. This film is vastly different from the first one which was set in America and about Daniel so it was good to see something different of the Karate Kid saga.So Karate Kid Part II is not a great film but neither terrible. Its one of those films which you will either like or dislike and I personally liked it despite some of its flaws. "},{"Title":"More fighting moves, more Miyagi wisdom, better setting","Date":"22 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" I like the direction they took with THE KARATE KID, PART II, making it a personal story for Miyagi. We get to leave the brown skies of Los Angeles for a bit for the small village life of Okinawa (nice atmosphere with the houses, and the pan flute score really makes this movie feel steeped in Japanese culture). Things are more leisurely-paced in this outing, what with no tournament hanging over Daniel's head. But hey, he's kinda the secondary guy here; plus, it gives him time to mature a little bit. It's nice. The only quibble I have here is that the bad guys are much less interesting than the last movie. There was a degree of sociopathy to Kreese and Johnny that really makes them dangerous. But Sato and Chozen are just closed- minded and petulant, in comparison. But overall, as sequels go, this ain't bad at all.7/10 "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" Whatever you may have seen in your life or even whatever you will see in the future, I can predict that no movie will ever give you the same feeling as this. This is one of the most enjoyable romps I have seen. An excellent and difficult production, bolstered by great performances. Wonderful movie, and I should know, I practically grew up on it. I much enjoyed this film, mostly because of the convincing characters. Certainly the characterizations are shallow and quickly changeable, often for little or no reason. As social commentary I give it a nine; for story and acting a six. It's worth seeing for some inventive uses of cinema. "},{"Title":"Stupid but watchable.","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" Apparently, very little Japanese is spoken in Japan if this film is any indication. But why let such details bog down a good story?Did I say good? Eh, it's okay. Fairly cloying and cliché, but entertaining enough at times, even (or especially) when it ventures into the farcical, such as when, after Danny and Kumiko randomly wander into a bar where bets are taken over how many sheets of ice can be broken through with an open hand. When Danny is challenged by a contestant after mouthing off about how they were all doing it wrong, his newly made enemy, Chozen suddenly appears, without explanation. This is understandable since his karate class is only a short way away and Danny was probably spotted by one of Chozen's underlings. But then Kumiko runs off and quickly returns with Miyagi, who was last seen in the village. Did one or both of them teleport to and fro? Shortly afterward, Chozen's uncle (who has a mad-on for Miyagi) materializes to cover Miyagi's bet. How he got word and then arrived so quickly is likewise brushed over. As ludicrous as this is, it still makes for an entertaining scene. "},{"Title":"If It Worked For Rocky...","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" Sequel to the surprise box-office smash original(again directed by John G. Avildsen) has returning actors Ralph Macchio and Pat Morita as Daniel & Mr. Miyagi travel to Japan to visit Miyagi's dying father, and reunite with his old love, only to be confronted by his old rival, who holds a grudge, and his young student, who has his sights set on beating Daniel...Although melodramatic and manipulative, if you're going to do a sequel, this is the way, with exciting action scenes and appropriate character development, as well as good continuity(film begins where Part I ends.) Ultimately a story of redemption and triumph, film pushes the right buttons to succeed. "},{"Title":"Good show but far from the greatness of the first","Date":"7 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" Inferior to its predecessor The Karate Kid - Part II offers more of the same but with less enthusiasm. Miyagi's (played by the amazing Pat Morita) lessons are powerful as ever, always the great treat for the series are probably the main reason why this sequel doesn't suck. Other than that, Daniel (Ralph Macchio) is irritating sometimes and the location setting wasn't much interesting to see worked on a plot. It starts where the first ended with Daniel's triumph over his rival (Johnny Lawrence), and there's a bit of duel between Miyagi and the other guy's master (high point of the film). However, Miyagi is informed that his father is dying and he needs to go back to Japan to see him. What propels this simple visit to become frightening to the veteran master is two pending issues to see again the woman he loved (Nobu McCarthy) but left behind and his best friend Sato (Danny Kamekona) turned into enemy since both loved the same woman. While the conflict between this two longtime friends starts and delays over and over, the guy's nephew (Yuji Okumoto) decides to torment Daniel just for the fun of it and to cause more and more trouble to the recent arrivals in town. Daniel's love interest (Elisabeth Shue) traded him for a football player but this time he has the company of a lovely girl (Tamlyn Tomita). Although this was filled with some idiotic dumb moments and lines (the word 'coward' is used so often that it becomes quite laughable after a while) and a painfully slow progression of events (almost a snooze, gotta be honest), this manages to succeed even after all these years being an afternoon's classic flick to many kids out there, still hasn't lost its charm. There's something about its essence that makes it a timeless film, for all ages and with many admirable things to teach. But can't say I enjoy much the violent overturn at the ending, looked completely overworked and out of place, or to endure Bill Conti's soundtrack, quite a sleeper even though it was appropriate to present a different culture. Saved by Glory of Love Oscar nominated song and main reason of why we don't forget this film every time this plays on the radio or elsewhere. The drama is well tied-up together, greatly presented in its saddest parts, the few adventure sequences are brilliantly created - notably the breaking the ice scene, despite the ridiculous shift of events with Daniel criticizing the guys doing wrong and then he chicken out and says he can't do it. In comparison with the first episode I think this lost in humored moments, it was too serious. Overall, it stands out as a good movie but never makes the full circle for the loyal fans of the genre and the series. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Good but not as good as the first.","Date":"9 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" This was still a pretty good movie I personally thought the story line was not as good as the first one. Also all the stuff in Japan was cheesy exspecially the acting. The main cast did a job who but all the new introductions were pretty bad. Worth seeing though because it does continue the story line so if you liked the first one as much as I did you will probably want to see what happens next.This movie is about Danielle as he goes to Okinawa with Mr Myagi to accompany him to see his dieing father. Soon after going there Myagi finds a love interest and Danielle gets challenged to another karate match.This movie was pretty good just not as good as the first. Though its always enjoyable seeing Mr Myagi. "},{"Title":"It was well made, but started to slow down a little","Date":"24 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" The first Karate Kid movie was excellently made, I was very impressed with the plot and how the story ended up. The ending was edited oddly, however I just let that pass. But it continues from that point to what happens next, in Karate Kid 2. The plot was okay, and the characters for the most part were okay.I think that it, like most sequels to good movies, was intended well and it did do well, however it just seemed to be slightly less, if not then equal to the original.I liked how it was explained why the kid falls in love with the girl, as he broke up with the previous one. And the tricks still came.I rate this 7/10. "},{"Title":"Good Sequel!","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" Ralph Macchio, Pat Morita, Tamlyn Tomita, Yuji Okimoto, Danny Kamekona and Nobu McCarthy star in John Avildsen's 1986 drama sequel. This sequel picks up 6 months after the first film with Mr. Miyagi (Morita) getting a letter from old girlfriend, Yuki (McCarthy) from Okinawa saying that his father is dying. He takes Daniel (Macchio) with him and they run into trouble with Miyagi's old friend turned enemy, Sato (Kamekona) and his nephew, Chozen (Okimoto). Sato hates Miyagi because Yuki won his heart years ago and Chozen picks on Daniel for honor and to punish Miyagi. Miyagi reunites with Yuki and Daniel finds romance with her niece, Kumiko (Tomita). Martin Kove also makes a brief appearance as Kreese. This is my favorite in the series, Macchio & Morita are great, Bill Conti's score is excellent as usual and I like Peter Cetera's Glory of Love song. I recommend this good sequel. "},{"Title":"Decent follow-up to a great movie","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" The movie begins right where the first left off and with Myagi putting John Kreese in his place, (not going to say how it happens.) Then it skips to months later where Myagi gets a letter from China and hears news about his Dad dying and his rival seeking vengeance. So Myagi and Daniel fly to China to deal with the situation. Now I had problems with the movie, like it dragged at points and there's a lot of beating around the bush. And Myagi's rival's student, Chozen, is by far the most menacing Karate Kid villain because he literally threatens to kill Daniel and at the end they have a battle to the death. But when you think about it, Daniel is only in this mess because Myagi said he could fight. So basically Daniel is innocent. But besides my complaints this is actually a really good sequel; it's a little more emotional than the first and it's much darker, plus, the final fight is as exciting as ever. Not perfect but I still recommend it. "},{"Title":"A chance to get into the heart of the origins of karate--in Japan","Date":"8 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" The opening parts of the movie gets into the final parts of Karate Kid I, especially that final blow by Daniel LaRusso (played by Ralph Macchio)--a crane kick at a Cobra Kai opponent in the finals of the All-Valley Under-18 Karate Championships...and the aftermath, when the Cobra Kai finalist gets so mad at his 2nd place trophy that he destroys it and is about to take on LaRusso's sensei, Mr. Miyagi by way of Cobra Kai sensei, John Kreese. John Kreese's two punches directed at Miyagi both miss and instead hits the glass windshield of a car, causing both of his hands to get bloodied...and the most shocking ending...Miyagi reiterating part of Kreese's creed of the Cobra Kai dojo...doing a knife-hand killing stroke that misses 2 inches towards his neck, and then...squeezing his nose and just drops him to the ground and leaves.Now, as the movie goes on, Miyagi realizes that his father is dying and has to go to Okinawa. LaRusso graciously accepts going with him because he had strong interests in understanding this Japanese region. He almost gets denied a plane ticket but Miyagi gives the ticket to him at the gate just in the nick of time.As they arrive in Okinawa and get out of the airport, they run into Chozen, thinking that he would be a good man. But as Chozen does a quasi-death grip as he shakes LaRusso's hand, you now realize that this guy, who was now the number-one karate student to master Sato, is a very dangerous guy. As the Japanese taxi takes LaRusso and Miyagi to Sato's office, it is even worse. Sato is almost akin to the Japanese yakuza, or mob group. Sato allows Miyagi to see his father, but then warns Miyagi--judgment day will soon happen in a form of a karate fight to the death. Sato almost accomplishes his feat until the mother of the dying father intervenes and tells Sato and Miyagi that he needs both of them.The father eventually dies as both Sato and Miyagi hold both of his hands, and Sato lets him mourn for three days. At the same time, LaRusso runs into a new Japanese love interest, Kumiko, who is an O-Bon dance instructor. As LaRusso's and Kumiko's love for each other increases, this causes Chozen to be so jealous that he is swearing fatal revenge against LaRusso for this love. One of his tactics was extorting LaRusso to break 6 pieces of ice in a nondescript Okinawan bar...which he does with Miyagi's help.However, a typhoon in the island changes Sato's mean ways partially. He lets LaRusso's request for the O-Bon dance in the beach's castle stand (which would be the last scene in the movie) and Kumiko takes full advantage in her solo dance of her own. But a very nasty surprise which would interrupt her beautiful dance bursts out in the form of Chozen. In an impromptu zip line, he hones in towards Kumiko and wraps her from behind at knifepoint. Chozen then forces LaRusso to a karate death-match, and LaRusso had to go into the fray, and releases the girl from the knife. This final karate fight of the movie is dirty and rough, but then, with the help of the audience, the drum technique by LaRusso knocks out Chozen for good, and he eventually wins the fight and gets Kumiko back. "},{"Title":"Decent sequel","Date":"26 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" As far as movie sequels go, the Karate Kid, Part II, is as good as any.Six months after defeating the Cobra Kai in the All Valley Karate Tournament, Daniel Larusso is getting set to go to college. By this time, he is no longer dating Ali, who has fallen for someone else. Meanwhile, Mr. Miyagi receives a letter that was sent from his native Okinawa. Miyagi learns that his father is very ill, so Miyagi prepares to fly to his homeland to see him.Daniel accompanies Miyagi to Okinawa, where a man named Sato is waiting for them. Sato was Miyagi's best friend when they were younger, but the two had a falling out over a girl that they both loved. Sato wanted to fight, but Miyagi didn't. As a result, Miyagi left Okinawa and has not been back until now. Sato has waited years for Miyagi's return and wastes no time in trying to get Miyagi to fight him. Miyagi, as usual, wants no part of any violent acts. Will these two masters of karate have a duel to settle their differences? As for Daniel, he has his own problem with Sato's nephew, Chozen. Chozen is very skillful when it comes to karate, having learned from his uncle, and he takes an instant dislike to Daniel, harassing him every chance he gets. It's not all bad for Daniel, who strikes up a relationship with a girl named Kumiko. Just like before with Ali, Daniel becomes close with Kumiko and they spend time together.As usual, Pat Morita and Ralph Macchio turn in enjoyable performances, as does the whole cast. Much like its predecessor, the casting is well done here. Also, It was interesting to learn more about Mr. Miyagi. The character is largely a mystery in the first film. With the exception of one scene (if you have seen it, you know exactly what I'm talking about. If you haven't, you'll know it when you see it), you don't know a lot about him. By the end of the movie, you will know more about him. Robert Mark Kamen produced a respectable script once again, and John G. Avildsen did a good job with the direction.This is a fine sequel, and I am a little surprised at the IMDb rating for it. It's more than average as far as sequels go. I say it's worth watching. "},{"Title":"Really good sequel that brings fresh air for the series.","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" The setting of the movie changes to Japan and it brought a new fresh air to the series. The relationship between Mr. Miyagi and Daniel grows on intensity and you can feel their perfect on-screen chemistry. They were the perfect duo because the were buddies. Daniel only travels to Okinawa because, in his words, Miyagi is the most important thing for him, and he's been for him in the most difficult times. Something like that. This is the Karate Kid movie that has a major cult following due to it's unique elements such as setting, plot, new characters, and a great song (The Glory Of Love). Sato and Chozen are great villains that you can't help but hate. They make Miyagi and Daniel's lives miserables. They are cruel, mean, arrogant. The final match between Daniel and Chozen is really great. The atmosphere is cool, the fighting moves are good and spectacular, and the outcome is even better. A memorable sequence. I haven seen this movie a few times in my life but I have sweet memories about it. It feels so 80's it makes me wanna cry in happiness.Great plot, setting, and characters.A really good sequel that worths the watch but keep in mind that it has little to do with the plot of the original Karate Kid. "},{"Title":"Great, great film!","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" The Karate Kid Part 2 is a very good, solid moving film. I have absolutely no idea why it was given a low rating.It has subtle touches of humor, some excitement, but mostly important character development that helps the film feel realistic, aside the stationed grand finale that pits Daniel against the gang, something that marked the movie's popularity...Daniel vs. Evil as seen in the final chapter of the DVD.Everyone should see the Karate Kid for its significant values of life, respect, and the traditions of friendship, something that will never grow old. "},{"Title":"Great movie....but i didn't like the ending much.","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" The karate kid movies are a dream for any kid who's being bullied...and a good lesson. the movie is great, even if it didn't have the fighting, it would still be excellent.Part two picks from when the tournament ends. Daniel is now on his way to Okinawa, following his master to see his first hometown and learn about his past, since we already know about Daniel's past from the first film. not surprisingly, Mr. miyagi, has some problems from his past and confronts an old rival....his brother, sato. meanwhile, Daniel makes an enemy as well, in Sato's grandson, Chozen, who knows nothing of honor.Daniel has some crazy obstacles, such as trying to break ice blocks, dealing with a typhoon, and a new girlfriend. however, this is not a typo, throughout such an excellent movie, there is a bad ending that will leave you asking tons of questions. "},{"Title":"An all time classic","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie last year, and was very impressed by it. Basically the movie takes place right after the first movie. Kreese gets upset that Johnny lost in the tournament, and Mr. Miyagi makes a fool out of him, and all of Kreese's students leave. About 6 months later Mr. Miyagi learns that his father is very sick and travels to Okinawa to see him. Daniel-san travels with Mr. Miyagi.Most people did not care for this film as much as they did for the first film. This film is more about culture, and coming of age then learning martial arts. I visited Japan about 4 and half years ago, and it was an amazing experience. The acting is overall very good. There are some cheesy lines, mainly by the bit part characters.Overall, this is a good film to watch and if you enjoyed the first film, you should give the second movie a shot. "}{"Title":"sequel improves on original","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" once again we have a case where the sequel outdoes the original.the original set the stage for the characters and is well done.however,the sequel is better than the original for one main reason,a better villain.this time Daniel is forced to fight for his life(literally)against a much more skilled opponent than he faced in the original.there is much more tension in this movie and more scenes of peril.the violence is more vivid and graphic.The setting is much more exotic,this time Okinawa being where most of the story takes place.so,visually we have a much more picturesque movie to look at.also,we see some of the culture of the people of Okinawa(accurate or not,i'm not sure).there is also more happening in this film.we have a subplot involving Mr.Myagi and a choice he must make.so,the story is more developed,the location is nicer,and the villain is better written than the 1st.and of course Mr. Myagi continues to teach Wisdom to Daniel as well as the Okinawan Village.when you add it all up,this makes for a better movie.but parents should be warned,again,that their is more graphic violence and sequences of peril in this one.use your discretion. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A good sequel that always brings up some nice memories!","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" I think that this is a pretty good sequel with good performances and sympathetic characters, not stiff acting as some writer wrote. Yes, the story is corny among lots of other things in this movie but that's what we love about it, right? If some director would've remade this movie today he would've destroyed it and all the magic would've been gone. The only thing I can dare myself to complain about is the fighting scenes which are quite tame actually, but this is a PG rated soap-opera karate drama after all, not a Kung-Fu movie, so it's understandable. But it's quite funny when you see that Mr. Miyagi's punches and kicks are both weak and stiff at the same time D. I have very fond memories of this movie the same way as I have from the first one and I think it has aged well. It's still fun to watch after all these years and the theme song from Peter Catera is still great.This one has its place in my 80s nostalgic movie collection! "},{"Title":"Liked it better than the first!","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" This sequel is a lot more fun than the first. After winning the championship, I liked the part where Miyagi handled the real loser of the match; JOHN KREESE! He wouldn't accept second place, and he destroys Johnny's trophy. What a jerk! When Miyagi helped Johnny, he puts Kreese in his place, literally! The real funny part is when Miyagi tweaks his nose! I split my sides on that scene downright! OHHH! MY INSIDES! Instead of California, they go to Okinawa; the birthplace of Karate. And boy, this is going to be fun. Miyagi has an old friend now his enemy named Sato(Danny Kamekona) and his protégé Chozen(Yuji Okimoto). He was twice as bad as Johnny, and boy is he brutal! Daniel gets a new girl, and he learns some new tricks from Miyagi as well. I liked the gamble scene where people break a certain number of ice, and most of them break their own bones in the process. When Chozen said Daniel had to break all 6, the deal was definitely on! I would go for it all the way! They there's the typhoon scene, and that changed a lot of lives. Sato changed for the better, Chozen was unaffected due to his rage. He had no honor, even Sato saw it too. Chozen got the same treatment Johnny, only Daniel used the drum technique instead. More challenging, more intensity, equally entertaining, The Karate Kid, Part 2 is genius. Recommendable! "},{"Title":"Great movie that took a bit of my heart with it.","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" This movie is a great one, which is something that really surprised me. I awoke one morning and saw the last 15 minutes on TV, and I thought to myself that I should watch the rest of it sometime. The following week I downloaded it, just to see if it was worth the time or not. It was way more than worth the time. Since then I've watched it around 8 times and have bought it. I've signed up for this website primarily because of this movie.Simply put, this movie stole me away. Even though I am only 16, I am pretty firm in my beliefs and stable emotionally. This is the first movie since I was 8 that provoked any strong emotion in me. I don't think it can be summed up in one reason, but this movie is just powerful, at least for me. My eyes teared, and they still do. I can't stress how much I love this movie, for reasons I can't describe. I strongly recommend anyone to give this one a shot. If you don't like it, that's okay. If you do, hopefully you will know why because I don't. I've always tried to reserve my emotions for people and ideals, and this is the only movie that has really stolen a part of me.I went on to look at pictures of familiar faces, particularly the character Chozen whom I've seen in other movies and Tomita Tamlyn, who I thought was amazing in this movie. I felt as if I was someone who knew them personally, or had just heard of their death; I was deeply touched on a personal and emotional level. I feel as if they are my relatives, or like the movie is a dear person. It's on the brink of infatuation, but more of respect and love.Please, let me know I'm not alone, or let me know what you think in general about this movie. I can never find anyone to share my thoughts with! Contact me through e-mail (sturm_fury@yahoo.com) or AIM (fanatacist). I look forward to hearing your responses. "},{"Title":"Take it for what it is A positive message for kids even adults to be at peace","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" Having worked in five countries for 20 years, from Law to Commerce as well as Army, Firefighting, Body Building etc,,as well as 5 years and an half of Martial Arts especially Karate (creating my own non nonsense self defense moves called Mato Do), I can CONFIRM not as an opinion but fact that The Karate Kid Movies are...GOOD. Why? Good movies that convey a good message become classics. The Karate Kid movies are they teach you...To turn your anger into positive action To value friendship To make a dream a reality To learn about forgiveness My story is UNIQUE I lived, for the training and relationship of it, a true story of the Karate Kid! I trained with my Sensei 1 year and an half, one on one each time he did go for it, sharing amazing real techniques and promoting KArate as self defense only, no competition and friendship values as well as the Inyo (Japanese Ying Yang) philosophy. We trained on the beach, in parks...Amazing. A very rare experience indeed. Take it for what it is Movies that will make a better you via KArate. It worked for me! Au Revoir!Email "},{"Title":"Excellent Sequel","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" It would have been the routine thing to do to use the same formula as was successful in the original Karate Kid. Instead the film makers tried something different, and packed the whole thing off to Okinawa.The result is a real eye-opener into the Japanese way of life. As with the original the sequel has something for all the family.There is still that oriental philosophy running all the way through, which is much better than just a kid winning a karate contest...although I do admit to enjoying the car windows scene at the beginning of the film.Danny Kamekona gives a superb performance as the heavy who very much has a sense of honour. "},{"Title":"The best of the series","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" This is definitely the best of the series, largely because of the character Sato. I'm afraid Miyagi met his match for oriental stereotypical humour. Miyagi's response to Daniel when asked if he could break a log was funny, 'Don't know, never been attacked by tree.' However, throughout the rest of the movie, Sato steals the stage.He is a large older man, angry about how Miyagi dishonoured him when they were teenagers. He has an accent and a rough voice that is ingrained in my mind. 'MIYAGIIIII, COME FIGHT!!!!' And my favorite, 'YOUR FEAR MAKE AIR STINK, HUEEWWW!!!' Also, towards the end he is trapped under a log and Miyagi comes to rescue him. He thinks Miyagi is their to fight him and he starts yelling, 'NOW YOU COME TO FIGHT?!!! NOW WHILE I AM HELPLESS?!!!...NOW WHO VILLAGE SEE, THIS IS ONLY WAY, YOU CAN WIN!!!' Chozen was a mere shadow to his uncle Sato. He says things like, 'YOU INSULT MY HONOUR!!!' but isn't nearly as hysterical as Sato.This is a great movie to see over and over. I give it 7 out of 10. Really, outside the hilarious stereotypes, it was a mediocre plot at best. But I love it. I hope I haven't offended any orientals reading this. I can make fun of white red-necks in Florida like myself too. "},{"Title":"Mr. Miyagi and Daniel are back, and kicking some more arse","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" I found this movie possibly even better than the first. Daniel's new girlfriend is way cooler than his old one, she has spirit and spunk. My godson's favorite part was the fight between Chozen and Daniel at the end, while I liked the scene just after Mr. Miyagi's father died. Having lost my father myself, I thought Daniel's comments were very mature and thought-provoking. I rather neglected my father once I began going to boarding school. On holidays I would stay with one of my friends, so I did not see him much before he died. When I received word he was dying, I took a leave of absence from school to see him one last time, and now I realize that was the best thing I could have done. All of Chozen's talk of honor and how Mr. Miyagi has none is rubbish, of course. Chozen has no idea what honor is, if he finds it honourable to kill or be killed, and finds it cowardice to spare someone's life. Mr. Miyagi's words from the beginning bring the movie full circle as Daniel spares Chozen's life For someone with no forgiveness in their heart, living is worse punishment than death. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" Maybe this movie is not as good as the first one, but is still great! It also has a great message about honor and friendship. It's fair to have now the story about Miyagi and his own past. The performance of Pat Morita and Ralph Machio is great, Miyagi's story got me tears in the eyes. I enjoyed a lot the movie because it's also funny and with a lot of action. Great for kids and adults. It starts just at the end of the tournament so that's cool, even the return of the cobras is cool. It's a classic as well as the first part. Parts I and II are very good, and the second completes the first one. Part III maybe is unnecessary.Great Movie. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie three years after it came out, i thought it look a bit childish and corny, but when i actually saw it its great, it isn't as good as the first and the fighting scene at the end was very short but it is still a well done sequel, the movie just isn't for martial art fans but also for those who like a bit of drama, romance and of coarse action. But as i said the movie is very corny, like when Mr Miyagi said To Kreese Mercy is for the weak etc... he didn't kill Kreese but he sqeezed his nose, then at the end when Daniel was fighting he said to the guy live or die and then sqeezed his nose but i guess you have to see the movie to know what I'm talking about, but don't let that give you second thoughts about watching this movie it is very good, it was directed by the same director as ROCKy and the karate kid trilogy carry the same basic story line as ROCKY. So thats all i have to saw all round 2.5 out of four stars.  "}{"Title":"Worthy follow up","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  I loved these films when I was a kid. The first Karate Kid film was great and Part II is nearly as good. Moving the action out of America was a good idea and the film has some good villains and a gorgeous love interest for Daniel San! Throw in some classic 80's music and another great performance from Pat Morita and you have an enjoyable second part to the four Karate kid films. Sadly part III was awful and I wouldn't waste my time watching The Next Karate Kid. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites from my childhood","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  I remember seeing this film when I was 10 in the theatre and back then I thought it was masterpiece.  What wasn't there to love funny moments, like when Dojo master Kriese puts his hands thru the car windows(well you kinda have to see it to know what I mean), great fights scenes especially the one in the end between Daniel and the Resident Heavy (I think that is his real name) at the castle when the gloves are off and instead of a tournament this time it is a fight to the death. Pretty cool, now that I am 27 (as of 2003), instead of 10 I realize that this movie is kinda corny, I mean some of the scenes in this flick are pretty hamhanded, and that song by Peter Certera(PLLLLLLLLLEEEEEEEEEEEAAAAAAAAASE!), but like lots of cheesy and ham handed things from the eighties it was kinda cool in its own way.  So Gen Xer's sing along with me, I am a man who would fight for your honor, I'll be the hero you're dreaming of we'll live forever growing together and we found it all through the glory of love. This movie rocks! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Add it to your collection. You know you like it.","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  **1/2 out of ****Even cheesier than the first one, but almost as entertaining. Some of the charm of the original is gone, but Macchio and Morita once again have great chemistry together and turn in fine performances. Also, Okumoto makes a fine villain.   "},{"Title":"What Honor is All About","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  Starring Ralph Macchio, Pat Morita, Danny Kamekona, Tamlyn Tomita, Nobu McCathy, Yuji Okumoto, and Martin Kove.Taking place where Part 1 left off, Daniel LaRusso has just won the Karate Tournament and has won the title from Johnny Lawrence. 6 Months Later, Daniel breaks up with Ali and tries to move on. Meanwhile, Mr. Miyagi recieves a letter from Okinawa saying that his father is very ill. Daniel and Mr. Miyagi plan to stay there for the Summer. When they get there, they are met by Sato, Miyagi's old friend. Sato still wants to fight Miyagi after all these years. Daniel makes a new enemy of his own, Chozen, Sato's Nephew. Daniel also makes friends with Kumiko. When Sato starts to threaten to destroy Miyagi's old home town, Miyagi accepts to fight him. But later on, Sato realizes that he is wrong and turns to Miyagi, while Chozen, stays the way he is. The town has a traditional O-Bon dance held in the abandoned castle, where Chozen challenges Daniel to a fight to death, and Daniel realizes that he must have the fight of his life once more.This sequel was above average. I really liked it. This is the only sequel in the series that is good. It was also nominated for an Academy Award for the song Glory of Love. The Karate Kid Part II is sucessful.3 out of 4. My IMDB Rating 6.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Good movie almost as good as the original.","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  Quite a number of people have knocked this film. I don't know why. I liked this movie and I sometimes think it's even better than the original. Ralph Macchio and Pat Morita reprise their roles as Daniel and Mr. Miyagi here. They travel to Okinawa when Mr. Miyagi's father is gravely ill and they meet an old enemy who is Mr. Miyagi's buddy.Daniel also meets a new enemy in Chozen and a new love in Kumiko. Like I said this film is almost is good as the original. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Measures up","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is a great sequel. It measures up to the original, if not surpass it. The scenery was beautiful, fighting was heart pounding, plot was interesting and the acting was great.Some people say it wasn't as good as the original, and I  have to disagree. If it didn't surpass the original, it at least measured up. It even made more money at the box office than the first Karate Kid.If I weren't to give this a 10, I'd at the very least give it an 8 and a half. I recommend it to any martial artist fan or Karate Kid fan.  "},{"Title":"Fighting Always Last Answer","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS         Our story opens right after Karate Kid 1 ends. (Naturally, it's the sequel). In the parking lot, Kreese is angry at Johnny for not winning, but it's Mr. Miyagi to the rescue. Kreese breaks his knuckles when trying to punch Miyagi but instead he punches car windows.          Six months later, Mr. Miyagi receives a telegram fromOkinawa. It reports that his father is quite sick. Daniel demands to accompany his friend, so they head off. They arrive and head to Mr. Miyagi Senior's house. There, Mr. Miyagi is reaquainted by an old girlfriend, Yuki and her niece Kumiko, who seems to like Daniel. Mr. Miyagi had also met up with his old friend, turned enemy Sato.Because of what they did when they were children, Sato demands that he and Miyagi fight. Miyagi declines. Sato's nephew, Chozen, chooses tormenting Daniel to be his ambition in life. He always pops up to give Daniel trouble and Sato pops up to give Miyagi trouble.         One night, a terrible storm hits. Miyagi and Daniel save Sato's life, so he becomes a good guy. But Chozen is still evil. He demands he and Daniel fight, like the tournament in the first film, except no referees. They fight. Chozen get's in some good hits but Daniel once again triumphs.         Almost as good as the first! Not quite. A scene I'd like to point out is the one where Daniel and Mr. Miyagi get directions from asolider on a giant air base to Mr. Miyagi's village. The credits report George O'Hanlon as the soldier. But if this is right, that soldier would be 69 years old, but he only looked in his mid twenties. Because that's the same George O'Hanlon who does George Jetson and Joe McDoakes. It can't be the same guy, can it? The mechanics of it are just mind boggling. Sadly, Nobu McCarthy who plays Yuki died not too long ago. But everyone else is still here. Was followed by Karate Kid III, which wasn't a very good entry to the series. Reports state that this movie, Karate Kid II, was Ralph Macchio's least favorite.- "},{"Title":"Classic '80s Movie, Part II","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  The original Karate Kid is a good movie. Part II is an even better movie, IMHO. Macchio and Morita still work great together, only this time, they BOTH have their bullies to overcome (Daniel Vs. Chozen, Mr. Miyagi Vs. Sato). And what well-played bullies they are! You can tell Sato has been harboring a major grudge against Miyagi from his first scene in the hangar. And the scene where Chozen meets Daniel and Miyagi at the airport is a chilling prelude to the pure hatred Chozen shows for Daniel. Both villains are definitely well-played. The relationship between Daniel and Kumiko (and Miyagi and Yukie) is believable and real. You can really get a feel for the culture of the Orient with this movie. The action is great. (Ice-chopping scene and the final battle) And to top it all off, it still has some humorous scenes thrown in for good measure. (the scene with Daniels car, and the cannery sequence, to name two) I could watch this film without tiring of it for a long time to come, it's that good. Definitely see it if you haven't yet, or even if you have. I haven't even bothered to watch Part III, and neither should you. "},{"Title":"Almost as good as original","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  I really loved the original, and this one I like almost as much. We get to know and understand a lot more about Miyagi's character, and the romance between Daniel and Kumiko is very sweet and in some ways better than the one with Elisabeth Shue. The original romance was based more on puppy love and being a crush. But in this one these two characters seem to have feelings more of passion and sexuality. I know they really don't say much to each other, but they don't have to. Just watch the way they look at each other and act.3.5 out of 4. "},{"Title":"Very good sequel (some spoilers)","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  The Karate Kid Part II is a very good sequel and story told. On the first movie, we saw how Daniel transformed from a weakling to a fighter under a master's influence. Here, Daniel goes to the other side of the world, namely Mr. Miyagi's home village in Okinawa, Japan.While the first film concentrated on learning and inspiration, this film concentrated on love, honor and the richness of culture. Released in 1986, this film played a great doorway for Westerners and other foreign movie viewers to enter and get exposed to Japanese culture. Let's face it, this film has the richest and most colorful culture presented in the entire series. As for honor, this film teaches us not to dismiss honor or abuse it. When the Japanese say something, it has to be taken seriously. Honor is an element missing in many films, and it's great to see it presented here.Ralph M. is back as Daniel, and his act is virtually the same as those in the other KK movies. He however lacks expression, which is disturbing because we're always treated to a wooden hero. Pat Morita's act as Miyagi is much better here, thanks to that home feeling and home environment. Not only does he teach, but he also romances! Seeing Miyagi back home brought out more from his character. Tamlyn Tomita is very beautiful and she perfectly fits her role here. Tomita is no doubt, the best lead lady of Daniel in the series.While the setting and production is good, there are some technical flaws. First, we all know that the film's beginning took place immediately after the end of the first film. Suddenly, we don't see Daniel's mom and his girlfriend (Elisabeth Shue). Where did they disappear to?! Since those two were gone, the filmmakers had to make excuses to avoid them, like moving the story many months later suddenly. Setting the story in Japan was reportedly said to be the biggest reason behind. I heard reports that the story of Karate Kid Part III was supposed to be used on this film.Also, there's too much use of the English language despite the Japanese setting. Sure there are American soldiers based in Okinawa (to give the impression that English is a widely used language there), but seeing Miyagi and his rival Sato talk English is disturbing to the core. It does not feel right, seeing Japanese talk to fellow Japanese in English. I'm willing to watch Japanese conversations in English-subtitles, but I guess the filmmakers were too lazy to have massive Japanese dialect in the film. Seeing Tamlyn and Ralph talk English is acceptable, but the rest is not. I felt that the English dialogue between the Japanese (example Miyagi and his love one) destroyed what could have been expressive dialogues.Despite the flaws, the goods outweigh the bads. This film is a must see and is a worth sequel to the first film. Also, this is the last good Karate Kid movie ever made. The 3rd chapter ad the Next Karate Kid simply sucked out.Want to see what honor is, how rich is Japanese culture, how Japan's provinces looked like, what happened to Daniel and Miyagi? The Karate Kid Part II has the answers! Watch it! "}{"Title":"Karate Kid II An action movie whick takes it time...","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  I'm a fan of Japanese culture. That's why I like this film. It's an action movie, but it takes it's time to show a lot of Japanese culture. Those scenes add much to the overall story. It's an integral part of the story. And that's why I like to recommend this film. It's not afraid to take it slow and focus on the story, it makes the action much more fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Predictable Sequel","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  The Karate Kid Part II finds Daniel (The Karate Kid) a high school senior and still hanging with his mentor, Mr. Miyagi. Their quiet world is invaded by news from Mr. Miyagi's hometown in Okinawa that his father is dying. It is then that Mr. Miyagi confesses to having skipped town decades ago abandoning a challenge of honor - a fight to the death over the heart of a woman. Mr. Miyagi must return to an Okinawa where his old antagonist is now Mr. Big, and he has not forgotten the challenge one bit. Daniel joins Mr. Miyagi on his journey, and of course learns a new move that will save his ass.  Same formula points as the original and not as good&#133;. but not bad either.  Grade C+. "},{"Title":"Above Average Sequel to the 1984 Hit","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  The Karate Kid, Part II is far from a masterpiece, but is a good film that plays almost as well as its predecessor.  This time Macchio and Morita travel to Okinawa when Morita's ancient father falls ill.  The father does die and Morita is grief-stricken.  He also has to contend with a former friend who wants to have a fight-to-the-finish with Morita.  Macchio also has tension with the man's nephew who is just as cruel and unreasonable as the boys from the first film.  Overall the film is formulaic, but somehow works in spite of its shortcomings.  3.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Excellent feel-good movie","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  I liked the original Karate Kid, but part two is better.  Part three is awful, don't waste your time watching it!Pat Morita and Ralph Macchio do a good job of building on their characters' relationship.  It is very touching the way Daniel is there for Mr. Miyagi when he goes through a tragic loss.  Daniel's romantic interest in this movie is much better than in the first movie, and it is nice to see Mr. Miyagi sweetly reunited with a long-lost love.The fight scenes are exciting, and the message at the end is good too.  You understand the moral of the story without feeling as if it were too preachy.  Very, very nice movie.  One of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Good to while away a Sunday afternoon","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  There are classic martial art films, there are dire martial art films, there are martial art films that really are beyond the dire, and make you wonder what kind of drugs the director was taking when he wrote it. Happily, Karate Kid 2 is merely not great.The plucky loser story has been done a thousand times, and the wise old mentor is a tested movie device. The martial arts sequences in this film are slow, not particularly well orchestrated, and the dialogue is particularly weak.The only thing that at all saves this film is the inherent cuteness of the leading characters - without Mr Miyagi, for example, this would be one for the dustbin. There's also a healthy does of cod Oriental culture thrown in, as cliched as you'll ever find, but at least it gives the film something to look at, including the locations which can be stunning.More of a martial arts soap opera than anything else. Don't go looking for something to rival Enter the Dragon, and don't go expecting anything worth writing home about, but if you've got a couple of hours to spare on a lazy afternoon, and if you enjoyed the first one, give this one a shot - it's a harmless film and worth a look, even if just once. "},{"Title":"A Sequel That Outdoes the Original","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  I would have to say that this is definitely better than the original Karate Kid. The location of the movie itself was beautiful, and there was more of an interesting flavor involved in it. The music is also better with the great Peter Cetera Glory of Love as the theme, but the overall Oriental-type score in the background is beautiful. The love story underneath the actual main conflict makes for a complex plot that I love. I find a more rewarding end than the original's ending. Great choreography on the fight scenes as well, but that always is true. Mr. Johnson does well on that. "},{"Title":"Location and tone compensate for weak story and action scenes","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  I liked this film, even though it was more of a 2 hour montage than a real tale. The location was fantastic, a small Hawaiian island which probably looks better than the real Okinawa does (The producers decided not to film in Okinawa for logistical reasons). I think Pat Morita did a splendid job in this film and the first Karate Kid movie (even though the first was cluttered) and deserved the best supporting actor oscar for which he was nominated, but didn't win (Haing Ngor did for the Killing Fields, if only they allowed two winners). Ralph Macchio tries to act, but he just isn't that convincing in either film. Tamilyn Tomita is a lovely actress, and Yuji Okumuto and Danny Kamekona are capable too. The fighting scenes, however, were terrible, mainly because Macchio has never delivered good karate moves, always appearing awkward and even clumsy at times. Morita's stunt double enacted a fabulous fight scene in the first film, but in this one, Morita himself is allowed to perform the scene, which is unreasonable since he has very little martial arts experience. Yuji Okumuto is a trained karate stylist, and does appear authentic, but since Macchio's moves aren't as convincing, all their scenes together go to waste. Still, Pat Morita's oriental wisdom scenes, while hammy, are serious and convincing, and constitute the best acting in this film.  "},{"Title":"hate to say it...but better than the original","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  The first will always be special to me, but somehow they managed to pack in a little more this time around and top themselves.  The new locale is Okinowa, Macchio and Morita are just as good, but the climactic moments are so constant, I was thoroughly engrossed the whole way.  I cant remember a dull passage in the film, from the ice breaking sequence (very well shot), to the confrontations between Morita and Kamekona, this is very strong.  Also lessons in life, with a great scene from the two leads after Miyagis father dies, set against a sunset.  Okumoto is a better villian, a little more unrelenting than Zabka from the first one.  And Miyagi has a villian, too!  An old adversary from his younger days.  Kamekona is a little silly with that DEEEEEP voice, but still effective.  Plus the finale is more extended and instead of points being on the line, its Daniels life, which makes the battle more real.  I gotta say the hand-clasp slapping was very cool.  And maybe best song to come out of a movie, Ceteras Glory of Love.  The original music by Tom Conti is still as great (that oh so recognizable pan flute played by Zamphir)  with my one minus point of the film to Daniels love interest.  Tomitas cute, but she aint no Elisabeth Shue (goddess!). "},{"Title":"Wonderful, for a part II","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  I was very impressed by this sequel.  No sequel can ever be better than the original, but this one comes damn close.  Good story line and plot, great acting, beautiful Okinawa scenery, unexpected ending to the fight scene...Worth watching more than once.  I gave this one a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"So much better than the first one it'll make your head spin","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" The only Karate Kid movie that had a story beyond get the girl, win the tournament and beat'em up This is the absolute best of the 3. The best acting by far, Danny Kamekona does a powerful job as enemy Sato bent on his revenge against Miyagi.Brilliantly done with great scenery and a great cast, this is one you can watch over and over. "}{"Title":"Better than the original??","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  Better than the original?; many movies try to make a sequel that tops the original but like most - The Karate Kid II fails.But wait...  This IS a good film - not as good as K.K.I but this has fantastic scenery, a good plot-line and some good acting - notably again from Pat Morita and the fight sequences are again top-notch.This was never going to win an Oscar(Perhaps for Peter Ceteras' fantastic title song) but if you're after a good action/love movie then this is one you should watch. "},{"Title":"Karate Kid II","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" I have to rate this film based on my childhood and some of the rich memories it brings back, and to add to this I have been to Okinawa, Japan and stayed with U.S military contractors on the Island and got the full tour but later realized through research KK2 was filmed in Hawaii (boy did I feel ripped off) and please correct me if I'm wrong.As for the film itself I personally think it goes one up on the on the first film bridging the two nicely together at the start, when the two sensei's duke it out in the car park of the tournament from the first film. The films scope is allot bigger and the stakes are higher the storm sequence I really liked and how can you forget the castle fight sequence, clearly allot of the plot points in this film mirror the first one, minus the cheesy Montage between E.shue and D.Macchio at the theme park ;) done better in the second film, the glory of love soundtrack and running around the castle were much better, BTW that castle is not in Okinawa, I personally checked!!! ;) "},{"Title":"A VERY good sequel!","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" I saw this at the movies when I was 11 or so, and ate every minute of it. Now I watched it again at the age of 32, and even now I kinda like it. As a scriptwriter (sort-of) myself, I'm amazed at the 3 qualities of it- The maturity of the subject, combined with - The respect of a foreign culture (especially in American cinema in the 80s) - The ashameful popcorn attitude of the whole packageIt's one thing to have all these present in the original script (by Robert Mark Kamen, no wonder this talent is still working full-time), but that the director also saw this as a whole, and went through to have all these qualities in the end product, is at least a small miracle. Because let's face it this is entertainment. This was supposed to be an 80s non-educational popcorn date - movie, thus about 80-90 minutes long. Here we're talking 110 minutes, with the emphasis on drama, not action. Instead of a PG-Rambo, we're talking Out of Africa!However, the gamble pays out. Just like it's predecessor, which took it's own risks (It's even longer, Italian-American in the lead, emphasis on the heart instead of the fist etc.)Part one is an epic underdog story, and part 2 a worthy sequel that also brings the story into a full circle. Despite the same writer, director and main cast, part 3 doesn't exist for me. "},{"Title":"How Do You Say Wax On, Wax Off in Japanese?","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" This unnecessary sequel to the surprise 1984 hit picks up exactly where the previous film left off, and though it's not a great movie, it could have been much worse.In this one, Danny and Mr. Miyagi travel to Japan, where Danny finds himself in yet another karate showdown, and finds time to fall in love with a Japanese girl who's way hotter than Elisabeth Shue.Ralph Macchio and Pat Morita return to their roles, and have just as much chemistry together as they did before, even if the novelty has worn off a bit.Like many films from the 1980s, this one is most famous for its theme song, Glory of Love.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Apart from Macchio and Morita, not much to enjoy","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" With the exception of Indiana Jones and Back to the Future (Part III of the latter was produced in the '90s, so I'm not counting it), movie sequels in the '80s were consistently struck by the law of diminishing returns (yes, that applies to Return of the Jedi as well The Empire Strikes Back is better). The Karate Kid, Part II is by no means an exception - whatever magic the original film had (and it ain't much; a lot of it comes off as cheesy nowadays) is largely missing.Picking up right after the end of Part I, this sequel begins with the aftermath of Daniel's (Ralph Macchio) victory while he is surrounded by admirers, Mr. Miyagi (Pat Morita) beats the hell out of the rival coach (the movie's comic highlight) and reveals he has plans for the kid's career. What? Daniel inquires; Early retirement is the deadpan reply. It doesn't take long before the old man is proved wrong, though six weeks later he is forced to return to Okinawa to pay his respects to his dying father, and agrees to take his student with him. The situation worsens quite rapidly when Daniel crosses the path of an arrogant local, whose boss has unfinished business with Miyagi the two were rivals in love, and since Miyagi fled to America instead of fighting the duel must take place now or he will be humiliated for the rest of his life.A good thing about these movies is the fighting isn't dictated by money-related reasons; it all happens in the name of good, old honor. Sadly, much of that plot line is filled with clichés and therefore not that riveting Morita is perfect as Miyagi of course, but his opponent fails to convey the gravitas such a role demands. The same goes for Daniel's adversary, Chozen - a textbook idiot with no depth whatsoever. Not that the protagonist enjoys a solid character arc anyway his romance with a Japanese girl is a lame clone of the more endearing bond he had with Elizabeth Shue in the first film. Thankfully, Macchio and Morita still have each other there is never a dull moment when the elderly trainer shares his wisdom with the kid, and even though Part II lacks the coolness of a wax on, wax off kind of catchphrase, those scenes are just about fun enough to make the picture a worthwhile one-time experience. "},{"Title":"Better than the Excellent KK 1","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" I loved KK 1; and I love KK 2 even more. This is probably the best martial arts movie, not for the fight-action (that has to go to Bruce Lee), but the ideal (and true) that a good man is far tougher than a bad one. When Sato repents, and asks Miyagi's forgiveness  Nothing to forgive, old friend. I recently saw Jet Li's Fearless and it's nice to see a martial art movie that returns to things of the heart.I hate the wire work of today's movies; I also know others love them. But for something to tug your heart, you have to cut out the flying flying flying kicks. Obvious CG breaks it for me. Keanu Reeves and Jet Li become 'equals' because of sap wire work. With enough money / technicals, you can make a passable fighting film, like Zhang Ziyi's films; but they will be dated. Bruce Lee will not be dated. "},{"Title":"Part II","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" The general rule of movie sequels is that you don't just repeat the same formula of the predecessor, but you in some way improve the story to create an entirely new experience. The Karate Kid, Part II doesn't really do either.I showered praise on The Karate Kid (1984) because it is undoubtedly one of the best American-made martial arts movies I've ever seen. I praised its likable, multi-dimensional characters, attention to the specifics and underlying principles of karate, and the performance of the late, great Pat Morita as the soft-spoken and whimsical Mr. Miyagi.The Karate Kid, Part II, released in 1986, is set only minutes after the final confrontation from the first film between Daniel LaRusso (Ralph Macchio, noticeably older-looking) and Johnny Lawrence (William Zabka) and is again directed by John G. Avildsen, who decides to take another stab at the underdog story.This time, the action has been shifted to Mr. Miyagi's home country of Okinawa to visit his dying father. But all is not well in this once quaint fishing village. The corporations have moved in, an American military base has been set up not far from the town's borders, and Miyagi himself is progressively pushed into a corner because of a decades-old feud with a bloodthirsty rival named Sato (Danny Kamekona).Sato has had it in for Miyagi since the two locked horns years ago over the affections of Yukie (Nobu McCarthy), a woman Sato had been arranged to marry but she instead loved Miyagi. In good faith, Miyagi left for America, never to return, while she stayed. Now that Miyagi is back, Sato takes the opportunity to settle things once and for all, even if it means certain death for one of them.Meanwhile, Daniel continues his karate training but also finds himself quickly becoming accustomed to the Okinawan way of life, immersing himself in the daily activities of the village and the culture. He finds himself at peace here, which he seemed unable to find back in California. And he is also seen growing closer to the pretty Kumiko (Tamlyn Tomita), who has dancing aspirations. But the Miyagi/Sato conflict has spilled over onto young Daniel's shoulders too, since he is repeatedly confronted and threatened by Sato's vicious nephew Chozen (Yuji Okumoto), who easily rivals Zabka's Johnny Lawrence. Eventually, you can guess there's going to be a nasty confrontation between the two.I'm actually torn here between my feelings of this film and the first one. I know it seems cheesier and hokier, but damn it, I'm giving it a fair rating. The Karate Kid, Part II contains shades of its predecessor that are too numerous to list here, but the glossy Okinawan setting, possibly a move by screenwriter Robert Mark Kamen, doesn't completely cover up intentions to repeat the same formula in a prettier environment.On the plus side, Morita is great as always, as is Macchio as motormouth LaRusso, but I was also surprised by the lovely Tamlyn Tomita as Daniel's love interest. She is pretty, so it's easy to see why the two get together so well. And Yuji Okumoto is fairly menacing as Chozen. The action is much more sparing than it was in the first film, but the ending confrontation between Daniel and Chozen, while seemingly inappropriate, is brutal (especially for the PG rating) and as Miyagi reminds his student, he is not fighting for points but for his life.A mediocre sequel, though not a bad one. I have a feeling that The Karate Kid movies were meant to be something much greater, but instead they seemed to jump the shark with each sequel. As usual, however, first is nearly always best.5/10 "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The Karate Kid II","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" The Karate Kid, Part II (1986) was unavoidable. You know after the success of the first installment there was going to be a sequel. The cash cow franchise wasn't going to be denied this time around (eventually the kitty would run dry by Part Three). Oh well, here we go...Mr. Miyagi learns about an illness in his family and has to leave for his home island of Okinawa. Young (I use this term very loosely this time around) Danny can't bear to not be at his mentor's side and travels with him. While in Okinawa, we learn about the closet full of skeletons that Mr. Miyagi had left behind. His old friend/nemesis greets him upon his return. Sato (an Hawaiian playing a Japanese guy) is angry with him about something that happened to them many years ago (and I do mean many, I thought I can hold a long grudge). Not only that but Young Danny also happens to make a mean enemy (can't he ever get a break?). Will Danny and Mr. Miyagi over come the odds as they fight side by side? Will Sato takes something for that nasty constipation (watch the movie, you'll know what I mean)? You have to watch . The Karate Kid, Part II.Okay, here's my big gripe with this movie (and others like it). How come whenever two character are speaking to each other in a foreign language, why must they speak to each other in broken English? For Karate Kid fans only "},{"Title":"Simply tried too hard","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  After such a winning formula, this film took a  whole new step in regards to the sequel.  Instead of the streets of Los Angeles, we see  the streets of Japan and learn about Myagi's  way of life. I said this with Bill and Ted's  Excellent Adventure in regards to Bill and  Ted's Bogus Journey, but this film tried too  hard to be an actual film. Beautiful scenery,  dark tension, and a fight scene that seemed  a little over choreographed at the end. If the  sequel had stuck to its original fun-loving  formula, it would have been a better movie.  Nonetheless, this is still a decent film to watch. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"One of the Best Movies of the 80's","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  this is one of the greatest movies I ever saw. It's a good movie and it has good scenes too like when the one part when Daniel breaks all 6 ice blocks and when Daniel and his enemy are fighting around the end of the movie "}{"Title":"The best Kid movie!","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is by far the best of the Karate Kid movie's, sure, the special technique at the end of the film is a generic swinging of the arms thing, but it looked so cool!  Set in Okinawa and everything!! "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original, but a good film nonetheless","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  Sequels are often measured against the originals, but as it is well known, fail to measure up (the notable exception being Star Wars Episode IV  The Empire Strikes Back - the exception that proves the rule).  Too often, the sequel lacks the newness of the original - the characters are often completely developed, the underdog has already triumphed.  In other words, the story has already been completed.In this second installment, we see how, to some degree, to overcome that. Of course, the challenge has to be taken up a notch (a fight to the death? Yeah, that's a little better than a tournament) and we usually delve deeper into the characters.  Seeing Mr. Miagui cope with demons from his past helps to better completely define his character; Machio's Daniel Laruso is sadly left second stage, as all he seems to learn is that his famous stork-kick obviously hasn't been perfected after all.Personally, I feel as though KKI and KKII told both halves of the story nicely, and could have done without installments three and four.  However, KKII fills the void nicely for those who saw, and loved, The Karate Kid and wanted nothing more than to see that pseudo-nazi military sensei get humiliated.  "},{"Title":"Live Or Die.","Date":"18 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" After overcoming the odds to become a champion, Daniel decides to accompany Miyagi to Okinawa who is off to pay his respects to his ailing father. When his father passes away, Miyagi is given a short time to mourn, before fighting his old rival, Sato. Meanwhile, Daniel falls in love and rubs Sato's nephew the wrong way to the point where they may have to fight to death. Karate Kid was far from original, but it's a classic for a reason. It's the ultimate underdog story of a regular Joe overcoming the odds to achieve greatness. In many ways, I think it's the teenage equivalent to Rocky. Everything about it rang true. As entertaining as this sequel is, it feels pretty contrived. The freshness is no longer there and I didn't get the same allure or that special feeling. That being said, this is pretty good for a sequel. I've seen it about 5 times, so obviously I liked it. It certainly knows how to tug on your heart-strings. The culture in Okinawa made for an intense experience. Their beliefs are entirely different from others. I didn't necessarily agree with it, but they truly believed in it. They believe there is honor in fighting to the death, while I think that is too extreme. Watching Daniel adapt to the lifestyle in Japan is engaging to watch. Miyagi and Sato's issues rivet me. It's genuinely emotional and always manages to move me. The performances are top-notch. Macchio is excellent once more as Daniel. Watching him evolve is fun to watch. You can see his confidence growing as well. Pat Morita is his match as Miyagi. His immaculate chemistry with Macchio is the key to this sequel. There is a lot of good stuff in this sequel, but they always make things livelier. Danny Kamekona's intensity knows no bounds. His performance as Sato is a memorable one. Yuji Okumoto plays one of the most despicable characters to ever grace the screen as Chozen. The final fight scene with him and Daniel will get your adrenaline going. Tamlyn Tomita is cute as Kumiko, but I wasn't all that into her romance with Daniel. To be honest, I was incensed at how quickly they dropped the romance, with Daniel and Ali. Am I really supposed to believe that a woman of strong character like Ali would suddenly fall in love with a UCLA football player and just dump him like that? Ali was nowhere near that shallow. It's lazy writing at its finest and screams of We weren't able to get her back for the sequelI really enjoy this sequel for the most part. It's not as genuine and I do have some issues with it, but it's really well done. As long as you don't expect the original, you should be entertained. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"You're kidding, right?","Date":"7 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" What's the hype of the show? I don't get it.Riddled with illogical and socially retarded reasoning, clichés and predictabilities. For starters, what's with that kick? Your opponent is doing Karate, I don't know what you're doing, but you're not ready to block anything. It's like some sort of secret finishing move from Mortal Kombat. In a fight, when you're holding your spear of baseball bat, do not yell and charge at your enemy, it clearly this doesn't work. All this talk of honour from the antagonistic team, but they're picking fights everywhere they can and tearing down a village just to get to one old man and his lil teamster. No one thought to point out how un-honourable these actions are? Everywhere the boy turns, just as he's about to get that kiss, the douchelord shows up to pick a fight. Of course where the douchelord is absent, there's a hurricane in his place.Douchelord is a coward, what to you know?! He won't run out to save a lil girl from a storm, but when his uncle disowns him for cowardice he has a tantrum and runs off into the storm, what?! Also what was that lil girl doing ringing a bell during a hurricane anyway? Shouldn't one of the adults been doing that? Oh look, the protagonist hero tripped trying to carry her through the storm, PUT HER DOWN IDIOT, SHE HAS LEGS!Cliché plot and illogical behaviour.A must see! I love a good sarcasm flick as much as the next guy and this was just mint. Absolute must see if you enjoy a vast erray of bad, 80's blockbusters with terribly ridiculous story lines and horrible acting. My wife was actually angry by the time it was over, LOL "},{"Title":"The Greatest Martial Arts Film of All-Time.","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" This movie is actually the best Karate film I've ever seen in my life. Except the fact that the film was shot in Oahu, Hawai'i, this movie actually took me where no Martial Arts film has ever taken me. Watching the final fight on youtube, I bought the Trillogy at Wal-Mart. It was worth the price. Anyways, this movie rocked. This film, to me, is a classic. Many people still keep this movie in their hearts because the film was entertaining. Out of all my favorites, this movie stands as #2 in my top 10 movies. 1. Rush Hour 2. THE KARATE KID PART II 3. Indiana Jones 4 4. Karate Kid 5. Karate Kid III 6. Rush Hour 2 7. Rocky 4 8. Rocky 5 9. Dragons Forever 10. Rambo 08This film is a 10!!! "},{"Title":"Goes deeper then the under-dog story...","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" This film takes an entirely different turn; it explores Miyagi's life; the life he left for America. Miyagi and Daniel travel to Okinawa to visit Miyagi's ill father and in the process Miyagi wanders back into an old feud with an old friend.Daniel meets a girl named Kumiko and romance blossoms between the two, while Miyagi re-connects with his village and his past.The fight scenes again are a little...but that was probably amazing back in the 80's.It is very sweet when Kumiko and Daniel connect and try to talk to each other about each other's lives; but the sad thing is she won't appear on the third....The story is what counts here. "},{"Title":"Well made but fail to uplift","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" We pick up the story of Karate Kid Danny La Russo right where we left it in The Karate Kid, with young Danny having just won the amateur tournament. From here director John G. Avildsen takes us in a slightly different direction. In fact we head to the far east, back to Okinawa, the birthplace of Mr. Myagi. Here Myagi must settle affairs with his dying father, and also face an old friend who holds a forty year grudge.Part two tells the tale of traditional Japanese honour without much flair or freshness, with the plot heading down a very obvious path early on. It's satisfying to see the original director and cast returning for this sequel, yet they sadly fail to recapture the mood of the first film, and Pat Morita is not as impressive this time either.Bill Conti brings his initial score back too, and the film is well shot, yet it fails to really uplift and entertain its audience. The opening flashbacks to the first Karate Kid are the best this movie has to offer.Tuesday, February 22, 1994 - Video "},{"Title":"OK, let's stop dissing part three","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" Like most folks out there, I truly enjoyed Part one and Part two, but I keep hearing from various users that Part three needs to be avoided. I don't agree with this. If you are a true Karate Kid fan....like myself....Part three is worth looking at. It has a semi-OK story line and it finally shows Miyagi having a real fight with John Kreese, not just him moving out of the way and Krese busting his hands through a car window....come on....that would never happen in a real world fight, the opponent would simply continue fighting, even with his bloody hand, but enough about that. Again, I enjoyed part two, Although I wish the producers had decided to film a fight between Miyagi and Sato! That would have been awesome! I just wish people would stop saying avoid Part three, avoid Next Karate Kid, because true fans will watch the good and bad. I am also a big time Rocky Fan and yes, I have all six episodes and I watch them again and again, even though some people will say avoid part 5. Watch Karate Kid Part two for scenery and fighting scenes, watch Karate Kid Part one because the original is always the best, and yes, I am going to say this.....if you are a true Karate Kid fan...watch Part three, if anything just for mere curiosity. "},{"Title":"Would you travel to Japan to visit your mentor's dying father?","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" Watched this for the first time since 1986 a few weeks ago. Remembered as a kid not liking it so much, but found it a lot more re-watchable than I remembered.Wehn Mr Miyagi discovers his old man is crook as, he decides to head back to his homeland, the first time in like, ages. Daniel decides to cash in his college fund so he can go too (what the..?). When they get there, trouble arrives straight away when one of Miyagi's old friends wants to settle an old score. Somehow Daniel gets dragged into it too when one of the old guy's nephews starts picking on him and beating the stuffing out of him (sound familiar). Luckily they spare us another tournament showdown, but there is still a confrontation. Miyagi gets into one to with his old buddy. A better story, with some great themes. "},{"Title":"we train at the same dojo","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  This sequel to the 1984 surprise hit The Karate Kid reunites Ralph Macchio as high schooler Danny and Noriyuki Pat Morita as Danny's martial arts mentor Mr. Miyagi. Picking up where the first film left off, The Karate Kid Part II finds Danny and Mr. Miyagi making an emergency trip to Okinawa, where Mr. Miyagi's father is dying. Here they rescue Mr. Miyagi's childhood sweetheart Nobu McCarthy from an arranged marriage with loose cannon karate expert Danny Kamekona. The latter, a wealthy real estate developer, threatens to evict everyone we care about unless Morita agrees to a final, no holds barred karate match. Meanwhile, Danny is challenged by Kamekona's pugnacious son Yuji Okumoto. Karate Kid II was a ok sequel, but the original was better in my opinion. This was not a bad movie, just could have been better. "}{"Title":"Waxes and wanes compared to the first outing.","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" Following on immediately from the events of the first movie, Daniel (Ralph Macchio) and Mr Miyagi (Pat Morita) leave the karate tournament they had been attending and encounter violence in the parking lot. Mr Miyagi ends things peacefully (well . . . . y'know . . . peacefully as in killing the guy would be non-peacefully) , once again trying to teach Daniel a valuable lesson. Time begins to roll merrily on but it's not too long before Mr Miyagi receives a letter informing him that his father is dying and that he should return to say his goodbyes. Accompanied by Daniel, Mr Miyagi heads off to Okinawa. He has not been there for many years but an old friend of his is eager to see him once again. Why? A long-burning hatred will not be assuaged until he fights Mr Miyagi to the death over a wrong he feels can never be righted (it concerns a woman, honour and betrayal). With pressure mounting on Mr Miyagi to fight and Daniel being dragged into the middle of the situation, it's surely only a matter of time before someone has to resolve the situation. But will it be a peaceful resolution or something more physical? Where this movie really suffers is, and there's no way around it, it's lack of action. One flurry at the beginning of the film, one moment when some ice blocks are broken and an enjoyable enough finale do not compensate for the fact that this movie barely earns the right to have the word karate in it's title. Luckily, the chemistry between Macchio and Morita is just as good as it was the first time around otherwise there would be nothing worth watching. The movie just doesn't provide enough decent beats interspersed throughout the emotional and dramatic moments. Yes, the blossoming romances are heartwarming and you get an overall sense of . . . . nice but nice is not great when it comes to cinematic experience. It's just nice.See this if you like The Karate Kid, Best Of The Best, Kickboxer. "},{"Title":"I was surprised, I liked this one too!","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed the first film, and was wondering whether this one would work. On the most part it does. It is formulaic in plot, has some weak parts in the script and it isn't as efficiently paced as the first, yet I loved the message of forgiveness and how well filmed it was. Also, the direction is solid, the karate sequences well choreographed and the energy is evident. The acting is good too, with Ralph Macchio appealing once again and Pat Morita strong and wise, not to mention always watchable.Overall, I was surprised at how much I liked The Karate Kid, Part II. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Under-rated sequel; I recommend you to see this but don't see the sequels that follow","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  Good follow-up to the original with Daniel and Mr. Miyagi going to Okinawa in the summertime to visit his ill father. When they get there, both of them meet many old friends and enemies. Good sequel, but it would have just been fine if they stuck with the original. This was much different from the first. Instead of fighting to prove himself in a tournament, Daniel fights for his life and for honor. That was what I really liked about the movie. However, the first film had Miyagi talking about how violence and fighting was the wrong answer because he was in the war. That was one of the greatest messages in film history.3.5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Disappointing to jettison so much to go to Okinawa","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" This flashes back to right after the tournament where Miyagi (Pat Morita) faces off against John Kreese (Martin Kove) in the parking lot. Then 6 months later, Ali has a new college football boyfriend and breaks up with Daniel (Ralph Macchio). Miyagi gets word of his sick father. The two goes to Okinawa together and faces old rival.I would have preferred to see the movie continue after the tournament with everybody including Elisabeth Shue. The story has written out a lot of the side characters even the mother. Everything's bent out of shape so that they can go to Okinawa. The first part is clunky for that reason. Other than the parking lot, it's a very disappointing start.The Japanese story improves somewhat. It's still very slow. The bully rivals are very cartoonish. The story is basically the same idea as the original. Daniel gets a new girl (Tamlyn Tomita) in Japan. Now there is a new rival for Daniel. The sad thing is that we don't even get to see the real Okinawa. "},{"Title":"When you're not a kid anymore, then it's not so cute!","Date":"25 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" The conflict in this movie ALL originates from Miyagi, Daniel is treated as a side character, which completely inverts the original relationship... This is fine if you want to tell a different story, but at least change the title to reflect the new direction! It's not part two of the same story, it's a completely separate beast, and as such, a poor sequel for a supposed continuation.It also has the added negative effect of diluting the conflict from the first movie, so that when it's returned to again in the third, it seems anticlimactic, given that the writers needed to show how time had passed... If you're humiliated in a parking lot, who is still fixated upon it, a year later?! Apparently, we're asked to believe that Kreese is, which completely changes the dynamic and just makes him a sad man, rather than the ruthless villain of the original. It's a lesson in how to screw up a franchise by straying too far from your roots, too soon. "},{"Title":"Early retirement....","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" It's summer. Mr. Miyagi was going to let Daniel stay with him until he receives a letter from Okinawa telling him that his father is dying. So Miyagi leaves to go there and Daniel joins him. Miyagi tells Daniel that the reason he left Okinawa was because his best friend, Sato whose family is the most affluent in Okinawa, was promised Yukie whose the girl Miyagi loved. So Miyagi asks her to run away with him and when Sato learnt of this, he challenged Miyagi to a fight to the death. So Miyagi left. Upon arriving Miyagi discovers Sato still wants to fight him and his nephew and best student Chozen has it out for Daniel.....The first three minutes of this film are incredible, taking off right where the first one finished, its great stuff. And this should have been at the end of the first film and then left the franchise, because honestly, the rest of the film should be called the Nosey kid, or the annoying kid, because this is what he, and the film are.Pat Morita is as good as ever, but his story is way too stiff and predictable, and Daniel is just there to copy a drum at the end.So all in all, its pretty boring stuff, and then there were two more..... "},{"Title":"The Karate Kid Part II","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" With the first film being such a hit for families all over, a sequel to a big success was pretty much expected, from director John G. Avildsen (Rocky). Basically the films opens where the previous film finished, a little montage and seeing Daniel LaRusso (Ralph Macchio) win his fight with that great kick, with his trainer Mr. Kesuke Miyagi (Noriyuki 'Pat' Morita) looking proud. After a little trouble from bitter trainer John Kreese (Martin Kove), Daniel returns home with Mr. Miyagi who is allowing him to live with him, but then he receives some bad news. Daniel decides to go with Mr. Miyagi as he travels to Okinawa to visit his dying father, and very quickly after arriving they have an encounter with an old rival of Mr. Miyagi's, Sato (Danny Kamekona). He has a big grudge against Miyagi as his father trained them both, and he wants to settle their fight once and for all with a fight to the death, with the father just dies he gives him three days to mourn and prepare. While Miyagi prepares in his own way, and rekindling his relationship with past love Yukie (Nobu McCarthy), Daniel has to deal with Sato's nephew and best student, Chozen (Yuji Okumoto), and he is falling for local girl Kumiko (Tamlyn Tomita). Finally it comes near to the time to fight, but a big storm puts it off, and Sato is caught in it and has his life saved by Miyagi and Daniel, he changes his mind. Chozen however with his really fiery attitude still wants a fight, and he decides to go against Daniel to defend his honour sort of thing, and in the end, of course the right person wins, and Mr. Miyagi is once again proud. Morita is once again the most likable part of the film, I will admit I agree with the critics that the story is a little of a retread of the predecessor, the most original aspect is being in Japan. But that and some stormy (pardon the pun) moments, and the final fight, make this a watchable martial arts adventure. It was nominated the Oscar and Golden Globe for Best Song for Glory of Love. Okay! "},{"Title":"Another familiar face in the bar scene breaking ice","Date":"22 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" Someone noticed the actor resembling Johnny from KK 1. Anybody recognize the young cocky black actor that fails to break the ice and challenges Daniel to put up or shut up. He is/was Walker's(Chuck Norris) partner on Walker Texas Ranger. There are others, Sato has appeared in several made for TV movies as a Police Officer in Hawaii. He also had bit parts in Shogun, Taipan and The Noble House.Tami Tomita (Daniel's new Love interest) has had other post KK 2 roles. Some on daily Soaps and a longer stint on JAG as a Japanese/Italian Navy attorney w/JAG.Many people only associate Noriyuki Morita with the KK series of movies. Many forget that he really came to be noticed as the Owner/Operator of Arnold's on Happy Days. He had other roles in Tora, Tora, Tora and Midway that got him noticed "},{"Title":"Start of the groan inducing sequels to Karate Kid.","Date":"14 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" Yes, Daniel and Mr. Miyagi are back and so is the teacher from the last movie! Well briefly, and we learn shortly after that Daniel's girl from the last movie who stood by him through it all dumped him for a football player and wrecked his car. Wow, so much for storybook endings, though I guess it makes for a more realistic course of actions. Well no time to worry about that kind of stuff as I think Mr. Miyagi's dad is dying and Mr. Miyagi must hurry back to see off his dying father. He must also confront a rival from long ago. Daniel quickly makes friends and enemies and then we have moments of pure groan. Tea ceremonies and the like litter the movie and make this movie a sequel that never should have been in my book. Granted this one made more money than the original, however, the next film would do drastically less probably because a number of people were rather disappointed by this one and the third one was rather bad. There are a couple of okay scenes in this one such as the ice breaking one and the typhoon had a visual appeal I rather liked as does the whole movie mainly because it is set in the far east. Still, the plot needed some work with a bit less sickly sweet moments. "},{"Title":"Glory of sludge...","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" Ralph Macchio and Pat Morita return as teacher and student who travel to Okinawa to see Mr.Myiagi's dying father and it is here where Morita must confront a deadly enemy who is looking to avenge his honor. While Daniel must end up fighting for the same reason in this excruciatingly dull film. There are many problems with this movie, the number one problem is that the story works better as a sequel to Kickboxer than it does to a Karate Kid. I mean had this been an R rated and harder edged type of action flick that the plot typically calls for, this may have worked. Unfortunately though it is treated as drama and all we watch is the interaction between these people, now don't get me wrong, if a drama actually creates a credible situation and gives us characters worth caring about, then it can be something. (Kill Bill Volume 1 and 2) however when the material is this cheesy (Avenged honor?) you need lots of martial arts action. This is not the case and we get too much filler and not much excitement. Indeed this is one extremely boring movie. The climax at the end is a to the death fight and well you can't do this in a PG movie. Not well, anyway.*1/2 out of 4-(Poor) "}{"Title":"The Sequel Trap","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  Caught in the sequel trap the now defunct newspaper, The San Diego Union opined when KKPtII came out.  I don't normally listen to or agree with newspaper reviews of flicks, but this time I had to.While this wasn't a totally deploring sequel, it wasn't anything outstanding.  At the end of the first movie it was apparent that there was going to be a sequel and  it was great to see what happened after the tournament.  But afterward, the story seemed to lag and drag.  The result?  It seemed like an attempt to cash in on the success of the original rather than a great continuation of a great story.two ** out of ****. "},{"Title":"God-awful","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" You know you're in for something bad when the opening of a sequel is one, long montage of highlights from its predecessor! It only gets worse.Starting of with a series of contrivances that are extremely hard to swallow, the film takes the leading duo back to Miyagi's native Japan, where our two heroes must face each their challenges. From thence, everything is practically a string of events with no real story and plot development, leading to a ludicrous climax.Morita and Macchio do what they can with this thoughtless script, but their characters have lost all their charm from the original film (they are practically caricatures of themselves), and the story gives us nothing to opt for.Karate Kid, Part II might have been a wanted sequel, but it's an unnecessary sequel &#150; and a god-awful one at that. "},{"Title":"Pretty dull.","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  The weak, meandering script is the major - but not the only - flaw of this pretty dull sequel to Karate Kid. The pacing is lethargic, but it's not director Avildsen's fault this script, where almost nothing happens, could only sustain a movie about 30 minutes long. Until the well-done climactic fight, this film isn't exciting at all. "},{"Title":"And so starts the digression of the series....","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  When John G. Avildsen's The Karate Kid was a smash hit, the fact that a sequel would be made was inevitable. Perhaps even a trilogy would form. A totally unnecessary trilogy, but a trilogy nevertheless. Well, there were three sequels made - The Karate Kid, Part II, The Karate Kid, Part III, and The Next Karate Kid, each installment worse than the last entry.The point of the first movie was stressed clearly without becoming too overbearing. Violence is wrong. Right, right, right - we've heard it before. Of course, self-defense is fine when used correctly, but nonsensical violence is criminally and morally wrong.That's sort of forgotten in The Karate Kid, Part II, which stumbles along and runs into major problems. One, the script - it's weak. Two, the acting - it's stiff. Three, the actual story and scenes within the film - all idiotic. Take, for example, the end of the film, when a Chinese girl is performing some ancient dance and a disowned martial arts expert swings from the top of the stadium down a cable, landing next to the girl and holding a knife to her throat. Behind you! Daniel (Ralph Macchio) yells helplessly as he jumps into the sand pit before him and proceeds to battle the martial artist. (Is that a word? And what's the difference between martial arts and karate? Never mind, don't answer that.)No one offers any sort of help as Daniel is beaten to a bloody pulp. None whatsoever. They just sit around and watch with fixated smiles on their faces, forgetting that their characters call for them to be scared and not to be happy that they are getting not even fifteen minutes of fame out of the deal.A small complaint? Perhaps, but pretty much all of the film contains these children's fantasy ideas that a boy such as Daniel may dream of during his sleep. In fact, perhaps this sequel is all one big hallucination - perhaps Daniel, after a tough karate match, was knocked out. He's laying in a hospital, dazed and confused, unconscious and lost in a deadly coma. It's the easiest way to create a half-baked sequel, so pay attention, scriptwriters.Daniel has gone back to Mr. Miyagi's (Pat Morita) country of origin, China, and now he's getting into fights with an old adversary of Mr. Miyagi. There's not much more to tell you than that - unless, of course, you would like to know that the mandatory girlfriend appears for Daniel (a Chinese chick, of course), and that the adversary's niece is Daniel's foe.Great stuff.Not.I really liked the first Karate Kid movie, but this is pushing it. The third film was absolutely appalling, the fourth a total mess. The second is below average and quite mediocre. I'd call it an uncredited rip-off of Rocky if not for the fact that the director of the film, John G. Avildsen, happens to be the director of Rocky, among other films. His expertises are these underdog flicks. Unfortunately, despite having a strong predecessor and possible character developments in store, The Karate Kid, Part II, offers nothing new to the series. And, needless to say, either will the following two sequels.Ralph Macchio is fine, Pat Morita is still the same, but the film is too goofy and unreal to appreciate. It's a weak example of filmmaking. It's not even that fun to watch - whereas the first film sort of had the viewer attached to the screen, this one makes you want to walk away and not pay attention to it at all.Perhaps the only positive thing to say about this movie is that it is the best of the sequels. But that's really not saying very much at all, is it?2/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"When you try to get into the movie and take it seriously, then it seems like more of a spoof and you can't help but laugh","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" The Karate Kid Part II was made a year after I was born, so no, I never really had an opportunity to see the films but I am now interested in seeing what the hype was about. When I saw the first film recently, I could understand why people enjoyed it so much. It had humor, drama, and a feeling of total accomplishment at the end as Rocky did in it's series. The Karate Kid Part II disses the honor the first one brought. As I predicted they'll send the mother away and Ali will break up with Daniel because the actors probably either didn't like the scripts or actually got good careers. I was so right! D First off, we are now in the country where Mr. Miyagi is from and he is there to visit his dying father. There he is confronted by an old friend who wishes to fight him over an argument they had several years ago over a woman. Mr. Miyagi of course says he cannot fight him and wishes to visit his father and leave once again. Daniel has also come along with him to Okinawa to learn about the culture and such. When Mr. Miyagi's old friend, Sato, just won't leave him alone about the fight, he gets his nephew involved as well getting Daniel tangled into the old argument as well.Now, the old friend, Sato, has such a deep voice that is trying too hard to intimidate, you just expect his mouth to be out of sync. That nephew of his also is like I'm super bad! Fear me! I kill! Grr!, it really wasn't that effective. The ending just didn't make sense to me and I wouldn't really watch this movie again. Unless you want to see the series, this is the only way I'd really recommend it.6/10 "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":"  I watched this film on TV over the weekend and expected the same sort of mindless, yet entertaining fun that you got from the first.  Boy was I in for a surprise.What you actually get is a blistering display in Japanese stereotypes, dreadful acting and one of the worst storylines I have ever seen in a film.  The whole thing seems completely pointless and whilst I appreciate that the vast majority of sequels are written just to make money off the back of a successful first venture, most at least try to be entertaining in their own right.I can definately say this is the worst film I have ever seen, and I've seen Teen Wolf Too! "},{"Title":"Disappointing Sequel","Date":"2 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Family, Romance","Review":" Karate Kid Part II, The (1986) ** 1/2 (out of 4)Disappointing sequel finds Daniel (Ralph Macchio) and Mr. Miyagi (Pat Morita) traveling to Okinawa when Miyagi receives a letter that his father is dying. Once there Miyagi runs into an old rival who wants to fight him to the death while Daniel falls for a new girl but also runs into someone who wants to kill him. THE KARATE KID PART II is far from a horrible movie but time certainly hasn't done it any favors but then again it was fairly weak when it was first released. It's obvious that no one really paid too much attention when it came time to come up with a good story and it's also quite clear that this was only made because the studio knew they could make money. As with most sequels, this one here is rather pointless and the story itself is pretty weak and forced. I'd say just about everything going on here is forced from the situation with Miyagi and his old rival to his relationship with the woman he left behind. Nothing with Daniel works either with the love story coming off silly and his new rival just comes off rather bland and a pale imitation of the one from the first film. I found Daniel's character to be really poorly written here and what really annoyed me was the constant questions that he would be asking. If you took away all of his questions or at least cut them in half then the movie could have shaved a good thirty-minutes off the running time. That too is a problem because the 113-minutes really drag in spots. With all of that said, there are still a few good things in the film including the performances by Macchio and Morita. Both men fit back nicely into their roles and that chemistry between them is once again on the mark. The supporting players don't come off as well but the majority of this can be blamed on the screenplay that makes the characters so unrealistic that the actors really don't have anything to work with. There's one nice sequence inside a gambling hall where Daniel must break some ice and of course there's the Peter Cetera song Glory of Love, which is put to good use. John G. Avildsen returns as director but there's very little energy throughout the production, which is a real shame. The film is technically well made and it looks quite good but this can't overcome the weak story and the at times laughable screenplay. "}]