[{"Title":"A classic of the 1980's","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"50 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can almost guarantee that anyone who has seen 'The Mosquito Coast', then looked at the subject line of this review, thinks I'm crazy. The truth is that this film is deeply flawed and undeniably weak in many regards, but it had a quality I cannot describe. This is the only film I have ever seen that, despite many shortcomings, manages to come out of the storm relatively unscathed, and become an unforgettable, almost haunting, movie.The production values are immaculate. Peter Weir's direction is excellent, and is in top form here. He has crafted a thick shell that blocks the flaws from coming up to the surface, an indescribable feat that very few directors have accomplished. The musical score is good, not outstanding, but it's fitting, and surprisingly subtle. There is only about six minutes out of the entire film that has musical accompaniment, which makes for a very unique experience, and not necessarily a bad one. The tropical cinematography is dazzling, and the decision to shoot on location in Belize instead of on a studio back lot really paid off, contributing greatly to the film's success.As good as the mentioned characteristics are, nothing is as good as the acting, especially that from the two leads Harrison Ford and River Phoenix. Prior to this, Ford had made a name for himself with big budget action roles, with several failed attempts at drama (Hanover Street being the best example of that). It wasn't until 1985's 'Witness' (which Peter Weir also directed, that Ford was taken seriously as an all around actor. Personally I think Ford's performance here greatly overshadowed his work in 'Witness', and is a career best for him, even in the light of 'Regarding Henry' and 'Presumed Innocent', both made after his. He takes the character of Allie Fox, and moulds him into a selfish, driving maniac, blind to the wishes of others, only caring for himself. Phoenix, on the other hand, deserves even more acclaim, for several reasons. For one, this was only his third film, after 1985's 'Explorers', and 'Stand by Me', made right before this. Secondly, he was only 15 at the time of the shoot, and had little acting experience, yet he easily out acted most of his co-stars. Though his performance wasn't quite as refined as Ford's was, he still reached a level of near perfection and set the stage for a glorious, and ultimately tragic, career.The story is one of utter genius, one of the few original ones popping up in an industry full of sequels, remakes and rip offs. Based on the 1981 bestseller by Paul Theroux, and co-starring Helen Mirren, 'The Mosquito Coast' deserves a place among the best films of the 80's.But wait, I'm not done. Despite a great exterior, deep inside the movie is troubled. It's as if director Weir pushed all the movie's problems deep down under the surface, then piled layer after layer of... something, on top of it, hiding them from the clueless audience. My main problem with the movie is that it yearns to break away from it's literary roots, a problem that could've been easily avoided had the right script come along. Entire conversations are lifted from the text, and there isn't a single line that doesn't have an equal counterpart in the novel. For me this got extremely tedious as, hours before popping in the tape for a second viewing, I had finished the book, and the two are much too similar.Another problem I have with it is that the scenes are much too short, with none of them running over about a minute and a half. An obvious result of this is that many subplots remain unresolved, and several concepts are hinted at, but go without further explanation, making for a confusing story. If the screenwriter had put a little more effort into making the film different than the book, with new scenes, we would have seen a much better end product.A third, albeit a smaller one, is that the production team apparently spent too much time making sure that the movie would get a PG rating, though it would've been much better had it gotten an R, or even a PG-13 rating. That would've allowed Ford a little more breathing room to tweak his character, possibly allowing Allie to become less sympathetic, more of a madman.I can't think of much more worth saying to put in this review, so I'll end it with this note see the movie, even if you've read the book, but don't do the two back to back. "},{"Title":"Life on La Mosquitia &#150; Chronicles of the Fox Family","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"44 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Mosquito Coast is one of the best books I have ever read, and the movie does super well to do justice to that novel. It is also one of Harrison Ford's best character roles; the eccentricity and opinionated genius of Allie is done to perfection by him. Peter Weir's brilliant direction is to be expected considering his other masterpieces &#150; Fearless, also based on an excellent book of the same name, is one of the best movies yet. His films (Truman Show, Green Card, and Witness come to mind) tend to chronicle troubles and eccentric characters to go out on a limb, literally.The narration is carefully done, only enough voice-overs to explain the philosophical implications and underpinnings of the characters' thoughts and actions. There are, of course, some mysterious elements to how things happen, which can only be remedied by reading Theroux's book of the same name.Taking a very Robinson Crusoe-esquire piece of fiction and putting it to film is not an easy process. In fact, this is the kind of novel that can be very easily messed up by the movies with strong action and adventure type Hollywood direction. Luckily, Weir has done an excellent job portraying the characters &#150; not so much the plot &#150; of those who will come to inhabit The Mosquito Coast. In short, not only is Mosquito Coast a film to watch, it should be required.RATING 10/10 We eat when we're not hungry, drink when we're not thirsty. We buy what we don't need and throw away everything that's useful. Why sell a man what he wants? Sell him what he doesn't need. Pretend he's got eight legs and two stomachs and money to burn. It's wrong. Wrong, wrong, wrong. "},{"Title":"Excellently crafted - painful to watch","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"39 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Some of the other reviews summarize this pretty well.  The Mosquito Coast details flawlessly the grotesque decomposition of a good and true man.  Harrison Ford's Allie is driven insane by his own intelligence and inability to control his ego.  Even more remarkable and disquieting is the fact that this is based on a true story.  In some ways, Allie reminds me of Dr. Mobius from Forbidden Planet.  But the demons Allie conjures up are far more grotesque and deadly than anything from even Mobius' warped imagination.  I conclude that this is a true piece of art and science -- magnificently crafted from beginning to end -- and I will NEVER voluntarily watch it again.   "},{"Title":"Insightful Drama From Peter Weir","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"34 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  	Someone once said that ignorance is bliss; and if you follow through the reasoning process that leads to that conclusion, you discover that it is, indeed, true.  Another way of saying it would be, that the less you know, the happier you are likely to be; kind of a `what you don't know can't hurt you' perspective, but true, nevertheless.  Conversely then, what can be said about knowledge?  About knowing too much?  Can genius, for example, be equated with a life of torment?  Can knowing-- and more precisely, understanding-- too much bring about anguish and unhappiness?  The answer to that , of course, cannot be absolute, for there are a number of variables that must first be factored in, one of the most prevalent being that thin line that separates the true genius from madness, and how close to which side of that line the individual in question resides.  It's a situation examined in depth by director Peter Weir, in his riveting, thought provoking drama, `The Mosquito Coast,' starring Harrison Ford, Helen Mirren and River Phoenix.	Allie Fox (Ford) is a family man; he has a devoted wife, `Mother (Mirren),' and four children, the eldest of whom, Charlie (Phoenix), thinks his dad is a genius.  Which he is.  Allie Fox is an inventor who believes it's man's job to tinker with an unfinished world and make it work.  He is also a true individual, the epitome of the man who marches to his own drum-- and in his case, his drum is the `only' one he will march to.  He sees such potential in everything around him, but he also sees that very same potential being wasted at every turn by seemingly everyone, from the average guy just trying to make a living, to a Corporate America he sees as the impetus that has already begun to destroy the nation.  All around him he sees a country and a people that has lost that spirit that made America strong; he sees ruin and decay in everything  In the lack of quality in any and all manufactured goods, and in the apathy of the acquiescent consumer.  And he's had enough.  Refusing to stand by and watch America die, he packs up and moves his family to a remote section of a jungle in Central America, near the coast of La Moskitia; and it is there that he discovers a land, that to him, is paradise-- and where he also encounters the demons that plague those who know too much, and feel too deeply.	Working from an intelligent and penetrating screenplay by Paul Schrader (adapted from the novel by Paul Theroux), Weir delivers a thoroughly engrossing character study that parallels Werner Herzog's 1972 masterpiece, `Aguirre, The Wrath of God,' inasmuch as it examines the effects of self-perceived omnipotence in an individual driven to extreme measures by a singular quest for power and autonomy (albeit in different times and with different motives).  Allie Fox, like Don Lope de Aguirre, becomes a victim of his own obsession, consequently victimizing those around him, as well, by losing sight of his own ideals and getting swept away in the current of a distorted sense of purpose.  Allie leaves an environment he perceives as defective for one that is ultimately equally flawed-- that being the environs within his own mind.  All of which is hauntingly presented by Weir, aided by John Seale and Maurice Jarre, whose cinematography and score, respectively, helps to create the atmosphere that so effectively underscores the drama of the story.	As Allie Fox, Harrison Ford gives a performance that is one of his best and most powerful ever, affecting a commanding presence that dominates virtually every scene-- so compelling that his presence is felt even when he is absent from the screen.  This isn't a character you are going to like, necessarily; and yet you are going to care about him, because there's something in him that reflects and addresses concerns that are universal, which makes Allie someone to whom many in the audience will be able to relate and identify.  He's the man who believes that he truly `can' be an island unto himself, and beyond his personal peccadilloes, that is the kind of strength that demands admiration; for at the same time, it enables forgiveness.  It's a solid portrayal of a man at cross purposes with himself, who realizes to some extent what he is doing, yet adamantly refuses to back down.  And this is the man Ford brings to life so vividly; he's convincing, and his Allie Fox is disconcertingly real.	Helen Mirren also turns in a memorable performance as Allie's devoted wife, whom he calls `Mother.'  Mirren says more without dialogue-- through a subtle expression, or even the merest glance-- than most actors do with a limitless number of words.  And it's her moments of silence that are some of the most telling of the film, while at the same time adding strength to the lines she does recite.  In the end, Mirren creates a character who chooses her words well, then uses them wisely-- and it's a portrayal that is, without question, one of the strengths of the film.  In the way Mother looks at Allie, Mirren conveys that love and absolute loyalty that makes everything they do believable.  There is complete trust there, which you can feel when, standing in her kitchen, for example, she gives a final glance at the dishes piled high in the sink; a glance at the life she's leaving behind to follow her husband.  And she's happy.  In it's simplicity and brevity, it's a powerful scene that says so much about who she is, and who `they' are.  And Mirren makes it work beautifully.	Phoenix does a solid job, too, providing the narrative of the film as Charlie.  He is perfectly cast as Ford's son, and he succeeds in giving `The Mosquito Coast' that sense of reflection and perspective that makes it a truly memorable, and emotionally involving, film.  9/10.  	       "},{"Title":"Anti hero falls short of redemption","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" With much of Harrison Ford's career during the eighties dominated by his participation in George Lucas and Spielberg blockbusters, it comes as a relief to discover that in between his numerous flights on the Milennium Falcon and slashing his whip he found time to star in many low key movies. Among these hidden treasures is The Mosquito Coast, a character driven story about one mans attempt to recreate an Eden in a faraway land. And his secret to survival? Ice.This is an interesting movie, not only because it has an all star cast, that includes River Phoenix, but because we see Harrison Ford give his all to creating a character that is multi dimensional. He is an idealist and has the best intentions, yet is doomed to failure as the viewer senses an impeding violent side to his vision which will come to destroy him.As a movie this is a good study of man's attempt to act upon his dreams, as a lighthearted pop corn flick this will annoy the average mainstream cinema goer. Simply put, many people will find it hard to imagine Harrison Ford as anything else other than the super hero incarnation of Indiana Jones, and multi faceted anti heroes that never see the errors of their ways is a genre of cinema that Hollywood hasn't quite got their head around yet.For everybody else who would like to see a movie that has depth, great acting and a solid script, this will be excellent viewing. "},{"Title":"Star Vehicle Runs Out Of Gas","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"46 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" You can watch The Mosquito Coast and think of how cruelly the world tends to treat idealists. Or you can think how cruelly Hollywood tends to treat literature. It's true either way.Harrison Ford stars as an inventor named Allie Fox, who leads his wife and four young children into the wilds of Central America (Belize here, Honduras in the novel) to get away from Western civilization, where people eat too much of the wrong things, anesthetize themselves with cheap entertainment, and are lulled to sleep by the falsities of materialism and Christianity.Allie is better than that, of course, and so he plunges himself and his family into a jungle clearing beside a river. There they create a rustic utopia they can call their own, complete with a giant ice machine that works from internal combustion fueled by ammonia hydroxide. For a while they enjoy the simple life, complete with air conditioning and pedal-powered laundry machine. But paradise can be easier to attain than it is to maintain.Ford obviously wanted to sink his teeth into some deeper material after the success he had in so many popcorn classics. He was coming off his best performance, in Witness, and took that film's director Peter Weir along for the river run. You have to give Ford credit for seeking such challenges at the apex of a profitable career, and he does a good job with the character in the script. But the script presents more of a star vehicle for Ford's ambitions than anything worth viewing on its own merits.It's funny that reviewers like Roger Ebert slammed this movie when it came out because Ford's character was unbearable. Allie Fox in the novel is unbearable, which is why the book is so good. He pushes and pushes his family and punishes them for their devotion. Even before making landfall in Central America, he goads his oldest son, Charlie, to climb a ship's mast and swing from the rigging. He rags on Charlie constantly, without reason, and is a thorough misanthrope, albeit often compelling as portrayed in the novel by Charlie's narration and author Paul Theroux.But Fox in the movie is not so unbearable. We see Fox and his son, played by River Phoenix, share laughs and backslaps. He hugs and jokes with his wife, Mother, played by Helen Mirren. Fox in the book is a dark man who spews insults at people, or makes loaded comments and then excuses himself with a terse Just kidding. Ford imbues him with a sense of humor, an air of reasonableness, and squares off with antagonists who are truly nasty rather than ambiguous targets of Fox's hostility.Ford maintains Fox's sense of idealistic contempt with Western civilization, and has fun with the many rants Fox throws up. A nice scene shows him going on about something as he starts a chainsaw, continuing to talk as the saw's roar drowns him out and not noticing. But a lot of the time Ford presents us with a beautiful dreamer, and the central idea of the story, that Fox is quite a dangerous man, is lost.The result is a picture that lacks something the novel has, a sense of depth that gives perspective to the suffering we witness. The story in the book is Charlie's discovery of his father's selfish, dangerous heart. In the movie, it's more like Why do bad things happen to courageous idealists? After a while, you start to glaze over from it all, and Mosquito Coast becomes an ordeal without a point. "},{"Title":"The Iceman Cometh","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Frothing at the mouth with disgust for his homeland America, inventor Allie Fox (Harrison Ford), with family in tow, pulls up roots, and moves to Central America. Here, he proceeds to build a new life in the jungle, using his mechanical skills, his inventiveness, and in particular his patented machine, which produces ice, sans electricity. Ice is civilization, he proclaims with unctuous authority. That will be the foundation for his utopian dream. But Allie is so headstrong, so convinced of his infallibility that his vision blinds him to reality. And the film's ending is poignant.Delusion and self-deception breed nightmarish outcomes. And the cinema, through the years, has dramatized these themes quite well, in films like Aguirre The Wrath Of God, Fitzcaraldo, and Deliverance. In real life, delusion and self-deception were the basis for the events surrounding American preacher Jim Jones who, in the late 1970s, relocated his naive flock to the jungles of Guyana, whereupon he established Jonestown, envisioned as a religious utopia. The result was tragic.Beyond the deep themes thus expressed in the script, The Mosquito Coast looks good visually. The tropical scenery is spectacular. Production design and cinematography are terrific. And the film's score, by Maurice Jarre, is wonderfully exotic and majestic.My only complaint is the character of Allie Fox, who at some point badmouths just about everyone and everything. I could have wished for a quieter, less loquacious, madman. Then too, Harrison Ford plays Fox in a way that overrides subtext. In short, Fox not only is delusional and self-deceptive, he's also preachy, domineering, and totally lacking in compassion for others, someone whom we as viewers cannot root for or have any empathy with.The Mosquito Coast reminds us that the grass is not always greener on the other side of the fence. Chasing that elusive pot of gold at the end of the rainbow is for dreamers. This is a good film to watch when you're facing a pile of problems. You could be like Allie's family, trying to forge some existence in the jungles and listening to the rants of an icy madman. "},{"Title":"Good film- superb acting all around, but I wish it had a slightly different angle","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Harrison Ford is brilliant in this film, as is the rest of the cast, and I am a big fan of this sort of film that explores the human psyche. I, however, wish the film spent just as much time showing the Missionaries evils and maniacal religious B.S. as it did painting Ford's character as a dangerous megalomaniac. I disagree with many of Ford's characters decisions over the course of the film...and in the long run he ends up becoming exactly what he set out to destroy, but his ideas on America are SPOT ON (and are just as relevant today) and it goes without saying that his errors are paled in comparison to what Christian missionaries have done through the brainwashing of the 3rd world people. My point is that Ford's character's plans were ill-conceived and nutty, but the world he left was just as insane. "},{"Title":"A chilling and prophetic film...","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Most of the others that took the time to comment on this film would seem to agree on a certain point that this movie sticks in your mind.  It is not simply a night spent with a videotape.  It is an experience in emotional extremism and moral inquisition.  The central motive of this movie is to send a wake up call and point out that the world we live in has been doomed since the dawn of civilization.  This movie is a doomsday prophecy.Harrison Ford heads an enormously talented cast that is the both the perfect model and the antithesis of a working family.  Ford plays Allie Fox, an American inventor who moves his family into the jungles of a Carribean Island paradise.  His story, the story narrated by his oldest son (River Phoenix), is a gut wrenching, heart pounding tale that is marvellously captured by the actors that he presides over with his token cynicism and quick, sharp wit. Ford's Allie leaves America to begin anew in a world that has not yet been developed or corrupted by a modern society wraught with materialism and blind faith.  What he does not understand is that his ambitions will only lead to the creation of a new society that is almost certainly a micro-carbon copy of the archetype that he wishes to escape.  Pollution, violence, religous meddling all have their place in Allie's world, but he refuses to aknowledge to himself and to the people that he presides over that he has set off a chain of events that parellel the advancement and decline of every civilization since the beggining of time. When disaster strikes and he is forced to take actions that would've seemed inhuman to him early on in the story, he begins a writhing and painful decension into madness as his world slowly crumbles and the better life that he had hoped to sustain turns on him.  As skepticism begins to creep into the minds of his family, he forces them into a life of desperation; a day to day routine of survival that ends in tragedy. The movie is shot beatifully.  The camera captures moments of frightening irony that simple acting could never touch.  The jungle scenes intially offer hope but transform into tragedy.  The beach and river scenes capture the actors in full form as the tension grows, swells, and explodes.In fact, if there's anything that the film did wrong it was to rely almost solely on symbolism to convey the rich and powerful theme of the story.  The average movieogoer is so used to blockbusters and movies that are about as deep as a tablespoon will most likely find the movie confusing. Religous watchers will probably find offense in the portrayl of a selfish and ethnocentric missionary that does not neccesarilly put down religon but rather offers a manifestation of evidence in times of tragedy, society seeks a higher source of wisdom beyond the physical plane of reality. This movie should not be watched only once.  It should be carefully scrutinized so that viewers may be fully immersed in the meaning and take the powerful message to heart.   "},{"Title":"Muddled message","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although this movie is intriguing, it leaves one wondering about what exactly it is driving at. The answer to why the world is endless at the end of the movie seems to have too many conflictual answers. Could it be because Allie's ideals are too narrow? Is America the endless world (where the Foxes were returning to), and therefore Allie really off the mark? Was Allie a hypocrite (establishing his own religion and relying on technology as a last resort)? Did Allie actually think of himself as a type of god? Too many questions arise at the end of the movie.The lengthy criticisms of Allie seem to be the author screaming out his opinion as well. The criticisms could have been shortened a tad and Allie's actions could have expressed the opinion of the author in a deeper manner.Still, the movie is spellbinding. The imagery is intriguing. Harrison Ford is incredible. Helen Mirren portrays the ever-loyal wife well. The problems with this movie lie not in its presentation, but in the story's muddled messages.   "}{"Title":"Galt of the Jungle","Date":"24 June 2013","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There's a touch of John Galt about Harrison Ford's protagonist in 'The Mosquito Coast' a brilliant, welfare-hating, atheistic inventor who retires from a civilised world full of moochers and looters and consequently doomed to collapse. He (and the film) also seem to share Ayn Rand's view of a world not occupied by Europeans as a virgin territory. Yet the film shifts from portraying him as a Randian hero to something rather less attractive; and odd moments towards the end reminded me of Andrey Zvyagintsev's superb 'The Return', albeit without the subtlety. Subtlety is really the key here the film needs to show how the character's final descent is a natural consequence of his worldview, not some random madness; but Harrison Ford lacks the depth as an actor to pull this off. A young Helen Mirren co-stars, but the film is fundamentally all about Ford, and he can't fully convey the darkness of the man. It's a shame there's a good (although somewhat fabulous) parable in the underlying storyline. "},{"Title":"What?","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Love Peter Wier. Love Harrison Ford and Helen Mirren. Hated this film. I could not, for the life of me, work out exactly what this film was trying to say or where it was intending to go. It astounded me to hear that Harrison Ford regarded it as one of his favourite films. Perhaps I'm missing something. But as far as I was concerned, the film generally lacked engaging qualities and the story seemed oddball, direction-less, contradictory and dripping with self-importance (that it didn't deserve). Really disappointed with this heap of dung. I don't think I missed the point because I don't think that the film knew what point it was trying to make - so how can any viewer profess to? Lies somewhere between trash and dreadfully cluttered attempt at poignancy. 1/10. "},{"Title":"Who is to blame for Allie's actions???","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Mosquito Coast is a story of an individual who is looking for something that he doesn't quite understand. He lacks inherent meaning and a sense of purpose in the United States and actively seeks out a smaller, local environment in which he can develop and reinvent himself in a society supportive of his needs.The obtuse use of religious imagery adds depth and ambiguity at the same time. It is difficult to realise that through refusing the commonplace religious doctrine (though the scene on the ferry with Reverend Spellgood) and later through refusing his entry into Geronimo shows his own personal paranoia. Whilst trying to keep the people of Geronimo and his family from the confines of organised religion he spills out lines and lines of his own dogmatic beliefs. 'It's an absolute sin to accept the decadence of obsolescence. 'Why do things get worse and worse? They don't have to. They could get better and better. We accept that things fall apart.', and the quote about the world being left unfinished and needing science and technology to complete it. Allie regurgitates his ideas about science as though he is preaching and understanding this juxtaposition of his beliefs against his distrust of organised religious beliefs is central to appreciating the film.Unfortunately for Allie, he never finds the meaning and purpose that he is looking for because the environment that he moves to is not supportive of his personal, emotional and cultural needs. The symbolic choice to destroy the village of Geronimo rather than fight to save it exemplifies the American attitude that he had earlier criticised I just work here, that's the attitude.By the conclusion of the film, Allie is a difficult character to like, as his paranoia and selfishness toward his family have resulted in the tragedy of the ending. In many ways Allie is a victim of the modern world as like most of us he felt that the commercialised and globalised world that we live in causes us to look beyond the lives we live and find 'real' meaning in them. This supports the ideas of Neitzsche who said that in an increasingly globalised world people have to rediscover meaning and reinvent themselves. I challenge you to consider Allie as a victim rather than the antagonist of this film and try to rationalise his actions into the desperate actions of somebody fighting for meaning and value in their lives. "},{"Title":"Goodbye America and have a nice day!","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Mosquito Coast is directed by Peter Weir and adapted to screenplay by Paul Schrader from the novel of the same name written by Paul Theroux. it stars Harrison Ford, Helen Mirren, River Phoenix, Conrad Roberts and Andre Gregory. Music is scored by Maurice Jarre and cinematography by John Searle. Story sees Ford as Allie Fox, an inventor who has grown tired of what he sees as the disintegration of America. With his family in tow, Allie heads for what he hopes to be a happier life in the jungles of Central America. Building a self sufficient utopia, things start swimmingly, but can it last? Where does Allie's ambition end?I have never read the novel, but I have it on good authority that it's cracker-jack stuff. Viewing this brilliant film, I regret not having indulged in the source material first. With that out the way, I can say that Peter Weir's film held me in an vice like grip throughout, it proved to be utterly compelling and beautiful to look at, yet as Allie Fox's ambitions and mindset begin to alter, a bleakness hones in to view and looms large over the picture. Propelled by a quite excellent performance by Ford, his own personal favourite and a film he stands strong in support of, film asks questions of man's place in the imperfect world, idealism and religious fervour; both pro and con. It's a bold and intelligent screenplay by Schrader, which only falters slightly with a mixed message come the denouement. Away from Ford and Searle's sharp photography, Phoenix and Mirren provide very strong support and Weir, a most undervalued director, paces it with his customary slow burn precision.A hidden gem of the 80s and on Ford's CV, The Mosquito Coast is the kind of adult cinema we could do with more of these days. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A great adventure movie that you will not like.","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A tale of an eccentric genius with an equally eccentric dream and his desire to escape a supposedly doomed America with his family to form a retro civilization in the tropics. It's difficult to like Harrison Ford (Allie)-especially in the last third of this movie when he starts really going off the deep end. But it is unique and really illustrates the mindset of an eccentric genius character well. If you are a middle-of-the-road (perhaps slightly Democratic) person with a 9-5 job-you know...the kind that the doomsayers claim has not woke up to what is going on, then you won't get it. You won't like it at all either. But art is not about being liked and often it is not even about passing judgment. Art is about illustrating the phenomenon of what it is to be human-without using crayons. "},{"Title":"Pride's descent into madness","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This 1986 film is about a megalomaniac genius who takes his family to Central America to start a new utopia. His arrogance and naiveness attracts conflict & troubleThis is not an entertaining movie in the conventional sense. Ford usually plays likable heroes, whereas here he's an anti-hero or, more accurately, a raving lunatic. Yes, he still possesses a glimmer of his likable charisma, at first, and his leadership skills, genius and work ethic are all admirable, but all in all he's a rude, obnoxious know-it-all, not to mention a naive idealist. The Mosquito Coast is a very odd and brings to mind other eccentric jungle films like Fitzcarraldo, Aguirre, the Wrath of God & Sorcerer, as well as the Vacation flicks. It's a psychological study with the requisite lessons, some of which include (Don't read further unless you've seen the film)- Pride goeth before destruction, a haughty spirit before a fall. - In trying to escape society, a person will eventually mirror its evils. Society, regardless of its quality (pleasant or miserable), is largely inescapable. It's like the only salesman in town. He can cuss you out, charge whatever he wants, and even beat you with the item you need/desire. You can either take this or try to make the product yourself, which may be difficult or nigh impossible. Allie didn't like it so he went elsewhere. It takes a unique person to pick up and leave the comforts of society, a strong and talented person. However, such a personality usually has a dark side, which isn't revealed until the second half of the picture. What happens when/if this 'dark side' goes unchecked? Eventually, Allie becomes an inescapable society unto himself. His family cannot leave him for the same reasons he couldn't leave society inability to procure food and shelter, lack of safety, lack of luxury, etc. Allie provides them with all these. In return, he requires their complete loyalty in working toward his goals and tolerates no disobedience. He becomes the same monster as the society he so badly wanted to leave. Hence, his son (River Phoenix) becomes the person he was at the beginning, albeit the dictatorial 'society' his son is trying to escape is Allie himself! - The inherent problems of a utopian society in a dystopian world. Their little village was for all intents and purposes practically perfect self-sufficient, organized, ecologically sound, non-violent, etc. Then a few thugs with guns come along and ruin everything. It's basically saying that human society has and always will be dominated by those with the power to kill. In creating a perfect society, Allie didn't think ahead to the prospect of negative external influences. He thought he could isolate himself from the insanity and madness of the rest of the world. As a naive idealist, Allie really didn't want to face or accept the possibility of violence or having to protect his town. It's just common sense that anything good will tried to be taken sooner or later by someone bad. Allie may have been correct in criticizing America for its decadence and allowing a culture of greed & stupidity to flourish, but he was wrong to criticize America for having a strong military with formidable weapons. - No matter where you go in this world corruption/evil/violence exists. Even if you're at a lagoon that's not on a map, pieces of corruption will naturally float ashore. Nature itself is corrupt Nature's heat burns your skin like fire then drowns you in a flood, not to mention you slowly grow old and eventually die. Even if you're intelligent and talented enough to overcome all such external problems, what about the evil within that we're so easily blinded to, like arrogance, hatred, stubbornness and envy? - What creates a better lasting society -- science/technology or Christianity/religion? Or Both? The film shows both Allie and the missionary, Spellgood, taking their families to the Mosquito Coast to start societies. Allie's society fails because of his devolving megalomania, whereas Spellgood's is obviously successful -- his village is clean, orderly and happy; they have built a magnificent church and comfortable housing; his people are clothed and fed; they sing so sweetly that Allie's children mistake them for angels. Spellgood's people may have given up some freedom but in return they had a thriving, disciplined society. Spellgood's success naturally gives birth to another evil within Allie's heart -- envy. He becomes so envious and hateful, in fact, that he literally tries to incinerate Spellgood's jungle utopia! It should be pointed out that Spellgood isn't depicted in the film as the 'good guy.' It's obvious that he's a bit of a loon himself with the typical negative connotations of Christian ministers usually seen in movies. In fact, it's clear that Spellgood is a megalomaniac like Allie. So what's the difference between the two? Unlike Allie, Spellgood has faith in and submits to something beyond himself, something greater -- God -- and this belief and reverence keeps his pride in check, that is, keeps him humble. Evidence of this is shown in the church scene where the congregation watches Spellgood on TV; his sermon doesn't attempt to bring glory to himself but rather focuses on teaching the people how to commune with the Almighty, using a telephone as a simple object lesson. Which brings us to... - Having no faith except in yourself is not good. Allie believed that technology and his genius alone would save them, but it was this that destroyed them. Allie had no faith but in himself. When this happens one's pride remains unchecked and will run its natural course. Most important to him was freedom -- yet only for himself, he was a tyrant with his family; such freedom leaves him dead and his family alienated, impoverished and lost, yet thankfully not totally without hope. "},{"Title":"American dogmatism invades an incorrect picture of Honduras","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This American movie is ridiculous, not to mention highly politically incorrect and borderline offensive. The family move from picket-fence America to La Mosquita, Honduras; the country not being mentioned at all in the film. The director has chosen to present the view that the people of Central are almost entirely Garifuna - with quite strangely Jamaican accents. The reality is that the population of Mayan people outnumber the Garifuna by far, especially inland. The fact that the movie was filmed in Belize which has a different kind of landscape adds to the director's fantasy of a 'wild jungle territory' without portraying any accuracy. Also, everyone seems to speak English, with an American accent.Harrison Ford's character plays an egotistical American man who doesn't seem to bat an eyelid at the startling white supremacy subtly normalised in the film. The family quickly buy up a small town and set the natives to work for them. True, Ford does work alongside the indigenous peoples but noticeably not as hard and seems to boss everyone around an awful lot. The son played by River Phoenix quotes He called this notch in the jungle a 'superior civilisation' just as America might have been.The children make this film bearable as they play together and develop some morals and integrity. The beautiful Belizean landscape also makes for an interesting watch. Ultimately, a typical example of how some people think they are superior to others, normalise it and not even notice they are doing it. "},{"Title":"a not always successful adaptation","Date":"9 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's no wonder moviegoers were left perplexed by the film of Paul Theroux's best-selling novel What looks like a modernized Swiss Family Robinson survival adventure is actually a thinly disguised and unsettling allegory, with an unsympathetic (and largely metaphoric) protagonist. Harrison Ford stars as Angry American Allie Fox, a paragon of Yankee virtue and individuality inventive, proud, and possessed by an arrogant idealism that eventually destroys him. Sickened by the rampant corruption of American consumerism, he removes his family (with the effortlessness of true fantasy) to the unspoiled wilderness of Central America, creating in the jungle a self-sufficient Utopian Eden, later to be annihilated by the unchecked magnitude of his own delusions. Paul Schrader's screenplay exaggerates the character, but never beyond credibility; it's doubtful Theroux's story could be told in strictly realistic terms anyway. The only thing missing is a good resolution the apocalyptic climax occurs too soon, and the film has nowhere else to go afterwards. "},{"Title":"Pulling teeth","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I appreciate what this film was trying to do show the dark side of genius---show how it can go awfully wrong and hurt so many other people. But, this is done so bluntly that you feel like you've been smacked with a baseball bat by the end of the movie.  Allie Fox is a genius who has no end of brilliant ideas.  First a (scale model) ice machine, then a move to an island off the coast of Central American, then the building of a dream home in the jungle, then the construction of a super-size ice machine... it goes on and on.  He doesn't get it and it takes way tooooooo long for his family to clue in that he might have tons of intelligence but not a drop of wisdom or common sense.  The fact that his wife follows him like a puppy dog (dragging her four children along) is just absurd.  Ford, Mirren and Phoenix do a fine job of acting, but the material is so bad that watching the movie feels like pulling teeth.  "},{"Title":"A Movie About a Man, not Ideas","Date":"3 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've recently re-watched this movie and, after looking up the reviews on here, was quite surprised to see such a low rating and such negative reviews. I'm still not quite sure why, but my thoughts are that 1. people mistake this for a movie about ideas instead of a movie about a man, and 2. people think this will be a movie in which Harrison Ford plays the same old character instead of acts.Ford's character is not likable, which I think is the point. He is a narcissist blinded to the way the world works. He believes he can force the universe to his own will, as a narcissist will do. Certainly, the film takes this character to an extreme, but isn't that the point of drama? I found the characterization to be very spot on.This isn't the usual Hollywood slop pretending to be intellectual and deep. It is a study of complicated characters living in a complicated world without easy answers or neat conclusions. "}{"Title":"A modern parable about modernity (tv)","Date":"24 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm always interested in movies which tell the adventures of people who leaves their usual life to follow their heart (as I would five everything to do the same...). So I couldn't miss this one and if it has a big lump in the middle, it' still a great one. Tagged forever with blockbusters, Harrison is unfairly not rated as a true actor and it's a pity as here, he is just amazing Usually quiet, he is rather expansive now, so driven by his dreams and convictions! We have never seen him like this before and he is great! He manages so well the character that you can notice that since the beginning, he is on the edge so his later fall is expected! The story is thus interesting as for one time, one man and his family fulfills his dream and lose everything due to hazard! Beyond the personal story, it's also a strong ecological tale and an intelligent reflexion about civilization and religions. It's funny to see that the catholic evangelist is pretty authoritative and intransigent when he should be all love and compassion. On the other hand, Harrisson is also on the wrong path in my opinion reject modernity and civilization and living like the first man may seem positive but in the end, it's mixing a mean with an end. Which goal Harrison wanted with his family unhappy? This kind of idea just forget the incredible creative human mind and technology is first build to help and protect mankind! Finally, I would say that Weir was one of the best director in the 80s « witness », « mosquito », « green card », « dead poets » and i wonder what happened to him as i don't heard about him anymore ! "},{"Title":"Lousy but compelling","Date":"7 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've rarely hated a main character as much. But I kept watching. A movie that doesn't know what it wants to be, and so remains unsatisfactory on a literary level, and on a populist level.Strangely muted performances from every actor - no one is bad, but no one is good either. Motivations are completely unrealised for Mirren's character, and a bit too cartoonish for Ford's. Phoenix simply isn't given anything to do.The script avoids important basics - where is all the money coming from? Why do natives speak English? Why do the natives work for Ford? Why is there no reflection on the deaths (murders) of the three mercenaries? The film is decidedly broken, but I watched the whole thing and found myself thinking about it later. And so a score right down the middle - 5/10. "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford should have received an Oscar for this Performance","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have read the book and watched the film, and because of Harrison Ford's uncanny portrayal of the lead character he should have received an Oscar. There is an eerie scariness in the coming to life inventor- father to a mad scientist with humanistic touches. The book gave deep and colorful look at this man, but Ford alone made him transition from words to life. A deep look at someone with high ideals who becomes disillusioned at American way of life.     "},{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant!!! )","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Once again this is one of Harrison Ford's best performances. Harrison Ford is just one of those actors that can do the job well, for any role. The Mosquito Coast is an adventure like no other, which cannot be compared with another. It portrays a man's will and courage to be god. Ford stars as Allie Fox, an 'Inventor Genius', who sets off to the &#145;Mosquito Coast' in search of respect for an 'Ice Machine', named 'Fat Boy' that he apparently invents. He builds a settlement and a huge version of the 'Fat Boy' machine and shows 'Ice' to people who have never seen 'Ice' before. Unfortunately things go wrong and Harrison Ford's character begins to change dramatically.With wonderful cinematography, great actors and a great story line, this movie is recommended to anyone and is a great family adventure movie. It is a masterpiece and one of Harrison Ford's best. As one of Harrison Ford's greatest fans, I give this movie a wonderful score of 9.5/10.  "},{"Title":"drama turns into a cartoon","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The best compliment I can give for this film is its glorious production value an breathtaking scenery however, The Mosquito Coast is a failed attempt to make a film about an alternative civilization and instead falls into a parody of idiotic characters. I'm not putting down the actors. In fact, there is a phenomenal cast here with Hellen Mirren, River Pheonix, and Harrison Ford. The problem is that the characters in this film are treated like cartoons. There's the wimpy and wacky missionary played by Andre Gregory and Harrison Ford sounds like a loud-mouthed ego maniac who lacks any awareness to his outside world. We see this in a scene when he complains to an Indian tribe after trying to deliver ice from a two day hike up the river. They are pointing arrows at him and he just assumes they will understand him. Is he a genius or an idiot? One of the worst elements of this film is how the natives of Mosquitia are portrayed. This is a politically-incorrect (racist) film if I ever saw one. These people are immediately welcoming of the Fox family as if they instinctively know that white people are going to save and improve their lives. Would'nt the Fox's be learning from them? What's even worse, is how brainwashed they become when the missionaries come to kidnap them. With the exception of Mr. Hattie, Peter Weir treats these natives like a bunch of mindless pawns. I really wanted to like this film and its too bad it was made by such a great director. It has a great premise and the scene of the towering ice machine in the middle of the jungle is chillingly symbolic.If only Allie Fox had kept his cool instead of burning down the reverend's church, I may have liked he film a little more...but not much. I prefer realism in a film like this, not stereotypical cartoons. "},{"Title":"very underrated, very necessary","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  i bet alot of people don't like this movie because they don't want to reflect on how THEY relate to IT. alot of people don't want to be confronted with koyaanisqatsi's or silent runnings message. we can continue to bury our heads in the sand about what we're doing to the planet and keep on reproducing like roaches, but the earth will have the last laugh on us in the end. mosquito coast is an excellent character study with an important message. your children are going to inherit your landfill. "},{"Title":"a fizzle of a film","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Mosquito Coast is a bit of an odd piece.  It's the story of the Fox family lead by Allie, an inventor.  He becomes disgusted with all the materialism in the United States and decides to make a fresh start in South America with the idea of staying close to nature and avoiding industrialization.On one hand, as viewer you can feel the film pushing you to relate with the film's narrator -- Allie's son, Charlie Fox (River Phoenix) who truly adores his father and slowly watches him go mad.  Although Phoenix is convincing in the role of the young teenage boy, there is always a distance that exists between him and the audience.  Harrison Ford is incredibly impressive as Allie Fox.  I had only seen Ford play Indiana Jones before I saw this film in 1988.  At the age of 13, I was in awe of Ford.  Although, having rewatched the film at an older age and with an expanded knowledge of acting, it is still an impressive performace.  Helen Mirren appears as Allie's wife. She basically stands aside as her husband leads the Foxes to a foreign country,  as they build up a small village.  Constantly, she reassures the village's natives, Don't worry. Allie knows what he's doing.  Also, several of the actors who portray the Geronimo villagers are sweetly endearing.There is also quite a feud between Allie Fox and a religious missionary. Watching Allie's disgust with religion's manipulation of humans, especially in third world countries, brought up some very intense emotions in me.The film has several interesting points when it comes to industrialization, materialism, religion and their effects on the world.  Unfortunately, when those are not neatly meshed with sympathetic or interesting characters, the film loses it's appeal. At times, the storyline makes you feel as though emotionally you are running in very slow circles. Overall, this is one of Peter Weir's lesser films.  However, it always maintains a somewhat eerie, otherworldly feel that kept me watching.  "},{"Title":"wandering aimlessly upstream","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"19 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Mosquito Coast is an odd film. It attempts to talk about issues which are important and which few films address, fails to communicate them clearly, yet isn't sucked into the maelstrom of moralizing and sententiousness that films like this almost inevitably enter. Instead, it occupies some sort of odd middle ground of ambiguity and murkiness. One gets the feeling that the film is a lot like the Fox family they know they're going upstream but they have no specific destination, and some of them really aren't sure why they're going there in the first place.I felt from the very beginning that the film failed to define its ideals or set a sense of clear direction. Harrison Ford, in a performance which I found unconvincing (perhaps because of the inability of the film to articulate what motivated him), rambles on about everything from the Japanese to nuclear war. There's a large difference between subtlety, i.e. not spelling things out for the viewer, and incoherence. This was incoherent. We know that he's unhappy with America, but I don't know what he's really looking for, what motivates him, etc.. Maybe he doesn't know. But if that's the case, it should be made clear.A good example of how this plays out is his attempt to bring ice to the noble savages. Why does he do this? Because ice is civilization. But why does he want to bring them civilization? It seemed to me that civilization was something he was having a lot of problems with. I assume that the novel explained this more clearly and the film failed to translate properly. He of course stated earlier in the film that the savages would probably think ice a sort of jewel. So? Why does this matter? Is he looking for lost innocence?Then later in the film Mother says she wishes to go to Mr. Haddy's place. He responds And live like savages? I can only assume that he wishes to establish some sort of elementary civilization where a small community lives in peace and harmony. Or perhaps he's just looking to withdraw from everyone, as his spurning of Mr. Haddy's gifts would show. Also, a possible literary reference is the name of their craft, Victory, which is the name of a very dull Joseph Conrad novel about a man who withdraws from life and goes to live on an island. Extreme misanthropy? Unlikely.A possible light at the end is his talk about man not being made to walk upright. Is he looking for some sort of return to primal existence? But then why invent air conditioning in Geronimo? It all adds up to a very disorganized mess, both in Mr. Fox's head, and on screen. The Mosquito Coast is like a puzzle that still has all the pieces, but rather than fit them together, Weir just threw them all in the box and let us look at them. "},{"Title":"An unsatisfying outcome to a story involving a highly self-absorbed and egocentric genius","Date":"28 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" While this movie starts with a promising storyline and a character that while not always likable (and quite self-absorbed for the entirety of the film), still has interesting thoughts on the American way of living and an incredible craftsmanship, it soon leaves you with disdain about this character and the interest that had been developed in the 1st hour of the movie soon turns into a drag, leaving you feeling frustrated about why these characters are being silent towards the father's reckless and almost-deadly treatment. The father turns from a man with a vision of building a civilisation from scratch into a man obsessed with not abiding to any form of current civilisation and living. He drags his family through dangerous situations for the sole purpose of making a living based on his narrow-minded view of how humans should live life. And while this could still make for an interesting storyline, the sole outcome of the terrain his family experiences is that with his sudden passing, they can now be free to live life the way they want to &#x96; a somehow unsatisfying final outcome when you consider the ordeal these people had to go through. "},{"Title":"Crazy Harrison Ford","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Allie Fox (Harrison Ford) is an eccentric inventor who is a know-it-all. He feels superior to everybody else, and is always angry at the world. One day, he decides to pack up his family (Helen Mirren, River Phoenix) and move to Central America in a region called the Mosquito Coast. He then buys his own ramshackle town and starts building including a big ice factory. He doesn't get along with the preacher neighbor Reverend Spellgood. Then three thugs with guns invade their isolation.Harrison Ford is crazy in this one. If you're looking to watch a mad man, then this is your movie. However it's impossible to root for this family. In a rare movie, River Phoenix is completely overshadowed by the manic Ford. It's possibly one of the more maddening movies around. It should be much more compelling. It should be a great viewing experience. But it must feel like what it is to be part of that family. Every time there is hope for this movie, the father maddeningly destroys it. "}{"Title":"The Mosquito Coast (1986)","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This really isn't so bad, but it feels like a case of wasted potential. As a Herzogian journey of a self-righteous madman dragging down everyone who cares about him by his own hubris, it doesn't go quite far enough and seems watered down. It could be Weir's direction or it could be his own choices, but Ford appears to be holding back without really exploring the darkness of the character. Mirren has little to do, and Gregory is stuck in a lame caricature. The film flirts with some compelling themes but always seems to veer off into adventure mode when things start getting real. Still, the plot elements are solid and one's interest in the various situations is maintained. The music and cinematography are quite fine. I'm generally underwhelmed by Weir's post-70's work, but this is one of the better ones. It's too bad it doesn't have a little more ambition to it. "},{"Title":"Bleak, but just not quite bleak enough","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Paul Theroux's novel is a difficult book to read. Not in the literal sense, but because it is relentless and ultimately very depressing. It tells of one man's struggle to escape the constraints of the developed world and to bring about - against all odds - his own version of utopia in the back of beyond. A vision that is repeatedly crushed and pushes him and his family far beyond the pale. The main difficulty I have with the film, which remains true to the book in many aspects, is that a lot of the time Fox (Harrison Ford) and his family simply look as though they're on holiday. If you can envisage a Walt Disney version of Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness, then perhaps you'll see where I'm coming from, things are just too neat and tidy. You might for example expect that building an industrial plant in the middle of the jungle would result in a minor injury or two. When that same plant blows up and burns down a large area of jungle, perhaps some minor burns or a few scorched clothes on the survivors? It is a good film and Ford keeps the balance between mania and enthusiasm just about right, but Weir fails to give the production the edge it needed to transform a great story into a great film. "},{"Title":"The Missionaries","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Weir is a fantastic director who knows how to leverage star power to the film's advantage. The result is one of Ford's best performances. This is a tragedy about a prolifically talented inventor without a shred of compromise in his soul. He is utterly true to himself and his aspirations, and can't come to terms with the industrialized world because it cherishes mediocrity. To him, that world is on the verge of extinction, and its only salvation lies in the jungle from which civilization sprang. The character of Allie Fox is an interesting contrast to his Fundamentalist adversary because they are so similar. Like Fox, Fundamentalists abhor the natural world, which is full of incongruence. Their mission is to terraform society by creating an architecture of straight edges and simple dichotomies. Fire from ice. Salvation from 'savagery'. Both are doomed, because nature's crooked. And that's torture for people who can't compromise.Some playful homages to Ford's past work here. Watch how Fox faces off with Reverand Spellgood. In one shot, our point of view is like a western standoff, or something out of Star Wars. In another, he races through the jungle directly into the camera's eye. This is pure Spielbergian vocab.This is a close kindred to a couple of Werner Herzog's films, most notably Fitzcarraldo. "},{"Title":"Powerful Drama, That's Engrossing And Extremely Well Made With An Incredible Performance From Harrison Ford!","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a powerful drama that's engrossing and extremely well made, with an incredible performance by Harrison Ford!. Harrison Ford's character is extremely unlikable, and you will hate him, however he performed the role so well, and all the rest of the characters were fantastic, plus the ending was quite emotional and shocking. I really felt for all of the family,and i was shouting at the TV screen for Mother to take action, plus River Pheonix, is fantastic as the kid. This won't be a film i will be watching any time soon again, however it's an awesome film, and it engrossed me throughout,as it's very heavy stuff!. the setting was quite creepy in my opinion, and i was really shocked by the action's of Ford's character plus Ford's last speech was very moving. This is a powerful drama that's engrossing, and extremely well made with an incredible performance from Harrison Ford and i say it's a must see! for everyone. The Direction is great. Peter Weir does a great job here, with fantastic camera work, using a great setting, and keeping the film engrossing and unsettling throughout. The Acting is amazing!. Harrison Ford is AMAZING as always and is incredible here, his character is incredibly unlikable, however he was just so convincing, in my opinion this is a no doubt Oscar Worthy Performance, and i couldn't help but feel sorry for him at the end, he was just incredible here! (Ford Rules!!). Helen Mirren is excellent as the Mother i really felt for her character, after all the torture she suffered due to her husband, she was really great i liked her a lot!. River Phoenix is fantastic as the kid, he is extremely likable, and i also felt sorry for him, this guy was great, too bad we lost him so soon. Conrad Roberts is great in his role he rocked. Andre Gregory annoyed me here and got on my nerves, and over did it in my opinion.Martha Plimpton is good in her screen time, as the daughter.Jadrien Steele is also very good as one of the kids, and was quite likable. Hilary Gordon and Rebecca Gordon both do great. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall a must see for everyone!. ****1/2 out of 5 (barely) "},{"Title":"In hindsight (as of April 2015), one of the best films of the '80s","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am a child of the 80s, and loved the big blockbusters (and at the top of that list, Star Wars and Indiana Jones). Harrison Ford was and still is an idol of mine.When I first saw Mosquito Coast on video in the late 80's, my expectations were of a grand adventure in the tradition of Indiana Jones. I just rewatched the trailer for the film, and the narrator literally mentions Indiana Jones and says that this is Ford's biggest adventure yet. The trailer is almost 100% composed of explosions, which again completely sets the wrong expectations. So when I saw it as a young teenager, I was thoroughly disappointed at the lack of action. There was just too much pesky dialog and not enough good parts. Not enough explosions, by golly! Well, almost 30 years later, the film holds up incredibly well, and I find it infinitely more enjoyable than that first viewing. In my mind I put it in a category of Ford's boring movie, but now I see it as one of his finest acting performances (possibly his best), and the story and production of the film has an artistic quality that was completely unappreciated by kids in the 80s, and even critics in the 80s (Roger Ebert gave it a thumbs down for being too boring).If this movie was released today, I would not be surprised to find it on the Best Picture nomination list, and Ford up for best actor (and River Phoenix for supporting actor). The film is just incredible. The underlying storyline about consumerism is as relevant today as ever. The characters are unpredictable, yet you can identify with them. The location shooting adds a dimension and authenticity to the film that just cannot be replaced by filming on a Hollywood studio backlot.In summary, I highly recommend this film and plan on adding it to my very limited personal collection of treasured movies (right next to Indiana Jones!). "},{"Title":"Ice means civilization","Date":"19 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Mosquito Coast is about a man following his convictions above all even to the detriment of his family. Harrison Ford is the man here playing an egotistical and iconoclastic inventor who takes his wife Helen Mirren and the four kids to Belize to set up his own idea of Utopia to escape the impending holocaust he sees as imminent.If Harrison Ford indeed says this was his favorite role I think I know why. It is certainly one that is challenging in that in addition to ego and self righteousness you have to have a certain amount of charisma to hold even your family to you. Otherwise Helen Mirren would have taken maybe the first two kids and left him flat. Ford's world leaves no room for dissent.Ford literally buys an abandoned town and makes himself mayor and builds an ice machine. In Belize this is something new and strange to the natives there. For a while Ford is held in wonder, but like with all Utopian schemes things go terribly wrong.Ford's great antagonist is missionary Andre Gregory. Ford has a great old time mocking Gregory's religion, but as it turns out in the end Gregory has a far greater understanding of the surroundings he's in than Ford could ever aspire to. Watching The Mosquito Coast I was thinking of Jean Jacques Rousseau and his ideas of the 'noble savage' which Ford has swallowed uncritically. What would Rousseau do if he was set down in modern Belize?Gregory also has a daughter played by Martha Plimpton and she awakens in his oldest son River Phoenix certain feelings that Ford for all his wisdom never discussed with his pubescent son. River is the first voice of dissent in the absolute monarchy that Ford rules over.In real life River Phoenix and Martha Plimpton were an item for a bit. Later on she was paired off on the screen with River in Running On Empty.This film and Running On Empty are both about a parent living an iconoclastic life and the affect it has on the family. River Phoenix's own family life, the communal living style they had probably gave him a wealth of experience to draw from. Although as he was quick to point out his family weren't fugitives from the law as they were in Running On Empty.Ford's dissent in total madness is something to see. I wonder if that would have happened to Rousseau. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie not relying on special effects","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie to me rings a bit of main stream propaganda in that the virtues of self-reliance, 'American know-how', and individual free will are discouraged, perhaps even designated taboo for what is supposedly a functioning society collective for the 'masses.' Imperfect yes, but supposedly functioning despite our individual foibles. Fear not lemmings, America has advanced beyond the frontier for survival....If we fear virtues that are exploitable by evil or are twisted by our own failings, that is in itself a tragic path to follow in life, fearing consequences of imperfect action. Indeed it can ultimately lead to the demise of any civilized dream. The main character simply looses empathetic humility and is blinded by accomplishment, as anyone or any society can that is led astray by selfish focus taken out of proportion. "},{"Title":"A gripping character study.","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Mosquito Coast was the second collaboration between Harrison Ford and Peter Weir, coming directly on the heels of their first, the superb Witness. Like his work with Mel Gibson at the beginning of the decade, Weir's teaming up with Ford allowed the director to find a muse who would not only be able to accurately portray the complex themes and emotions of the character, but also give the actor a rare chance to demonstrate his true worth as a versatile performer.Harrison Ford, as the eccentric inventor Allie Fox, is given full control here and takes on a character that no one would ever expect to see him in, or would ever really expect to see him in again. He has played the guy who is fed up before, but Allie Fox is fed up to the point of insanity. He's had it with America and in an ongoing series of Howard Beale-esque diatribes on the state of his once great country, he decides to pick up his family and move them all to the jungle, to experience life at it's most basic. At first it's a dream come true, but soon the Fox family finds that it's not America that's lost it's way, it is the whole of society and you'll encounter it wherever you go.The Mosquito Coast is more about it's themes than anything else, taking on serious explorations of the American family, the loss of innocence in a father/son relationship where the son must become a man and stand up to his father and many facets of religion and it's place in the family and society. I felt like the mother's unwillingness to stand up to Allie was a little unbelievable as his descent into madness progressed, but it was a necessary artificiality in order to bring the character study full circle and turn Allie into the kind of menace that he was constantly accusing America of being. He brings his family down much in the way that he claims America is bringing everyone else down, and it's a powerful dissection of this deeply flawed and arrogant man.Ford delivers what could well be the finest work of his career, stripping away all of his immense charm and taking on a deeply unlikeable character. This is a man who could have easily been torture to have to sit with for two hours, but Ford's charisma and always engaging screen presence is able to make him a fascinating man to study. River Phoenix does fine work as the eldest son of the family, as does Helen Mirren as the mother.Weir's absorbing direction takes a bit of a backseat here, settling for a more conventional tone and instead allowing the story and the character to take over the picture, which is a bold and appropriate move for him to make. It speaks to his intelligence as a director that he knows when to step back and let the other elements take the front seat, although there are still a few magnificently staged sequences that stand strong in Weir's roster of them. "},{"Title":"Genius, Idealism, Madness","Date":"27 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It is difficult to ascertain the place The Mosquito Coast holds in Peter Weir's career. It's not as universally admired as Witness or Dead Poets Society, but has its defenders. When it came out it received mixed reviews and met financial failure. But Harrison Ford later said it had his favourite performance. The writing, which I think has always been the main quality of Weir's movies, isn't perfect here, and the main character can seem unlikeable. But the movie, the moment it starts showing the tensions that arise from different worlds coming into contact, is vintage Peter Weir.Based on a novel by Paul Theroux, the movie follows Allie Fox (Harrison Ford), an inventor who believes America has failed to live up to its values. He sees his beloved country as a victim of the welfare state, of foreign investment, of big corporations and of lack of ambition. Ambition and determination, however, are two things he has in spades. Love it or leave it, and Allie leaves with his family to Mosquitia, a fictional South American country. There he buys a town in the middle of the jungle and starts building the foundations of a new civilisation. His belief is that his ultimate invention, a machine that uses fire to create ice, will allow him to turn that piece of land into an earthly paradise.The Mosquito Coast is not Heart of Darkness; it's not even Apocalypse Now, in spite of the similarities. This movie is not about losing one's mind in the middle of the jungle, of crossing the limits of decency when one is not restrained by laws and mores. Allie is a pretty nice guy throughout the movie &#x96; a loving husband and father, an untiring worker, a fair leader of his community. Bringing technical improvement and comfort to a decadent town, he soon becomes admired and respected. And besides, he's already a bit crazy before coming to the jungle.Although Ford's performance seems exaggerated at times, it has an honesty and conviction that make Allie's occasional antics credible. And if in 1986 he just sounded like a capitalism-hating commie, his belief that the world exists to be perfected through imagination and hard work sounds quite sensible today now that we've realised we're slowly killing the planet and ourselves with it.But for some an imperfect world is perfect for business. Sharing the jungle with Allie are Christian missionaries, offering promises of a celestial paradise to compensate for all the hardships on earth. Hard work is unnecessary; faith suffices. Needless to say this doesn't sit well with Allie. And in Mosquitia also lurk mercenaries, amoral men ready to exploit Allie's community.The movie is narrated by Allie's son Charlie (played by River Phoenix). Although Phoenix's performance is solid, the voice over is redundant and should have stayed in the novel. Weir has always been excellent at visual storytelling and one can't help thinking that Charlie is only narrating the movie to make it easier for the audiences to know how to feel about the protagonist. Charlie describes the admiration, and later fear and anger, he feels for his father, but Phoenix's own body language does a good job of showing this.Helen Mirren, failing horribly at an American accent, gives a nevertheless fine performance as Allie's wife. Composer Maurice Jarre, famous for his collaborations with director David Lean, composes one of his most ethereal scores for this movie, bringing a very strange sense of serenity to it. And Weir's camera work is amazing as usual, equally at ease in the suburbs and in the middle of the jungle, capturing nature in all its beauty and menace. Although it's not one of Peter Weir's best movies, twenty-four years later The Mosquito Coast still holds some pleasures for viewers. "},{"Title":"Good drama + great character development.","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Harrison Ford and River Phoenix seem like an ideal adult-youth pair for a good drama, like Mel Gibson and Elijah Wood in Forever Young. Mosquito Coast does not disappoint it's the kind of movie where you want to jump through the screen and SHAKE someone. The symbolism of river and jungle combining to derail souls from ordinary reality and ordinary morality strongly recalls Apocalypse Now (1979), which in turn owes a debt to the classic Bogey African Queen (1951). The difference here is that the story unfolds through the responses of the protagonist's wife and two sons -- the narrator (River Phoenix) about 14, and his brother (Jadrien Steele) about 12. An odd sort of paradox is set up, in that each younger of the three is more level-headed and in touch with reality, yet less confident or able to act on his/her assessments. As the father's character disintegrates, that of the narrator so grows and solidifies that his physical appearance actually seems to change. It's no surprise to find that powerhouse director Peter Weir was in charge. All in all, despite some slow spots, this is an excellent film, and deserves to be better known. "}{"Title":"mentally ill Fox","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It can easily be said that there are some cinematically stunning visuals Mosquito Coast, but there are also a number of things that fall short of even the passive moviegoers expectations. The redeeming qualities for this films flop of a plot lie within the amazing scenery during the family's experiments in nature and the cast of children actors lead by the phenomenal performance of River Phoenix as well as Harrison Ford's portrayal of a man with a mental illness and the toll that it takes on his family as he drags them around in the wilderness of a foreign country. One nearly fatal flaw that should be mentioned before going on to discuss Ford's performance is the plot and it's use of the family and villagers as experiments. This plot smacks of the insanity described in Walden Two by B.F. Skinner, where a utopian society is constructed although the strange inter-workings of its residence seem to mirror those of Mosquito Coast's. While supported by a cast of talented and very capable actors this film still manages to come off as simply unnerving and quite frankly confusing. Harrison Ford plays Allie Fox, a self- proclaimed genius that up roots his family from their generally all American lifestyles after professing for the first twenty minutes how America is becoming something he loathes. The most confusing part of this whole depiction is that Fox's behavior is never quite explained in terms of what makes this man so bizarre. He obviously has delusions of grandeur and a perpetual state of heightened self-importance, which eventually puts him in hot water with his boss. This sets the stage for him to pack up and leave. His bigotry seems to hold no acceptations and comes out in any number of manic spurts that he has most often around his impressionable boys who are always by his side idolizing him. Ford pulls of this act by walking the tight rope between being a character that audiences will hate but is confusing enough in his thought process and endearing enough in the times that he cares for his family that audiences are left feeling a little sad when Allie Fox visits the big experiment in the sky. It is an amazing feat to feel an actor push the audiences emotions over the edge to the side of disdain only to pull them back a moment later by developing some sort of admiration or at least intrigue for his character. "},{"Title":"Probably Ford's best performance","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I remember that this movie caught a lot of grief when it came out because there was a large amount of people that were emotionally tied to the book. Even if you look at some of the other comments made here, some reviewers found it hard to detach themselves from some of the statement's Allie Fox made in this movie about religion, industrialization, etc.  But to be a truly good reviewer of film, you really need to distance yourself from the original writing or your own emotions and concentrate on the piece as a whole.With that said, as a whole, this is a great movie, and perhaps one of Harrison Ford's best acting roles, yet the least known by most because of his fame at the time with Indianan Jones and Star Wars.  There are several throw-away characters in the movie, and it's hard to say weather these characters are less important because the Allie Fox character is so `in your face' or because they were truly poorly written.For instance, the narrator, Allie's eldest son, played by River Phoenix, tries his best to show his own reactions to many of his father's actions or even be a hero in his own right, but they seem less impressive to Ford's character stomping about the camp claiming that ice is sign of true civilization.So what to do?  Watch the flick and really get into the performance of Harrison Ford and try and look past some of the lighter roles... trust me, it's easy to do.  And hopefully, you can refine some of his madness and make a difference in your own life. "},{"Title":"It just keeps coming back","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think Mosquito Coast is one of those films that just seems to remain with you forever. Seemed like a real dud when released. In time some movies just grow on you. Perhaps it's because Harrison Ford said this was his favourite movie. That sort of makes you think a little more about this remarkable film.  It wasn't so much a story of a failed life wasted in a third world country as it was an A Grade adventure to rival the Indy Jones series. When you see it on your video store shelf, wasting away, do yourself a favour and rent it. All great movie stars have a few films which were unsuitable for mainstream release, but perhaps it was only the timing as is the case with The Mosquito Coast. "},{"Title":"This movie changed my life","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although flawed, this is a physically beautiful film that  deserves to be considered to be one the best films of its  era. I saw it on New Years Eve, 1986-87 and it began a love  affair with the region. I eventually worked in two Central  American nations and travelled in all. This film inspired me  to go to a then dangerous place and find a beauty beyond  the physical beauty of the landscape. "},{"Title":"Great novel, so so film","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Paul Theroux's novel is one of the best of the last twenty or so years.  The movie version fails to capture the book's mood, and Harrison Ford, normally a fine actor, stumbles here.  We get no real insight into what drives Allie, and the father-son relationship that helps drive the book is short-changed. Allie's descent into sheer madness is not attended with the same sort of moral ambiguity in the book, and his son's perspective on this is missing. More's the pity. "},{"Title":"Great book yields good movie","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you read the book, The Mosquito Coast, you are familiar with the one-sided philosophies that surround Allie Fox. The movie depicts his opinions and stubbornness, although (as all films do) strays from the plot a tad. If you liked the book, then the movie will put it to a visual image without losing too much integrity. "},{"Title":"one of my favs, have gotten several people to buy this film after letting them borrow it","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is so powerful, its sad to see that so many people miss the whole point of it.  i often let people borrow my dvd's if i think they can appreciate a certain film.  this is one film people are always asking me to borrow.  if you can sit down and watch this movie in the right mindset, you'll go on a journey that will take you along with Ford as he reveals his genius plan to create a social utopia for his family away from the unnecessary burdens of modern life.  but the plot thickens as we realize along with Ford that this sort of idealism never works in real life. very transcendentist point of view from the book by paul theoreux(?). Overall, this is a great flick, don't try to watch it with people who can't appreciate the use of their brain.  this is a thinker flicker that can usually be followed with some great conversation. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent portrayal of the human condition","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this film in high school as preparation for Conrad's Heart of Darkness.  I didn't understand Conrad's book at all, but The Mosquito Coast struck a chord with me and remains one of my 10 favorite films.The movie focuses on the tragedy of Allie Fox, a garage inventor who becomes fed up with American commercialism and tries to get out. He heads with his family to Central America, buying a Miskito Indian village on the way. He then proceeds to redesign the village as if it were another one of his garage contraptions. As this story develops, it becomes evident that Allie didn't escape the things he hated about America; he brought them with him. Yet no matter how many setbacks he suffers, Allie refuses to accept this. And therein lies the tragedy Allie (a personification of industrial man) can never return to the simple tribal existence that, for him, represents utopia.Notice the name of the cooling plant that Allie builds Fat Boy. This is significant; do you remember the two real-life human inventions that had similar names?You might want to read up on the history of Nicaragua in the 1980s before seeing this film. There is a subplot about Cuban mercenaries that doesn't make much sense if you aren't familiar with the political situation of the time.  "},{"Title":"Pointless film","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Peter Weir, the impressive director of Gallipoli, fails to move his audience here. The Mosquito Coast is a pointless film about a slightly mad, self important inventor who takes his family away from what he calls the dying America to his paradise in the South American jungle.Although most of the cast try hard, there is really nothing to work with, leaving us with a movie that attempts to be powerfully dramatic, but ends up lacking any impact whatsoever. There is one scene of apocalyptic proportions that shows some impressive imagery, but that is the only highlight in a film who's ending is mostly unresolved.Sunday, November 10, 1991 - Video "},{"Title":"The film that touched on the most important issues and showed the true nature of man. Masterpiece!","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Allie Fox is fed up of a world that buys junk, sells junk, eats junk and a country that talks of nuclear warfare like it were a game show topic. He is a failed inventor, who's inventions are nothing less than brilliant, but the world only turns its back on them. Every time he leaves the house, he is disgusted at what he sees - a globalist world falling apart that looks like a toilet. Then there are his wife and children, who love Allie dearly, but cannot see the world through the same eyes.Working for an Asparagas business, Allie devises a new invention, an ingenious Asparagus cooler, that cools without an electrical cord. But his boss only dismisses it as a joke, labeling it a contraption! It is here that Allie turns HIS back on the world and confronts his dreams.Consistently exposing his sons to embarrassment and ridicule of the township in which they live because of his rude approach to those he despises with his extreme views of modern politics and globalization, it is no surprise that his children (particularly his sons) are excited about the idea of starting a whole new life in the jungles of Nicaragua - The Mosquito Coast. A place of a simple, natural life, where Allie can be recognized for his genius. A place where very few people have seen or know the existence of ICE.We eat when we're not hungry. Drink when we're not thirsty. We buy what we don't need and throw away everything that's useful. Why sell a man what he wants. Sell him what he doesn't need. Pretend he's got eight legs, two stomachs and money to burn. Wrong! Wrong, wrong, wrong! - Allie Fox/Harrison Ford When his family begins to understand his vision, Allie purchases his own town in the depths of the jungles - in the middle of god's nowhere. It is here that the natives see him as a god send. His ingenious Cooling machine named 'Fatboy', capable of cooling houses, making cold water and most importantly ICE, unites a whole jungle into his hand and a pioneering village of fine agriculture is constructed - consequently creating competition and enemies afar.Ice is civilization. That's Why I came. That's Why I'm Here! - Allie Fox/Harrison Ford Does Allie's brilliant visions prevail or destroy him and his family?This has to be the most powerful film regarding the nature of humanity, in that it doesn't need any graphic violence to show you just how far the human can go before he/she breaks. Allie Fox is the perfect example of a man that goes too far - to the edge. He dislikes the world he lives in due to its greed, violence, globalization, politics and the complacency of its people. Deciding it is best to start his own civilization, he soon comes to terms with the fact that HE is no different to those he despises. The parallels portrayed in the film between Allie's little world and the rest of the world are poignantly executed. Aside from very minor problems, this film is absolutely flawless in showing this. Peter Weir masterfully brought the book of the same name to the screen.Harrison Ford's performance as Allie Fox is a must see for all film buffs out there. His commanding presence is one thing - his performance is one of the greatest I have ever seen! He portrays Allie's obsession with such passion, you are easily convinced that he is indeed Allie Fox. Surprisingly he didn't win an Academy Award, but was nominated for a Golden Globe. Equally brilliant in his performance was River Phoenix, playing Allie's son Charlie. The fear, confusion and love he shows for his father is very powerful and extremely convincing. He comes to the Mosquito Coast a boy and leaves like an older man. Helen Mirren, a wonderful British actress, was a great choice - different from your typical American wife who constantly can't keep her mouth shut - who portrays a caring mother who's influence on Allie deteriorates yet remains a means of hope for her children. The whole cast did an excellent job.Peter Weir, perhaps the greatest Australian director, yet again made an unforgettable, powerful epic experience that I can only summarize in one word as a masterpiece. Being the second feature along side Harrison Ford following 'Witness' - another great film - Weir's direction is that of an artist and like John Carpenter, is a master of adding atmospheric life to film - like you were really there. He is a wonderful story teller and it would be a blessing to see him work with Ford again.What also really struck me in the film was the beautiful cinematography and the absolutely extraordinary score composed by Doctor Zhivago's Maurice Jarre. Locations were exotic and suited the film perfectly - gave almost a mythical feel to the film. However the music set the moods incredibly well. At times it was extremely uplifting. You just feel like your in another world in this film.How can I summarize this film experience in few words. This is one of the very few films that changed my perspective of humanity and life in a masterful, epic way. Every time I watch it, only becomes more and more powerful. Yet, this isn't only a movie about world issues and the nature of man, but it is rather also a great way to escape to another world for an hour and a half. Immensely enjoyable film which is an undisputed classic. I recommend it to anybody who enjoys film, escapism and stories about life. You won't be disappointed. This is a masterpiece that can't be missed. Peter Weir and Harrison Ford's greatest hour! "}{"Title":"The movie that changed my life","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have already commented on this film, but I have seen it twice since then, and I think about it everyday. This is the kind of movie that Hollywood is too much of a wimp to release. This is not just a movie, it is a statement on American Society. This is by all means Harrison Ford's and Peter Weir's best movie, and it may be the best movie of the 80's. Roger Ebert should be ashamed of himself for giving this film ** out of **** when he gives a lot of lousy movies **** out of ****, I don't listen to his reviews anyway. The only people who don't love this film are the ones who are not open minded, or don't understand it. That 6.4 rating is way, way underrated for this film, it should be up near 8, considering what a lot of other crap gets rated. This is my number 1 movie. **** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Inverted Swiss Family Robinson","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Slight spoilers, sort of.This story is an inverted version of THE SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON.  Here the patriarch intentionally places his family in harm's way.The film makes its point early that the father, though charismatic, is extremely obsessive, manic, and paranoid.  It also makes the point that the mother just follows along.  We never get anything in the way of insight that helps us understand why the mother is so pliable, or why she exhibits so little concern about the health and safety of her children.  She is as seemingly carefree throughout most of the film as her nine year old twin girls, who do little more than giggle.  The film continues to hammer away for two hours at the two points just mentioned, much the way the Harrison Ford character loves to hammer away while building things.  Too much beating away at the same theme, in my opinion.Something I find especially implausible is the continuing good health of the characters.  Maybe they are simply taking medicine and vitamins off screen.  Late in the film one of the sons is told he seems smaller, but other than that, despite the hardships, the family is amazingly healthy, happily avoiding the typical mishaps a jungle setting is so ready to spring.Sure, Mr. Ford's performance is good, but it hammers out the same little tune for two hours.  The actor found a groove and stayed right in it.  Perhaps the character's monomania allowed little range of emotion?An annoying central character does not have to result in an annoying film, but here, because of the shallow treatment given to him and all the characters around him, we have a very annoying movie.  "},{"Title":"The King and the Cardinal","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Peter Weir directs this film about a man, Allie, fed up with society who travels with his family to the Mosquito Coast to set up his own Utopia. In the tradition of the Conrad novel Heart of Darkness, Allie(Ford) becomes obsessed with the Utopia he has created a will not let anything or anyone stop him from his near perfect world. The person intent on stopping Allie from his destruction of mankind is the Rev. Spellgood, a missionary who plans on converting the heathens along the coast. Allie has his atheistic beliefs though and is not willing to left Rev. Spellgood interfere with anything that he does. For many people this movie was an absolute disgrace and according to my mother it was a complete attack at Christianity and GOD. But if you are willing to put religion aside to get a view from both sides of the fence then Mosquito Coast might have something to offer you. Insight.  "},{"Title":"One of Ford's best performances","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In Werner Herzog's Fitzcarraldo, an obsessive Klaus Kinski concocts a ridiculous plan to build a lavish opera house at the heart of the Amazonian jungle. He also plans to brings ice to the natives and heaves an entire ship across a large mountain.Peter Weir's Mosquito Coast follows a similar storyline, only here it is Harisson Ford who attempts to brings civilisation to an Amazonian village by inventing a gigantic ice machine. Both films are about mad men and ice. Men consumed by passion and insanity, gradually melting in the smouldering heat.Harisson Ford can't act, but twice director Peter Weir has coaxed genuinely great performances out of him (Witness and Mosquito Coast). Here Ford plays Allie, a brilliant inventor who spends much of his time lamenting the current state of America. Along with his wife and three kids, he lives a fairly comfortable life, taking odd jobs and working on a farm. In his spare time, Allie invents things like a machine that can instantly make ice using fire as fuel.One day Allie finally gets sick of the American way of life and convinces his family to move to the Mosquito Coast (South America). Once there, he purchases a small area of land and appoints himself mayor. Pretty soon he's the king of his own little tribe. Allie and family then proceed to turn the villagers lives upside down, initially for the better (they build quite an impressive little town, complete with hydro-phonics and a gigantic ice-maker), but eventually Allie begins to relish his power a bit too much and it's all downhill from there.Mosquito Coast is an interesting film, filled with strong acting (Hellen Mirren is great as Ford's wife), but the plot doesn't take us anywhere new. We've seen Fitzcarraldo, we've seen John Boorman's Emerald Forest, Roland Joffe's The Mission and Coppola's Apocalypse Now. These are all stories about strong men in death-defying jungle locations. Weir's film is slick and well made, but this should be a film about demons. About really deep emotions. His film doesn't go there. It's Fitzcaraldo lite.8/10 - Like all of Weir's work, Mosquito Coast has a certain quality, a certain intelligence about it. Still, it seems to be lacking something. It feels safe and polished, when it should perhaps scar. "},{"Title":"solitude","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" solitude of a man. his family as his victim. a character who reminds Lope de Aguirre or Brian Fitzgerald. in different tone. maybe, because the story is real and Harrison is far to be Klaus Kinski. a film about obsession, fear and madness.crumbs from flower power movement, extraordinary images, good performances and admirable illustration of man 's fragility, force and hope. a powerful film , beautiful for its profound thrill, one of interesting roles for Conrad Roberts and good occasion for remember the art of young River Phoenix. a film about duty. and its roots. a must see. for the landscapes and for images. for the story and for the acting. for the metamorphose of a man. for the struggle of his family. for the vain search of purity. for the links between father and sons. "},{"Title":"Mr Fox's American dream, leave the country and get a fresh start in the wilderness.","Date":"11 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Harrison Ford was well established when this movie came out in 1986. Several of the Star Wars movies with him as Han Solo had already been made, as well as two of the Indiana Jones movies. This role is a departure from those and the movie's success rides on his performance. He carries it well.He plays Allie Fox, an inventor living in the greater Baltimore area with his wife and 4 children. He is bright and positive and seems able to invent a solution to about any problem. His family looks up to him and follows his lead. So when he pulls up roots and tells the family to pack their suitcases, they are going to a wild and unspoiled place, they smile and take the boat trip to Central America in stride.Helen Mirren, not yet well known in the USA in 1986, is his wife 'Mother' Fox. His oldest son, about 15, is River Phoenix as Charlie Fox. Allie is brilliant but stubborn, and while that gets them towards many solutions it also gets them into more problems than they bargained for.Allie was fed up with the commercialization and frivolity of the world. He wanted a life free of all that for himself and his family.A young Martha Plimpton, also about 15, is good as Emily Spellgood in a smaller supporting role as the daughter of a Christian Evangelist.I enjoyed it for the novelty and the complexity of trying to start fresh in this modern world.SPOILERS For my recollection, his first settlement is working well, with gardens and even a giant ice-maker and air-conditioner run on flames. When three men with guns arrive and threaten their existence Allie lures them inside the machine as a type of 'hotel' for the night, locks them in, and starts the machine to freeze them. But they shoot and damage the workings, everything explodes and burns, they have to leave. Their next home is on the seashore, but a big storm tears it up. Back on the river they encounter the preacher's settlement, they start a fire, the preacher has a gun and shoots Allie, he dies on their little houseboat as they approach the sea again. Presumably the family goes back to Baltimore. "},{"Title":"Allie Fox tries to save his family from the evils of modern life.","Date":"15 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" great movie about a man and his thoughts of what ideal life is for he and his family. The ideal family man makes the best mistakes as he would say. i had not seen the movie since i was a kid. and now remember why the film is so sad. there is no correct way. in the film you follow the ideals of a man against religion and industries but when he has a chance to make a new life for his family he makes the same mistakes the rest of the world does. called a devil and called a communist. everything is in the eye of the beholder. he is right and everyone else is wrong and viceversa. Sadsorry for the bad grammar i just watched the movie and it is now 335 in the morning. "},{"Title":"Watch Harrison Ford Get Down With His Crazy Self","Date":"17 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" PLOT IN A NUTSHELL Allie Fox (Harrison Ford), an eccentric intellectual, engineer and inventor, is very unhappy with how life in America is going. In fact, he hates it so much that he uproots his family from their nice little home in the middle of anywhere is America to a jungle where he proceeds to build his own idealized utopia, complete with a giant ice maker he calls Fat Boy. For a brief time the restless Fox is happy and content, but his utopia is doomed to fail, leading to death, destruction, despair, and ruin. At the time it was released in 1986 director Peter Weir's The Mosquito Coast (based on the novel of the same name) got an at best mixed critical response and was a box office failure. Some believed it was because the film just wasn't box office material for the average American audience. Most however believed that the film failed due to the presence of Harrison Ford as Allie Fox - a role that, not surprisingly, had been offered to Jack Nicholson before Ford signed on. In the big scheme of the Hollywood game Ford built his career on playing sarcastic yet affable action heroes in big adventure films and thrillers, and by that point he had cemented his place as a pop culture icon with not one but two such roles - lovable rogue Han Solo from Star Wars and rugged archaeologist Indiana Jones. Ford had had some trouble gaining recognition for dramatic roles and had only just recently won praise for his role as a cop on the run in 1985's Witness also directed by Peter Weir (as of this writing Witness is still the only film where Ford was nominated for a Best Actor Oscar), and was looking for something different when The Mosquito Coast came his way. Its' easy to see what drew Ford to the part - Allie Fox was about as far removed from his two most iconic roles - and regular parts - as any part could be, and he was such an unusual, offbeat character, the kind that come along once in a lifetime, that it was simply too good to pass up (Ford has even confessed that he agreed with at least some of the character's criticisms about Americans not working hard enough and selling out their values). And therein lay the danger - after years of watching Ford save the day, either from Nazis or an evil intergalactic Empire, audiences just weren't ready to see him playing such an unsympathetic character. Which is too bad since this is quite possibly Ford's most dynamic performance, and certainly deserving of an Oscar nomination (Lord knows that lesser actors have won Oscars for lesser performances in lesser films). Ford embraces the unapologetic, self-destructive nature of the always critical Allie Fox with an unabashed go for broke energy that keeps the film charged from start to finish, and he is surrounded by an excellent cast, including the late River Phoenix as his oldest son (Phoenix later played the young version of Ford in 1989's Indiana Jones & The Last Crusade). Despite the terrible things Fox does in the name of his dream, even after that dream has obviously failed, Ford finds a way to make you feel sorry for him. The Mosquito Coast is a fascinating examination of how far a man will go to achieve his goal, as strange as that goal is, and a clash of ideologies (as seen in Fox clashing with the Reverend) and the ever fragile nature of family. It is not an easy film to watch, not the kind of film you'd want to watch after a long hard day at work, but it is a beautifully shot, fascinating film, and a unique experience for Harrison Ford fans. "},{"Title":"Movie Sucks!","Date":"12 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Plan and simple this movie sucks! I'm fed up with Peter Weir and his movies. Peter Weir has a problem with character development. My advice read the book and don't waste your time watching this unless you want to watch scenery, lack of character and plot development, and lack dialogue. I don't know, but the music sounded like the same music used in Witness. I can't understand how superb Harrison Ford was in Witness and how awful he was in this. His portrayal of Allie Fox was not believable and seemed forced; he was trying too hard. He came off comical. I will say that River Phoenix was great as usual, even his narrative was done to perfection. What a gifted actor he was. "},{"Title":"A different family film","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Mosquito Coast is a very different look at family, and how one person can fully affect those he may claim to love. As with many reviewers, I found the character of Allie Fox (Harrison Ford) difficult to stand watching. As a 'genius' inventor who dropped out of Harvard to receive and education, Allie is type of individual that many people usually avoid on the street because of obnoxious manner of always expressing his views. It is with this sort of personality trait and very narrow thinking that America is a isn't so great, which propels his justification to move his entire family to a different region of the world, in the hopes of starting his ideal utopia, with manufacturing ice in the tropics as a catalyst. Yet while there, he brings with him the aspects of America that he dislikes so greatly and pushes it onto the local population, eventually leaving the land scarred and inhabitable. He also is a hypocrite in his views; on one hand, he wishes to live in nature, yet destroys it in order to do so; he also wants respect from the local population but views them as savages. He cannot stand any threat on his reason and authority, and it seems almost tyrannical in manner, especially with his two sons. It is difficult to determine what exactly his problem was. Yet, Allie was able to derive fear and admiration from those around him, especially his oldest son, Charlie.Mother, the matriarch of the family, often goes along with the actions of her husband, even if it may potentially jeopardize the life of not only herself, but her children. Throughout the movie, the viewer witnesses the decline in her faith of the actions of her husband, as the situation worsens for their family. Yet, it is only at the urging of her children does she finally agree to leave the situation, even then, reluctantly. She seems to have fallen on Allie's spell that for anything he does, she will support.Charlie is the eldest son, and narrator of the movie, who observes his father's obsessions. Allie favors Charlie over his other children because he is the oldest and views him as capable of taking on whatever Allie comes up with. However, Charlie is also keenly aware that there are aspects of his father that don't sit exactly right, especially when Allie states that America is no longer there. In a way, Charlie takes on the role of being a support for the rest of family, as he is there for his mother and provides emotional support for his brother.Overall, Mosquito Coast is a very interesting look at a family's dynamics. One can only imagine the long term impact of his Allie's influence on the entire family. Overall, I personally would not rank this film as any of my all-time favorites. However, I did find the film interesting to watch and was quite surprised at Harrison Ford's acting capabilities. "}{"Title":"puzzling but fantastic","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This picture is probably harrison Ford's least successfull movie,  but it is certainly one of his best. It's sad because some saw this picture as a bad adventure picture. But it is not at all an adventure  picture. It's an ideological picture. A harsh criticize of the united states but too of the men who think they can do better than democraty and nature with their fanatism and dictatorship way of thinking and ruling the others. It's a picture too about fathers and sons. So It's complex, it's beautiful and Harrison Ford and Peter Weir are at their best. "},{"Title":"Makes you think","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The film Mosquito Coast is extraordinary because of the concepts the film develops. This is why I like the film. Also, Harrison ford did a great job portraying the antagonist. Many people don't like the film because of his role. I believe that the acting was less than exception and fun to see Mr. Ford in a different role. See this film if you want a film that challenges your intellect and adds a new perspective to America.  "},{"Title":"a revelation to the watchers and the actors","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  we encounter loyalty (wife, sons, bandits), heroism, intelligence (biblical conversations, technological inventions), corruption (us), obsessiveness, humor (twins), love (girl), hate (rev.), idealism, dogmas, adventure, scenery, worldly questionings (narrator), unexplained events (ice to savages), incoherent statements (civilization!), materialism, madness and much more. All together one of the most interesting, intriguing and reviewable movies of all times. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favorite Harrison Ford films. It was not the biggest one he has ever done, but it is one of the more diverse ones. It is more of a darker character side of Ford which I really liked.Throughout the movie I didn't know if I should like Ford's character or hate the guy. He up-roots his family and brings them to Central America in hopes to create a better life. At first he seems to succeed, then after a while you wonder what the hell he is doing. This is a movie for the any Harrison Ford fan. It shows that he has done more than just the typical hero some people try to label him with.All in all this is a great film. "},{"Title":"Heart wrenching Drama","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a heart wrenching drama starring Harrison Ford and River Phoenix. The role that Harrison Ford takes on is unlike anything else he has ever played.  He takes his family to live on a South American island because he believes that America is corrupted and is going to blow up.  The story evolves about the relationship between father and son and surviving the wild of the forest.  This touching film is entertaining in the sense that you can feel the characterizations being played out by the actors.  I recommend this film for any one who is a Harrison Ford fan and is in the mood for something a little different. "},{"Title":"Is he crazy or what?","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Paul Schrader screenplay full of modern day symbolisms about one man's obsession to move out of the USA and start a new life with his family in the remote jungles of Central America. Stunning performance from Mr. Ford and the supporting cast. Once again Mr. Weir can tell a story with Mr. Seale supplying the stunning photography. Love the locations! "},{"Title":"the film of my life!","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  when i first saw the film, i knew that it will change my way of seeing things. Allie is a fantastic caracter. harrison ford got a oscar award performance!!!!It´s the film of my life!!!! "},{"Title":"What good is a boat without a river...?","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I never read the book, but I'm always impressed with how effectively low-key this picture is, sometimes hauntingly so.Harrison Ford has one of his most idiosyncratic roles, with good support from the cinematographer, Helen Mirren, and River Phoenix--- the latter of whom, in particular, reminds us of how good an actor he was by giving such a strong performance when he has almost NO dialogue (he does supply the occasional narration).And this is Ford's favorite among his own films.Peter Weir is one of our most lyrical directors... now, if he'd only add those 7 minutes back to Hanging Rock! "},{"Title":"Great Drama of Deep Issues","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The film captured many of the issues in post modernism and its philosophical despair even as the term itself was being coined.This film grants a classic treatment of modernism's triumphalism (for which the Harrison Ford character is the icon) which promised the elimination of need, war and religion through the wisdom of man in synergy with nature. The one problem which Ford's character was fleeing and could not deal with, even among 'innocent primitives' was the problem of human evil. In his lack of an answer to human evil he destroys all of his marvelous work, which he had meant to benefit himself and his 'tribe.' He ends up exiled with nothing.The silly treatment of the religionist is justified in that religion, once a serious and zealous devotion to revelation of God and salvation in the very midst of human evil, has devolved into a childish and silly version of religion, especially Cbristianity, that is now in vogue; filled with so little substance and so much nonsense that it gives real answers to nothing. Another element of despair. The one answer to human evil is relinquished by its own supposed adherents to silliness.The answer? Survival of the fittest -- and man is not. The end of modernist hope and beginning of post-modern despair.This movie captures the modern despair philosophically like few others! "},{"Title":"A powerful allegory of America's colonial effect on the world","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Harrison Ford seems to have broken away from his usual roles to play an erratic, brilliant, yet misguided inventor and father. As a patriarch of both his family and a microcosm of a colony, he is determined, controlling and forceful, but so narcissistic that he leads those who follow him to ruin. Harrison Ford is impressive, and it's also interesting to see Helen Mirren, so forceful herself, play the passive, long-suffering wife and mother; her emotional expressions speak volumes when we might have otherwise wanted more dialogue from her character. The story is clearly an allegory for the effects of American colonialism, focusing on the pioneering spirit and ingenuity that made America the country it is, and with it inevitably includes the chauvinism and megalomania that continually drive us in the wrong direction. An important story, especially these days  "}{"Title":"Serious and thought-provoking drama with an amazing Harri Ford","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie because River Phoenix is in it, but when the film ended and the credits rolled, I wounded up thinking about Harrison Ford. Anyone who's seen it knows that he could've carried the entire picture by himself, that if the supporting actors weren't there, it wouldn't have mattered. I have never cared about Ford, but I was really blown away by his amazing performance in The Mosquito Coast. The movie itself is fantastic. It dares to explore a human being's quest for a better world and the extents he'd go to to achieve it. The Mosquito Coast is an excellent case study of the human psyche and how rapidly the world is giving in to pollution and industrialisation. Allie Fox's disgust with the world he lived in is something I feel myself at times. I find it disgusting that people can dump so much junk onto Planet Earth and still close their eyes to the vast problem that is pollution that's looming in front of their eyes. I cannot count the number of times I have wanted to just give it all up, move to the mountains and be one with nature. The Mosquito Coast deals partly with a very big problem that we face, and that our children's children would inevitably face pollution. The sharp contrast between Allie's old home and Allie's new home is evident of that.Besides the 'p' word, the film also examines how far a person is willing to go to achieve his utopia, his fantasy universe that can never exist in the world as we know it. In The Mosquito Coast, Fox is willing to go very, very far to attain what he set out to achieve, and he is so obsessed with it that he doesn't see what it is doing to the people around him, and to himself. Coast realises that once a person is overly fanatical about a worthy cause, that cause would turn on him and become his nightmare. Ford's portrayal of Allie makes it very clear to the audience that this is a man obsessed with his utopia and his anti-industrialisation sentiments, and in the end, he has to pay the price. This reminds me very much of Leonardo DiCaprio's 1998 movie The Beach. While I am a fan of DiCaprio's, that movie is absolute rubbish. I haven't seen the theme of paradise found and lost being executed as well as it has been in The Mosquito Coast, and when was this film released? 1986? Really says a lot about movies today.River Phoenix offered more than fine support. He was a gifted actor whose untimely passing would always be lamented by those he had touched in one way or another, myself included. The rest of the supporting cast were spot-on, but like I said before, Harrison Ford is the movie. Major hats off to Mr. Ford for being able to carry a movie as heavy as this one by himself.When the movie ended, besides being awestruck by Harrison Ford, I felt really sad. I can't quite put my finger on it, but it's just a feeling I got from the movie. This movie should be seen by everyone. It is important, and totally relevant to the world as we know it today. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A Great Film and an Award worthy performance from Mr. Ford.","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Why Harrison Ford was not nominated for an Oscar for his portrayal of Allie Fox I will never know.The film is far superior to Witness as is his performance. The film did not do well in its initial release largley because fans did not want to see Ford in an unsympathetic light,but thats what acting is about and Ford attacks this role with gusto.The story concerns one mans obsession to build a Utopian paradise away from the civilized chaos of the world. His dream overtakes him and eventually destroys him.  Not only is Ford riviting but Andre Gregory as the equally obsessed Rev Spellgood is outstanding.Gregorgy and Ford's rivalry is a central image in the film.Gregory's missionary is a civilized world intrusion to Ford's utopia and the two actor's play their scenes to perfection.  Also strong are Helen Mirren as Ford's wife, and River Phoenix in a rare 3 dimenional performance as The son/narrator. "},{"Title":"Utopia - A sinkhole for sanity....","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I found Peter Weir's, The Mosquito Coast similar to John Boorman's The Emerald Forest. They are both intriguing, and both somewhat flawed jungle adventures. Harrison Ford is convincing as the obsessive, controlling, genius inventor, who leads his family into what he believes will be a jungle utopia. Ford's fine acting drives the film, but the screenplay seems underdeveloped. It simply tries to cover too much ground, with insufficient logic. Building materials and tools appear out of nowhere. Food magically ends up on the table, even though no game was ever hunted, and an endless supply of gasoline is on hand. Scrutinized for logic, the film fails. To enjoy this movie, you must look past the flaws, and not subject The Mosquito Coast to too much scrutiny. - MERK "},{"Title":"Mosquito Coast (premise).","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What struck me about this film was the premise...How often will you watch a movie about a man, who objectively views America (and it not be a documentary)? For all of you Ché Guevara fans in the world (revolutionary minds), this film is a must! Harrison Ford turns in his best performance. Ford is a rebel in real-life, and he's at home in this role.A beautiful film it might not be (it's far above average). But is it supposed to be beautiful? The film has an edge that cuts through truth...Truth can be blind, yet beautiful&#133;Reality is ugly in all its forms. This movie is real! So, watch it for what it is&#133;A story about a man at odds with his country.Mosquito Coast, is a great film! "},{"Title":"Great Acting Weak Story","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Mosquito Coast is the story of the Fox family lead by Allie Fox who is an inventor. In his delusional quest to get away from the consumerism that he feels is taking over the United States he leads his family, wife and four children, into the jungles of Central America. It is there that he quickly buys a town without consulting his wife or other family members. Once in the town Allie plans to create an ice machine in the jungle and create a Utopian society. Allie is able to build his ice machine and is freely giving away the ice to locals. Although he seems to be happy with the fruits of his labor quickly his success turns to thoughts of being used. That everyone taking advantage of the ice is taking advantage of him. As with any story involving a Utopian society Allie successfully destroys everything that his family and the members of the town have worked hard to build. The film never completely explains why Allie is so driven and will not listen to the advice of anyone else around him. Or why his wife never questions his actions or speaks up about the welfare of their children. The acting in the film is amazing and both River Phoenix and Harrison Ford do a wonderful job with their performances the film feels somewhat unrealistic. It felt as though it is another movie that portrays a genius, this time an inventor, as being mentally ill. Think Swiss Family Robinson but instead of being shipwrecked the Fox family seeks out the opportunity to live in the jungle. As with the children in the Swiss Family Robinson the Fox children quickly want to go home, to the United States. "},{"Title":"Deeply flawed, but rides on Ford's performance","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those films that I've always loved in spite of its obvious flaws. Overall, it is a weak distillation of the novel..with very big holes in the writing and over-simplification of the themes. Basically, it becomes a single-note film, showcasing Harrison Ford's character for its entirety. It kind of reminds me of the Apostle...basically a single-character study of another conflicted, hypocritical, possibly deranged male.HOWEVER, I still love it. Why? Because Harrison Ford really does fill it up. His performance is uncompromising in a way, demanding your attention constantly and dwarfing the rest of the world of the film. And similar to his very physical work in the Fugitive you stick with him throughout..you have no other option. Ultimately the film cannot support his performance...but watching it sag deeper beneath him can be amazingly compelling. "},{"Title":"I saw this movie in the theater in '86 and it stunk.","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Stunk then and I won't spend the money to see it again. All kinds of psychological mumbo jumbo. The film corp advertised the movie in a far different way like an Indiana Jones type experience than it actually was. Boy were they wrong but they got our money. What a waste of time and money. We should have asked for our money back it was so bad. Yeah all the actors were good actors but that is like saying Since I'm drinking the best vintage wine in a garbage strewn alleyway then this alleyway is a classy place to hang out. A big thumbs down and raspberry for this schlock format cinema piece. If I saw this movie for sale in the $1.00 VHS movie bin at the video rental place I wouldn't even buy it just for the satisfaction of destroying yet another copy of an overblown piece of junk. At least with a B rated movie you know going in that you're getting garbage. Not so with this one. I cannot believe that some folks consider this to be the best movie of all time. If that is their view then Citizen Kane should be considered an infomercial for greedy rich guys. Nuf said- DON'T WATCH IT. "},{"Title":"The Mosquito Coast","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" From director Peter Weir (Gallipoli, Witness, Dead Poets Society, The Truman Show), I expected this to be some kind of Cast Away or Swiss Family Robinson style desert island film, I watched it because of the three good leading stars. Basically Allie Fox (Harrison Ford) is the eccentric and arrogant inventor who doesn't do things by the book, and his troubled genius, intense moods and incredible drive have given the idea, apparently on a sudden whim, to make a new somewhere else. So with his family, Mother Fox (Dame Helen Mirren), teenage son Charlie (River Phoenix), younger son Jerry (Jadrien Steele) and young twins April and clover (twins Hilary and Rebecca Gordon), they travel to the jungles of Central America to live their new life. Over time, in the middle of the jungle, a new factory is built, and the experiment to create large ice cubes to sell to the local people and all over is successful. There are problems with their new environment though, not just from the inquisitive and sometimes vicious tribes people, from Christian missionary Reverend Spellgood (Andre Gregory) who has a strong hatred for Communists, but mostly from Allie. His attitude, strong attitudes and short fuse make him a bad father, a poor husband, and more than anything a hateful control freak and he wants things done his way and has almost no care for anything or anyone else. It comes to the point when Allie really goes over the edge and too far in his self brewing madness, he destroys the ice factory because of severe paranoia, and the family know that they have to leave. In the end, the only way Allie is finally put to rest and his terrible ways stopped is to be shot and paralysed, Mother upset, but the family do finally leave the jungle and the final narration by Charlie says he did die, but the family go on with hope. Also starring Conrad Roberts as Mr. Haddy, The Goonies' Martha Plimpton as Emily Spellgood and Dick O'Neill as Mr. Polski. Mirren gives a reasonable performance as the concerned and forced wife and mother of the family, and Phoenix is good seeming a little older than he actually is, but Ford is the big draw as he grips you, and even makes you uncomfortable, with his manic dark character who you can both hate and feel no sympathy for, which makes him so good, the story is alright, overall I wonder about the four stars out of five rating by the critics, but it is a watchable drama. It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score for Maurice Jarre. Good! "},{"Title":"Noah's Ark","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is an amazing, thought provoking film. Allie is like Noah building his ark, to save civilisation (surely people thought Noah was as crazy as he is?) To what extent is he right? To never give up. It must have been like this for the pioneers who created the US and Australia. They truly cannot go back. Here, the locals watch with tolerant amusement. Charlie hints that he will continue in his father's footsteps the end, yes, he is liberated by the departure of his father, but liberated to do what? Carry on in fact. What is the solution, a hut in a town on Mosquito coast? I don't know. It's hard to imagine what will happen next.Geronimo is like the garden of Eden, there's a snake. There's always a snake. Maybe the parable of the film is that Eden doesn't, can't exist, yet we must, should take ourselves to the limits to try to make it? "},{"Title":"a fascinating premise carried out with some bold strokes of intellect and heart","Date":"2 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Mosquito Coast features a main character who is not always agreeable. Matter of fact, he can be an outright a-hole, or a blowhard depending on his mood. Allie loves to hear himself talk and expound about how the world has gone to hell, and that America will be (or probably already has) been engulfed by nuclear devastation. He's also a (kind-of) genius, an inventor who has made a machine that with a lot of fire and other things can make ice. Allie is a dick, but he somehow can impress people - his family most of all.This character was Harrison Ford's personal favorite. After the film ended, and while it was going on even, I could visage why. He gets to play against his usual 'type' if he has one, which is the straight-up hero, and it's a type he's had throughout his career (albeit with the occasional 'wrong-man' character like The Fugitive). He gets to play a jerk, but one who is smart and resourceful and cares for his family, and just has a kind of default in his character when it comes to caring for them, actually truly caring for what they want, when the time comes. Allie is a complex being, tragic in scope since he can't see a way to live normally once he's left home with his family. And yet they still love him, in spite of himself.It's a smart movie, smart about how to create characters we care about (and some we don't but like seeing anyway like the Reverend played by Andre Gregory), and smart about how to film it in a mostly straightforward style. Weir sometimes allows himself some stylistic flourishes, notably a tracking shot following along Allie's face as he keeps expounding on this and that while he's leading along the building of his town that he owns. Or, of course, the big explosion scene, which is shot for a moment like a kinetic action movie with its explosion growing and spreading larger. But mostly he just lets the bizarre situation, and how it sometimes seems so not-bizarre, like this is the most natural thing imaginable, play itself out.One may find something recognizable in this story, if only in other movies I'm reminded of the jungle-quest pictures with Herzog and Kinski where they go off into the jungle for some mad quest or obsession to accomplish something (be it a boat over a mountain for opera or the glory of introducing natives to ice in this one); and Boyle's The Beach, which had a group of people leaving their lands not as a vacation but as a destination. But at the same time something feels raw and truthful in the material. I can't say how close it is to the book, though Paul Schrader's screenplay feels true to itself, how a family who had been living with such a man would react at first to leaving everything for a life in the jungle, then accept and kind of love having everything to themselves... and then seeing the true nature of a desperate man's wit's end at control. It's another in a long-line of men in Schrader's films that can't get what they want, despite not being 'bad'. It's a gray area deal, which works great when it comes time in the story for the inventor to face off against the typical hear me Natives! Reverend.It's not entirely a great film. Sometimes a scene will kind of fall flat, or Ford, only once or twice, goes into being over the top instead of just believably ego-maniacal. But Weir steers this story, and this fantastic cast (River Phoenix and Helen Mirren get little masterpieces of scenes here and there), into some captivating waters. I was never quite sure what would happen, except that it would ultimately lead to run for this family - and I wanted to keep watching it, not as a train wreck but as a simple story of love and control gone awry. "}{"Title":"Not Great Not Bad either","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I finally watched this movie after buying it over a year ago and i must say it was not that bad. Harrison Ford plays Allie Fox and professor that basically gives up on the whole idea of America and decides to take his whole family to the middle of no where to start a new life from scratch. i really loved the cast Harrison Ford was awesome and Helen Mirren Was great as his very very very supporting wife. And you get to see young little River Phoenix before he bit the big one  it is sad really he had a lot of talent. He was may favorite in the fact that he was perfect for role of Charlie because of how determined he was and innocent. The whole set and environment was amazing, the whole jungle setting was great and to see everyone help to build a community together was really heartfelt i almost cried at the end when everything burns to the ground. i loved the way the movie was told in the viewpoint of River Phoenix's character Charlie. the movie moved at a pretty quick pace so that it just seemed sometime nothing was happening and i did not like the ending. overall a really good movie a solid 7/10 "},{"Title":"Thought Provoking","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I watched this last night having purchased it for $4.99. Everybody has already said what it's about but I didn't read where anybody thought it was ironic (SPOILER) that this man wanted to escape to utopia but turned out to be a murderer, polluted the water and became an arsonist. It was like he couldn't divert from his plan no matter what happened, he still thought it was better than America. I thought the moral of the story was people make heaven or hell, not places. Because Harrison Ford's character was compelled to go further into the jungle to show natives his ice, his actions turned their paradise into danger. Had they stayed where they lived he wouldn't have had to murder, he wouldn't have polluted that water with ammonia and he wouldn't have burned down the minister's house of worship. I did not read the book and can only go by how I understood the movie. "},{"Title":"A tree that doesn't bend - snaps","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Wonderful movie based on an even better book (as is usually the case). This story is a must for everyone that longs for self fulfillment. As happens in real life, our dreams don't always turn out the way we'd like...so what to do? Change, evolve, and go along with the flow OR not? Does the captain stay with his ship until the bitter end, or not? Do we stay the course or not?! This story is powerful, and I can readily believe similar situations have happened countless times before, and will inevitably happen in the future again. In some ways, this story is especially apt to modern times. It seems like a familiar American dream gone wrong. Long live the tragic hero...................! "},{"Title":"A timeless work of art","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Of all the films Harrison Ford's worked on, the man himself confesses that this is his favorite. That's all you need to know to judge a film on it's merits. I don't blame him either. Under Peter Weir's brilliant and piercing direction, Harrison Ford reached deep within himself and portrayed one of the most memorable characters of the 80's, Allie Fox, a patriotic American who was fed up with the greed and hypocrisy of his beloved country, and what did he do? He got out with his family and embarked on the adventure of a lifetime to find his superior civilization.The Mosquito Coast represents a dying art in Hollywood, an American movie which challenges the very foundation of American Society, one to portray its home country warts and all. One could even go as far as to say that this film was the Bowling for Columbine of it's time, a bold film which dared to question its superiors and win.As in any great film, it's carried by it's lead performers and Harrison and River Phoenix give the very best of their careers, probably because they were both intimately related to their on screen characters. (Harrison Ford being a real life carpenter and River Phoenix's family traveling the world). The opinions of this movie are strikingly diverse, people seem to either love or hate it and who could blame them. Believe me this is not a film one can watch and leave behind an average or lukewarm feeling about it. "},{"Title":"A good one-man study","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A good movie, especially for Harrison Ford's acting (probably his best acting to date). To look at this movie and try to shape any bigger picture from it (i.e societal decay, the human condition etc) doesn't work for me though. Brainwashing, escapism and fanatical eccentricity aren't new, and this movie isn't going to singlehandedly change anyone's perspective on the world or the human condition. It is a fascinating character study though. I happen to think there are quite a few Allie Fox's out there, I know some. They all however, seem to exhibit an annoying propensity for wanting to be the centre of attention and constantly, obsessively trivializing everything but their own ambitions. One soon realizes Fox is doomed. He just doesn't quite get it does he? He's the genius that can't trap a mouse. Stubbornly denying any so called burden of human kind, he is convinced he has the answer and his way is the only way. Yet, his ways are so fundamentally flawed (the chemicals, the melting ice, the home at the mouth of the river), it frustrates you to watch them. I found myself half rooting for his ideals, and half cursing him for his unease and poor judgement with that which surrounds him. The other characters were-- frankly-- nothings to me, perhaps the eldest son and the missionary being the most notable. I thought the storyline was a bit bumpy and jumpy at times with a few awkward gaps. But the directing in general was sound. A recommended viewing I think, at the very least to keep your own ideals and relation to the world around you in focus. I'd say 3.75/5 "},{"Title":"Possibly the best movie I've ever seen.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm glad to see that links to quotes in the film have been posted. Harrison Ford has half a dozen lines in the movie that affected me very profoundly emotionally.The movie's about a man that grew up in a deteriorating America.  He decides not to let the deterioration go without acting against it; not to simply sit back and watch everything around him and around his family crumble.  He takes them away to live a very, very different and much simpler life. Using only His intelligence, impossible drive, and rabid hatred for what He feels is wrong, He freezeth and then bloweth away (biblical allusions intentional).An extremely good movie all around. "},{"Title":"great!","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" this was an amazing film. when i saw i couldn't believe Harrison ford didn't get nominated for an Oscar for this film he was incredible. River Phonix is also incredible and i think he gives an an underplayed good boy who gets fed up in the end. it was an amazing film and i think its too bad it didn't when Oscars. Again i say i think it is one of Fords best films he is so different, its not action but so philosophical in what Harrison Ford's performance. Mosquito coast i think says a lot about views that people really believe in and i think it is so bad that it got bomb in the box office. arguments are that the book is better and it is but the movie is also great. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Concept, Sloppy film.","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Laughably bad. Felt as if a 16 year old  with no experience of the world or human nature wrote this.  Embarrassing cameo by Butterfly McQueen made me walk out of embarrassment. After I recovered, I was left bored wanting to see something meaningful like Independence Day, now that's a movie. "},{"Title":"The story of a man too smart for everybody's good.","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brilliant storytelling (almost fable-like original novel by Paul Theroux) highlights this underrated film of a man's quest for -God only knows.Idealistic inventor Allie Fox (Harrison Ford) packs up the wife and kids, and heads off to the deep part of the Central American jungle, with an ice-making machine, no less.A man of unquenchable thirst, Fox's obsessive, driving quest destroys not only himself and his family, but all that surrounds him as well. There can be no satisfaction in his world, no accomplishment, no salvation.Saul Zaentz (English Patient) produced and Peter Weir (Truman Show) directed, this Paul Schrader script. That's a good enough reason to suggest right here, but Ford is brilliant as he turns from idealistic inventor to self-described deity.Beautiful jungle landscapes only add to the experience.But the moral to the story is? "},{"Title":"Weir's weakest direction, but still a good film","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Peter Weir's films all have several things in common, but the one that strikes me most is the absolute beauty with which they are photographed. However, in The Mosquito Coast, Weir does not capture the beauty he does in other films, most notably Dead Poet's Society and Master and Commander The Far Side of the World. This isn't to say the direction is bad by any means, but it's weaker than typical Weir (which is sort of like saying it was one of Kenneth Branagh's weaker performances or Mozart's lesser operas).However, this film has something many of Weir's do not A truly fascinating story. Well, maybe more of a truly fascinating character; but the character drives a wonderfully interesting story, exploring the dangers of fanaticism under any circumstances and throws in a religious conflict, Communism, and a journey to Hell as possible interpretations. Allie Fox is one of the most interesting characters I have ever seen on film; in a category with Charles Foster Kane (Citizen Kane), Edward Bloom (Big Fish), and the pair of Juliet Hulme and Pauline Parker (Heavenly Creatures). He's a brilliant and charismatic inventor who takes his family to Mosquitia to build his perfect society and never gives up on that dream to return to America, no matter what the cost.Harrison Ford, as with most actors who have worked with him, did his best work with Peter Weir, on Witness, but he seems somewhat miscast here. While Ford is in general a capable (no better than that, but no worse either) actor, he is not the most charismatic of actors, which Allie Fox needs. Someone like Tom Cruise, Kenneth Branagh, or Mel Gibson has the kind of charisma to pull off this role well, but Harrison Ford just doesn't quite have it. His performance isn't bad; he just doesn't have the charisma that would make him fit the role perfectly, but that does detract from the film.The other actors aren't given much to go on for their performances, but River Phoenix is the standout, giving his character a depth beyond what is written for him. The only particularly bad casting is Martha Plimpton, whose Emily Spellgood comes off as an unattractive future prostitute and who seems to have one expression and that's it some sort of odd come hither look.All in all, The Mosquito Coast is a good film and one of the most intellectually stimulating I have ever seen; but it's not a must see. Just don't judge Peter Weir as a director based on this film--if you want to see what he's capable of doing as a director, watch Dead Poets Society or The Truman Show. "}{"Title":"Fitzcarraldo's Family","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Some films are born already bound to their soulmate, and so it is with this one.I resaw it because a reader had challenged me on my criticism of some film stars who just aren't real actors in any sense. Harrison Ford is one of these, so I went in search of a film where he actually got on top of the character. I think he did here -- only here. He has said this was his best acting. To his credit, he admits he's not a real actor, but he is proud of this mad idealist.But that's by far not the most interesting thing here all the actors do well. The interesting thing is the bond with `Fitzcarraldo.' You really must see these two films together.Fitz is a wonderful 1982 film by Werner Herzog, built around the intense Klaus Kinski. The story isA man, loosely connected to reality, is obsessed with bringing a new world to the jungle. His initial plans center on setting up an ice factory on a river in the jungle. A key vision in the film is the sledging of a huge item up a hill from the river. Things go awry, resulting in a final journey downstream. In an ambiguous end, Kinski has possibly died and makes a triumphal return.Now, Shafer has reshaped this with children, one of whom narrates. In this version, the ice factory is what rises from the river in Fitz, it is a huge ship. In both cases, an incidental target is societal brainwashing. Herzog's version is intense and monocular. Weir's is more a conventional story and he really does well with this cast. There is no fancy perspective of the camera on either part the viewer is invisible and passive. Both are effective in their own way. See them both to get one excellent film.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford as 'The Devil'","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I just finished watching this movie, and saw so much to comment on that I had to post this. This is such an underrated movie because of the symbolism in it. Harrison Ford's character starts out as a good smart person in a good world, and dilutes himself and his family so much that he and his new world turn into a hell.I saw this movie as an allegory to the devil and heaven. Harrison Ford leaves his home so that he can create a paradise better than the one he left. He is so dogmatic in fact, that when his 'paradise' gets demolished before his eyes he doesn't give up. He continues on with a diluted vision of his new paradise and things only get worse, until the end when he dies and his family travels back to the ocean or 'heaven'.I like the quote at the end of the movie because it sums up my statement here, Once I had believed in father and the world had seemed small and old. Now he was gone and I wasn't afraid to love him anymore. And the world seemed limitless. Go see this movie if you haven't already. 10/10 "},{"Title":"rent Indiana Jones 3 instead","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is another 80's Harrison Ford flick. Watch early on for a cameo appearance of a young George Kostanza as well here (was this guy ever NOT bald). Harrison Ford's character is an annoying know it all which makes the movie all the more mediocre. The scenery is breathtaking, just absolutely breathtaking, definitely the best part of the movie its easy to imagine actually being on the mosquito coast as you watch this film. The supporting cast provides dull performances. Watch for the high point of the film when the fatboy explodes. After that and George Kostanza the movie hits a downward spiral as the plot seems to go nowhere with the characters. If you're looking for a good movie starring Harrison Ford and River Phoenix I suggest renting Indiana Jones 3 instead its much better. "},{"Title":"Wrong... wrong, wrong, wrong.","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'd like to start by addressing the problems I have had with IMDb user comments. In no particular format or order people here have the wrong understanding of this movie. Congratulations all of you who both watched the movie and read the book. I am proud of you all. Truly you now have an acute and wondrous knowledge of both. So then you complain about something that is wrong with the movie and yet fail yourselves to describe it. Do not write here telling others interested in the movie or opinionated on the movie you can not describe how you felt after the movie. No one wants to hear such an insightful opinion. The fact of the matter remains The Mosquito Coast is a timeless classic along the lines of The Lord of the Flies. That feeling you cannot describe is your own lack of understanding. When you went to cut the movie down and say it managed to pull through the flaws unscathed you mean something like this movie was a revelation to me and my paradigm is forever changed in an enlightening way. Allie Fox is not racist when he refuses to by Japanese seal tape. And YES the book does have him say he doesn't want to fund the next generation of kamikazes but NO he is not acting irrationally. The kamikazes were real and so was the feeling that the future generations of Americans would be inferior to the present. This is how the general will or feeling is calculated by asking this to the public. Allie Fox is not selfish in yelling at his youngest son to be a man and dragging them to the middle of the jungle. Fox is taking steps he feels to be necessary to preserve the next generation and help that next generation become greater than the previous. Why does Fox want to introduce ice to the natives? The answer is complex. Fox can't watch his country die, a country that if any of you can imagine such a wild idea- has citizens who take pride in its history and its direction. These citizens want the next generation to be greater than their own. Why is there so much immigration to the USA? Education is the primary means to make your children successful, and in the US we have education galore. Fox is not selfish and the movie is not flawed, it's your own flawed perspective and your own selfish need to make others believe you know what your talking about that creates a void which is ultimately lost in translation on your own part. "},{"Title":"Harrison's opus out of Han Solo and Indidana Jones","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Harrison Ford's perfomance in the Mosquito Coast is wonderful, because it is gritty acting.  In a sense it is very anti-Harrison Ford.  The philosophy of genius and nature is one that could only be spun together by master filmmaker Peter Weir.  The equilibrium for Harrison's Ford menacing presence is his son, played by young River Phoenix.  In the film River Phoenix acts, by reacting something very rare in young children in performance roles. More over the film is rock solid, meaning that there isn't alot wrong with it. Need something to compare it to?  Try this, this movie is what Danny Boyle was trying to create in The Beach with Dicaprio.  Yet instead Boyle spoiled the great talent of DiCaprio something Weir has never done. (Even in the large cast of Master and Commander, Weir holds on to the entire cast).Masquito Coast is the movie for people who want to feel the deepest layers of a good actor like Harrison Ford, and see why Peter Weir should be considered one of the finest directors of our time.  Masquito Coast is surprisingly entertaining.  The only thing that is depressing is watching young River Phoenix.  His performance is haunting and you know watching it, that he has a gift of huge proportions.  "},{"Title":"A precursor to Fight Club?","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I took an Australian cinema class in summer 2003, we talked about how a common theme in Australian movies is communication issues. In Walkabout, the sister can't communicate with the Aborigine but the brother can; in Picnic at Hanging Rock, it never gets communicated what happens; in Strictly Ballroom, they portray dancing (physical communication).Peter Weir made his American debut with Witness, in which Harrison Ford's character has to communicate with the Amish. In Weir's The Mosquito Coast, Ford plays Allie Fox, a man disgusted with American society and how it communicates junk to everyone. Moving his family to Central America, Fox hopes to create a utopia but just the opposite happens.This seems like many situations that we've seen, so maybe The Mosquito Coast is nothing special. But it's certainly worth seeing, if only to look for communication issues. I wonder whether it was a sort of precursor to Fight Club. "},{"Title":"Too campy for me","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One would expect Peter Weir's THE MOSQUITO COAST to be an enjoyable viewing since Harrison Ford considers it to be his favorite film.  Unfortunately, the second the credits ended, I knew my premonitions were wrong.  Relying on his favorite 80s composer (who he uses in WITNESS), the filmmaker begins the long process of torturing us with a painfully boring adaption of the book.  Furthermore, Harrison Ford's character is a complete annoyance.  In fact, I would say this is the worst I've ever seen Mister Ford.  Nonetheless, River Phoenix delivers the goods (playing a similar role which he would later capitalize on in RUNNING ON EMPTY).  But, as I said again, THE MOSQUITO COAST sinks from the beginning and should be relegated to a bin of 80s DVDs entitled, movies that don't age well.          "},{"Title":"Borderline nutcase/inventor/crackpot/atheist leaves his country searching for nirvana....the fool.","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Intense drama showcasing some excellent talent, gripping action scenes, and sparkling dialogue; all coupled with lushly dense tropical scenery forming one of the best pictures I've seen in a good while. Ford stole the show with his maniacal portrayal of an obsessed man intent on crafting a perfect world. "},{"Title":"The worst film I have ever seen...!","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I had heard good reviews about this film, so i was looking forward to watching it. However, it was quite probably the most boring 2 hours of my life. The plot was slow, the storyline was extreme, (yet abysmal) and even though the film boasted many talented actors, this film did not even attempt to stretch them to their full potential. I do not recommend watching this film, however bored you are. Sorry folks! It's just the truth... "},{"Title":"Very compelling drama","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Harrison Ford plays a character much different than any other he has played in this highly entertaining and well acted film. Ford's character is Allie Fox, a highly eccentric inventor who decides to pack up his family and move to the South American jungle called Mosquito Coast. The reason why he wants to get out of the United States is because he is fed up with a culture where people eat when they are not hungry and buy things that they don't need and does not want his family to continue to live in that type of society. Once he and his family get to the Mosquito Coast, slowly but surely, Fox watches his master plans fall apart.Although, it does go a little overboard towards the end, this is still a highly compelling film about how good intentions can end up going horribly wrong. Ford gives what is one of his best performances as does the young River Phoenix is his adolescent son. The score by Maurice Jarre is perfect and Paul Schrader's screenplay is crisp. Look quickly for a young Jason Alexander(George from Seinfeld) as the hardware clerk in an early scene. "}]