[{"Title":"Words alone are not enough......","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"168 out of 211 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I have read the other comments and am stunned by people who view The Mission in a negative light. It feels as though you are attacking a loved one - perhaps because this movie IS a loved one to me.  Never, ever have I felt so deeply about a film.  I don't have any idea where to begin checking off the pro's  cinematography? stupendous acting? heart-breaking subject matter? moving soundtrack?  I don't think it's possible to do that with The Mission - one needs to absorb it as a whole.  An entire masterpiece.I was one of the fortunate ones to see this movie in a theatre back in the 80's - we were visiting friends in another city and, for lack of anything better to do that evening, decided to see this film. To say I was moved would be such an understatement as to be ridiculous. It is the saddest commentary on what horrors have been perpetrated in the name of God....I have seen this movie several times since then and own it now but I am always very careful whom I see it with and when I see it.  You need to have a block of time set aside when you can completely immerse yourself in this film. Unplug the phone, put the kids to bed, make sure the dog doesn't have to go out. If you don't pay attention - from the very beginning to right after the credits - you will miss something important.  Prepare yourself emotionally for The Mission. Step into it, live it, let it speak to you. Feel the struggle of all involved.I love this movie. infinity out of 10 "},{"Title":"Emotionally devastating, Inspiring","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"124 out of 151 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I found myself emotionally devastated after seeing this film the first time. The film packs a punch in its contrast between the beauty of nature and human self-sacrifice on the one hand and the depths of human self-interest and ruthlessness on the other.  Its theme is as relevant today as it was in the 1600s - what are  the consequences of my actions, and what price must be paid by me and by others as a result?  The film depicts several characters with whose choices the viewer can identify - the missionary, the repentant killer, the papal legate - and gives no easy answers to the choices that confront them.  But the fact that there are no easy answers doesn't let them off the hook.  In the end, they all have to take responsibility for what they do or fail to do.The magnificent visuals of the Iguassu Falls and the moving score by Morricone (surely his best) all contribute to an unforgettable picture. "},{"Title":"Condensed history","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"98 out of 122 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  While at college I was given the assignment of producing a 30 minute talk on the 'Guarana Republic' which is off course the subject matter of this movie. Hailing from the Protestant part of Europe I had never even heard about this aspect of Jesuit missionary work before, but as I researched the matter I became fascinated. So when I heard that a movie had been made about this topic I went to see it as soon as possible. Knowing how the film industry tended to treat historical events I was somewhat suspicious, but I was pleasantly surprised. This movie instantly became one of my all time favourites. I think the subject matter is handled sensitively and sensibly and the cinematography is stunning. What also impressed me was the clever way in which this story, which in reality spanned several generations, was compressed into a period of about ten years without becoming unbelievable. Even in a two hour movie there is a limit on what one can touch on, but I think that a good balance between dialogue, adventure, action, and character development, was struck. Even so if the movie would have lasted another hour I would still have been happy (perhaps even happier).  "},{"Title":"Lush Visuals, Score & Fascinating Story All Rolled Into One","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"75 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The more I see this film the more I like it. First off, it has magnificent South American jungle scenery, filmed in an area that features multiple gorgeous falls. This is one of the prettiest films you will ever watch - guaranteed - and please see it on widescreen DVD. The Mission won the Oscar for Best Cinematography in 1986 and that award was well-deserved. There is just one stunning scene after another.The story is very interesting, too a supposed true-life account what happened back in the 1700s when a few dedicated priests tried to bring Christianity to the natives. It shows what occurred when a combination of the Catholic Church and the Portugese slave-traders and politicians attempted to put a halt to their missionary. This is a drama, not an action film, but the movie has extended violent ending, and sometimes is shocking in that finale.Jeremy Irons, as the dedicated Jesuit who heads the mission, and Robert De Niro in a surprise role as the killer slave-trader-turned-repentant priest are both excellent in their leading roles. It was interesting to see a young Liam Neeson, too.To some, the story might be a bit slow I found it very involving. After several viewings, I began to fully appreciate to lush score by Ennio Morricone. This is simply one of the prettiest and classiest movies I've seen and it's highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Film at its best","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"86 out of 121 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  There are many great movies but The Mission is in a class of its own.  It belongs to a select group of films which are able to penetrate our lives and change us forever.  The powerful themes of forgiveness, love, innocence, guilt, freedom, and human nature are presented against a backdrop of incredible scenery and Morricone's now legendary score.  At first glance The Mission is a story about a political struggle. Upon closer examination it is no less than divine revelation about the nature of the human heart.  "},{"Title":"A revisit is long overdue","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"52 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  After hearing a quick clip from the soundtrack recently I decided to have another look at 'The Mission' which I hadn't seen for more than ten years. Interesting viewing in these days when epics abound Lord of the Rings, Gladiator, Troy etc.The first thing that struck me was the intelligence of the script which often seems an afterthought in today's big budget jobs. Robert Bolt weaves an intriguing web of characters; mercenary, slavetrader, starcrossed lover, papal emissary and man of faith. The passion of Robert de Niro's Mendoza beautifully contrasts the quiet firm conviction of Jeremy Irons' Gabriel. And the moral dilemma facing the Catholic Church, whether to abandon influence abroad for the sake of power at home, is ably brought to life in the tortured mind of Ray McAnally's Altamirano. This man sent from Rome by the Pope himself has the power of life and death over the Guarani Indians and the Jesuit priests who have dedicated their lives to Christian service in the deepest regions of the South American rainforest.The film isn't perfect by any means I would have liked better representation of at least one Guarani character but the integrity of Joffe's direction and Chris Menges' spectacular camera-work make this one film you have to see. And there's that lovely soundtrack by Ennio Morricone.We may be more sophisticated these days in terms of technology, sound engineering and special effects but the lesson from 'The Mission' for today's directors has to be it's the story, stupid.  "},{"Title":"Viewers will find the film providing a good starting point for discussion...","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"49 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Jesuits were to be teachers, educators in philosophy and religion... They became the intellectual elite of the Catholic Church, adviser to the kings and queens of Europe, and involved with the forest Indians...In Roland Joffe's motion picture, their purpose is to convert and to civilize the untamed population... But while the Spanish sees the Guarani Indians as a potential converts for Christianity, the Portuguese considers them as nothing more than slave labor... Tension immediately arises among the Spaniards, the Portuguese, the Church, the Jesuits, and the Guarani...The film examines the events surrounding the Treaty of Madrid in 1750, when Spain ceded part of South America to Portugal... As you may know, Portugal, eventually built a trading empire so dynamic that it would eventually push out into the Atlantic and set the stage for Spain's historic expeditions of conquest... By the Treaty, the Jesuits were to leave the New World... But neither the priests nor their flock wished to leave... There is nothing great in politics, no matter how it is delivered, and for the noble natives, the consequences are no less dramatic... The collision of cultures had it enormous consequences... And the film is no simple account of heroes and villains, or victors and victims... It is simply a dramatic, sweeping tale of the complex blending two peoples into one...Cardinal Altamirano (Ray McAnally) is the papal legate in charge of the Catholic activities of the South American territories... He faces a political dilemma If the Catholic Church leaves the Jesuits as defenders of the Indians in South America, the Vatican might be at odds with the crowns of Europe, and the Catholic states might begin to resist the power of the Pope...Father Gabriel (Jeremy Irons) is a conqueror without sword against brutality and oppression... He converts the native peoples to Christianity, and defends their rights and beliefs against the European powers... His dream is to see a community in which Christian natives living in peace with the Spanish and Portuguese...Rodrigo Mendoza (Robert De Niro), is an ex-slaver turned Jesuit priest, who wants to defend the Indians by guns against the merciless cruelties and butcheries of the slave dealers, and ward off the ravages of the Portuguese... "},{"Title":"Deeply human","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"39 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I think The Mission is better than Joffé's The killing fields. The background-story is about political power between Spain and Portugal in 1750 and a Cardinal sent by Rome. But above all it tells of two men. Jeremy Irons is Jesuit Gabriel who builds a mission in South American jungles. He has got a deep human character and believes in peace and love. Robert DeNiro is more interesting. After killing his brother in a duel, he changes from brutal slave-trader to an expiating Jesuit. One of the best sequences is when native Indians recognize DeNiro. It looks first as if an Indian would kill him with a knife, but then he cuts the rope with that DeNiro carried a heavy ballast of weapons and armings. DeNiro cries and laughs simultaneously  because he is redeemed. This goes right through your heart. Chris Menges cinematography is wonderful. Ennio Morricone wrote one of the most remarkable scores of film history. Don't leave the cinema while cast and credits are running over the screen at the end! You would miss the last sequence! "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"48 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Rarely does a film have all the elements in film making all come together so perfectly.  I can honestly say that this is THE BEST film I have ever seen, and the most powerful film I have seen.  I always said that some films are 'one' of the best, but I can truly say that this is THE Best film I have seen.  The cinematography is excellent, excellent casts, and an awesome score.  I kept the tape playing during the credits just to listen to the music.  If you haven't seen this, you better see it, it is unforgettable and will remain with you forever.  "},{"Title":"Roland Joffe's follow up to the masterful The Killing Fields is well-crafted and often easy to admire, but ultimately comes up a bit short.","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"55 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Rating ** 1/2 out of **** Back in 1984, Roland Joffe accomplished the near impossible; his major motion picture debut, The Killing Fields, defied every expectation typically associated with neophyte filmmakers and what Joffe delivered was one of the most powerful and moving films I've ever seen. So it's no surprise I highly anticipated his follow-up film, The Mission, and it's obvious that by bringing back the same team (producer David Puttnam, cinematographer Chris Menges, and editor Jim Clark), they attempted to capture the proverbial lightning in a bottle a second time. Unfortunately, the end product isn't quite cinematic magic.Set in the 18th century, Jeremy Irons stars as Father Gabriel, one of several Spanish Jesuit priests (including Liam Neeson) assigned to convert the Guarini tribe of South America into Christians. His efforts are gradual, but successful. Converging with this story is Rodrigo Mendoza (Robert De Niro), a slave trader who seeks penance after killing his own brother in a fit of rage. For all the Guarini that he has killed or sold off into slavery, they still show compassion and forgiveness towards him, and he is accepted into the mission, even converting into a Jesuit priest under the guidance of Father Gabriel.The priests and the Guarini natives eventually find themselves in heated discussion with politicians and slave-owners, who are debating over whether the mission should fall under the rule of Portugal, thus endangering all the Guarini with the possibility of being made into slaves. Determined to prevent such an action at any cost, Mendoza takes up his sword once more, coming into conflict with Father Gabriel's peaceful approach.The Mission was released in 1986 with little success in theaters, despite garnering a respectable 7 Oscar nominations, including Best Picture. Since then, it's developed a devoted fan base who consider it among the most underrated films of the decade. As much as I'd like to, I can't quite agree. Though a respectable and often beautifully crafted effort, the film ultimately comes up short in human interest and emotions, with Joffe often favoring lingering shots of lush jungle scenery and needlessly overlong political machinations involving secondary characters whom we couldn't care less about.The film is divided into three acts, the first, involving the spiritual transformation of Mendoza, is easily the most compelling. Despite De Niro's occasionally stilted performance (his delivery of some of the dialogue, particularly Are you laughing at me? still makes me cringe), his emotional torment is heartfelt and absorbing and his acceptance into the mission is genuinely moving. It's almost all downhill from there.The build-up in the second act is initially effective, with the heated debate over the Guarini engrossing, but the conflict eventually loses steam when we're subjected to dull, endless dialogue that grows inadvertently confusing even as it intends to clear up the matters at hand. It's also in the middle segment the film loses its human focus and all that's really left is the question of will they or won't they fight.The third act is the inevitable battle, and while there are a few powerful moments amidst the chaos, the sequence is a badly choreographed mess. The editing also feels a little rough, with quite a few scenes feeling like they clocked in a little too soon (the sudden transition after Irons' God is love! line is disjointed, to say the least). The Guarini are never developed beyond the typical noble savage portrayal, so it's difficult to feel for their plight beyond the fact that their forced subjugation and mass slaughter is a heinous crime. I wanted to feel more for them, but they're merely a backdrop for the more seasoned cast.As Father Gabriel, Jeremy Irons is superb, unquestionably one of the film's consistent bright spots. It's unfortunate he's never that well-developed in any of the film's separate acts, but his performance alone is able to draw us in even if the script lets him (and the audience) down. In supporting roles, Ray McAnally and Liam Neeson are excellent, though a bit limited in screen time. For Neeson, this was more of a hint of greater things to come.Ennio Morricone's score deserves a special mention; whatever emotions Joffe is unable to convey on screen, Morricone's music can conjure in just a few notes. It's one of the most beautiful scores I've had the pleasure to listen to, especially in segments with oboe and flute. The chorus in the background is perhaps a bit much, but an overpowering score can do wonders in a film otherwise unable to muster all the intended emotions.Joffe's work in the film is still overall quite solid, but he completely lost his footing soon afterward, losing a grip on his career with a long string of critical and financial disasters, including Super Mario Bros., The Scarlet Letter, and Goodbye Lover. I'm convinced The Killing Fields was not a fluke, but the sign of a genuine auteur who showed his prowess thanks to a brilliant script and cast. Blend those two elements with his natural skills and I'm sure we'll get a film worthy of mention alongside his debut. Let's just hope this happens sooner rather than later. "}{"Title":"One of the great epic historical films of all time","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  In `The Mission' Roland Joffé has succeeded in putting together one of the most majestic visual adventures of all time and a story that had to be told. Chris Menges' sumptuous photography is a feast, such that &#150; for once &#150; the Newsweek quotation on the video cover is superbly apt `a sweeping spectacle'. The whole film is breathtaking from the depths of the jungle to the indian villages, from face close-ups to broad panoramas, the visual effects are so powerful that I just cannot think of any other comparable film. Add to that fine interpretations, carefully considered and delivered performances by all concerned with Joffé's exquisite direction, and you have a guarantee of a magnificent production. But that is NOT all there is to this great film Ennio Morricone's music reaches its greatest power, its most poignant intensity, its most gratifying melodic line, right here in `The Mission', surpassing everything this Italian composer had ever done before &#150; even with his great friend, Sergio Leone. Here Morricone reaches symphonic levels in a wealth of melodic harmonies, such that what is supposedly `only' a visual attraction &#150; a film &#150; becomes also a delight to the ears, bringing a lump to my throat at various moments through this genuinely mighty film. You might wish to compare this film with `1492 a Conquest of Paradise' (1992) in which the best of Vangelis can be heard; but even so, I rate `The Mission' just ahead of `1492'. Both films highly recommendable. "},{"Title":"Film as art - a masterpiece","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  On all counts a superb film cinematography, score, setting, acting, screenplay, themes. I think it was cut perfectly.  Those who think it too long must be missing half the evocations that are made.  I've watched it eight times.  The central theme for me how does Love respond to Might? Futile resistance or Ghandi-like protest were both expressions of love... crucified.  It may have been set in the early Americas, but the issues are just as relevant today.  Many powerful related sub-themes.  This is not frivolous entertainment, but an opportunity for transformative reflection. Probably the best film I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Poignant and touching","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This is a movie that will always stay in my memory.First time I saw it, back in the late 80's,I thought it was too brutal and even morbid in a way.But the second and third time I was swept off by its non-conformistic beauty.The story begins unusually,with De Niro's character killing his own brother over a woman.The good priest in Irons' interpretation steps in as guiding light and leads him to salvation,which means that he takes him to his own Mission deep in the jungles.There De Niro is born again as an individual,though he doesn't lose his warrior instincts and I believe much of his story revolves around dealing with his newfound identity as a Christian and struggle to shake his old militant ways.The film gives us some strong performances and both De Niro and Irons should be praised for they pull it off wonderfully in their parts.I believe this to be De Niro's last great performance.The movie is beautifully shot,a Roland Joffe trademark,and though it ends tragically it isn't a sad film.Its poignant and highly enlightening and I believe many souls were deeply changed after seeing it.The Morricone score is brilliant as always.A nice supporting cast includes Liam Neeson and Aidan Quinn in some of their best early work. Another strong part comes from Ray McAnally in the ambiguous part of Cardinal Altamirano. Its a landmark film all in all and deserves a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Will be watched for all time","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The Mission is amoung the top ten or twenty films ever made. At this point it is my favourite film. It is an eloquent essay in faith and redemption. The two most moving scenes are the one in which the Brother enters the Jungle above the waterfall, from which the Indians have cast the previous Brother that went up to them, and knowing that the Indians are all about him unseen in the jungle with their poison tipped arrows, he sits down in a clearing and plays the hauntingly beautiful Gabriel's obo tune on his own obo. The Indian's are mesmirised and emerge and befriend him. The Brother thinks If I had an orchestra, I could have subdued the whole continent. The other scene is where the former Slave driver, who repents after killing his brother, whom he loved above all else, goes with the Brothers up to the settlement of the Indians whom he was taking away to slavery on sugar plantations. The former slave driver has been forgiven his sins but he nevertheless feels the need to do a private penance of dragging the battle armour of his previous life with him through the jungle. When the brothers come upon the Indians, the slave driver fully expects them to kill him for his deeds but instead they cut away the bundle of armour he is dragging and welcome him to them. This echoing of divine Love by the Indians enables the former slave driver to believe in his redemption and to be born again at one with God. The mission is a film that you won't forget. See it today. (Watch out for Liam Neeson in it too by the way.) "},{"Title":"Awe-inspiring to see on the big screen","Date":"15 April 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I had the good fortune to see The Mission on the big screen in 1986 when it was first released. I went into the theater knowing only the title, the two lead actors, and that it had something to do with South America. Two hours later I was a puddle of tears, both from the subject matter and from the knowledge that I had just witnessed a cinematic masterpiece. It is perhaps the most intelligently spiritual film I've ever seen. The cinematography is gorgeous throughout, the settings are stunning, the acting is top-notch across the board, the musical score is breathtaking, and the screenplay is brilliantly eloquent. Roland Joffé did a fantastic job directing The Killing Fields, but this one is even better. I just watched it again on DVD, and nearly 25 years later, the film has not aged or lost any of its power. Still one of the greatest and most underrated films of all time. "},{"Title":"Final Victory in Might or in Love? Unique, profound, unforgettable movie","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Father Gabriel If might is right, then Love has no place in this world...The movie by Roland Joffe was not popular in my country when it was released since such movies were censored by the communists. When, however, the situation changed in 1989, I remember that I saw THE MISSION for the first time on Polish TV in 1995 as a part of cinema's 100th anniversary celebration. The movie moved me so much that I have come back to it several times since then. Each time I see it, I find something new in the film. Therefore, I consider THE MISSION one of the very best films ever made, a film where history meets single individuals, where sadness is conquered by joy and disbelief and skepticism by profound thoughts on humanity.The content of the film, though historical, applies perfectly to modern times. The universal struggle of two spirits, the one of might and the one of Love, has always been noticeable wherever and whenever people live. Let us look briefly at the gist of the content the Jesuits build a mission in the core of a jungle in South America, they understand the heart of the Gospels Love without looking for reward. Yet, the politics of the conquerors (Spaniards and the Portuguese) steps in and destroys the mission... However, not everything dies even though goodness seems to be conquered... This story, presented here in a condensed way but developed in the film is so powerful that it leads to reflections what, in fact, reigns in our lives; why good people have to suffer, why we are forced to do what we hate, it is so effortless to destroy while to build requires so much strength, why the world turns our good deeds into evil, etc. This aspect is the pearl of the film and the feast for the soul even though such thoughts require some courage from an individual. I reflected on the fact if I am willing to support the weak or if I rather choose might which is my master I attempt at in my actions? It's strange but we will never get to know our personalities completely... And that is what the film also shows. Altamiro (Ray Mc Anally), for instance, is a person of different psychological states hard to evaluate.The performances are exceptionally powerful which makes THE MISSION a very nice piece of film art. Jeremy Irons gives a very powerful performance as Father Gabriel expressing all values a good Christian should own goodness, gentleness, patience, courage, and purity. He has this blink in his eyes that makes his portrayal particularly memorable. Robert De Niro... I would say frankly that this is his very best acting. People concentrate on different films when they hear of De Niro's performances, particularly in Michael Cimino's THE DEER HUNTER (1978) or in Martin Scorsese's CAPE FEAR (1991). Some of them skip THE MISSION. Yet his portrayal of Rodrigo Mendoza is a masterpiece in its own. This role is difficult to portray since Mendoza is a man of two contradictory spirits from a slave trader to the devoted Jesuit. Nevertheless, De Niro does a marvelous job. One moment caught my attention from the first view of the film Mendoza's death and this nostalgic look at Jesus in the Eucharist (even while writing about this moment a tear appears unintentionally in the eye). Ray McAnnally portrays Altamiro, a bishop who is forced to do what he actually does not intend to. He seems to be touched by the mission and in spite of that, he finally allows for slaughters. In the final shot, he expresses one thing powerfully a face of a man whose conscience will forever suffer. Thus we have made the world...thus have I made it, which are his words said at the end by him clearly show what kind of person he was.Another powerful aspect of the film is music. Ennio Morricone is famous for having written music to many films but here, in THE MISSION, he did something absolutely sublime. I bought a CD listening to music alone and it was an unforgettable experience for me. People who heard it and did not see the film asked me where I got such wonderful tunes. Indian rhythms combined with Christian spirituality and ecclesiastic chorus - UNFORGETTABLE! I promise you that having seen this film, you will never forget, among other things, these lovely tunes.The filming locations, which obviously constitute an additional aspect in any film, add a thrill and authenticity to everything. It is hard to imagine other places in THE MISSION. The movie is shot mostly in the places where the historical events took place. We see the mighty Iguazu waterfalls, the jungle where Guarani Indians live, the city of Cartagena in Colombia as well as the hills of the Brazil-Argentinian border.What more is there to say? I think that most readers will agree with me that THE MISSION is a masterpiece, a film that opens people to new horizons of understanding the profound thoughts that are there in our lives if we are willing to reflect on them or not. Speaking religiously, Christ has once died on the Cross but then all was conquered by Love.The final scene gives an answer to Father Gabriel's thought that I entailed at the beginning. A silent sunny day in the jungle... we see a small group of Indian children who have survived the destruction. A little girl picks up a violin that she finds in the river and they begin to row a small boat towards the future... Father Gabriel, you are right. It seems that Love perhaps has no place in this world and might may seem to be right but it is always Love that wins since the spirit of the dead will survive in the memory of the living. "},{"Title":"Magnificent.","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  My favorite movie, ever.  It works on so many levels as a story about the dissolution of the Jesuit order in portuguese South America (and the subsequent enslavement of the natives), as an account of one man's ill-fated but necessary conversion, as a series of complex ideological battles, and, lastly, as a tale of innocence, of Eden.  All this, in addition to spectacular performances, brilliant direction, a fabulous script and one of the most breathtaking soundtracks ever recorded.  It simply gets better with each successive viewing.    "},{"Title":"Warning Spoiler- Why I love this film","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I found interesting that The Mission is not in the Top of this database. This is my favorite movie ever, and let's make it clear... I'm not catholic. Indeed, I'm not a religious person. The greatness of this film can be found all along its plot. But IMO, what makes The Mission truly unique is its end. This is the story of how two opposing views of justice and redemption fail, at the same time, in the same place, succumbing together to the stupidity of humankind. You can see it as a dark end but on the other hand, it's very real. The Mission is always there to remember us that individual efforts to fight justice are valuable but insufficient to tackle political games. Any application to our current state of the world is not a coincidence. On top of that, it is a beautiful master piece for photography and music. I have not been able to contain my tears even once since I saw this movie for the first time. But it feels good. "},{"Title":"The Mission Is A Brilliant And Excellent Film","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission is a drama about the experiences of a Jesuit missionary in 18th century South America.It stars Robert De Niro and Jeremy Irons together with Ray McAnally, Aidan Quinn, Cherie Lunghi and Liam Neeson. It was written by Robert Bolt and directed by Roland Joffé. The film examines the events surrounding the Treaty of Madrid in 1750, when Spain ceded part of South America to Portugal, and turns this episode into an allegory for struggles of Latin America. Two European forces are on hand to win the South American natives over to imperialist ways. The plunderers want to extract riches and slaves from the New World. The missionaries, on the other hand, want to convert the Indians to Christianity and win over their souls. Mendoza is an exploiter dabbling in the slave trade. But after he kills his brother Felipe in a fit of rage, he seeks redemption and calls upon the missionaries to assist him. After repeatedly climbing a cliff with a heavy weight as penance, Mendoza finds redemption and becomes a devout missionary at a settlement run by Gabriel. The missionaries want to promote a new society in which the natives will live together in peace with the Spanish and the Portuguese. But this concept frightens the royal governors, who would rather enslave the natives than encourage peaceful coexistence between the Europeans and the Indians. They order the mission to be burned to the ground. But this event causes a rift between Gabriel, who wants to pray and pursue peaceful resistance, and Mendoza, who wants to take up arms and fight the Europeans.Featuring a majestic score by Ennio Morricone and lush Oscar-winning cinematography by Chris Menges,the Mission is shot through with piercing, haunting imagery, pictures of enduring imaginative force.Also,it is a rich and thought-provoking. It contains moving images of despair, penance, and redemption that are among the most evocative ever filmed.The performances are also great especially that of De Niro,who effective as a callous soldier who kills his own brother and then turns to a missionary to oversee his penance and conversion to the clergy. The narrative and dramatic forces at work in this movie should be more stirring and powerful than they are but unfortunately,it lacks doesn't as it is too detached for the viewer to feel concern with the events and characters in the story.But that doesn't take that much from it as it remains a brilliant and excellent film. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking and heart-warming","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I would have to say that this movie is one of the most real and beautiful movies that I have ever seen!! One's own life is drawn upon by watching this film.... It is hard to watch all of this movie without wanting to break down and cry... being as young as I am, I find it difficult to understand some of the things in life that happen, and why so many people and groups are treated without respect and dignity. This film helped me to understand that all god's creatures are unique and special and are EQUAL!!! The music is so strong it makes the movie so much better to watch.  I think this movie would be NOTHING without the powerful music that is played throughout it... I am glad that I had the opportunity to see this film in a high level Spanish class because it taught me, about me!! What a wonderful movie!! "}{"Title":"The Mission's Battle","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission was absolutely one of the best films I have seen and I regret not having the privilege of watching this beforehand. Robert De Niro excellently portrays Mendoza, a converted Jesuit, whose former life reflects the convictions of his enslavement against the South American Indians. It is this conviction that leads him to defend these same Indians from slavery by engaging in a battle against the Portugese oppressors. Father Gabriel, played by Jeremy Irons, represents the polar opposite of Mendoza. A kind and thoughtful man, he instead resorts to a peaceful method of fighting for the liberty of the Indians through a silent and non-combative battle---through hymns and worship as opposed to guns and bloodshed. The treatment of these simple but strong-willed and determined Indians through slavery and disdain not only creates a sense of sympathy, but a heart felt agony towards their situation and rising anger aimed at the cruel indifference of the Catholic leaders, who had the power to stop such a tragic event. Ultimately, neither side truly wins, leaving a battered nation and a lost cause.What made this film even more impacting was the fact that it was based on true accounts. So the question arises How could we as humans be so brutal towards others who have every right to freedom and happiness? A must see film that will open your eyes to the harsh reality of slavery and those who desperately fought for their rights. Though they lost the battle, their cry for equality lives within the chronicles of time. The actors played a wonderful role to tell the story of a torn civilization. "},{"Title":"Political vs Spiritual...Art in Celluloid.","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This film is the finest expressions of the neglect or opposition of the spiritual in favour of political expediency I have ever seen.The other comments for this film eloquently, or at least enthusiastically, extoll it's virtues and I can only rephrase what they have said...Suffice to say that the Mission remains one of my favourite films. I saw it many years ago and my only regret is that I did not see it in the cinema. Regardless, the impression it made upon me has been indelible. As an artist, I only hope that I can create something that touches or moves my audience in such a way.A wonderful film that, ever so briefly, absolves Hollywood of its sins. "},{"Title":"A true masterpiece","Date":"9 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This film is a true masterpiece. I easily place it within my top 100 films of all time. The story is very human, and while some reviewers think this picture is a critique of faith, particularly the Catholic Church, I do not agree. Yes colonialism had its problems and was a flawed vehicle for the Gospel, but the Indians came to beautiful faith genuinely. Also the priests had an abiding love for these Indians as people, not as mere numbers to add to their scrolls. Real faith is not something which can be forced. And in the end of the movie the Indians and priests give one of the most compelling and loving scenes of martyrdom I have ever witnessed on film. Yes it is sad how they are cut down, but they gain far more than they lose, and in doing so show that true faith cannot be destroyed. I should state that I'm a Protestant, but I have known priests, and the character Jeremy Irons plays reminds me of several dear priests I've encountered. DeNiro gave probably the best performance of his career in this film, the only other contender would be Deer Hunter. The scene when they reach the top of the mountain and the Indian cuts off the dead weight of the armor (symbolic of the guilt and anguish he'd be carrying over his brother's death) and DeNiro breaks down and expresses sorrow and finally joy it is truly sublime! Ennio Morricone's music beautifully complements the film (both in pacing and detail) and shows his preeminence amongst film composers! I should also comment on the film's lush cinematography. No wonder it won an Oscar for it. You are transported into the heart of the jungle. I recommend this film in the strongest possible terms. Please see it and you will not regret the time spent! "},{"Title":"This movie, rated 7.4 in IMDb?","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Not surprisingly, I am disappointed by human being again. Apparently there exist some people who don't understand what this movie wants to talk about. And the numbers are far greater than expected. As a 10 years old boy watching this movie first time, I could see the obvious conflict between the strong and the weak because, obviously it was clearly shown in the movie as gunfights and killings. Yeah, I had average intelligence of a young boy. And I was bored by this movie. (I was only 10 years old after all.) Some people still see only as much as young me, with tons of historical and political knowledge they gathered in their lives and described in their review. This movie isn't about wars and politics. Strictly speaking this movie isn't even about the religions. What this movie speaks about are forgiveness - self forgiveness -, love - the true love that we will never understand -, and most of all, the path - the path we should choose some day. (assuming you are not going to give up living it, if you know what I mean.) - Are you gonna fight for them like Rodrigo Mendoza? Or are you gonna be with them, and love, like Father Gabriel? The movie does not answer, after all, who can? This movie isn't about the obvious war which is just a background story, but about the parallel conflict between Rodrigo Mendoza and Father Gabriel, which represent unending war in our conscience.I know exactly why the Godfather has highest rating and I appreciate it so much. But having The Mission so underestimated with Robert De Niro acting (Just watch him at the waterfall!) and the music.... the music.. and so much love, so much human. I don't know, should they really be gangster movies to make us feel the Thing? I am very disappointed. Way to go Human Being. "},{"Title":"Father, we think he's done this penance long enough...","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Father, we think he's done this penance long enough. But HE doesn't think so John! This movie captured some beautiful moments in a person's conversion! I especially love, what I consider, the culminating scene of the entire film, wherein the Guarini see the man that enslaved and killed them and instead of doing the same to him, they set him Free from the burden of his past sins! What a beautiful irony and the symbolism is exquisite! This was beautifully done by Joffe and the gift of crying for his sins and the utter abasement of his soul before God and all is shown so well! It was really a very touching scene when Jeremy Irons' character then rushes over to hug and comfort this wretched soul! Then the way Joffe shows DeNiro working amongst the people he had sought to enslave and their acceptance of him as a new man--stunningly portrayed! The healing laughter of the children playing jokes on him and laughing at him...something that his former pride-filled self could not tolerate is so well done. I cannot help but to think that Joffe must've prayed about the making of this movie to do such a good job on these above mentioned scenes.Unfortunately, I do agree with other reviewers that the movie went downhill from there. But, as a former missionary myself, I can avow to the fact that this film is very much alive in the hearts of thousands of brave missionaries throughout the world (not just Catholic priests and nuns but the protestant missionaries too who also love this film) and they will talk of the beauty of this film for many years to come! "},{"Title":"The Mission's Mission Accomplished","Date":"27 May 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Robert De Niro is the only reason that I watched the movie.I am an absolute fan of his.His Hairstyle in this picture makes him look like the Only Hero around.His performance when he plunges his knife to his brother and the scenes where he cries out loud and the final scene of his death makes this film memorable.Jeremy Irons provided as the believer and a guide.Liam Neeson even though got small screen time,he put up a good show.The film even though is slow and little dragging at times brings an entirely new mood to the viewers. We can't end this without giving Loud applaud the Legendary Music Composer Ennio Morricone for his score.............Altogether its a new world experience............ "},{"Title":"What You  Do Unto The Least Of My Brethren","Date":"8 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It's a sad fact of life that hunter gatherer cultures even when slavery is not in the mix will always give way to societies higher up on the sociological scale. No one says its right, it just is. The Mission deals with the tragedy of such a situation in South America in the 18th century.Slavery was in the mix here however, practiced in the open by the Portugese and winked at by the Spanish where their king's writ ran. The area were concerned with in South America in 1758 is that area of the Amazon headwaters where the boundary between Brazil and Peru is not really to clear. Christianity was a both a savior and destroyer of animist Indian tribes back then in both American continents. It certainly did have as a message that their culture and beliefs were altogether wrong and have to change. But there are also numerous recorded incidents where priests and we are talking about the Catholic Church here put their lives and reputations on the line to defend these primitive societies from the evils of the civilization they were bringing.Such an admirable priest is Jeremy Irons in The Mission. He's aided and abetted by Robert DeNiro a former slaver who became a monk, renouncing civilization after killing his brother Aidan Quinn in a fight over a woman. The tribe they are working with and actually gaining trust and even some converts has been earmarked to be captured and used as slave labor over in Portugese territory.The Mission is told in flashback as Cardinal Ray McAnally is writing a report to the Pope of what is happening in South America. And in many ways what is still happening there.The Mission got seven Oscar nominations including best picture and won the Oscar in 1986 for best cinematography. The performances are some of the best that all the principal players have ever given on screen. The story is a tragic one, but with a message of hope that there are indeed people like Irons and DeNiro for whom the positive aspects of their religion is not just platitudes.The best way to see The Mission is back to back with At Play In The Fields Of The Lord which is a 20th century look at the same problem. Both films are among the best made in the past 30 years. "},{"Title":"DeNiro With A Sword, What Could Be Better?","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" SYNOPSIS Jesuit missionaries struggle to build and protect a mission in the Amazon jungle during the late 1700s. CONCEPT IN RELATION TO THE VIEWER Often times, good does not triumph over evil. But it is still worth the struggle. PROS AND CONS This is a very good film. It won the Grand Prize at Cannes and also won an Oscar for best cinematography for obvious reasons. According to the opening credits the story depicted in this film actually happened. The acting in this film is somewhat low key with the story and the scenery taking center stage. Having watched this film several years ago, I was struck by my slightly different perspective after this viewing. The real focus is the turmoil and suffering of the Viceroy that is sent to administer the will of the king and not the fate of the native peoples or the Jesuits that are sent to show them salvation. The Viceroy, played by Ray McAnally, gives the best performance in the film as the ex-Jesuit Priest who now obeys the king and not the teachings of the church. In the end he is a shattered man, having done his duty against his better judgment. This film is about the difference between doing what is right and doing what you are told. The struggle we all have between being obidiant or following our heart. This is a dilemma we all must face at least once in our lives. The mercenaries and profiters try and comfort the Viceroy at the end of the picture by reaffirming that, This is the way it has to be. So is the world made. To which the Viceroy responds, No, So have we made the world. Even after 300 years, somethings never change. That is why this film still carries such profound meaning. "},{"Title":"This is an exceptional film","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I first saw The Mission when I was sixteen years old and Ennio Morricone's haunting score as a backdrop to the visual leitmotif of Iguaçu Falls captured by the cinematography of Chris Menges's persist as some of my favorite cinematic moments. Robert DeNiro and Jeremy Irons successfully portray Jesuits in Paraguay prior to the Charles III's expulsion of the order from the Americas in 1767. The movie succeeds on various levels and perhaps is the best movie that Hollywood produced in the 1980's apart from Amadeus and the Last Emperor.This movie summarily is a morality play in which passive and violent resistance are contrasted. Robert Bolt, the script writer, avoids subscribing to either approach, but intelligently constructs a plot in which the conflict centers around whether violence against repression or passive resistance are a priori. In the end, neither of these approaches is sufficient and the Portuguese army slaughters the Guarani. I can't help but think that liberation theologians like Archbishop Oscar Romero, who the Salvadorian government murdered, influenced Bolt's consideration of this topic.As I perused other user comments, I believe critics of this film are turned off by the jolted dialogue and the under-developed characterization. In truth, the dialogue is relatively sparse compared to other Hollywood movies and relies upon visual and musical motifs to communicate developments in the plot and characters--our indebtedness to Shakespeare's dialog driven plays perhaps prejudices us against other forms of communication. The use of apt imagery with terse but effective dialogue results in more than adequate character development in the Jesuits.The movie does not develop the Guarani and can be accused of reifying these people as noble savages. However the movie is about Jesuits and both native and non-native laymen are backdrops to the development of the conflicts exhibited in the priests played by DeNiro and Irons.I certainly recommend this movie as a great drama that presents interesting questions in a formally pleasing way. "},{"Title":"The greatest movie about the three universal languages of the soul faith, love and music...","Date":"13 November 2012","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Goethe said Religious worship cannot do without music. It is one of the foremost means to work upon man with an effect of marvel. I don't think there is a more eloquent movie moment to illustrate that statement than the scene from Roland Joffé's The Mission where the Guarani Indians find Father Gabriel (Jermeny Irons) in their territory.The previous Jesuit priest who tried to convert them ended up tied in a cross and sent to his death in the vertiginous Iguazu falls, probably the film's most spectacular and defining shot. Father Gabriel traveled to the same falls, to pursue the quest of his ill-fated predecessor. He won the hearts of the Indians through the simple use of an oboe. The Guarani, captivated by the music, couldn't believe that an instrument capable of such a divine sound would bring a bad omen for the tribe. The Guarani didn't speak Spanish, Father Gabriel didn't speak their language yet, but what are words except the language of the mind, and how useless can they be when music, the language of the soul, can be understood with no need for translations. The Mission, Golden Palm winner of 1987 relates the epic South-American journey of the Jesuits in the middle of the 18th century. And much more, it's served by one of the most beautiful scores ever written from Ennio Morricone, which conveys the transcendental aspect of music as a universal language, a key for people's souls. It's true that, by depicting the martyrdom of the priests who fought for the indigenous people's right, the film can be perceived as a celebration of religion. But religion comes from 'relegere', which in Latin means 'uniting' uniting people under a same faith, even nobler because it relies on values such as love, equality and justice. It's significant that Father Gabriel doesn't convert only the Indians but also a mercenary and slaver named Mendoza (Robert De Niro) who thought himself beyond any redemption, after having killed his brother in a duel.Mendoza follows Gabriel to the Christian sanctuary, along with Father Fiedling (Liam Neeson). He pulls a heavy bundle containing his armor and sword, what's left from his previous life, and after crossing the falls and getting to the Guarani territory, Mendoza finally measures the accomplishment and finds himself among brothers. He bursts out crying, and his tears strangely mix up with the kind of smile only De Niro could make communicative and poignant in the same time. Mendoza takes vow and becomes a priest, trading his sword to a Bible. If one thing, The Mission is a hymn to universal brotherhood, and only our in our faithless era, one could take it as pro-religion film. How can it be pro-religion, when the same Guarani will end up massacred by the slavers who believed in profit, today's very religion?The Mission is set during that specific time where Catholicism became the scapegoat of all the European revolutions, where the same people who justified racism or slavery blamed everything on the Church. The Guarani sanctuary would be left to the Portuguese disposal after a territory transfer and a Papal emissary, Cardinal Altamirano (Ray McAnally) a former Jesuit himself, was sent to examine the situation. Although he's amazed by the success of the Jesuit Mission, he is confronted to a dilemma if he yields to the Spanish plantation owner Cabezo (Chuck Low), one of Mendoza's collaborators who doesn't even believe that Indians are human beings, there's no doubt that the whole tribe will be enslaved. If not, he'll create one terrible schism within the Catholic Church, as the Jesuits would have dared to interfere with the Portuguese interests , represented by Don Hortar (Ronald Pickup). The choice is obvious and so is its bloody aftermath, no one could have expected anything from Hortar or Cabezo, when the pure voice of a little Indian singing had not effect on them, even inspiring an abject comparison to savant parrots. Mendoza dealt with them, and reconsiders his Jesuit vow when he understands that only the language of weapons can fit the men, whose souls cannot be touched by the divine grace. And whether the fight is already lost doesn't matter, they all obey to a mightier authority than plantation owners or politicians. When Altamirano tries to reason Gabriel so he can reason the Indians, the Guarani leader questions his authority, isn't he representing God, and how can even God be a matter of reasoning. Only God can know where the truth lies, religion is not a democracy but at least everyone's equal under God.Naturally, the marching civilization annihilates the Guarani, just like the Conquest of the West destroyed the Natives, and like many countries, till now, use the content of their civilizations to justify the fight against religious obscurantism in the name of modernity, while maybe religion is still trying to protect some of the best of Human civilization. As the film concludes. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. Faith, like music, speaks for something hidden in the soul that no one can't reach, the belief in people's inner goodness, that no one is beyond any redemption, that's what Catholicism is about, and I'm not even Catholic, but within my own religion, I can respond to a film like The Mission, and that's what Ennio Morricone's music accomplishes and what makes it one of the greatest score ever made. It's too magical for words and too divine to belong to one religion.And it's so close to Heavenly perfection that any flaw, right or wrong, which a critic would find, on the editing, the storytelling or the directing, is immediately redeemed. I wouldn't believe a film capable to transport my soul with such a mesmerizing music would have anything to be criticized. I guess my reaction was similar to the Indians when they listened to the sound of Gabriel's oboe &#x85; "}{"Title":"Underrated (spoilers)","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission starts with quite a startling image. It starts with a group of Indians tying a priest to a crucifix and then sending him off down river. For a while he floats helplessly in the rapids but then he falls off the side of a huge waterfall. By the end of the movie you can't help but feel that the Indians would have been better off if they'd done this to every priest that crossed their path.There's something quite loathsome about a group of foreigners barging into someone else's country and telling that they're wrong and that they should worship a non-existent sky god. It's arrogant (every religion and every country thinks it has the definitive answer) and it erodes cultures. But although I personally find the very nature of mission work distasteful, it's to The Mission's credit that it presents characters we can understand and sympathise with, for these people seem less interested in preaching religious dogma than encouraging the native people to flourish.The majority of the film focuses on Father Gabriel, played by Jeremy Irons. He's the kind of priest that doesn't have all the answers and who isn't on a mad quest to save the soul's of the savage, barbaric Indians. In other words, he's a man you come to like.The Indians come to like him too. Pretty soon he's gained their trust and they've welcomed him into their community. And he gains their trust in the simplest possible way &#150; through music. There's one beautiful scene where he sits in the middle of the jungle playing the oboe. In the mist he kind of looks like a ghost. And it's not long before the curious Indians emerge. They don't quite know what to make of it. But what the scene suggests is that what unites us a species is a love of music and a desire to feel in harmony with the world. That's what all people share. Religion, on the other hand, seems to me to be nothing but divisive.But although in the grand scheme of things religion has been nothing but a pestilence, the film also shows that on the small scale it can work. It certainly works for Robert De Niro's character, Mendoza. At the beginning he's a slaver who profits from trading the Indians. He also kills his brother in a fit of rage when he catches him with his woman. But after the murder he can't handle his guilt. Therefore he decides to pay penance by dragging a heavy bundle around with him. In this state he crosses rivers and climbs cliffs (some of the stunt work here is absolutely hair-raising, especially for someone, like me, who hates heights) but he only stops when one of the Indians, one of the people he used to hunt, cuts the bundle from around his neck and throws it into the river. It's only then, when one of the Indians forgives him for what he's done to them that he can forgive himself for what he's done in the past. It's an excellent scene, possibly the best in the film.After this Mendoza becomes a Jesuit priest and joins Gabriel's order. And this leads to a nice series of scenes where Mendoza is welcomed into the community. The warmth that they offer him is the complete opposite of the coldness of the settlers.And it's the settlers who are the villains of the piece. They're the kind of people who invade foreign lands and enslave other human beings while sincerely classing the indigenous population as savages. They're hypocrites and they're morally bankrupt.But the Catholic Church doesn't come off much better. The crux of the story centres on a dispute over territory and whether the Church is going to protect the missions. Of course the Church turns out to be spineless and it tells the Indians to give up their homes, their mission and everything they've built to the settlers. But quite understandably, the Indians don't understand. They don't understand why god is treating them this way. I'm sure they're not the first to wonder why god is such a sadist.But although the Church in the film comes across as worthless, the priests do come across as heroic. Even though it goes against everything they believe in, the majority of them decide to fight in order to protect what they've built. And in the end all of them die for it &#150; the moment where a dying Mendoza sees Father Gabriel shot dead is one of the most powerful in the film. But although it's a noble act, it also makes you wonder what good religion has done for any of these people. Without it there certainly wouldn't have been such carnage.Misgivings about religion aside, though, the film's rather wonderful. It's definitely one of the most beautiful films I've seen. The photography is gorgeous and Ennio Morricone's score is one of his best (which is saying something). In fact, the main title music may possibly be my favourite piece of film music. And I also love the oboe piece.The acting too is excellent, especially Jeremy Iron's performance &#150; it takes a lot of skill to make decency as interesting as villainy. But I do have to say that Robert De Niro feels a little out of place. Maybe he's played too many psychotics or maybe it's something wrong with me, but he's not entirely convincing in this film. But that's not to say he's bad. He just doesn't really seem to fit the character.And I also have to say that the film drags a little in the final act &#150; the final confrontation isn't as visceral as it should have been. But on the whole The Mission is a fine film. Indeed, any film that has me rooting for priests must be doing something right. "},{"Title":"Still potent after all these years","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I just finished watching a movie that, when I first saw it in 1986, made such an impression on me that I could think of nothing else for days. It came at a fragile and life changing moment in my life and for some seven nights I walked several miles back and forth in a bitter winter to see it at the once splendid Ontario Theatre in Washington, DC. The film was Roland Joffé's epic The Mission with the unlikely cast of Jeremy Irons, Robert DeNiro, Liam Neeson and Ray McNally. When I first saw it I thought it to be amongst the most beautiful films I'd ever seen, and nearly 25 years later, think so still. While nominated and winning many international awards, The Mission was mostly ignored by Hollywood, receiving only one Oscar (cinematography).The complexities of the story telling in The Mission are almost too much to take in in a single film lasting a bit more than two hours, but Jaffe has woven them together with a touch that is both delicate and profound, creating a tapestry as impressive and intricate as any medieval Flemish tapestry, its story held together flawlessly.While supposedly created for our own preservation and edification, politics and religion have done as much or more unspeakable horrors in the names of God and Man as they have good and in The Mission we see the bloody result, despite the effort of a few rebel priests who believe in the power of love and the natives with whom they try to share their world. The villains are plentiful in this true tale and Joffe never disguises them, allowing the deceptive simplicities of good versus evil run its predictable course, as they twist and turn everything they touch into the inevitable choked and knotted apocalypse of sorrow that is always the end result of greed.Despite its bleak, often hopeless nature, Joffe nonetheless gives us a miracle a film of such ineffable beauty that stirs both heart and mind through the combination of remarkable acting, a wilderness captured in breathtaking cinematography, battles both physical and spiritual, and wed it all to one of the most remarkable musical scores of the late 20th century. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Theologically Based Movie","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I attend a Catholic high school (not Catholic myself) and we watched this movie in Church History class. I was expecting a dry movie about events that surrounded the Native Americans in South America, and was surprised by how brilliant this movie is.Besides presenting the story in a historically correct context, the film itself is brilliant. The cinematography is beautiful, the score is perfect for the movie, and Jeremy Iron turns in one of the best performances of his career.The movie can be a little slow moving at times, and I understand how everyone may not like it, but there are certainly much worse movies out there to watch. A definite recommendation. "},{"Title":"The dead will live in the memory of the living.....","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I think this movie deserved much more attention than it's been given, cause today, June the 14th 2006 (20 years after its release), I realized this movie is one of the closest to perfection. This is how a movie should be like! I love the story (and the way its told), I love the score (Morricone rules!), I love the photography (simply amazing and fascinating), I love the acting of both the main actors (don't need to name them) who help the talented director Roland Joffe' depicting one of the finest images of the struggles the native South Americans have been through centuries ago just to keep their culture and identity alive (and the battle is still raging, as we can read in the ending lines). This is a movie filled with pure and deep humanity, charity, this is about mistakes and forgiveness, sins and redemption, the power of weapons against the weight of love, but most of all, the lessons we read between its lines is that, even in death, hope never dies, like the memory of great people will live forever as the living keep it alive. Great movie! "},{"Title":"A thoughtful movie","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Previous reviewers have already noted the wonderful acting by both De Niro and Irons, phenomenal cinematography, and Morricone's beautiful score. Like many I also bought the soundtrack.  I agree with all the accolades given this film and I too heartily recommend this wonderful film.  The Mission is one of my favourite movies of all time and I was dumbfounded when it lost the Best Picture Academy Award honour to Platoon (a decent film admittedly but really not in the same league as The Mission).  The Academy really makes me wonder sometimes, like when Shakespeare In Love beats out Saving Private Ryan.***** Minor plot spoiler ahead *****Although the De Niro & Irons stories are the focus of this movie, one subplot really struck me as being very profound, and because no one has mentioned it yet, I thought I'd bring it up.  The Bishop who is visiting to make the decision regarding giving the Catholic Church's approval of the transfer of control of the territory to the Portuguese knows that doing so will have dire and possibly fatal consequences for the Indians.  However, not to give the Church's blessing will hurt the Catholic Church in Portugal. So, he knows right from the beginning that he will end up approving this transfer of control of the land, and, given his knowledge of the consequences that will follow, he knows it is the morally wrong decision. And yet, he does it anyway.  I found this very interesting - a man of God consciously making an immoral choice.  Yes, I know I shouldn't be surprised by this given the problems in the Church recently (we are after all, all imperfect) , but this was an interesting subplot that struck me during the movie and stayed with me afterwards.If you haven't seen The Mission, do yourself a favour and rent this gem. I always appreciate coming across a truly great film, given that there really is so much dreck out there.  After watching this film I believe you'll be happy you didn't waste your money and cerebral cortex on some recent release that does nothing more than occupy two hours of your time and is then immediately forgotten.  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of modern cinema.","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The effort that clearly went into this film shines out in all areas, which makes watching it a satisfying and absorbing experience. Visually the film is perfect, with some of the greatest cinematography ever viewed on screen, combining majestic jungle scenery with religious imagery and style. Ennio Morricone's musical score is another highlight, incorporating exultant vocals and pensive, moving segments in an effective mixture. The acting is less obviously excellent at the start, but becomes so in later scenes. Truly this film is underrated, too underrated people condemn the length and occasional slowness of the film, but you do not notice either really. From the incredible opening scene to the moving ending you are carried along on an epic, spectacular and thoughtful voyage through the beginnings, troubles and workings of the mission in question and of the people involved in it. You will not walk away from this film without looking back.      "},{"Title":"Glorious","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The First Time I saw this movie my father bought the score by Ennio Morricone.  The score is one of the Greatest ever written for the movie.  The Cinematography is beautiful.  This film is probably one of the best films ever made about religion.  The film begins with Jeremy Irons (Giving a beautiful performance) And Liam Neeson (in one of his first movies) go to the waterfall where Gabriel (Irons) is to find the old mission where the old missonary died.  The scene where he is playing the oboe is one of the greatest music scenes ever put on film.  The opening scene is a classic, where the man is on the cross and falls down the waterfall.  Robert De Niro, (In another convincing performance) Shines as Mendoza.  The final scene when the army invades and when De Niro is looking at Irons is one of the greatest Movie Looks of all time.  And the ending wants you to wonder,  Is where God is Love is, or is it the other way around.  This is the best religious film ever made, and one of the finest historical dramas made.   "},{"Title":"Think","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  For me, along with `Dances With Wolves' by Costner, `The Mission' was a drop of sincerity and reflection. These two movies are alike in their most general message, that being pondering over relations between two worlds - the old one and the new one, and the crack the World gave after these two worlds previously unacquainted faced each other.`The Mission' is not a completely hollywood-style article. Fortunately, it `lacks' pathos and leaves no hope. The first thing I like about this movie is its historical truthfulness. It was indeed the Misiones province of Argentina named so because of the missions. It is indeed the Iguazu waterfall. They were indeed Guarani people. It is indeed the place where borders of Brazil, Argentina and Paraguay meet. The second  is the objective picture of a piece of the Southern American history the movie tries to deliver. There is no black and white, no absolute truth, and no absolute God. The key merit of `The Mission' is that it makes you think - the thing that is obviously in scarcity in nowadays' cinema. And it also makes you wonder. But one can find no answer.The film is hardly known among viewers if at all, nobody knows why, while it shows some unexpected facets of Jeremy Irons' and Robert De Niro's talents. Silent tough men whose burning worlds are all inside.This film is not for spending time, it is for looking around and back and thinking. That is why I like it. And also of course because it's so rare to see a movie talking to you about these things, about this continent, its people and its past.  "},{"Title":"Possibly my favorite","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Not many movies have the ability to bring tears to my eyes as this one does.It is about the life and death of a tribe, a priest, and a warrior.SPOILERS BELOWA first-rate historical drama that treats controversial subject matter (religion, race, personal motivations) through the perspectives of fundamentally different protagonists who nonetheless share close personal relationships. Irons plays a gentle, inquisitive priest who tries to spread the beauty of faith to a tribe of Indians. De Niro is a violent rogue who is confronted with the emptiness of life through his own irresponsible actions. Neeson plays one of his earlier supporting roles.The humanity of the Indians, who were regarded as heathens by most Europeans of the time, is shown to us in heartwarming fashion, and we are touched by the noble efforts of the missionaries. And we also see the self-centered profiteering motives of the Church and European policy that come to a head with those people that truly wish to connect with a totally foregn race. An existential choice is made by thee men of God, and the events unfold in epic fashion.  "},{"Title":"Still Stands As My Favorite Movie Ever Seen","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I first saw this production about 26 years ago, and my initial impressions were that the cinematography, settings, acting, writing, everything about it was fantastic. I have watched it time and time again over the years, and no other movie has yet surpassed this as being number one in my very long list of watched movies. It is a poignant story of grace, forgiveness, redemption and honor. It portrays these attributes in very moving ways, similar to Les Miserables. I try to see most films starring Robert De Niro, and my personal opinion is that his acting for this role was his best performance to date. Now, that is saying something, because I consistently find his acting brilliant in most of his roles (i.e., GoodFellas, Casino), even in the movie Stardust (where he provided us with a very unique performance). I don't want to detract from the acting by Jeremy Irons, which l also found tremendous. Despite the great acting and beautifully filmed settings, the top honors for this film should go to the fantastic story written by Robert Bolt, who formerly brought us renowned screenplays such as Lawrence of Arabia, Doctor Zhivago, and other great stories before he passed in 1995. It is my hope that everyone see this historically monumental film. "}{"Title":"Sweeping and Majestic!","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Roland Joffe's The Mission is a sweeping and beautiful historical epic of two men with two entirely different professions band together to save an endangered Indian species. Led by a majestic score by Ennio Morricone and sweeping cinematography and beautiful shots of the lush South American wilderness, this movie is one of the best of the 1980's. The movie has been overlooked mostly because of it's Christian themes, but as it's about saving people and a man of the cloth, it should have these themes.This film is about how a Jesuit and a slave trader unite to save a South American tribe from relocation and other dangers.The acting is really good. Jeremy Irons and Robert De Niro make a very good team thanks to great chemistry. The Indian actors are also really good as they brought a sense of realism to their lifestyle.Overall, this is a great, underrated epic that would teach some people history they did not know about. My only complaint is that the battles at the end of the film lacked effective choreography and I did not find them to be realistic. But what I did liked is how these two men did everything in their power to convince the church that these native people are worth their lives and their land. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"24 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Now to give this movie 10 is a big deal as I think there are very few 10's out there. Im a sucker for movies based on historical events and this movie portrays a beautiful captivating story based on the occupation of Spain in South America and the profitable slaving of the Amazonian rain forest people.What truly makes this a classic is the cinematography which earned it the Oscar and Golden Globe for this catorgory in 87.You top this off with some of Ennio Morricone best work and you have the making of some uplifting scenes which will humble you.The story is simple as it happened a lot in the 1700's. Jesuits were sent out to teach the word of god in this case Jeromy Irons along with his notable follower Liam Neeson and they make there arduous journey into the Amazon. Meanwhile the Spainish which discovered and claimed the area, are making good money slaving the rainforest people as there is a demand for these exotic people. De Niro is a slaver and the film is based around his way of life and finding god.The catholic church is the other big part in this movie and this is represented by some fine acting by the late Ray McAnally who plays Altamirano.The soundtrack will grab you the scenes will leave you awed and the things we did to each other will appall and inspire....enjoy a 80s classic "},{"Title":"Blessed are the Guilt-ridden","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The Mission may well be a film about the beautiful South American jungle, and one man's conversion from slave trader to Jesuit priest, and another priest's refusal to use violent means in the face of greater violence, but FIRST AND FOREMOST The Mission is a film about guilt.How do I know this?  Because of the structure of the film (which IMDb reviewers seem to have ignored).  It was not a random act of editing that parenthetically placed Cardinal Altamirano's (McAnally) papal letter around the plot involving Mendoza (De Niro) and Gabriel (Irons).  The film begins with Altamirano dictating a letter to the Pope about how the little matter...is settled .  The film ends (after the credits have rolled, nota bene) with his placing of the letter in an envelope to be dispatched to Rome.  Referring to the destructive struggle between the Catholic Church and the imperial powers of Spain and Portugal in South America as a little matter is a guilt-ridden irony on the Cardinal's part worthy of Shakespeare.  Not only that, it is guilt-ridden irony in which we are all implicated by virtue of McAnally's searing at-camera stare which closes the film.  Not even Costner's It's up to you moment in JFK invited the audience to pass this much judgement.To this end, the marvellous acting and beautiful cinematography and score are mere technical devices to heighten the sense of guilt (among the film's makers if not the audience).  The film is a worthy attempt; McAnally's portrayal of Altamirano's unease even worthier; but be warned, this is a film which makes sinners of us all. "},{"Title":"A little slow, but also sad and moving.","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission is based on real events--though the ending is highly fictionalized. When the story begins, a lone Jesuit priest, Father Gabriel (Jeremy Irons), treks through the jungle in South America to try to establish a mission where one had previously failed. However, he is very successful and soon the place is filled with eager native Christians. Additionally, Father Gabriel recruits a vicious slave trader, Mendoza (Robert De Niro) to join him at the mission--and soon Mendoza is converted and becomes a member of the order. All seems great...until a treaty is suggested which will move this mission from Spanish to Portuguese territory--and the Portuguese plan of dismantling the Missions. What's next? See this film.The film is extremely beautiful and was filmed in the jungles of South America using Colombian indigenous peoples. The music, though sometimes a bit repetitive, is also quite beautiful. The only complaint I had with this very compelling film was the ending. It made it appear as if the priests stayed behind and died with the Indians when they ultimately attacked, though they didn't. They were pretty much abandoned to their fate. Very sad, very thought-provoking and well worth seeing. Just be aware that the film (especially near the beginning) is very slow and if you are looking for a nice, happy ending then you should keep looking! "},{"Title":"Manifesto","Date":"20 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" A film as a coffee. Final taste is just important.Mixture of music, script, acting, images, crumbs of story, emotions as huge veil and memories as cinnamon pieces of a cake. It is a great film for the science of director to told a common tale. For the nuances of characters and profound message. For the connections with real facts from a past with color of present. For force of details and lost of Paradise. For the bleak evil and Christianity of goodness seed. For Robert de Niro in the skin of Dostoyevsky character and for Jeremy Irons as apostle for who people are instrument of God. For touching picture of faith as fight and for moral victories of every day. For exposure of pain and peace in a very subtle form, like a manifesto of revolution. "},{"Title":"but now abideth faith, hope, love...these three. But the greatest of these is love","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" An emotionally journey in the South American villages of Brazil where Father Gabriel wants to bring Christianity to the natives and ex-slave hunter Mendoza to his mission in order to find peace for killing his brother. An inspiring, powerful movie about forgiveness, guilt, freedom of human will, redemption and most of all about love and how people are crucified for the protection of every human being. It is also a film with torn in different thoughts heroes, torn between learned duties (as a priest for Mendoza) and his past, a conflict between catholic ideals and love as the only spirit and feeling who will live after all (a great final scene , a sunny and silent day in the jungle). 6 Academy Awards Nominations (including Best picture, Director for Joffe, a remarkable original music score from Morricone,for the incredible editing in the battle scene for Jim Clark etc) ,one win for the outrageous cinematography (once again) by Chris Menges, and a pair of -should be AAN- great performances from Irons and De Niro. A masterpiece "},{"Title":"Film that needs a viewing","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The mission starring Robert De Niro is a musical epic in itself.Fantastic score by Ennio Marricone.Soundtrack is fantastic.The performances given by Robert De Niro & Jeremy Irons are a blessing for all cinema lovers.This is a very good movie.The mission shows the struggle of two men who want to preach Christianity to the natives living in Brazil.When Spain sells the colony to Portugal,both are forced to defend all that they have built.We see a contrast between two men.Both have their own ways.De Niro wants to protect them by using firearms,as once he was a hunter.Whearas Irons is a committed priest who does not want to take firearms.He believes that god would protect them.The mission is a cinematic beauty with a great camera-work. Terribly underrated but definitely a film that needs a viewing. "},{"Title":"Not about Fim Making","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" A wonderfully told true story about politics versus reality. This film would have one on the fence, understanding both sides of the divide. One would find oneself sympathizing with the church in Europe at the time as well as with the native inhabitants of the film, whose local naivety maybe allowed them to not understand the mechanics of power on an International scale; and rightly so.Joffe's direction coupled with Morricone's greatest ever score make this file an absolute must for anybody who considers themselves a film buff. You ain't no buff until you've reviewed this.Wonderful performances throughout, wonderful direction and a masterful score make this one of THE movies of the Twentieth century. "},{"Title":"The Mission... If you choose to accept it... watch this movie.","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission 9 out of 10 Films about faith often fail. They tend to be preachy dry affairs starring Kirk Cameron as a man who is addicted to online porn, until he finds God and smashes the evil computer with a baseball bat because apparently he has joined the Taliban or something. Most “Christain” films are designed simply reinforce the prejudices of a limited choir.Critically acclaimed “serious” films are also often fairly dry affairs, interested more in being “good “ rather than being entertaining. They tend to beat a visual and narrative dead horse rather than entertain for the sake of entertaining.The Mission is a critically acclaimed movie about faith... and I loved it.I had avoided the film for twenty years as if it was an “A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius”. It turns out to be a dynamic, action packed affair, starring Robert De Niro, Jeremy Irons and a very young Liam Neelson.It is a movie about faith. In fact, it is one of the most moving and effect movies about the purpose of faith and redemption I have ever seen. It is also about the historical pact between Spain and Portugal (Treaty of Madrid) and the war on both the natives of the jungle and the powerful Jesuits who protect them.The movie is told in flashback with a Papal emissary (the excellent Ray McAnally) telling the tale and his tragic role in shaping it. The visuals are often simply amazing and the score by Ennio Morricone is considered one of the best of all time. Some critics felt the war scenes at the end muddled but I feel this reflects on the nature of battle and at the very least, this viewer had no trouble following it.One side note the film contains a lot of nudity including some rather shocking child nudity. Since the film is rated PG, one must assume the ratings board used the National Geographic rules in their assessment.There I go praising the film no doubt scaring off viewers that are afraid it will be “good.” It is, but it is also entertaining with great action, visuals and top notch actors. "},{"Title":"How should Christians respond to evil?","Date":"13 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Goldcrest Films were the most remarkable cinematic phenomenon of the eighties. They were responsible for a string of films- Chariots of Fire, Gandhi, Local Hero, The Killing Fields, Hope and Glory- which not only rank among the greatest ever British films but were also much admired internationally. Chariots of Fire and Gandhi both won Best Picture Oscars, and several of their other films were nominated, including The Mission.The film did not, however, perform well at the box office; possibly its theme, the Guarani War of the 1750s, was too remote to appeal to the average cinema-goer. Set in what is today Paraguay and the adjoining areas of Brazil and Argentina, it tells the story of Father Gabriel, a Spanish Jesuit, who enters the jungle to build a mission and convert the local Guaraní Indians to Christianity. The Jesuit missions of this area were largely autonomous of the Spanish state and provided the Indians some protection against Portuguese slave-traders. Gabriel is joined in his work by Rodrigo Mendoza, a former mercenary and slave-trader who has repented and become a Christian after killing his brother in a quarrel over a woman. Eventually, Mendoza becomes a Jesuit himself.The crisis comes when the Jesuit missions, which under Spanish rule enjoyed some protection, are handed over to the Portuguese under the terms of the Treaty of Madrid. A Papal emissary, Cardinal Altamirano, is sent to determine whether the missions should continue to enjoy their autonomy under Portuguese rule, or whether they should be suppressed, which will allow the new colonial masters to enslave the Guaraní. The King of Portugal, Joseph I, has come under the influence of his anti-clerical favourite, the Marquis of Pombal, who is threatening to expel the Jesuits from Portugal itself, and Altamirano believes that such an outcome can be avoided if he permits the suppression of their missions in South America.The film is notable for its sympathetic treatment of Christianity, and poses the question how should Christians respond to evil? It does not provide an easy answer, because there is no easy answer to this question. (The script was written by Robert Bolt, author of A Man for All Seasons which asks the same question in slightly different terms). The two main characters, Gabriel and Mendoza, symbolise two possible responses, Gabriel representing Christian pacifism and Mendoza the concept of the just war. Mendoza the former slaver has come to detest slavery with all the zeal of the convert, and when the Portuguese send soldiers to destroy the mission he uses his military experience to lead the Guaraní in a war of resistance. Gabriel detests slavery as much as Mendoza, but he also detests war and violence, which he sees as the negation of all he has ever worked for, and refuses to fight the invaders, trying to defend the community by nonviolent means.Altamirano represents a third possible response, that of collaboration. As played by Ray McAnally, he is by no means an evil man, despite the part he plays in the destruction of the missions. He is sincerely devout, and can appreciate the worth of what Gabriel and the Jesuits are trying to do in Paraguay. His dilemma is similar to that facing many in Nazi-occupied Europe; does one collaborate with evildoers, in the hope that one can thereby mitigate their evil, or does one actively oppose them, with the risk that this might provoke them to commit even more wicked acts? Altamirano's decision is wrong, especially as the Jesuits were indeed to be expelled from Portugal about a decade after the events shown in this film, but that does not necessarily mean that the thought-processes that led him to that decision were all base ones.This was the second film to be directed by Roland Joffé, the first being The Killing Fields (also for Goldcrest). In the mid-eighties he was regarded as one of the brightest talents in the British cinema, and these two films show why. The British film industry is sometimes accused of shying away from the darker side of life, and it can certainly sometimes be parochial in its preference for films with a local setting, but these two films do not fit that stereotype at all; both are set in distant parts of the world, and both deal unsparingly with the subject of man's inhumanity. The Mission, in particular, is a superb film, for a number of reasons.Firstly it deals with a serious subject in an intelligent way. Secondly, there is a great musical score from Ennio Morricone, especially the haunting theme played to the Indians by Gabriel on his oboe. (Under the title Gabriel's Oboe it has become part of the Classical repertoire). Thirdly, there is the photography of the dramatic jungle scenery, which helped win the Academy Award for Best Cinematography. (The film was actually shot in Colombia; possibly political considerations precluded filming in Paraguay itself, then still under the rule of the Stroessner dictatorship). Fourthly, there is the power and drama of the action sequences.Finally, Joffé was able to call upon some great acting, from McAnally, and from Jeremy Irons who succeeds well in conveying Gabriel's wisdom and goodness. Above all there is Robert De Niro. This is not often ranked among his greatest films, but in my view it should be. (Perhaps some of his admirers find it difficult to accept him as anything other than an American). Mendoza is a character who goes through considerable development in the course of the film, from brutal, swaggering soldier of fortune, to conscience-stricken penitent, to man of God, to desperate freedom fighter, and De Niro is never less than convincing in all of these four different incarnations. This should be ranked among the finest movies of the eighties. 9/10 "}{"Title":"An under rated movie","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Yes it is an aesthetically pleasing movie. More importantly however, this complex story does not provide easy answers. Exploring the age old question of might versus right. And the struggles between Church and State. The movie portrays multiple sides in a way that encourages empathy for each from the audience. The inevitable and tragic end leaves the viewer questioning not so much what is right, but how to achieve a righteous life. Further, it is a treat to see both Jeremy Irons' and Robert De Niro's deliver some of their best acting. Also of interest is seeing the early acting careers of both Liam Neeson & Aiodan Quinn. A far cry from the usual Hollywood blockbuster that is short on substance. A must see. "},{"Title":"One Love, One Movie","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I have noted a tirade of applause to this movie so far in all of its comments. I can openly say I have cried and will cry again to this film, not a blubbering cry but an emotional tear down the eye cry.The movie is emotionally moving, the soundtrack as well as plucking the strings of a violin also pluck's on the heartstrings.If you do watch it prepare for an emotional assault. This is by far one of, if not the top film in my all time favourite list, and there are a lot of them to compete against.I listen to the soundtrack in work and have to stop myself from welling up with tears.A masterpiece if ever there was one! "},{"Title":"High, wide and handsome","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Roland Joffe's movie belongs to that epic tradition of British cinema one associates with Richard Attenborough or David Lean, (it is scripted by Robert Bolt, a long-time collaborator of Lean's), and is none the worse for it. It succeeds in being intelligent, intimate and full-blown, not quite in the Lawerence of Arabia class but very much in the same ballpark.The subject is the Catholic Church and the Portuguese government's treatment of the Guarani Indians in the conquest of South America. A different producer, (in this case, Lord Puttnam), and director, (Joffe, finding his feet magnificently), might have handled the material differently, filmed it in a more abrasive style befitting its subject matter, but if the film is mostly high, wide and handsome rather than dark and genuinely disturbing, you can't fault it's makers sincerity or skill in delivering the goods. It is both moving and exciting.Unfortunately, the performances don't measure up to either the subject or to the scenery with the exception of Ray MacNally's duplicitous Cardinal and Bolt's script reduces everything to black and white with no shades of grey; not so Chris Menge's luminous colour photography while Ennio Morricone's score is among his very finest. Not the masterpiece, then, it first appeared to be but not one to be written off either. "},{"Title":"Poignant and inspiring epic tale of a Jesuit mission to the Guarani","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This is an incredible film...historical tale, religious experience, character study, and disturbing depiction of native peoples' abuse at the hands of their European masters. I've forgotten some of the details as I only saw the movie once when it was first released, but its basic themes & main characters have stayed fresh in my mind all these years, particularly the sense of awe I felt upon leaving the theatre following the dramatic closing scenes.Set in the mid 18th Century, the story revolves around Father Gabriel, a Jesuit priest and missionary, who travels to the South American wilderness, establishing an evangelizing mission to convert the native Guarani peoples to Christianity and teach them certain aspects of European civilization. The Spanish soldiers attempt to thwart his efforts, especially the mercenary slave trader, Rodrigo Mendoza, who views these natives only as savages & chattels. Mendoza later experiences personal redemption following the murder of his own brother and joins Father Gabriel as a priest, working at the mission. When Spain cedes the colony to Portugal, both men must work to defend their mission against the brutal Portuguese aggressors who seek to enslave the natives. Jeremy Irons and Robert De Niro are both magnificent in their respective roles as Father Gabriel and Rodrogo Mendoza. The film contrasts these two very different men and their polar opposite approaches to the threatening Portuguese. Father Gabriel (Irons) is a thoughtful man who advocates peaceful means (prayer and hymns), in keeping with the Jesuits' belief in nonviolence. On the other hand, Mendoza (De Niro) takes a more direct and violent approach with armed resistance, guns & bloodshed. Earlier in the film, Mendoza's personal experiences in seeking forgiveness for his brother's murder are also dramatically captured, as he is converted from heartless mercenary to benevolent priest. Gabriel is consistently a kind, selfless, & incredible pillar of faith throughout this story.The events are based on the Treaty of Madrid in 1750, where Spain transfered part of South America to Portugal. Spain and the Papacy apparently showed no concern regarding the plight of these Guarani, certain to elicit a sense of outrage in the viewer. However, the Jesuits at this mission are both devout in their faith and dedicated in their service to these natives.The South American scenery is utterly spectacular, the Oscar winning cinematography superb, and the music & costuming perfect. However, the compelling aspects of this magnificent film are the character portrayals of Father Gabriel & Mendoza, the sacrifices these Jesuits are prepared to make for this mission, the beauty of the peaceful native Guarani people, the abundant symbolism, the sense of grave injustice that these South American natives are nothing more than helpless pawns to European politicking, and the brutal atrocities to which they are subjected at the hands of the encroaching Portuguese. This movie is a masterpiece...a tragic, poignant, & heart wrenching, yet ultimately uplifting epic tale that is certain to remain with you for years. It is amazing viewing for anyone, but especially inspiring for people of faith. "},{"Title":"All around best!","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  If you have never seen this movie, don't call yourself a movie-lover. The performance by every single actors is perfect, the cinematography is absolutely stunning, and the direction is at Roland Joffe's personal best. Not to mention, the music by Ennio Moricone is still alive and moving after almost 2 decades. It was almost a shock to me when I found out a lot of people around me haven't seen this movie. Shame on you guys!Oh! And if you can, try to catch this on a big screen. I had a chance to see the movie one more time on my uncle's wide screen TV, and it was breath-taking. You'll know what I mean when you see the great waterfall scene.  "},{"Title":"Passion and excellence rarely seen in movies anymore.","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The fact-based plot of this film is as subtle and yet is as complex as the sequence of events that were actually happening during this time in the history of our world.  The setting is the Spanish-owned jungle territory of South America in the 1750's.  The Jesuit order of Catholics is hard at work establishing missions all throughout the region in their effort to convert the natives who live in the jungles.  The main focus of this part of the story surrounds the acts and deeds of Father Gabriel (portrayed to near-perfection by Jeremy Irons, who may be best known as the villain in Die Hard 3), who is desperately struggling--but succeeding in his struggles--at converting a small tribe of natives, who later work with him in the building of the mission San Carlos.  Father Gabriel and his small band of Jesuit priests befriend the natives, learn their language, and grow accustomed to their culture.  The natives, in return, willingly accept the priests' offer to teach them the ways of Christianity. Meanwhile, the South American slave trade is as active as ever.  One particular slave trader is a Spanish army captain turned mercenary, Rodrico Mendoza (portrayed with extremely effective passion by Robert DeNiro). Mendoza is in love with a woman who is in love with Mendoza's younger brother.  When the woman confesses to Mendoza her love for his younger brother, he grows furiously jealous, which culminates with the murder of the younger brother by Mendoza himself.  A Shakespeare-like sequence of events took place during these love/murder scenes that I'm sure the Bard himself would have very much appreciated.The stories of these two men merge together seamlessly and form a powerful, complex tale that only history itself could express more beautifully.  The result is a film that is better to be seen than to be read about. The cinematography is excellent, and the Academy agrees with me, as it awarded the cinematography with an Oscar in 1986.  And in regards to the performances, every single performance is to perfection.  No one over-acted nor were they bland with their parts, no matter how large or small.  But kudos goes especially to the two leads  Jeremy Irons and Robert DeNiro, who both deserve as much praise as they can possibly get for their performances in this film.  DeNiro definitely was the actor of my favor during the first half of the film, but Irons stepped up and performed his absolute best throughout the entire film, especially during the last half.  He has never performed a more amazing role than this role of Father Gabriel.  DeNiro's role in this film is second perhaps only to the brilliance of his performance in Raging Bull, as far as I'm concerned.Action, drama, a message that isn't forced or preachy but is definitely filled with meaning and significance, this film has all the prime elements of a superb, cinematic achievement the passion and the excellence rarely seen in movies anymore.  "},{"Title":"absolutely amazing","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is easily one of the most masterful pieces it has ever been my joy to experience. With beautiful cinematography, brilliant performances by all involved, an incredible score, and a deep and meaningful theme, I would easily rank this among the top five movies I have ever seen. A fabulous study into the characters of Captain Mendoza and Father Gabriel amidst a strong and meaningful setting, I cannot recommend this movie highly enough. "},{"Title":"Missionaries befriend and fight to save indigenous people in South American jungle","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Robert De Niro changes his South American slave trading ways, and becomes a missionary with Jeremy Irons and Liam Neeson.  The Portuguese infiltrate the land of these people, and use them as slaves, despite the objection of the Spanish missionaries.  They build a mission above the falls and defend it against impossible odds.  The movie has great acting and great scenery.  I like it because it is both emotionally depressing and uplifting.  It is long, but all worth it! "},{"Title":"An excellent and moving film","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I would have to say that this is probably my favorite film of all time. Its got an amazing cast, with Irons particularly giving a powerful performance of great depth. De Niro is very good, although his underdeveloped character in the film prevents him from showing his true range as an actor. I especially liked the even-handedness of the story line. While many movies that deal with the exploration of the western hemisphere present a simplified and inaccurate portrayal of the European and Indigenous people's roles in that segment of world history, The Mission is written with a depth and complexity that better reflects what was really happening at that period of time. I first saw this movie in high school and have watched it again and again during 9 years of undergraduate and graduate education in Anthropology, and the insightfulness of the storyline still impresses me. Written as a screenplay that attempts to make the viewer think about history, culture and human interaction, it succeeds on all counts. "},{"Title":"Stick with it","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Irons plays a Jesuit priest who sets up a mission in the South American jungle which is then threatened by greedy merchants and political factions within the church with De Nero as a converted mercenary and slave trader. Roland Joffé's film looks superb thanks to Chris Menge's beautiful cinematography but has divided audiences and critics as to its content. It is true that the film moves along very slowly until the last half-hour and De Nero seems oddly detracted in his performance. However it never bores thanks to a sincere performance from the ever-excellent Irons and equal sincerity in Joffé's handling. Endlessly beautiful, the film evokes a true sense of period and setting with its production values, photography and Morricone's brilliant score. Although some will start fidgeting an hour in, the climax, when it comes, is deeply tragic and rewards all that has gone before and the film presents an interesting and provocative view about the hypocrisy of the church and the sheer brutality of human progress. "}{"Title":"Superb telling of how christians' interpretations of the ten commandments can vary","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie, more than most I have ever seen, demonstrates graphically, and  accurately (from a normal, human point of view, not academician), the net result of the union of fanaticism and greed, where one compliments the other. Where the tyrants and plunderers go, the frock soon follows, (or is it the other way around?) De Niro's character demonstrates how true faith is the result of enlightment, not coertion, self-affirmation, not self-negation. And Jeremy Iron's character represents the true calling of priesthood Self sacrifice, surrender to the work of healing and loving.Even the land itself, after almost 300 years, appears pure and ready to forgive.This movie touches the soul of all but the most ethnocentric of us to a depth not previously experienced. "},{"Title":"it was better than i expected!","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I had to see this movie for a school project and I dreaded having to watch it...but then when I did it was really touching and it moved me a lot.  I hope others will take a few hours of their time to see it because it's world history that needs to be known. Thank you. "},{"Title":"Compressed history","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a very good movie, specially since the producers have managed to compress over 200 years of history into a mere few years. I had done previous study about the subject matter of this movie, and that was certainly a help. One comment I would like to make It is not clear in the movie why the Indian community would disintegrate so completely in the end. In real life the reason was not so much militairy conquest, but rather the abolishment of the Jesuit order and the ensuing leadership vacuum. The locals had not provided their own chiefs for more than 200 years. As an audio/visual spectacle this movie rates very high with me, I have watched it often and with much pleasure. "},{"Title":"Grace and love versus politics and hatred","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This film is a re-imagining of events surrounding The Treaty of Madrid in 1750 which formalised the transfer of Paraguayan territory from Spain to Portugal. Moreover, it focuses on the fate of the indigenous tribesmen who'd previously fled to Jesuit missions located within that territory to escape Portuguese slavers.The film opens with a man dictating a letter. The man - Cardinal Altamirano, a papal emissary sent from Europe to meet with the Jesuits and slavers before deciding the fate of the disputed missions. The letter - a progress report to the Pope, recounting his visit and relaying his decision. As he begins to describe the events leading up to his visit, we are transported back in time to witness these events unfold.Jesuit priests have established missions from which they strike out into the jungle to evangelise any indigenous tribesmen they encounter, risking martyrdom in the process. Meanwhile slavers, the antithesis of the Jesuits, prey on the same tribesmen in hope of capturing them and selling them into slavery.We follow a priest and a slaver, Father Gabriel & Rodrigo Mendoza. At the outset these men are at odds with each other, but cruelest serendipity brings them together and eventually Rodrigo accompanies Gabriel to his mission to live among and serve the very people he once persecuted.With the treaty already signed and the land transferred from Spain to Portugal, the Cardinal is sent to decide whether the missions are to remain under the Vatican's protection or simply be abandoned, effectively condemning the tribesmen living on the missions into slavery.Caught in a Hobson's choice predicament, the cardinal quickly realises the right thing to do, yet it conflicts sharply with the church's precarious political dependencies. Protecting the missions will endanger the Jesuit order and betray the very church he serves. So the decision is all but made and his visit is nothing more than a perfunctory gesture.This part is played well by Ray McAnally who for the most part conceals his true feelings and emotions, knowing they are unbefitting to his position.The most interesting character is Rodrigo. His journey is a tragic one. Unbearable pain transforms him from monster to man of compassion but his new-found peace is short-lived. Threatened by the very forces he once served, he has to choose whether to stay true to the Jesuit way of love and allow the tribesmen to be slaughtered, or break his vows, and murder to defend them. A very cruel predicament to be put in after what he's just been through. One of DeNiro's best, and last great performances.Then we have Father Gabriel. He embodies the love and compassion at the heart of his religion and people flock to him as a result - even Rodrigo and the otherwise hostile tribesmen are subdued. Jeremy Irons was very apt for this role, as if he believed the message behind the words.The tribal chief was played well by Asuncion Ontiveros. On the face of it he could be just another tribesmen, but he exhibits this tacit authority, hard-earned dignity and an overt distrust of the outsiders that seems to befit a tribal leader in his position.Chuck Low and Ronald Pickup have more one dimensional roles as the Protuguese slavers but they put in good performances nonetheless. Liam Neeson, Cheri Lunghi and Aiden Quinn make brief appearances, but just not enough material to merit comment.Personally, I would always rather see an accurate account of what happened rather than a crowd-pleasing or Oscar-winning fabrication. However screenwriters, directors and producers would probably argue that this is unrealistic because studios(and audiences to some degree) demand entertaining stories with heroes and villains, winners and losers, love interest, a moral or happy ending, and all within a very short period of time.So maybe we need to learn that this is just how the movie industry works and stop expecting accurate history lessons from movies.Long story short - we can take historical inaccuracies as a given in any historical film like this.The direction and camera work is just superb throughout this film.We have the signature scene of the film where a martyred priest is tied to a crucifix and sent over a waterfall. That one speaks for itself.Some of the scenes where the cardinal visits the missions are absolutely captivating - the choir singing against the backdrop of virgin rainforest is unusual and breathtaking. At the same time it's somewhat disturbing that these tribesmen have been so far contorted from their natural way of life in such a short time. But then the movie is full of contrasts like this - love/hate, freedom/captivity, right/wrong, revenge/forgiveness, humanity/politics, violence/passivity.The latter is played out beautifully in the scene where the mission is under attack and while Gabriel and his followers forsake violence in place of worship, Rodrigo and his band of men bravely attempt to thwart the imminent invasion.One particular shot stood out for me - where Rodrigo just killed his brother. I'm not entirely sure how it's done but something to do with focusing on the main character and making the background loom up around him. It worked so well, evoking the terrible realisation of what he'd just done.The film reminds me of Malick's Thin Red Line in as much as it doesn't just tell a historical story, but is also a fundamental examination of humanity, love and compassion in a brutal world. This duality works so well in these movies for me. What better purpose for a film than to make people think about this? It can be life changing to the viewer in a positive way if watched and understood with respect.If it weren't for the historical inaccuracies I'd easily give this a 10. It's a brilliantly made and acted film that can be appreciated time and time again. "},{"Title":"Life Changing","Date":"24 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This movie changed my life. One day I would like to thank Jeremy Irons!After seeing his portrayal of Father Gabriel, I decided that I wanted to be like him. I wanted to have his faith, to be capable of loving like he did in the movie.This film made me become a missionary. I went on to work, as missionary, in Italy, Mexico, Guatemala, Morocco, Malawi, and my home country Portugal.I don't want to tell the things I did, but I just want to recognize, that a good film can change a life and change so many others.Great Film. Thank you Jeremy Irons, I still want to be as Father Gabriel, after all this years. "},{"Title":"Amazing demonstration of the injustices of Slavery and Conquest","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" De Niro and Irons give great performances in this wonderful story of redemption, faith, and fear. As a converted slave hunter, De Niro's character gets a first hand look at the wrongs of slavery. This movie really asks the question, what right do men have over one another? Philosophers Locke, Rousseau and Hobbes all contemplate this question themselves. In the movie the Portuguese, who wish to capture and enslave the natives, think of the native people as animals, not deserving of freedom. Only beasts in the state of nature. According to these philosophers, man has no natural right to other's freedom and in this movie, it is demonstrated how this must be true. I would recommend this film to anyone interested in Philosophy. "},{"Title":"In my Top 10","Date":"10 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Cinema at it's best. This is one of my absolute all-time favourites. The only reason I can see anyone ever not giving it 10/10 is that it has a tragic climax. I say we need more tragedies in film, if only to balance out the overwhelming tsunami of persistent and formulaic fluff at the multiplex. Fans will already know, but the same writer for The Mission, Robert Bolt, also wrote Ryan's Daughter, Laurence of Arabia, A Man for All Seasons, the Bounty, and Doctor Zhivago. It has one of the greatest stories of redemption in movie history. It's drop-dead gorgeous to watch, the acting is incredible and it stars Robert De Niro. Seriously, what more can you ask for? A few laughs? Some hot chicks? A happy ending? If you can live without these and have not seen The Mission, go for it, you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Very beautiful, amazing, and very underrated film.","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This is one of the few movies I can honestly say earned it's award at the Cannes Film Festival back in 1986. What is interesting is that this would be one of the only recognitions the film would garner. Critics were incredibly hard on it when first released. Box-office really didn't hit any records here in the U.S.-of course that year we had 'Aliens','Ferris Bueller', just to name a few classic megahits being released on top of each other. The film begins with a beautiful yet haunting shot of a man on a crucifix washing over and down gigantic waterfall. This is what we come to learn is a ritual for the dead held by the native Indians in South America circa 18th century. The dead man is one of their local missionaires who try to teach and bring religion to the local natives rather than hunt or enslave them which was what wonderful people of moneys would do at the time. With Ennio Morricone's amazing music we're introduced to the new priest that will be his replacement sent to the natives to continue the Church's Mission to humanize the indians. This is one of the major plot points and arguments the movie holds throughout with elegance. The sub-plot is actually the character of Mendoza (wonderfully played by De Niro) whose fall from grace after murdering his brother (that's right it's Aidan Quin as his brother) who was having an affair with Medoza's wife. At this point the film's redemption tale begins where Mendoza will have to choose which path he will have to take to feel the power of God. The Spanish and Portugese Armies come hammering down in on the natives with only the brotherhood to help. I know people feel the ending is a big downer but the message is so powerful that you have to look past the violence against humanity and see that the two heroes of the story never gave in. I mean if somehow everyone can accept the strangely uneven ending of No Country for Old Men (which I am a fan of) there's no missing the obvious message in this overlooked classic. "},{"Title":"Spiritual","Date":"13 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Imagine a time when two empires could split the world in two, one half for each country to rule, as if the globe were an orange. This in fact happened in 1494, with the Treaty of Tordesillas, mediated by the Vatican, in which Portugal and Spain, then world empires, agreed to split the newly discovered territories outside Europe along a line of longitude. This treaty gave Spain control of most of South America, with the exception of Brazil, which Portugal kept. Then in the 1750 Treaty of Madrid, Spain agreed to give Portugal the territories west of Brazil, encompassing what is today the country's territory. With two world empires deciding the fate of colonies as if they were lifeless pieces on a chessboard, it's no surprise that a lot of people ended up suffering the consequences. The Mission is the movie about those people.The movie follows the lives of three people Father Gabriel (Jeremy Irons), a Jesuit missionary who goes to live with the Guaraní tribes in the Amazonian jungles to convert them to Christianity but defends their right to self-rule; Rodrigo Mendonza (Robert DeNiro), a slave trader in search of redemption for the murder of his brother; and Cardinal Altamirano (Ray McAnally), a Vatican envoy. He comes when Father Gabriel asks the Vatican to protect the Spanish missions established in the territories. These missions have prospered and are examples of Christian communities. Transferring them to Portuguese territories would destroy them, since under Portuguese law slavery was allowed and the Guaraní would serve as a cheap labour force. Altamirano, although humbled and marvelled by the achievements of the converted Guaraní, who have constructed churches capable of competing with their European cousins, is forced by duty to decide in favour of the Portuguese, in the name of the good relationships between the Vatican and the European powers. The film concludes with a dramatisation of the Guaraní War, in which the tribes resisted the invaders until joint Spanish-Portuguese forces crushed them in a bloody massacre.If for nothing else, I love this for having given Ennio Morricone the opportunity to compose the most beautiful film score in the history of cinema. Is it strange to admit I only saw this movie because of the score? The truth is, many movies I only watch to listen to their scores. As an avid film score collector, I listen to most scores well in advance of watching the movies. Every once in a while I listen to one that makes me think, Well, this is really great! Let's see how it works in context. Maybe the movie didn't butcher it too much. Well, the movie didn't butcher this one. Maybe the score is just too magnificent for that. In any case, the moment the first notes of Falls are heard, in tandem with the crushing sound of an Amazonian waterfall, it becomes obvious Roland Joffé understood how to put the score at the service of the story.This interest in the music isn't redundant. The Mission is a movie driven by sounds, music and images. It's not a traditional movie driven by plot or even characters, although I find the trio well developed, especially where their moral consciousnesses are concerned. Robert Bolt, the two-time Oscar-winning screenwriter of Lawrence of Arabia, Doctor Zhivago and A Man for all Seasons, wrote the screenplay, his final one. Bolt, a renowned playwright in his own right, at the age of 61, was still experimenting with his style. Sergio Leone-like minimalist dialogues is not something one associates with the poetic, fast-paced witty dialogues of Lawrence and Seasons, but Bolt managed to write a very visual screenplay, very different from his previous masterpieces, where actions define characters more than witty words.Consider for instance the character of Rodrigo Mendoza. Catching his brother with his wife, he kills him in a fit of rage. Then he delivers himself to the authorities. When Father Gabriel meets him in prison, he's a dejected, broken human being. Gabriel offers him the possibility of atonement, to work with him in the missions, where he can help those he once exploited. How does Rodrigo show his penance? Well, the easy way out would be for a tear-jerking speech full of wise, clichéd truths (and if someone could pull that off, that person would be Bolt). In the movie, however, Rodrigo travels with Gabriel back to the mission. It's a journey that takes weeks, through thick jungles, mountainous terrain, and up waterfalls. Rodrigo has tied around his waist a net containing his heavy armour, symbol of his former live. It's the burden he carries. It delays everyone, but he stubbornly pushes it after him. It falls, he goes back for it. And when he arrives, at the end of this unforgettable sequence, at the mission, an Indian cuts off the rope and throws it into a river. Then Rodrigo breaks down crying in a mixture of sadness, relief and joy his new life beginning.Wordless sequences such as this wouldn't be half as powerful, however, without seasoned director of photography Chris Menges helming the camera. For his work on the movie, he won an Oscar. He had previously won one for The Killing Fields.Back in the '80s, The Mission was part of a short-termed interest in South America the interference of the US government in the continent, reflected on its open support for dictatorships, was becoming more and more evident. However, whereas most movies, like Salvador and Under Fire, dealt with contemporary events, few tried to show the origins of these conflicts in their historical context as the results of centuries of European colonialism. Only The Mission and Alex Cox's Walker took a different path, exploring the past to better explain what was going on in the present. As such, the movie is not just a fine period drama but a sensitive history lesson too. "},{"Title":"Feast for the Eyes and Ears","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Roland Joffe's period film is breathtaking to look at and listen to, but it's directed with a heavier hand than his breakout film from two years earlier, The Killing Fields. I had trouble with the casting too. Jeremy Irons feels right for his role, but it's tough to accept Robert DeNiro in period films -- he's such a remarkable contemporary actor, and he's created such iconic representations of modern urban life, that he feels out of place in something like this.The film is a feast for the eyes and ears though, with Chris Menges, who had won an Oscar for photographing The Killing Fields, adding a second trophy to his mantle for his work here; and Ennio Morricone providing an instantly classic score.Grade A- "}{"Title":"Bring it back!!","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This is without a doubt the best film I have ever seen! This film took me to a place and time that I have never seen before in a mainstream film. Never before have i become so emotionally involved in a film. The characters portrayed in this movie are characters with strength, courage and determination. The excellent cinematography taken of the breathtaking jungles of South America along with the beautiful music by Ennio Moricone makes this film a masterpiece.Since I'm only 14, dramas aren't exactly my cup of tea so i was very reluctant to see this film. But for many years of my parents talking about how great this film was i finally decided to see it. I looked at the awards won by this film and was very disappointed that it only won Best Cinematography at the Oscars. Talk about underrated!! I told my friends about this film and absolutely none of them had even heard of it. This movie deserves to be re-released in cinemas so that the present generation may enjoy this incredible movie on the big screen.This film deserves nothing less than 10/10.  "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  When our Year 10 English class was told that we were to be studying the film 'The Mission', instead of 'Dead Poets Society', I was not impressed, because, among other things, I had never even heard of 'The Mission'. But, as the movie progressed, I was pleasantly surprised, and deeply moved by the beauty of the film. I not also mean that figuratively, but literally. The landscape was wonderful, and whilst the storyline was not a pleasant one, The Mission exceeded all my expectations . The symbolism runs rampant in this film, and my teacher, who could be considered mad, went to every length to point this out to us. The use of film techniques and music (wonderfully composed by Enrico Morricone - the theme song is now on the Sunsilk ad) added to what became for me a wonderful viewing experience. Robert De Niro and Jeremy Irons were superb in their roles as the pertinacious yet confused Mendoza and the magnanimous Father Gabriel. This movie deserved more recognition than it received, and it deservedly won Best Film at Cannes in 1986. I think that is why I gave it 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Simply beautiful.","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie has it all.  Great actors, great music and good directing. Jeremy Irons is amazing as Gabriel, but Robert De Niro is outstanding.  In the scene were he cries after he is forgiven for his sins? .... the best. These movies are rare, you hardly see a Hollywood movie with such power on the art side.I would recommend this movie to everyone, specially those with a big heart. Why? Because of the message in the movie, we need to learn to forgive... we all deserve second chances.  "},{"Title":"Imprisoned in the self","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  After several viewings of The Mission, the very core of meaning is borne by these few wordsCardinal Altamirano And you have the effrontery to tell me that this . . . was necessary?Cabeza I did what I had to do. Given a legitimate purpose which you sanctioned, I would have to say yes. In truth, yes.Hontar You had no alternative, Your Eminence. We must work in the world. The world is thus.Cardinal Altamirano No, senhor Hontar. Thus have we made the world. Thus have I made it.Such words are dedicated to those of us who remain convinced that history and human events are mere relics of school rooms, divorced from daily life. Cardinal Altamirano's last sentence is intensified by his reappearance in an unusual final scene which follows hard upon the end of film credits, unseen by most theater patrons as they find their way out of the auditorium. He speaks not a word nor a preachment. His world-weary eyes engage us directly, and we know the meaning of this baleful stare beyond its telling. "},{"Title":"Riveting, mezmerizing film of sweeping beauty and power","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This was the first adult movie I ever saw.  I was 13, and I was utterly captivated and moved by this beautiful masterpiece.I won't tell you the story - you can read that elsewhere.  But it contains possibly one of the best displays of raw acting ability I've ever seen - Robert DeNiro (who else?)His ability to portray essentially two different characters, yet maintain a sense of cohesion throughout is magnificent.  I remain moved and enthralled by his change of heart in this film, and his ability to constantly, in every movie he has ever made, but this one especially, make you believe and care about him.Jeremy Irons has a wonderfully subdued yet brilliant part as the missionary who brings DeNiro into the flock.  His quiet faith and unwavering pacifism and belief that God's will be done is almost enough to make an unbeliever like me have faith.  Ennio Morricione (i believe that's how you spell it) constructs yet another memorable and fitting score to this movie.  I love all his movie music, from the immortal intro to The Good, The Bad, and the Ugly, to this haunting and moving score, he is one of the true geniuses of movie conducters.This is truely one of the most over-looked, under-rated brilliant movies of all time.   "},{"Title":"The audience sat in silence...","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I will not describe every aspect of this masterpiece - you should just see it. It can not be told. You can (and you should) read R. Bolt's book, but it is not enough you would not see nor hear it. Everything in The Mission is just perfect, from the first to the last scene. Perfect script with very convincing history, with serious and deep topics involved. Perfect acting (of every single actor). Perfect scenery and shots. Perfect music (the soundtrack on CD is a no-brainer purchase). In my opinion this movie deserves every award possible. I will just say one thing, which I experienced only once in my life when the movie was over, all the audience in the cinema sat in complete silence. Nobody moved for several minutes. That is how powerful The Mission is. The best film I've ever watched. "},{"Title":"Stand Alone Classic","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I just love this movie! I saw it when it first came out (I was about 7 years old) and to this day it is still one of my favorite films. It does a very good job at showing the relationship between beauty and pain in life and the relationships different groups of people have towards one another. In some ways there are so many messages and different lessons to be learned from this but I have always felt that the real message was resonating just under the surface waiting to be discovered. That is that every person should have the freedom to live and make their own choices. There is really a lot to take in from this one and it will leave you thinking which I love. The film is about the power struggle between the Portuguese and the Spanish while they are colonizing South America in the 1700s. The struggle is between the church and slave owners who are both on a mission to pillage the lands and civilize the natives through their own means. Throughout the movie there is this struggle of right and wrong and the journey of redemption. Everyone is self righteous and no one is right. You are able to love and hate the same characters or at least see the human aspect in them as well as the monster. It is a provocative movie because it asks a lot of hard questions and shows that even people with good intentions can cause mass destruction. Of course the irony is that the most civilized and worldly behavior was that of the Guarani. It is also an incredible unjust and heartbreaking film that taught me a lot about (in)equality from a very early age! I must also note that Roland Joffe is a great director and the Ennio Morricone/London Philharmonic provides one of the best movie soundtracks EVER! "},{"Title":"The mission","Date":"5 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Wow.What a great movie.I could not stop my tears, they were of joy and of sorrow.Robert De Niro and Jeremy Irons delivers amazingly. Also the supporting crew makes great contributions.And the soundtrack, ah the singing... brakes my heart.*Warning quote ahead* There is one scene which hit me hard in the middle of the film, and it went by fast, but rings so true in my ears. It's the scene when the chatolic priest inspects one of the missions and asks how do they share the yearly income? And the Jesuit priest answers they share it equally amongst each other, this is a community And the chatolic priest says ah there's a french radical group that teaches that doctrine . And the Jesuit priest counters Your eminence, it was the doctrine of the early Christians How you interpret that scene is up to you but for me it's cristal clear... )One of my absolute favorite movies of all times.The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. Cheers "},{"Title":"Incredible Story, Incredible Film","Date":"23 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" If you think you've seen DeNiro's best, you have to see this film - true, too, of Jeremy Irons's performance. (If you think DeNiro is the same in every movie, typecast so to speak, you absolutely have to see his knockout performance in this movie, in which he proves his greatness - if anyone doubted that.) Lusciously filmed, this is a moving film of a real story everyone needs to know. And is it simply one of the best films ever made as well. It builds and builds and builds to its tragic end in a way that keeps you on the edge of your seat. And this story is a side of the Americas no one ever talks about - if they're aware of it at all. Anyone who cares about what we did to the Native Americans in the United States needs to see what the Europeans did to the indigenous people of South America - as is brought out (at least one side of it) in this deeply touching movie about early power struggles in the New World. And if you think religious people were never true heroes or important and selflessly brave fighters for justice, then this movie will change all that. If you are unaffected at the end, you have no heart. Wow! What a story, what a cast, what a beautifully-filmed movie, what a great movie! "},{"Title":"To fight for a cause in a time of slavery and greed","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" THE MISSION is a history drama about the expulsion of the Jesuits' missions in South America in the middle of the XVIII century. By what I've learned the plot's background is accurate to history and all we see in this movie truly happened in real life, unfortunately! The search for slavery work was continuous at the time by Portuguese colonists and the Spanish in spite of slavery not being directly allowed by their crown they also used the indigenous slaves. The Spaniards which had been creating Indian reductions since the middle of the XVI century, as a form to convert and control those indigenous people, were followed by the Portuguese, and both built Jesuit reductions in their territories. But after the 1750 treatment the Jesuits would be expulsed because they refused to leave their missions where their lived together with the indians, in peace. And the indians themselves they didn't want to abandon the reductions too because they knew that in the main jungle they would be an easy target to slave traders (known as bandeirantes in Portuguese colony). So it's just the main plot's topic of this movie which then focus on the personal story of father Gabriel (played by Jeremy Irons), a Jesuit missionary, and Rodrigo Mendoza (Robert de Niro) a former slave trader which was converted to the Christian faith (and to the Jesuits) after kill his brother (because of a woman). The movie has good moments, especially in the last hour, and it describes very well the feeling of injustice and desperation those native people felt by the furious anger of the greedy imperialist armies! There're a few scenes, which focus the sad and empty native children' eyes, that worth more than a thousand words! I enjoyed this movie and the plot's main topic which portrays a sad period of our history (unfortunately empires were always built under massacres and the subjugation of other people, and I know Portuguese empire was no exception!). "}{"Title":"Meaningful film with Jeremy Irons and Robert de Niro.","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission directed by Roland Joffe cannot be termed as a film which can masquerade as some kind of populist entertainment stuff. It is not at all a film which entertains in the manner most of the films do. It is a film which makes us think as to what our past history was. The important message the film gives us is the reminder that numerous wars were fought in order to attain the religious supremacy of a particular religion. Now for those who think that The Mission is not a slice of history but a movie, I would say that both the leading actors are absolutely impressive. However it is Jeremy Irons who is in full command of his acting capabilities as the priest. Robert de Niro is good too as the man who repents after killing his brother out of revenge. The amazing thing is the manner in which South American native people have acted. Watching them perform alongside Hollywood bigwigs one wonders how they have not been influenced by them. The sad part of this film is its end which might appear as pessimistic to certain viewers. "},{"Title":"The mystery of good and evil","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Hontar We must work in the world, your eminence. The world is thus. Altamirano No, Señor Hontar. Thus have we made the world... thus have I made it.This is the key dialogue in this movie, and Altamirano - to me - is the key character in it. The question is is he a bad person? Regardless of the answer, one thing is sure his character is made of flesh and blood, which is very, very rare in movies, especially when Catholic dignitaries are portrayed! (Compare the one from Kingdom of Heaven - a primitive character who eats all the time - what a profound account!) The moral dilemma which he has to face is shown excellently in the movie. It is clear he has a deep sympathy for the mission. This last confession he makes to himself thus have I made it proves that he knows and understands very well what a great evil he did. Yet he was too weak to follow his heart - the path he KNEW was right, the path of political incorrectness - which would probably cost him everything. Instead, he followed the dark path whereby he saved his flesh, but not soul. Again I compare it to Kingdom of Heaven in which ALL characters are annoyingly one-dimensional (and so is the general message). How refreshing to see The Mission instead! Makes you believe again in a world in which not all opinions are dictated by politics and party membership, but where people are judged for what they are in all their complexity.I cannot recall any other film which is this close to reality of human existence as this one. Many movies are about entertainment. Many others are about political propaganda. This film is about the mystery. The mystery of good and evil. Therefore it is probably THE best film I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Make sure you sit through the credits!","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" One of the most powerful parts of this deeply moving film comes at the end AFTER the credits. Make sure you sit through the credits so you don't miss it. It would be a shame to miss it. I am not sure why the film makers put it there; perhaps it's a comment on patience. I think it's more likely that they KNEW people would be so awed by this film and so in love with its music (the music is so beautiful) that they would not leave their seats; they knew they would sit there until the credits were over. Anyway, I feel so strongly about people not missing this part that I am posting about it. That glorious music plays throughout the credits, so it should be no difficulty to sit through them and wait for the important last message. "},{"Title":"religious movie, but it's wonderful.....","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It was like the protectors who keep what they should. I think this is very impressed because it is based on the real history. This movie deals about the time when the conflicts between Spain and Portugal's colony in Latin America. To conclude this problem, in the church, they sent a bishop. In the new continent, there was many churches, one was the church managed by Father Gabriel. The bishop knew they will be destroyed, everything. Finally, the victims of cruel actuality became ashes. The survivors in the ruins, they came to live with mistrust.Because of old movie, its graphic is not good at all. But the famous and beautiful landscapes, and excellent filming express this masterpiece. And in this movie, there is one thing which made the movie better. It is the soundtrack. The music, which is called as the most perfect sound in the all of soundtracks, is just one but it expresses everything in the movie's situations; Faith, hope, love, courage, sacrifice, sadness, and even aftertaste. If you see this movie, you will be impressive if you're Christian or not. "},{"Title":"Very valuable movie","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This movie works wonderfully on several levels. One, it could be said to be based loosely on the life of Bartolome de Las Casas, the contemporary of Columbus who originally went to the New World to take advantage of it, but became convicted in 1511 of the sin of the Spaniard's treatment of the indigenous populations and became the natives' greatest advocate, traveling back and forth across the Atlantic Ocean, pleading on their behalf before all who would listen, including the Pope. De Las Casas is considered to be one of the first anti-imperialists.Second, it could be said to be a powerful statement of liberation theology, which began to emerge in the 1950s, coming to full flower by the late 1960s. Produced in 1986, the philosophical struggle between arming oneself against oppression (De Niro) or turning the other cheek to that oppression (Irons) is portrayed in this movie as a non-choice one must fight against the oppressor, even though The Church forbids it. This is the message of the liberation theology movement, which began with priests working in the barrio who saw their bishops and archbishops increasingly in bed politically and economically with the corrupt dictators who ruled their countries. These priests were faced with the dilemma of either fighting on behalf of their people, or obeying their superiors. Liberation theologists chose to fight on behalf of their people, much like the De Niro character.The fact that Father Daniel Berrigan plays a minor part in the picture is a nice touch. The Berrigan brothers, Daniel and Phillip, both Jesuit priests, took a courageous stand against the war in Vietnam, and paid for this stand with years in jail. They were part of the Catonsville Nine, which destroyed draft board records by, I believe, pouring blood on them. At one point, believe it or not, both priests were on the FBI's 10 Most Wanted list. Phillip died some years ago. Daniel is still alive. "},{"Title":"superb","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" As a fan of De Niro it was great to see him play the role of Rodrigo Mendoza, and make it his own. Alongside a terrific performance from Jeremy Irons, the film will stay with me for a long time. A film i haven't heard much about before, and certainly not mentioned as one of De Niro's best but in my opinion it is up there with The Deer Hunter and Taxi Driver. The contrast in the characters of Irons and De Niro is portrayed beautifully, and yet the similarities in their courage,determination, and belief in their methods in almost identical.Aidan Quinn and Liam Neeson make up the more familiar names in the cast, and both give great performances in their own right, particularly Neeson, in his earliest film that I've seen. Superb Film! "},{"Title":"the history of Latin America","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Following their success with The Killing Fields, David Puttnam and Roland Joffe made The Mission, about a priest (Jeremy Irons) and a slave trader (Robert DeNiro) joining up in 18th century South America to try and protect the Indians from colonizers. The movie's quality lies not only in its acting and script, but also cinematography we get to see the incredible jungle from so many angles, that it truly overwhelms us.This is definitely one movie that you can't afford to miss(ion). Every part of it was done perfectly. The way that the scenes are laid out often play tricks with the audience. The sad part is that what it portrays really happened in the Americas. A great movie. "},{"Title":"Most underrated film of all time","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  It is a shame that this film does not get as much recognition as many other great films. I rate it right up at the top of my list, followed closely by Lawrence of Arabia (which is also written by Robert Bolt).The film ought to be studied by every artist for the virtuosic clarity with which it handles its story. It is truly of a quality which is to be aspired to. It is nuanced and expressive despite the weight of its themes, which are some of the most profound and relevant issues of the human condition ever wrestled with on film. Image and sound come together so beautifully with a story and characters which are the very model of narrative perfection. It is unfortunate that most people have not even heard of this film! Don't be one of them. Go see this film! If not for its brilliant story, then at least for the captivating cinematography and the brilliant musical score, arguably the best ever written. "},{"Title":"one of the best movies ever","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  In 1986 I saw this movie in the theater by myself because no one in my dorm was interested in seeing a film about Jesuit priests.  I liked it so much I went back to see it again the very next night, this time dragging a friend along.  My friend wasn't as moved by it as I was, and I've since come to realize that The Mission is one of those highly personal films that doesn't speak to everyone (Never Cry Wolf is another).  But still it's just one of those few great movies that you want to share with everyone you know.  You should see it. "},{"Title":"I wish I could have so much love in my heart.","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The Mission, 1986, written by Robert Bolt, directed by Roland Joffe.Wow.  Powerful, yes, but not heavy handed.  It's a shame that excellent writing like this is so rare in movies.  Or maybe it's just rare in general. I didn't find myself focusing on the writing.  That's because it was so good that random clever or deep or profound dialogue didn't stick out. I was never pulled (or is it pushed?) out of the story by the writer's ego. Damn this was good.A summary of the story can be read elsewhere, so I'll just tell you how this film touched my heart.  It reminded me that love takes many forms.  So does courage.  Redemption is gained through both.  And it sure isn't easy.Solid, subtle performances, beautiful photography, a wonderful Morricone score and a deeply moving story combined to make one incredible movie. I've run out of adjectives!  I'm glad to have finally seen it after all these years.  "}{"Title":"Best Movie Ever Seen","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The Mission is absolutely the best movie I've ever seen in my life.  The historical era that was written in South America by the European Missionaries is so deeply and warmly presented, complemented by hair-rising music.  The story, quality of the movie, the sights, the music are just gorgeous.  I have seen this movie already more than a dozen times, I just can't get enough.  I look forward to the DVD version of the film to come out, it will be one of the top reasons for me to buy a home-theater system.  "},{"Title":"**** from *****","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Breathtakingly beautiful, stunningly shot, narratively muddled, long, difficult and with a downbeat ending, but nonetheless powerful and superbly produced religious drama starring Jeremy Irons as a ambitious priest trying to establish Jesuit mission in the jungles of Brazil around 1750, accompanied by former slave-dealer Robert De Niro, who joins him after killing his brother Aidan Quinn for the love of a woman, and young priest Liam Neeson. But aside from cultural, linguistic and climatic problems, they have to face ruthless politics within and outside of the church undervaluing its importance. The cast delivers respectable performances and the script by Robert Bolt is thoughtful in examining diverse issues of belief, cultural differences, violence etc., but they are almost lost in brilliant scenery and Oscar-winning visuals from Chris Menges. Still, many magical, human moments to behold and a sense of ambitious, but flawed art. "},{"Title":"Inevitable conclusion? Yes. Enjoyable ride there Absolutely!","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Leonard Maltin's review of The Mission is perfectly accurate. It was long for today's attention span. The conclusion was inevitable. The cinematography was superb, and the acting top notch. His overall rating, however, should be double his 2 and a half stars. Yes, it has the flaws Maltin speaks of, but so what? Because of its good points, it was still a long riveting movie experience with unforgettable memories.  "},{"Title":"A very powerful moving film about the clash between religion and government in the South American Jungle","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is a must see.  It stars Jeremy Irons as a Jesuit priest and Robert DeNiro as a mercenary turned Priest and the plot centers around who will get control of the Mission Territories in South America.  A mission is set up to minister to the Guarini Indians,  and when they are told to abondon the mission, they decide to stay and defend it.  Mendoza (DeNiro) will trust in the power of the sword, while Father Gabriel (Irons) will trust in the power of prayer.  The movie features awe inspiring scenery and a very haunting sound track.  A must see movie for any film fan. "},{"Title":"Great!.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I´ve been seen this movie years ago, when I was a child but I did not put my very interest on it. So when I saw again a few weeks ago, I´d keep impressed by the magnificent story and the characters. Plus the score composed by Ennio Morricone is really spectacular and I recommend another picture where this composer perform the soundtrack, this movie is Cinema Paradiso. It´s amazing!!. The Mission is one of the best movies of all times. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Not being a man of many words I will simply say fantastic, beautiful, touching and scaring. Roland Joffe's film is in all aspects believable, and extremely heartmoving. The scene where De Niro drags his sins behind him to the paradise in the middle of the jungle, and his reaction when the natives are laughing at him are simply stunning. And Irons when he is carrying the cross amidst all of the killing in the end, which by the way almost left me in tears, is indescribable. You will have to see it. "},{"Title":"Excellent, but...","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  We watched The Mission in our high school history class and was spectacular. The only disappointment was De Niro's conversion from a relentless slave driver to a repentant Jesuit - at that point, I stood back and said, Yeah right! It can be a bit hard to follow the first time around, but this is not a movie to be watched only once, I assure you. "},{"Title":"This film as everything, music, actors, images, drama,and historical content.","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This film is really a masterpiece, it contend all what a great film should haveActors/Actress, historical content, drama, non-hollywood ending, and a beautiful look(images), sorry i am french.  I am only 18 and ive seen this movie after many great film, like Braveheart(my favorite), phenomenom, conan, ect... Like i said earlier braveheart is my all times favorites , but The Mission is now sited next to it at the same level, This is really a great film and the scene when the indians accept De Niro in their group is really touching and one of the best scene ever.  Another great thing about the movie is the soundtrack,  Im not a specialist in films, but i can say i am one in the movie soundtrack domain.  This sound track, by Ennio Morricone is one of the best soundtrack i have heard before. It is simply astonishing.  It is not as good as the Conan soundtrack, but it comes near after it in the lines.  Well I am sorry for my english but I have done the best I could.  I give this movie a ten! "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  this was a great film, but emotionally devastating.  beautiful cinematography, great dramatic performances, and historically accurate. riveting is a good word to describe this film, but i was emotionally drained with the ending - one of those films that mirrors reality in all its harshness, and one that should not be missed!   "},{"Title":"Nothing but praise for this film.","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This film provides an awe inspiring view about the mixture of religion and politics in 18th century South America.  It provides many points of view, from the point of the natives, the priests, and the political leaders.  Near the climax, this film has you either want to kneel and pray, or grab a sword and join the fight.  Not only is the story great, but music and cinematography is absolutely breath-taking.  A wonderful film, pleasing to the eye, ear, and mind.  "}{"Title":"An intense as well as enjoyable  historical  drama plenty of war ,  love  , faith  and religion","Date":"6 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" A David Puttnam/Iain Smith/Fernando Ghia production developing dramatic deeds during Spanish/Portuguese colonization and the subsequent historic deeds . 18th century Spanish Jesuits try to protect a remote South American Indian tribe in danger of falling under the rule of pro-slavery Portugal . It deals with the tale of a Spanish Jesuit priest , called Father Gabriel (Jeremy Irons), who goes into the South American jungle to build a mission and convert a community of Guaraní Indians to Christianity . Later on , join other priests (Liam Neeson) and Mendoza (Robert De Niro) who undertakes a suitable penance . The Jesuit missions were safe, because they were protected under Spanish law . Meantime , a Papal emissary Cardinal named Altamirano (Ray McAnally) is sent from the Vatican to survey the missions . After that , Jesuits attempt to save a Guarani tribe in risk of submitting under mistreat and slavery . As they are forced to defend all they have built against the Portugese aggressors at an epic final battle.The picture was well based on facts , as the Treaty of Madrid -in the year 1750 and previously treaty of Alcacovas and Tordesillas- reapportions the land in South America . The land on which the Jesuit missions were located was transferred to the Portuguese, and Portuguese law allows slavery ; then Portuguese colonials seek to enslave the natives . Following the demarcation of the new boundaries, the region of the Eastern Missions , comprising seven villages of the Jesuit remaining on the left bank of the Uruguay river was moving to Portuguese hands . This resolution, however, was more significant than might appear, while in the territories of Portugal , enslavement of indigenous people was allowed, while in the Spanish territories all Indians were subjects of freedom , so they could not be enslaved . This difference in legal status of the indigenous population, was inflamed by the Jesuits themselves, led the resistance to the Portuguese that eventually burst into the Guarani War which lasted from 1752 to 1756. However , it was origin of the motivation for the Pragmatic Sanction of 1767, by which Charles III decreed the expulsion of the Jesuits from all overseas territories. This interesting film is full of compelling drama with emotion , passion , unforgettable scenes , historical events and good feeling . It is a dramatic and intelligent portrait of a time when priests Jesuits carried out a holy mission to evangelize South American natives . This is an agreeable account of the survival of the human spirit against difficulties ; an epic portrayal of Faith , Forgiveness and Redemption . The movie is plenty of graphic , striking and memorable moments about timeless power of forgiveness and dictating a strong emotional response from the spectator , and some moments results to be really touching and moving . ¨The mission¨ by Roland Joffe , was one of his greatest hits , had Palme d'or at Cannes , a graphic monument to Portuguese oppression in South-America , but Joffe has not quite held his place at the top level . The film is set during the Jesuit Reductions, a program by which Jesuit missionaries set up missions independent of the Spanish state to teach Christianity to the natives . Thought-provoking movie with evident excitement based on original story & screenplay by prestigious Robert Bolt . This exciting picture turns out to be a breathtaking spectacle about dramatic consequences of Portuguese invasion , including deep emotions , brooding dialog and a heartbreaking final . A strong , difficult shooting , as the majority of the crew became ill with amoebic dysentery . Robert De Niro was one of the few who did not catch the illness . Many of the people who played the natives were actual native South Americans who spoke little English , they were given free reign to say whatever lines they wanted, and it is rumored that in a couple scenes they're actually cursing up a storm. Colorful as well as luxurious cinematography by Chris Menges . Sensitive and emotive score by Ennio Morricone , considered to be one of the best soundtracks of cinema history . The motion picture was very well directed by the British Roland Joffé , being realized in lush style , filmed in his usual formal and stylistic scholarship , without leaving a trace the thought-provoking issues , in terms of dramatic and narrative excitement . He is a good filmmaker mainly of epic subjects . After a long career filming for television , he made his movie debut in a big way with ¨The killing fields¨ winner of three Oscar and dealing with madness and atrocities committed by humans , Joffe's usual theme . He subsequently directed ¨Fat Man and Little Boy¨ referring to two atomic bombs dropped by America on Japan . Joffe's meagre output for the cinema makes it all the more surprising that he has turned out three splendid films and several others near-disasters such as ¨The scarlet letter¨ , ¨Vatel¨ , ¨Captivity¨, ¨You and me¨ and ¨There be dragons¨ . The mission , rating  Better than average , worthwhile watching . Essential and indispensable seeing .. "},{"Title":"A Clash of World-Views","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" At its heart, The Mission showcases a conflict of world-views between those who operate with a Hobbsian mentality (the Portuguese and Spanish nationals) and those who operate with a world-view more closely resembling Rousseau's (the Jesuit missionaries). This is summarized in the closing exchange of the movie between Don Hontar and Cardinal Altamirano We must work in the world; the world is thus, says Hontar following the massacre. The Cardinal replies, No, thus have we made the world. Thus have I made it. Is the natural state one of war of all against all, or did is the state of war something created in spite of man's peaceful nature? The movie offers a picture that could support both world-views.The movie opens with the Guarani killing their first visiting priest, but it closes with a Garden of Eden-like scene of children rowing through the wreckage of war into the peace of the jungle. The European colonists practice slavery (which is a Hobbsian symbol of the strong ruling the weak), but Father Gabriel denounces this and provides the Guarani with sanctuary and education, in the belief that before God, all are equal. Finally, even within the ranks of the Jesuits, there is a difference in world-view when the final conflict comes, and the European soldiers storm the mission to forcibly remove the residents. The former slaver Mendoza believes the mission should be defended with force, while Father Gabriel believes that it should be defended peacefully. Even Cardinal Altamirano's lose-lose decision is an ethical question of strong against weak should he side with the Jesuits and their mission of peace, or the colonists and their mission of war? Is it better to preserve the safety of a few natives, or preserve the integrity of the Catholic church? The Mission, then, is a film that sets up these ethical dilemmas and allows them to play out self-interest versus self-sacrifice and guilt versus forgiveness.This is one of my all-time favorite movies, and I would highly recommend it as a film that will challenge you and leave you thinking about these things for days and weeks afterward. "},{"Title":"A Well-Made Film!","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Capturing the experiences of a Jesuit missionary in 18th century South America, 'The Mission' is A Well-Made Film, that is beautifully shot, nicely directed & superbly acted.'The Mission' Synopsis 18th century Spanish Jesuits try to protect a remote South American Indian tribe in danger of falling under the rule of pro-slavery Portugal.'The Mission' is about struggle, courage & hope. Cinematically, it comes across as emotional & violent. The bloodshed that was spilled, the struggle that existed & the hope throughout the entire journey, leaves a strong impact on celluloid as well. Robert Bolt's Screenplay offers a good blend of emotion, struggle & violence. Roland Joffé's Direction is nice. Cinematography by Chris Menges is beautifully done. Art Direction, Costume Design & Editing, are worth a mention. Music by Ennio Morricone is wonderful.Performance-Wise Robert De Niro shines, as always. Jeremy Irons is remarkably restrained in his part, while Liam Neeson is sincere. Ray McAnally is excellent. Aidan Quinn is quite good. Cherie Lunghi & Ronald Pickup are effective.On the whole, 'The Mission' is a Well-Made Film In All Respects. "},{"Title":"An Artfully Done Work of Art","Date":"13 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This is an outstanding film. It took me a few moments to actually follow the plot, so don't let yourself be discouraged by the start of the movie. It takes some getting used to and grounded in as you are swept between times and cultures. But you eventually get your bearings and find yourself being swept along by the cinematography, acting and story as if you were cascading down the waterfall that plays so powerfully into the scenery.It was a sudden ah ha! moment for me when I realized that this was a true story about events I'd learned about in seminary. The Jesuits had gotten into trouble with the mainline Catholic church because of their unorthodox ways of what is expected to be done, today, mixing with the culture of native tribes in order to learn their languages and teach them the Gospel. But don't be put off by the religious parts of the plot because it is not preachy at all. In fact, religion takes a definite back seat to politics and power plays as well as powerful acting.And everywhere there is astounding scenery, camera work and direction. It is so good that your mind is allowed to make connections far beyond what movies usually engender. For example, as I saw the natives standing on a bridge at one point, all of them ready to greet the approaching dignitary, I realized that they looked like ripe, brown fruit, suspended within branches as they were between Heaven and earth. And I realized that's the whole point of the Gospel and of the movie. Several allusions are made to the Garden of Eden and I realized that just as GOD made fruit of all sorts in the Garden for humanity to enjoy, we are His fruit. We are the seeds of GOD, encased in rinds of flesh for now but destined (if we will only allow Him to nourish, tend and prune us) to bear more fruit and flourish in eternal life.That recognition of Deity's touch upon humanity, in all of humanity's shapes and colors, and the need to communicate with each other, is much of the message of the film. But it is anything but a message film in the crass sense. Instead it is a step back into a time and place we can seldom experience now and a thoughtful expression of thoughts we still need to ponder and wrestle with as we deal with each other and wrestle with faith in GOD Himself. "},{"Title":"The Mission - Extraordinary !","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission is an indispensable work for everyone who love the committed Cinema, moving scenes and action. The Spanish director Roland Joffé crafts a movie (after the book) narrow with both the novel and the history as it's known.The first part is a quick evolution of the facts, through a Jesuits' conversion mission in southern America. When it was a mere religion affair the Spanish ministers of the Kingdom didn't interfere with their influence; but when the mission became a village with his own profit, the greed and the arrogance started flaring up.The most touching part is the second one, where the war, its madness (even in the name of God, again!!), its foolish utilities, shows what a few band of men can generate.I was amazed by 1) the scene where the little girl watches terrified the carnage of her people, unable to understand, to figure out the reasons; 2) the final scene, the procession. It had to end like that but the tardy regret of the minister is a heavy punch in the stomach.While I found Irons' acting very convincing (like always), I disliked the De Niro role, either for his character, ambiguous, unpleasant, or for his acting skills, this time below the average (I think).Ennio Morricone's soundtrack is marvelous as always, but this time he really deserved the Oscar, assigned instead to the stunning cinematography.A story about the consequences of erroneously choices, for which a war was supposed to be the remedy. "},{"Title":"Very Good and Extremely Tragic","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" What I would call a heart breaker of a movie emotionally. It is no surprise to a lover of history that this sort of thing occurred on a regular basis but to watch it transpire on film is horrifying. Jeremy Irons gives a great performance and ditto for DeNiro. DeNiro is a pirate and killer who by unfortunate circumstances murders his brother and forces himself to atone for it. Irons plays a priest who saves DeNiro and gives him a purpose to his life. Become a priest and follow the order. DeNiro agrees to this and joins his cause. But events beyond both of their control force them to choose a path neither one wants. Their lives and the people in their mission are doomed and the cause is lost. Watching that priest on the cross fall over the waterfall in the beginning is one of the most shocking things you could ever see in a movie it sticks in your mind for years. Good performances by Adian Quinn and Liam Neeson. Must be watched to be experienced a review just won't do it or give it justice. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  When I first saw this movie in Cannes film festival, I knew it would get the golden palm, Roland Joffe had already proven his mastery with his excellent Killing Fields, but this time, he really reached a state of grace. The acting of Irons and De Niro is OUTSTANDING, the photography is gorgeous, the plot is extremely interesting and profound, I give it an absolute 10, I've seen many movies in my life, and it has never reached such a level of passion and enlightenment. As a conductor, I have also to point out the importance of the soundtrack, how many times I've seen a movie ruined by a poor musical background! But nothing like that here, Morriconne signed one of his best inspired scores. Some people talk about historic inaccuracy, I strongly disagree and I suspect this comment to come from religious zealots; ethnological studies of Claude Levi-Strauss, George Dumezil or Marcel Mauss have mentioned similar historical cases...  "},{"Title":"A heartwrenching film of mesmerizing beauty........","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  What can one say of The Mission, but that it is one of the most beautifully photographed films I have ever set my eyes on.  I first saw this epic film in 7th grade and it still haunts me to this day. If you are a lover of historical films this is a feast for the eyes.  It is also very sad because it shows you the demise of the native American peoples of Central and South America as a result of colonial Spain's conquests. Robert de Niro and Jeremy Irons give great performances here as Jesuit priests that yearn to save and teach the Indians.  Nominated for 7 Academy Awards and winning for Cinematography this film is a treasure that should be seen by everyone to remind us of how imperialism destroys civilizations and the beauty of other cultures. A definite tearjerker at the end. **** stars. "},{"Title":"One of the most moving films I've ever seen!","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  There are very few movies that I ever bother to see again and even fewer that make me cry. I've seen The Mission three times already and each time it made me cry. The scenery is breathtakingly beautiful; the innocence,joy and wisdom of the indigenous people palpable; the transformative power of faith and forgiveness inspiring; the historic conflict between the Vatican and Jesuits accurate; the music heavenly; and the outcome tragic. I believe it's a great conversation-starter for any group interested in issues of faith/politics/history. A real masterpiece! "},{"Title":"They don't make them like this anymore...","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The Mission is one of my all-time favorite movies. It is quiet, thoughtful, beautiful, and moving.If you are looking for action, or short-attention-span thrills, don't bother. But if you like movies that are grounded in history and describe the sort of courage and heroism that can be achieved by real people, watch it and enjoy. "}{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  You know,this is a movie for which its hard to find many words to describe it.Its my favorite Jeremy Irons part and clearly overshadows anything else he has done.De Niro is great as usual and we see a new side of him here.Film features scopes of beautiful nature and also wonderful actors as Liam Neeson and Aidan Quinn.Bravo Joffe! "},{"Title":"your mission should you choose to accept is;","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  It is somehow disturbing seeing how Jeremy Irons trying to be a good Jesuit and Robert De Niro redemption against their own fear and ego. It is more depressing to see how a culture and religion can (or must) imprisoned many freedom and purity. Maybe that's the main idea of this movie, the ego that we must eliminate as we encountered others... Truly a good and breath-taking beautiful movie.  "},{"Title":"Wow-I really liked this movie!","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I went into this movie thinking...well, this is just another movie Mr. Powell is making me watch for English class...boring.  I should have learned my lesson by now!!  The film is historically relevant (check your history books before watching it) and teaches valuable life lessons.  I just finished an essay on theme for this film.  It's not necessarily an enjoyable film, but it leaves you thinking. "},{"Title":"A sad history told in a wonderful way","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This film is a summary of what the Europeans conquerers (here in Latin America, Portugal and Spain) did to the native people. We had changed their religion, society and economy, at best. At worst, we simply made them slaves.Anyway, a beautiful history. A beautiful songtrack. Beautiful photography.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie and soundtrack BUT...","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Let me just say that the movie and soundtrack are BOTH brilliant BUT the soundtrack is so good that it overpowers the movie, not compliments it.Ennio Morricone came up with a powerful score that should be considered amoung the most moving stuff ever played. In fact, it is SO good that I found it distracted me from the great storyline and performances the movie offered. Ennio's music doesn't compliment The Mission, it overwhelms it.That being said, though, rent this movie and watch it a couple of times. The faith-issues it brings up are fascinating and Robert and Jeremy are completed immersed into the characters they play. "},{"Title":"Interesting but not Spectacular","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission is a film that boasts, above all else, breathtaking scenery of the South American continent, including the massive Iguazu waterfalls of Argentina (near its border with Paraguay). Underneath this eye candy, however, is an unevenly directed, and straightforward, though occasionally intriguing, story, topped by somewhat tepid performances from the cast.Based loosely off of true events, The Mission is set in the 1750s in the regions of Argentina, Brazil, and Paraguay, when Spanish and Portuguese colonial forces were continuously seeking to expand their territories and constantly fighting one another. Wrapped up in these colonial skirmishes are the indigenous people of the region, namely the Guarani Indians. Jeremy Irons plays the Jesuit priest and missionary Father Gabriel, who with his comrades seeks to peacefully convert the natives to Christianity and teach them the finer aspects of Western Civilization. Compromising these efforts, however, are Spanish soldiers, particularly the mercenary Rodrigo Mendoza, played by Robert De Niro, who see the natives as savages and no better than animals, useful only as slaves for the Europeans and as occasional hunting targets.Through a tragic sequence of events, however, Mendoza is convicted of murder, and in his grief attempts to seek repentance. Father Gabriel decides to take Mendoza under the wing of his Order, and the group heads back from the Spanish settlement to the missions of the Guarani. Mendoza lives among the peaceful natives and is born anew as a Jesuit priest.The Guarani's and Jesuit's troubles are not over, however. The Portuguese are encroaching on the Guarani missions, seeking to enslave them and create profit for their overseas colonies. The Spanish and the Papacy's emissaries are unsympathetic to the Jesuits' concerns for the Guarani; the official Church, in fact, still does not really recognize the Guarani as human beings. This leaves Father Mendoza, Father Gabriel, their Jesuit compatriots, and the Guarani on their own, and a conflict arises between the Jesuits' views of nonviolence and the increasing necessity of preparing to do battle with the Portuguese, who will certainly destroy them if they do not resist.As stated earlier, the film has a fairly straightforward story. This of course would not be a negative if the story instead chose to focus on character development, but it only provides surface level insight into the main characters played by De Niro and Irons. The Guarani have no prominent role in the film; they are entirely props, background fodder to the white leading stars. In this sense The Mission takes the same path many films about the civil rights movement do making white characters the main protagonists and leaving the black characters as supporting voices at best, often in order to appeal to a presumably majority white audience. We learn very little about the Guarani themselves beyond the fact that they have spears and seem to readily give up their own beliefs and traditions for Christianity. What are their thoughts and feelings concerning the warring Europeans? Do they truly believe what the Jesuits are telling them, or do they sometimes have doubts? The conflicts between the Papal authorities in South America and the Jesuits are handled well. Historically the Jesuits have been the thorn in the paw of the Catholic Church despite their nominal allegiance to the Pope, and this is quite evident in the film. The missions are designed in a style similar to the French radicalism of the period (the film is set decades prior to the French Revolution of 1789), where the Guarani share everything in common. This socialistic style is reminiscent of the Marxist liberation theology many priests chose to take in the 20th century, including the American Daniel Berrigan, who in fact has a minor role in this film.The film is beautifully shot and features lush cinematography; however, the battle choreography of the film's climax is somewhat ragged and unrealistic; the relative lack of character development adds to the ho hum feeling one gets while watching the Portuguese and the Guarani-Jesuit team fight it out on land and in kayaks.The performances are decent though not spectacular. Robert De Niro seems occasionally uncomfortable in his role as Mendoza. Jeremy Irons does a good job as Father Gabriel and the other actors perform adequately. The dialogue, however, is such that none of the performances, except perhaps for Mr. Irons, are very memorable.Apparently The Mission also seeks to give the audience a moral lesson about modern day transgressions against the Guarani and other indigenous people in the Americas, but this is not particularly effective and comes across as cloying and, frankly, patronizing towards the natives, who, as stated earlier, are simply props in this story.Those with an interest in colonial South American history will find this film watchable, as will anyone who enjoys gorgeous scenery. But aside from a few memorable moments, The Mission doesn't stand out as truly brilliant cinema. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I had never even heard of this film when a friend recommended that I watch it. So I did and I'm so glad I did. It is by far the most truly spiritual film that I know of. It deals both with redemption and hypocrisy in ways that ring so true it is soul-shaking. It make you feel, think, and hope in ways that few movies do. And aside from all of that, it's just such a well-made movie! The cinematography is gorgeous and the music may be one of the most beautiful I've ever heard in any genre. And the acting, so good. It's rare that movies with religious films get this level of talent in front of the camera and it makes all the difference. Personally, it's one of my favorite DeNiro performances of all time. This film is something special and definitely worth a couple hours of your life! "},{"Title":"A Slow but Powerful Film","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Rodrigo Mendoza (Robert De Niro) is a slave trader in South America who kills his own brother in a fit of jealous rage. Although he is not convicted by any court he still regrets his action and because of that he shuts himself out of society in a nearby church. Eventually, he decides to seek forgiveness by doing an extremely difficult penance. When that is finally accomplished he becomes a Jesuit monk working at a newly built mission far inside the jungle helping the same tribe he had tried to enslave. Unfortunately, time doesn't stop and all too soon other slave traders appear with the main goal of tearing down all of the missions in the area thereby ending any refuge for the unfortunate Indian tribesmen. Now rather than reveal any more of this movie I will just say this was a slow but powerful film which manages to capture the beautiful scenery of South America along with the power and greed prevalent during this particular time in history. It also won several awards including the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival along with being nominated for Best Picture at the Academy Awards. Again, while it's rather slow at times, it's still something worth viewing for those who might be interested in this type of film. "},{"Title":"While with its flaws, still packs a very powerful punch","Date":"29 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission had a lot of talent on display(Jeremy Irons, Robert DeNiro, Ennio Morricone) and fortunately doesn't waste that talent. Could it have been better than it was? Yes. Is it a good film still? Yes it is, with its best components being absolutely outstanding.What stuck out as particularly outstanding were the production values and especially Ennio Morricone's music score. The Mission's cinematography looks gorgeous and the scenery and period detail are nothing short of magnificent. It does have to be one of the best-looking films of the late-80s. Words cannot describe how truly amazing Morricone's score is here, easily ranking among his best and containing at least two of his most memorable themes. The Gabriel's Oboe theme is the most well-known theme, and justifiably, it is hauntingly beautiful, and The Falls is also justifiably famous. For me however, it was the To Earth As It Is In Heaven track that really sends shivers down the spine.In terms of writing, The Mission is a long way from flawless, but nevertheless a good deal of the script is very thoughtfully written and evokes thought and emotion for a while after. The story is mostly compelling and deeply moving emotionally, with an especially powerful final act. The subject matter is devastating enough as it is, and The Mission deals with it intelligently and movingly, while the well-meaning message resonates on an emotional level and without being too preachy. The characters, while on the whole not the well-developed in the world, are still interesting and carry the film well, none of them feeling pointless. Cardinal Altamirano is particularly well-realised. The direction acquits itself fine and The Mission is generally strongly acted.The two best performances came from Jeremy Irons and Ray McAnally. Irons brings huge amounts of heart and great sincerity, he is particularly good at the end. There his acting is heart-breaking, and even with saying little to nothing at all. McAnally is advantaged by having the most interesting character in the film, and he plays with real authority and ruthless abandon, while succeeding in giving some dimension and light and shade. Look out also for a young Liam Neeson, whose appearance read as a promising one.On the other hand, The Mission does contain some flabby pacing. This is especially true in the middle act, where it does get talky and bogged down in some heavy-handed politics. For personal tastes, too, Robert DeNiro's performance is uneven. He does have some wonderful moments, with the character's torment and emotional turmoil being very heartfelt-ly portrayed. At other points however he seemed detached to the drama and somewhat out of place, especially in some of his line delivery, which bordered on aggressive and being more at home in a Scorsese film(one line and his delivery of it reminded me of Taxi Driver and it takes one out of the period setting). Aidan Quinn also doesn't fare too badly in the acting stakes but jars a little in the setting.All in all, could have been better, but the production values, Irons, McAnally and especially the music score are enough to make the film well worth seeing; they are superb and as a result the film for all its flaws still packs a very powerful punch. 7.5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Engaging, Emotionally Heartbreaking","Date":"7 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" An unique cinematic art. The film has a wonderful balance between the beginning, middle and finale, it is surprising how it involves you during the course of history, and becomes more and more intriguing how the director, and the film's production had the capacity to create such filming, are so many realistic scenes, It is exclusively amazing. People who are giving poor rating to this masterpiece should review its own critical spirit, and at least recognize that the film is extremely worthy of all the merits that categorizes it as a unique work, with a surprising critical appeal.The work of Jeremy Irons and Robert DeNiro is exclusive of actors with such power of interpretation of the character. They adhere absolutely to the role for which they were designated, and makes you feel guilty for not being born at that time, and changed the course of history.Through all the film the geniality of Ennio Morricone who created the most perfect soundtrack that could have been created for a work like the movie The Mission.An unrivaled work with the saddest film ending of history, everyone should watch this movie. "}{"Title":"Love or Hate it Thought-Provoking Film","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission contains all the ingredients needed to be a great film. It was spearheaded by Roland Joffe, a British film director, who wanted to take on another ambitious project like his previous film The Killing Fields (1984). It was shot by Oscar winning cinematographer (Chris Menges) who reunited with director Roland Joffe two years removed from the critically acclaimed film Killing Fields. It was written by a well-respected 2-time Oscar Winner screenwriter Robert Bolt. For those of you who do not know he wrote (Lawrence of Arabia, Doctor Zhivago, and A Man For All Seasons) three movies I have seen at least three times each. The film consisted of an all-star cast Robert De Niro, Jeremy Irons, Ray McAnally, and Ronald Pickup. There were upcoming actors people who be familiar with, but May not know Liam Neeson was in this and Aiden Quinn was in this. The cast is made up of the finest actors and extras any film crew could ask for to make a film of this magnitude. People reading this review should be familiar with a brilliant conductor, orchestrator, and composer by the name of Ennio Morricone who wrote the Oscar- Nominated worthy musical score of The Mission (1986). Morricone opened my eyes to the world of such beauty. As other readers, year after year, read this review and think what the heck was he blabbering about I may tune into one of his pieces and find myself in a trance unable to wake for a few minutes to a several minutes when listening to his composed scores. Ennio Morricone like all great composers can assemble a classical score that allows the audience to have a connection with the music. Each piece he has composed was specific for the movie he did, but every music score he has ever composed is symbolic. It represents how the audience can lose themselves in their thoughts and minds for a few minutes to a few hours. You may know some of his other works such as; The Man with No Name Trilogy (Dollars Trilogy), Once Upon a Time in the West (1968), Cinema Paradiso (1988), and The Untouchables (1987). All of which got some recognition, but he has composed hundreds of other musical pieces that are considered masterpieces. When he dies he will be remembered always. If you ever heard one of Morricone's musical scores at least one of his musical scores would move your heart, your mind, and your body. It is not possible to not be moved when you listen to the beauty in his music he created. If you are not moved by any of his music you are either deaf or do not have an interest in music. The film revolved around the events of the Treaty of Madrid 1750; in which at the time Portugal and Spain were the so called Superpowers of the known world. Great Britain would become the Superpower shortly, but they would lag behind these two countries for now waiting their turn. Portugal and Spain were discovering new lands and colonizing these lands they discovered such as the continent of South America. Both countries wanted a part of South America so they happened to draw an imaginary line across the continent and determined who would control what boundaries. As history suggests to us countries will try to exploit anything possible to gain control of land and its resources for wealth, influence, and power. It seems the Spanish saw the tribes in their boundaries, the Guarani Indians, as potential converts to Christianity, while Portuguese saw the inhabitants as nothing more than animals, only appearing to look like a human in flesh. Portuguese wanted to use these Indians as slaves for slave labor when the Treaty of Madrid occurred; Spain ceding part of Jesuit Paraguay. Between what each country's government wanted and the Catholic Church the region was unstable for years. The film is about the work the Jesuit Priests are trying to accomplish in South America before and after the Treaty of Madrid was signed by Spain and Portugal in 1750. The Jesuit Priests unlike certain people tried to learn the inhabitants' culture and language before they tried to convert them to Christianity and set up missionaries. The Portuguese did no such thing to learn their culture as they felt they were inhuman and they could not be taught. I will not bore you with any more details as other reviewers have told you plenty about Robert De Niro's character Rodrigo Mendoza (a slave trader), Jeremy Irons character Father Gabriel (Jesuit Priest). Ray McAnally's character Cardinal Altamirano who must decide what missions will remain under the Church's protection and must be done away. He is sent by the Vatican to decide such matters. The film is full of moral social commentary, as it shows what happens when an unsuspecting/unwilling people are conquered. Did the Guarani Indians really want to be converted to Christianity? Are we to think a peaceful, remote colony of Guarani Indians left on their own for thousands of years really wanted to become westernized or found? Who are we to judge what culture is more superior? The Mission forces us to think about topics as well. What would you do if we were part of the Guarani Indians whose culture was taken from us? What would we take with us? Everyone has their own answers to these questions. The film is a timeless classic, but some people will see it not. If everyone who has a good heart or a functioning brain they will realize this film is not bad. The director of the film said this, The first two movies I made The Killing Fields (1984) and The Mission (1986), I loved making, but in some ways they've been an albatross round one's neck. Everybody thinks that's what you're supposed to be doing. These two movies were huge projects unlike his small projects thereafter. "},{"Title":"Better than average historical epic","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" (59%) A lesser well known/regarded big sweeping epic of the past 30 years starring a typically on-form Jeremy Irons and Robert DeNiro. This is very much a film that opens much stronger than it ends, with brilliant shots of the deep rainforest and a unfussy plot that does a real great job in drawing in interest. Once the mid-section begins to slot into place a lot of the momentum starts to weaken somewhat as 18th century politics takes over, but with that said it doesn't ruin the film by any means as the final few scenes wrap the film up well. Overall this is certainly well made enough and more important interesting enough watch to be worthy of anyone's time. "},{"Title":"Ambitious but flawed","Date":"6 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Roland Joffe's stately film, 'The Mission', tells the story of indigenous Americans first embraced, then abandoned, by a Catholic Church more interested in power than in good. But the film has failings there are multiple lead protagonists (including Robert de Nero whose role seems inadequate for his star billing), denying us a consistent perspective; the pace is slow; and the battle scenes at the end more confused than dramatic. I also found Enrico Morricone's story invasive and partly unnecessary. In addition, the plot can be summarised as bad stuff expected, bad stuff happens it's a story extraordinarily devoid of twists. The scope is broad, but for such a simple tragedy, a smaller movie might have serviced better. "},{"Title":"A piece of  our story  that merits attention","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission has been recommended to me through a friend of mine. This film is based on true events about the Spanish and Portuguese colonialism in South America in the 18th century. It shows in easy way the brutal combat against the Indians. There are a few themes that gave me to think even later. For example the position of the church and the hungry idiots that wanted enlarge their power in these poor countries against every price. An historical event that in reality continues nowadays on our planet. I take with me one of the sentence heard in this movie The world is so. No, it is the way we did the world!.....Robert De Niro delivered no doubt one of his best performances. Don't expect mega action show. In fact the fight scenes are executed poorly. The cinematography is also not at the top. Don't forget, it has been turned in the midst eighties.The music of Ennio Morricone was well adapted. 7/10. If you like to discover more of that time don't miss 1492 Conquest of Paradise with Gérard Depardieu. "},{"Title":"The Mission Disapoints","Date":"28 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Back in 1984, Roland Joffe accomplished the near impossible; his major motion picture debut, The Killing Fields, defied every expectation typically associated with neophyte filmmakers and what Joffe delivered was one of the most powerful and moving films I've ever seen. So it's no surprise I highly anticipated his follow-up film, The Mission, and it's obvious that by bringing back the same team (producer David Puttnam, cinematographer Chris Menges, and editor Jim Clark), they attempted to capture the proverbial lightning in a bottle a second time. Unfortunately, the end product isn't quite cinematic magic. Set in the 18th century, Jeremy Irons stars as Father Gabriel, one of several Spanish Jesuit priests (including Liam Neeson) assigned to convert the Guarini tribe of South America into Christians. His efforts are gradual, but successful. Converging with this story is Rodrigo Mendoza (Robert De Niro), a slave trader who seeks penance after killing his own brother in a fit of rage. For all the Guarini that he has killed or sold off into slavery, they still show compassion and forgiveness towards him, and he is accepted into the mission, even converting into a Jesuit priest under the guidance of Father Gabriel.The priests and the Guarini natives eventually find themselves in heated discussion with politicians and slave-owners, who are debating over whether the mission should fall under the rule of Portugal, thus endangering all the Guarini with the possibility of being made into slaves. Determined to prevent such an action at any cost, Mendoza takes up his sword once more, coming into conflict with Father Gabriel's peaceful approach.The Mission was released in 1986 with little success in theaters, despite garnering a respectable 7 Oscar nominations, including Best Picture. Since then, it's developed a devoted fan base who consider it among the most underrated films of the decade. As much as I'd like to, I can't quite agree. Though a respectable and often beautifully crafted effort, the film ultimately comes up short in human interest and emotions, with Joffe often favoring lingering shots of lush jungle scenery and needlessly overlong political machinations involving secondary characters whom we couldn't care less about.The film is divided into three acts, the first, involving the spiritual transformation of Mendoza, is easily the most compelling. Despite De Niro's occasionally stilted performance (his delivery of some of the dialogue, particularly Are you laughing at me? still makes me cringe), his emotional torment is heartfelt and absorbing and his acceptance into the mission is genuinely moving. It's almost all downhill from there.The build-up in the second act is initially effective, with the heated debate over the Guarini engrossing, but the conflict eventually loses steam when we're subjected to dull, endless dialogue that grows inadvertently confusing even as it intends to clear up the matters at hand. It's also in the middle segment the film loses its human focus and all that's really left is the question of will they or won't they fight.The third act is the inevitable battle, and while there are a few powerful moments amidst the chaos, the sequence is a badly choreographed mess. The editing also feels a little rough, with quite a few scenes feeling like they clocked in a little too soon (the sudden transition after Irons' God is love! line is disjointed, to say the least). The Guarini are never developed beyond the typical noble savage portrayal, so it's difficult to feel for their plight beyond the fact that their forced subjugation and mass slaughter is a heinous crime. I wanted to feel more for them, but they're merely a backdrop for the more seasoned cast.As Father Gabriel, Jeremy Irons is superb, unquestionably one of the film's consistent bright spots. It's unfortunate he's never that well-developed in any of the film's separate acts, but his performance alone is able to draw us in even if the script lets him (and the audience) down. In supporting roles, Ray McAnally and Liam Neeson are excellent, though a bit limited in screen time. For Neeson, this was more of a hint of greater things to come.Ennio Morricone's score deserves a special mention; whatever emotions Joffe is unable to convey on screen, Morricone's music can conjure in just a few notes. It's one of the most beautiful scores I've had the pleasure to listen to, especially in segments with oboe and flute. The chorus in the background is perhaps a bit much, but an overpowering score can do wonders in a film otherwise unable to muster all the intended emotions. Joffe's work in the film is still overall quite solid, but he completely lost his footing soon afterward, losing a grip on his career with a long string of critical and financial disasters, including Super Mario Bros., The Scarlet Letter, and Goodbye Lover. I'm convinced The Killing Fields was not a fluke, but the sign of a genuine auteur who showed his prowess thanks to a brilliant script and cast. Blend those two elements with his natural skills and I'm sure we'll get a film worthy of mention alongside his debut. Let's just hope this happens sooner rather than later. "},{"Title":"Great location, Great actors, Great music","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" In 1750, Spain ceded part of Jesuit Paraguay to Portugal. The Jesuits had converted many of the Guaranis. The Guaranis above the waterfalls still reject the church sending a crucified priest over the falls. Father Gabriel (Jeremy Irons) climbs up the falls and converts the tribe with his music. He confronts slaver Rodrigo Mendoza (Robert De Niro) who is now hunting above the falls. Mendoza returns to town to find his fiancée and his brother Felipe (Aidan Quinn) are now in love. In a jealous rage, he kills his brother. He is despondent and Gabriel offers him work with the Guaranis as penance. Together with Gabriel and other brothers like Fielding (Liam Neeson), they make the mission thrive. Papal emissary Cardinal Altamirano (Ray McAnally) arrives to decide if the church will continue to protect the missions from the slave running Portugese now that the land has been transfer from Spanish protection.The location is magnificent. The actors are terrific. And the music score from Ennio Morricone is both epic and haunting. This is an amazing historical drama. The story ends in a heart wrenching battle. Director Roland Joffé pulls together one of the best movie of the year. "},{"Title":"A really enjoyable movie","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" A Jesuit travels to the Americas to set up a mission and convert indigenous people to Christianity. Here he faces the savagery of the Slave Trade controlled by the Spanish Empire and Portuguese Empire seeking moderation by the Catholic Church.Jeremy Irons portrays a deeply holy man, Liam Neeson portrays a fellow Jesuit and De Niro portraying a Slave Trader turned spiritual man, together they inform the Cardinal of the horrible, cruel slavers while having him visit the home of the indigenous people who have constructed a church in the heart of the rainforest.This deeply moving film was interesting, thought provoking and true history. The music throughout is a combination of spiritual, choir and Native America music, a joy to listen to. Considering how it featured a fairly small cast and primarily focused on location and personalities. It was a great movie. "},{"Title":"good and bad colonialists","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This film is a treatise on colonial ambiguities and the contradictions of empire-building.The Jesuit order, an order of the Catholic Church devoted to tertiary education, is the ideological wing of the Catholic empires. The empires are born not because of altruism but because of the greed of powerful courts, conformism of general populations and lack of spiritual and basically material defences of indigenous peoples. The centre views the periphery as source of enrichment, but some charismatic people such as Jeremy Irons's Jesuit take seriously the teachings of the religion they profess and try to find a modus vivendi between the various constitutive elements of imperial societies. For leaders as usually religion is sham under which they hide their power-hungry, greedy and vicious nature. As the Bible says they are false prophets, wolves dressed in the garments of sheep.But in the movie at least there is a true prophet -jeremy Irons- and a basically well-meaning but lukewarm church dignitary who fails beside his good intentions to prevent the impending catastrophe, proving the veracity of the old saying that the road to Hell is paved with good intentions.It is a good movie on a perennial theme. "},{"Title":"Utterly beautiful, fantastic movie!","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The story is based on the divide of Latin-America by Spain and Portugal in 18th Century. For the Roman Catholic church, it meant that Jesuits had to go as part of the deal to allow the church to stay present in Portuguese territory. The Jesuit order had, by then, grown into a strong and powerful order which threatened commercial relations between countries by preventing slavery in their Missions. This movie then takes on some fictional characters to illustrate the struggle faced by the Jesuits and the Church, the Guaranis, and the difficult relations with Spain and Portugal. Great acting by all, and beautiful, haunting, scenery (the Iguacu falls in Venezuela) and a good basis for a strong scenario makes this movie an all time favourite of mine. A definite must for everyone's DVD collection (the double-DVD set is best). A classic! "},{"Title":"In the same league with Casablanca","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I first saw this film in a theater and was overwhelmed by the story,the superb cinematography, the Morricone musical score, and fine acting. Having seen the film several times since I have yet to make it through each viewing without being deeply moved. Unforgettable is the scene of DeNiro's penance burden of guilt (a heavy bag of armor attached to a long rope he insists on dragging up the treacherous falls)for killing his brother. As he reaches the top he is confronted by the Indians who have drawn knives. DiNiro wants them to end his life and put an end to his self loathing.Instead their weapons are used in love and forgiveness to free their former enemy and DeNiro's guilt as they sever the rope and unburden the former slave hunter. This powerful scene and this motion picture is DiNiro's finest performance to date. I have no problem placing The Mission in the same company of what I consider the finest film ever made..Casablanca. "}{"Title":"Exciting ethical common sense, excellent music and no moralist finger wagging","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Set on the borders of Brazil, Paraguay and Argentina in 1750, this exceptional film tells a tragic tale of European colonialism that not only had direct relevance to foreign interference in Latin America at the time of the film's release in 1986 (Nicaragua, El Salvador, etc.) but also, and more positively, to developments in more recent times (Venezuela, Bolivia, Chile, Argentina). Joffé's film features Jeremy Irons and Robert De Niro, the latter in one of his best performances. It also features the Waunana people who, enacting the Guaraní Indians protected by humanist Jesuits but eventually massacred by colonialist mercenaries working for Portuguese slave traders, also stand out as the film's true stars they present credible, tangible individuals and never come across as exotic extras. Another powerful performance is given by Roy MacAnally whose character, Cardinal Altimirano, embodies the dilemma of the good man trying to work within an oppressive system and whose strategic efforts to save the Jesuit order in Europe lead to an unpardonable bloodbath.Morricone's score for The Mission is exceptional. Come farne un tutt'uno? - how to make an integral whole out of two humanist music traditions (European and Native American) - was his problem. That he succeeded to fuse these convincingly is patent. For example, Gabriel's Oboe, mixed with the syncretic choral Vita Nostra and with its lead played alternately by oboe and recorder (flauto diritto of quena type), became a favourite to play at Brazilian weddings, while the soundtrack album has been a major commercial success worldwide. Morricone draws on influences ranging from the European avant-garde (those Penderecki-like slithering string clusters with huge death-drum hits at the very start, for example) to the thoroughly singable (e.g. main theme), from baroque chamber music to the suggestive use of Native American sonorities. His music contributes massively to the thoroughly humanist message of this movie and I find it incomprehensible that the composer did not receive an Oscar for this score. No matter The Mission is a set work in my courses on Music and the Moving Image. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've seen","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It may well be due to the soundtrack which is absolutely outstanding. But the cinematography is quite well done. And the story is a reasonably good rendering of a complex historical issue. I do not currently have it in my collection but I hope to add it soon. However the soundtrack has never been far from my CD player (now perma-loaded on my ipod). It's been years since I last saw the film yet many of the details of the film are still vivid in my mind. While there are a few films which I like on an equal level, I am hard pressed to think of a film better than The Mission. I would place it on my list of top 20 movies for a well rounded individual to have seen, and certainly think anyone interested in quality though provoking films would enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"The Mission","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I love this film!!!it's really wonderful,landscapes are beautiful!!I can't tell what I think about The Mission,because I'm french and I don't speak English very well,but in my opinion it's a film culte,then an excellent story,we can see that's the world is bad for a long time,and some people are prepared to everything for power.So The Mission show that,and say the truth of what's happened between Spanish and Portuguese,I didn't know the real story about that so it's good to learn this in a film,because now films are about violence,war...Finally,I think I love it thanks to actors Jeremy Irons(who's my favorite actor) and Robert De Niro,the cast is wonderful,the film is still better with them.(sorry for grammatical mistakes) "},{"Title":"an impressive portrait of a fatal, atrocious historical affair","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The plot was told often enough here; so I must not repeat it. It is loosely based on the drama Das heilige Experiment (The holy experiment) by Fritz Hochwaelder (which is very remarkable in another view, too there is not a single female character in it).The gorgeous scenery and camera work, Morricone's aptly supporting music, and the good acting have been mentioned, too.It was said that the psychic whereabouts of the leading characters (I agree partially) and of the natives (I agree totally) were displayed too little.But in this movie, this is not very important, because the fate of the leading characters - though they carry the action - is not relevant the crucial point is the fate of the Indians, who are sold into slavery by one catholic European government to another, with the approval of the pope who denies them to be real human beings. THIS is the outrageously inhuman pivotal point. The lead characters are just (more or less) idealistic pawns in the big atrocity; their private woes are trivial in relation to weight of the historical decision. So the film should have been centered more on the part of the dirty political and religious pundits, and on the battle of the Indians against cruel oppression. I even plead for more explicit gore here (which I rarely do), to make things clearer for watchers who learn more by their senses than by abstract reasoning. Here it is justified (like in Soldier blue); this is not just a flick to kill time with, or to feast on violence, as Die Hard #17 and the like. Instead, The mission has turned a bit of a de Niro festival.For this, and for some weaknesses in the narrative flow, I give it just 8 instead of 10 points.The matter of this film is not just an episode of history, long gone by and dead. It concerns the role of the catholic church in politics. There are parallels just as the then pope let the Indians down in their desperate struggle, thereby securing his mundane power, pope John Paul II stopped and depraved of power the exponents of the Theology of Liberation in Latin America like Gustavo Gutiérrez, Dom Helder Camera, Oscar Arnulfo Romero, Ernesto Cardenal, Leonardo Boff, who felt urged to preach to not only pray but ACT in favour of the poor and miserable. (If you don't know what I mean, just see Romero, which is about bishop Oscar Romero of El Salvador, who was even shot dead for his commitment to the poor.) So the wealth of the rich is secured, and the poor keep living a bad life.The Jesuits, who - after a changing course of sometimes being the popes's elite fighters - had developed to becoming the catholic church's dedicated exponents of struggling for a socially better world some decades ago, culminating under their highly respected leader Don Pedro Arrupe, were depraved of power by John Paul II, in favour of and with the help of Opus Dei, a conservative order whose work brings things to get conserved as they are.And Joseph Ratzinger, the new pope - well, he was John Paul II.'s right hand for decades. "},{"Title":"Powerful movie about fighting for what is right or showing love and mercy","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This is a powerful movie that questions the morals of what is right and what is wrong. In this case if it's right to fight for what is just or to try to solve everything by love and mercy. I found this movie to be slightly dry but it got my interest most of the way through. Mostly because it is based on a true story. About a man that falls and later becomes a Christian and later fights for what he believes is right instead of what he only wants. So in this case he is fighting for the peaceful tribe of Christians. I just wish the movie was a bit more developed and explain certain parts of the movie. Such as how the tribe got evangelized after the beginning scene. All the actors did a great job, in fact it has actors that will play some big roles in future movies after this. Such as Robert De Niro, Jeremy Irons, and Liam Neeson. This is not a movie I would watch repeatedly but it's a powerful movie that questions the morals of what is right and wrong. I personally had to agree with Robert De Niro's character in this movie. I thought the movie however ended too abruptly and a better development would have made this movie better.7.3/10 "},{"Title":"An earthly paradise","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission is a movie about the events between Spain and Portugal in the 1750s. There's much at stake as one country rules the South American colonies with the purpose to convert the natives and make peace while the other has the view of slave laboring and genocide. They decide to make an agreement; the Spanish sells the colony to the Portuguese putting many natives' lives in danger.Two character's are thrown into the mist of it, a Jesuit priest (Jeremy Irons) whose in construction of building a mission with the natives and a Spanish mercenary (Robert De Niro) who seeks freedom from his past sins. The story contains many controversial topics such as redemption, salvation, forgiveness, murder, discrimination, peace, and war.The story in my opinion was overall decent, but pretty much anything I have seen, such as The Last Samurai and Dances with Wolves. Robert De Niro in my opinion is no more than the action hero. I love De Niro's work, but his role in this was nothing as grand as some of his other works with director Martin Scorsese.The real genius was Jeremy Irons. I have only seen him in a handful of movies, but this is by far the one he gave the best performance for. One of the most compelling scenes I found in the whole movie was when he first encounters the natives. He gets surrounded by an army of angry Indians; instead of retaliating he sits calmly on a rock and plays a beautiful tune with his flute, leaving his audience bewildered and tamed from seeking his blood.But the main reason why I give this movie a 9 out of 10 was from its captivating film-making. The shots from the beginning of the waterfalls to the ending passage on the river were amazing. The cinematography by Chris Menges (who won an Oscar for the film) was far by excellent, adding a heavenly feel to the atmosphere. In addition, Ennio Morricone's score not only supported this beautiful vision of an earthly paradise, but it also made it feel real. How he did not get an Oscar for this, is beyond me. I felt like I was pulled into the film, as if I was there. Taking my eyes off the screen was nearly impossible. This is not my favorite film, but it is certainly a wonderful one. "},{"Title":"Morricone Makes a Good Film into a Seemingly Great One","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Producer David Puttnam evidently has a gift for selecting composers that can lift good films to the status of seemingly great ones. In 1981, Puttnam hired the Greek composer Vangelis to write the score for a low budget film about two obscure athletes who competed in the 1924 Olympic Games. The resulting score, which was the most memorable attribute of the film, catapulted Chariots of Fire to a Best Picture Academy Award. A half-dozen years later, Puttnam selected the great Italian composer Ennio Morricone to pen the score for a high-minded film about the Church-sanctioned abuses of indigenous people in 18th-century South America. The result was a magnificent musical work that not only enhanced The Mission, but remains as one of the finest scores ever written for a motion picture. However, like Chariots of Fire, Roland Joffe's The Mission without its music would be less impressive.While Chris Menges's beautiful cinematography of Iguazu Falls and the South American jungles makes every frame suitable for a National Geographic centerfold, the tale of two men with conflicting moral centers often plods under the weight of its importance, which is written with a capital I. Although Robert Bolt wrote the script with obvious conviction and feeling for the injustices doled out by the Spanish and Portuguese conquerors, good intentions do not always hold the audience's attention. The man of flesh, who is intensely played by Robert De Niro, struggles with his conversion from bloody soldier to submissive Jesuit. Meanwhile, the man of spirit, equally well delineated by Jeremy Irons, ponders the hypocrisy of his Church, which seems to put politics and greed above spirituality and souls. Unfortunately, when Morricone's soaring music is not swelling through the speakers, inner struggles with guilt, penance, and the meaning of life do not make compelling cinema.However, patient viewers who can immerse themselves in the music and the painterly images on screen may find The Mission a moving experience that will leave them angry with the fate of the indigenous peoples who still struggle to hold onto their culture. One character rhetorically asks if these people would not have preferred that the Europeans had never arrived. Although The Mission is less than the sum of its parts, the film is nevertheless worth seeing for its fine performances, stunning photography, and, above all, unrivaled music. "},{"Title":"one of the movies in 80' that set the path for me as a movie lover","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Writing this comment with 20 year distance from seeing the movie (for the first time) is really interesting, to begin with. With prejudice for posting anything personal on the web, I find it strange to type my personal thoughts for the first time, regarding something, even a movie. Anyway, for all of you in North America and Western Europe too, this movie is viewed as a fiction story, and indeed it is. But, as I said in the summary this is one of the movies that shaped my movie expectance\orientation and fascination for the movies. Since I am a catholic, unfortunately disappointed in the church institutionalism and attitude in many ways, I have to refer to the North America and Western Europe once again. As always, history repeats itself tirelessly and it did in the case of Croatia in 1991. The question is now, what connection have my country, my comment and the movie? Just picture the situation of the attack on the village without the Robert de Niro character and you will have the picture of my and many other people lives in Croatia in 1991. Thank you for reading "},{"Title":"The Mission Continues To Be My Personal Favorite","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I have known this movie for many years now. I watch it every once in a while and only when I have a private moment to myself. In fact, I've just listened to the commentary on DVD. I can relate to every word, comprehension and motive of Roland Joffé's direction. He simply pieced together a great and touching movie.There are many comments about The Mission found here. Most of it positive while others not. Having said that, I don't want to get into the historical, religious and political views found here. After all, accurate or not, however with some relevancy, it was produced as a movie as opposed to a history book or in religious form.It is now May of the year 2006. The issue's and plight of the Indians or any other forest dwelling community is still a valid issue today as it was in 1986 or in the mid 1700's. The right to live and the will to survive is such a powerful force.The Mission is a touching and emotional journey. Every scene is important and relevant to the next and flows smoothly from it's curious beginning to it's tragic end.Robert De Niro plays a character I can relate. Although not for profit, I have operated in forest environments, tracked targets and captured to win. It's dirty, it's tiresome but the rush of the hunt is fun. His transition is important as well. The people he has captured and/or has killed are the very people he becomes to love. When you know more about yourself and the world around you, everyone's life becomes important and one will fight to the death for others to survive.Jeremy Irons portrays a compassionate character whose love of the people I share. I am not a religious individual and that I don't claim any preference. I have traveled over the Atlantic, across the Pacific and to the Central America's. There's a lot many people can learn and share about each other.Chris Menges'is noted for his cinematography. There are many amazing and picturesque scenes. It reminds me of my own trek's in the wild and a very cold river bed. Keep in mind, seeing nature on screen or in your own professional/unprofessional landscape is one thing but the real experience can be quite different...trust me.Ennio Morricone is praised for his music composition orchestrated for The Mission. Although evident in the beginning and at the end, it is wonderfully played in subtle tones and variations throughout the movie. To my surprise, I found NO description in all the comments that lead to the evolution of this instrumental piece to it's present lyrical version found today.FYI. Mr. Ennio Morricone finally gave his approval to classical artist, Sarah Brightman (Phantom of the Opera), for the development of a song. Written in Italian lyrics by Ferraù, it became an international classical hit known as Nella Fantasia. There are many classical artists who now sing their own variation of this song but my personal favorites are sung by Sarah Brightman (original artist) and Russell Watson. If you love the movie, you will love this song. Nella Fantasia greatly compliments The Mission.The Mission is not very everyone. You must experience the fullness of life to truly connect and feel for EVERY SCENE, DIALOGUE AND EXPRESSION. Otherwise...you just don't get it. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie!","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I first saw this movie in a theater right after it came out; as with nearly all historical epics, it was stunning there. But it doesn't lose too much on the small screen. I just finished watching it again, now that I own it on DVD, and I feel again the same pull of many emotions, nearly 20 years later, that I felt then. This story is based on a true tale, the old one of culture clash between a conquered simple peoples and their oppressors.I heartily recommend this movie on any one of a number of criteria, not the least of which is filming. Jeremy Irons and Robert De Niro are most ably assisted by the terrific cast. Ten stars from this viewer.  "}{"Title":"A cinematic achievement","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission is a film that stands out.It is a very good film, and what I like about it is the fact that it there is so much power in it, of emotions and characters that it is displayed brilliantly mild.You get fanatic imperialists who will stop at nothing to get what they want, oppressed locals with nothing to lose, a dedicated priest who puts the work of god above all, and a born fighter and rebel who even though tries to supress it he cannot escape what he really is.All these characters blend in a very emotional and powerful film that has a lot to tell. "},{"Title":"Tragic and moving, with powerhouse performances","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  SPOILER  Jeremy Irons is brilliant in this film!'The Mission' is a masterful piece of emotional manipulation coupled with historical factuality.  THe events portrayed within the film no doubt occured in real life, but I expect the reality of the situation was much less touching than portrayed in the film.The film successfully romanticises the turmoil and sacrafice that the Jesuits and the natives went through during this colonisation period.  The entire film is 'build-up' to a climax scored to perfection that draws on all of your sympathies and sorrows, creating a genuine emotional response.It made me cry anyway.  I would reccomend this one to anybody who doesn't mind being saddened by a film, but it's not all bad, because so much good has been done by Irons et al before it is all destroyed that the overall message is one of strength and hope.The acting from Irons is unbelievably good, and De Niro has a small but powerful role that was impactual enough to get his bonce on all the promotional stuff.Such a touching experience.  Don't watch it alone or you'll have no one to prove that you're not just a big girl's blowse (believe me, there shouldn't be a dry eye in the house).Also beautifully shot. 8/10. "},{"Title":"sad but true - or is it?","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  my plussesan honest movie that does not try to sell the viewer jesus, even with the subject as is. it doesn't preach, it doesn't moralize. it has no fake heroism nor a single evil or good side.the superb morricone's music is of course only a plus.my minuseslet's not forget, though, that the jesuits haven't been exactly saints, either during their 'missions' in south america and asia. none of the europeans should've ever gone to south america and asia in the first place...and all in the name of religion.i hoped all the time that a movie like this would've been made in the original languages, portuguese and spanish.conclusiondespite little flaws a very good movie for a thinking viewer. "},{"Title":"The Portugese want to destroy the Spanish missions in the colonies, but the Jesuits are not planning on just giving up.","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I was in doubt of watching this film or not, because I wasn't feeling well when they broadcast it at our national tv-channel, but now, I'm so glad I did watch! The film is very moving, the photography is excellent and Jeremy Irons is wonderful. I also adored the soundtrack by Ennio Morricone... "},{"Title":"Beautiful depiction of virtues--obedience and patience.","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  An enchanting depiction of the virtues obedience and patience.  Although Robert DeNiro is the star, Jeremy Irons arises as the more interesting character.  Set in one of the most beautiful of locations, I hope to visit the area someday.  "},{"Title":"A film as history deserves","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Historical background, magnificent photography, eloquent music, impressive performances make the film a statement on much more than South American history.The same religious votes can lead different subjects to so different attitudes as those represented by Robert de Niro and Jeremy Irons.Excellent. The best film I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"Another fine film from Roland Joffe","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The Mission was a well written, well produced movie with terrific actors and authentic scenery. It should've won the oscar for best picture, for it was far better than Platoon. And I can't believe that Jeremy Irons didn't win an oscar here either. Oh well. Robert De Niro was great as captain mendoza, but he was unable to shake his new york accent (despite playing a spaniard). The cultural imperialism theme was adequately conveyed, without the hysterical opinionated frenzy of most other similarly toned stories. After all, the opening scene shows a nonviolent Jesuit crucified and floated over a waterfall by the natives he sought to help (though also convert). The lessons and irony of the story were also perfectly placed the natives are shown to be victims, but was it their lack of savagery or technology that caused this? Of course the disturbing climax of the film was somewhat comforted by the ending, which briefly shows the children trying to rebuild their future. And Ennio Morricone's fantastic musical score was the highlight of the film, and a perfect complement to its rich south american locales.  "},{"Title":"A great movie with exceptional actors and music.","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw the movie when I only had six years and it impress me so much but when I recently saw it I found an excellent movie. The actors simply are great and the perfect complement of this movie is the Ennio Morricone´s score. "},{"Title":"Heartfelt but unmoving and slightly disappointing","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" One of a trio of big-budget films that was intended to turn Goldcrest into a major producer after a run of successful (mostly) low-budget films but which instead all but destroyed the company, The Mission isn't as irredeemably disastrous as Revolution or as over-reaching as Absolute Beginners, but it's still a disappointment despite its many admirable qualities. Screenwriter Robert Bolt has an interesting, if obscure story to tell in the violent closure of the 18th Century Jesuit missions in Paraguay as part of a territorial wrangle between Spain and Portugal, with the Vatican going along with genocide to avoid political repercussions in Europe while the priests in the missions try to protect their native Guarani converts from the slave traders simply waiting for the Church to withdraw its protection. Robert Bolt's screenplay is strong, thanks to Chris Menges' cinematography the film looks superb and Ennio Morricone's score is one of his best. Yet the film feels as if something is missing, possibly because it is the work-in-progress version that won the Palme D'Or at Cannes was reputedly nearly twice as long. What's left tells the story and makes its points, but doesn't really touch the heart or carry you along with more than academic interest. But perhaps worst of all, there's a gaping hole where the heart of The Mission should be in the form of Robert De Niro.He looks the part, learnt fencing, speaks Spanish, yet for all that it's a hollow shell of a performance hiding behind underplayed surface detail. On paper his character is easily the film's most interesting, going from slave-trader to Jesuit missionary only to find himself at odds with his vows when he needs to protect those he used to prey on with force, but De Niro brings nothing to the part in a passive, detached and unemotional performance. His crisis of conscience and road to possible redemption seems no more torturous that trying to decide what to order from a disappointing restaurant menu. Very much a supporting role, if it weren't for his reputation you'd have no idea he's supposed to be the great actor of his generation. As my stepfather (who is unaware of De Niro's reputation as the World's Greatest Living Actor) put it, He's a bit of a block of wood, isn't he? By contrast, Jeremy Irons, often a stuffy and mechanical performer, is something of a revelation here, taking the part to heart and abandoning all artifice to give a performance that draws its strength from its genuine humility and humanity. But the film's best performance comes from Ray McAnally as the Papal representative sent ostensibly to judge the matter but in reality to provide a fig leaf for the Church abandoning its converts only to find himself all too aware of the immorality of his actions and tormented by his inability to rebel against them. It's a subtle portrait but a powerful one, and puts a genuinely human face on the film's clash between the ideals of faith and the realities of the way of the world. In many ways it's almost a pity that the film keeps him on the sidelines. (Incidentally, one of the actors playing one of the Jesuit missionaries, Daniel Berrigan, was himself a Jesuit missionary who had been threatened with excommunication, while the Portuguese villain of the piece is played by De Niro's real estate broker!) The 2-disc DVD comes with an excellent one hour documentary about the making of the film from the days when they weren't studio-sanctioned love-ins. Concentrating on the impact on the Wawnana extras, much emphasis is placed on the possibly devastating cultural effects their involvement could have, only to be somewhat torpedoed by the telling detail at the end of the program that the entire tribe received only £85,000 for a month-and-a-half's work &#150; apparently rather less than the fencing instructor De Niro insisted be flown in to the location to teach him got (De Niro fences for a grand total of 30 seconds in the film). "},{"Title":"I Used to Love this Movie, but....","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"     SOME SPOILERS AHEAD! I am a history buff, and I honestly admit that I do enjoy movies which are set in the past, and where the director makes use of strong characterization to examine the events of a specific time period critically. I made the mistake, however, of thinking that this was a thorough indictment of European colonialism. It is not; rather, it is an expression of praise for one aspect of colonialism over another.  A history professor of mine commented on this movie during a speech on the how Spanish missionaries helped to erode Indian cultures during the Mexican colonial period. The Jesuit missionaries in this movie are portrayed as benevolent men who whatever they can to protect and improve the lives of their converts. Although I know nothing of the Jesuit missions of Paraguay and Brazil during the mid-eighteenth century, I do know, based on what I've read about the California missions, that there was a dark side to missionization. This side is left out of Joffe's film. The Mission does not show any neophytes being whipped for attempting to flee the mission settlement, or any epidemics of illnesses amongst the Indians brought by European colonization, which Catholic missionaries (I'm unsure of which order) viewed from a fatalistic standpoint as somehow being the will of God. Any traumatic change in lifestyle or abandonment of culture that a neophyte would have to undergo during the missionization process is ignored. The movie, rather than provide a balanced perspective on colonization, serves to buttress a historical fallacy that Catholic missionaries did no wrong to the Indians, and that it was only the upper clergy and greedy settlers who were the true villains.          The depiction of the brutality of secular colonization, as well as the stunning locations and an extremely well done musical score probably helped this movie to win a Golden Palm. I recommend this movie for those who enjoy tragic endings and want to view a sample of the troubles brought by colonialism (not to mention a sample of the screenplay writer's agenda). Do not be fooled into thinking that this movie tells the whole story! "}{"Title":"Political Statement","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  In the film, The Mission, a classic argument of political and religious conflict is presented. A symbolic tale of the colonial struggle between the nations of Portugal and Spain is explored through the interpersonal relationships between the main characters. The story takes place in Brazil during the mid-eighteenth century. The imperial colony's borders are in dispute; however, in Europe, Portugal and Spain are negotiating an agreement over the contention. In Brazil, the Spanish Jesuits are building missions in order to spread Christianity to the local Indians. They face both the hostile Indians and the slave traders hunting the Indians. One such Spanish mercenary and slave trader, Mendoza, murders his brother in the heat of passion. He retreats to the missionaries whom he formerly scorned. There he meets Father Gabriel. Mendoza becomes a Jesuit thus aiding the very people he once hunted and captured for profit. In time, Father Gabriel builds the mission San Carlos, in the disputed territory.  Gabriel's mission seeks to introduce Christian values that include treating the native Indians as 'Christian' equals. However, the determination of the nations clash with the will of the Church, especially those of the Jesuit order. Thus, the stage is set for resolution of the political and religious conflict. The conflict can be seen distinctly in three areas. Politically, Spain and Portugal play a role. The Jesuit order and the Roman Catholic Church represent religion. In addition, Father Gabriel and Mendoza symbolize polarized ends to the same means. Politically, the conflict arises because Gabriel's mission was founded within Portugal's new territory.  The Spanish do not allow slave trading, although this is somewhat biased. In the colony, they are an economic necessity for running plantations. Portugal, a slave-trading nation, wants to control the Indian territories. It endorses slave traders that hunt and capture Indians for profit.  Spain can then buy slaves from the Portuguese. The local slave traders want a political guarantee that their property and trade will be protected. While the conflict has been resolved by the Treaty of Madrid, the Catholic nations feel obligated to send a Church emissary to deliver a verdict on Gabriel's mission. The far-reaching affects of religion on the nation-state is seen in this action. Spain and Portugal will accept the decision of the Roman Catholic Church. The cardinal embodies religion in the film. Together with the Jesuits, he endorses the conversion of the Indians. However, he must decide if the missions deserve the protection of the Church. The cardinal is accountable for the political goals of the Church.  He inspects the missions of the Jesuits, finding them to be of ecclesiastical worth. Yet, he has to weigh the religious aims of the Church with its political goals. He decides the Church will enforce the Treaty between Spain and Portugal; he orders the disputed mission abandoned. By showing authority over the colonial Jesuits, the Church appeased the European powers while saving political face. The cardinal suggests that a Christian attitude should be used in the transfer of mission. He ignores the plight of the Indians. He assumes that after conversion the can be returned to their natural state. He was obviously wrong. By placing the Church's political interests above religious concerns, the cardinal demonstrates the true political nature of the Church.The dilemmas that face the individual characters further explain the theme of the film. Father Gabriel represents the classical Christian missionary. His name means 'messenger of God.' This is symbolic of his role in the story.  He feels it is his calling to bring Christianity including a European lifestyle to the local Indians.  He has little humanistic concern for the indigenous population and their culture. His religious mission focuses on teaching the Indians not only the word of God but as much about Western culture as possible. Yet, in the end, it seems that the Indians might have been better off left in their 'natural' state. The political conflict begins after the Spanish have ceded the disputed areas to Portugal. The converted slave trader, Mendoza symbolizes religious fundamentalism. He turns religious fervor into political activism. Gabriel, the religious pacifist, will not act to protect the mission or Indians. Mendoza uses his experience as a mercenary to fight for the Indians. Gabriel's non-action and Mendoza's action are diametrically opposite of each other. Yet, the result is the same. The mission is over run by Portuguese mercenaries and the Indians captured or killed.  The Mission is a film about the state of 'Natural Man.' The introduction of complex politically and religious institutions into the natural man's world have uncertain repercussions. At best, those institutions bring knowledge and imposed order to the Indians. The basic needs of shelter, clothing and food were already being met by the Indians. The lasting legacy of The Mission is represented in the modern problems of South America, especially the Indians of Brazil.Political and religious solutions still escape the issues in those areas. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Me and the Pope agree on this one The Mission is my favorite film of all time. It's been nineteen years since this film was first released and it still continues to set the standard for serious historical dramas. It not only touched upon one of the most important issues of the 1980s (the debate over liberation theology that was currently taking place in Latin America), but also provided important historical context and raised haunting questions about war, pacifism and the power of forgiveness for the human soul. It's still hard to watch this film without tears. Irons is great and DeNiro gives perhaps the greatest performance of his stellar career. It's hard to believe that such a milestone in film-making has continued to be somewhat overlooked in discussions of the greatest films of all time. Yet, among true film fans The Mission, will continue to inspire and generate discussions long after so many other critical darlings have gathered dust on the shelf. "},{"Title":"The Story Is Not Fully Developed","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The Mission is a lush movie, shot on location in the jungles of Argentina and Colombia. It is set in 18th century Amazonia as the European colonial empire relentlessly moves into the heretofore-unexploited jungle. The Spanish Jesuits are the first Europeans on the scene, and have developed a benign relationship with the aboriginal inhabitants. The imperialists on the other hand want to enslave the Indians and exploit the jungle. The Catholic Church who has sent an emissary from the Vatican will resolve the conflict.  Jeremy Irons plays a good-hearted Jesuit, and Robert DeNiro plays a slave trader, who suffers an epiphany after slaying his brother in a rage.   Sadly, the story is never fully developed, and the inherent conflicts are not exploited. The movie becomes just a pastiche of related scenes lacking a strong narrative theme and supporting characters to tie them together. The story is subsumed by propaganda.  Granted, these are extraordinarily beautiful scenes, but breathtaking scenery is not enough. It feels more like a History Channel lecture than a character-driven story. I'd only recommend it if you have interest in the subject matter, jungle beauty, or one of the actors.  "},{"Title":"The Mission sets the standard for religious films","Date":"7 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission is one of the most uplifting, inspiring, and at the same time tragic films I have seen in a very long time. It tells the tale of Roberto Mendoza, who was a wealthy mercenary and slaver until an unthinkable act committed in a moment of anger compelled him to seek absolution. He found it in the arms of the church, and in serving the very people he had once preyed upon. But when the people he has dedicated his life to are threatened, he will give everything he has to protect them. This is a story of the power of faith and redemption, devotion to a higher cause, and the tragic consequences of man's lust for land and power. The ending is not a happy one, but is more powerful for it.This is something of an unusual role for De Niro, better known for playing mobsters than monks, but he absolutely nails it. There are similarities to his previous roles. As Mendoza he is hot tempered and oft impulsive, a man of strong passions and strong opinions. But he also becomes a man of humility and compassion. He exudes a palpable sense of remorse and self loathing throughout his penance, and his joyous collapse atop the plateau is perhaps the most beautiful and overwhelming expression of emotional catharsis I have ever witnessed. He displays so many conflicting emotions, from despondency and brokenness to acceptance and ecstasy.The effects of this transformation are present throughout the story. Mendoza works tirelessly to serve needs of his flock and give them a voice before the powerful, risks hardship and danger in the service of the Lord and humbly submits himself before authority, even when he knows he is right. And in the end he and his brothers show themselves willing to defend their home and calling with their very lives, although it is not with reservation that he once again takes up arms. This devotion and obedience stands in harsh contrast to the pride and greed of the nobles, who are ruled by their own desires without regard for life or fear of God.De Niro's acting is far from the only beautiful thing in this movie. The film's shooting locations deep within the Amazon are magnificent. The lush jungles, sheer cliffs, and roaring waterfalls are filmed in stunning detail and drive home the remote and alien conditions the brothers- and the actors- worked under. Every pain has been taken to enhance the film's realism, with sets and costumes painstakingly detailed and the natives played by actual tribesmen. The climactic battle against the Portuguese is very well staged, by turns exhilarating and heartbreaking. Ennio Morricone's musical score is also worth noting. At times playful, majestic, and mournful, it underscores and enhances the actions and emotions in every scene.On a somewhat related note, I recently came across a discussion of James Cameron's Avatar, which also involves protagonists who defy authority and side with natives against encroaching settlers and their armies. One of the commenters made a lengthy and eloquent comment expressing his dissatisfaction with the portrayal of the natives and the interaction of their culture with humanity's. He rightly pointed out that although the N'avi are clearly meant to be the 'good' guys, they are essentially the stereotypical noble savage, completely egalitarian and living as one with nature, but without sophistication or lasting accomplishments. And more troubling to him was the fact that the two cultures had nothing in common, nothing to offer each other, and no chance of coexisting. The hero's climactic act is to become one of the natives, turning his back on his people, and driving the evil humans back to their dying world. Cameron could have learned much from the Mission. The cultures here can and do blend. The Indians of the mission keep their own culture and dress, but live within the mission and worship God. Likewise Mendoza learns the natives' language and customs, is initiated as a member of the tribe, and leads their warriors in the final defense of their home. But he is still a white man. He dresses, eats, and sleeps like a Spaniard and remains foremost a member of the Jesuits, there to befriend and convert the Indians. He does not join the natives against European civilization; he defends them and his order against the worst of the colonial authorities. Both sides learn from the other and adapt without abandoning their own identity. And instead of some new age forest spirit, The Mission presents saving faith in Jesus Christ.This movie's first half is about finding forgiveness, acceptance, and a new and better purpose in life. The second is about holding fast to your conscience and convictions when all around you and above you are willing to compromise theirs and standing up for what you know is right, no matter the odds or the cost. All of it is beautiful, and having watched it I feel humbled by the courage and selflessness of these men, and hope that I can someday be half as righteous. "},{"Title":"Don't go chasing waterfalls.","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This piece is about a couple of extreme sport daredevils who go to unexplored areas and hurl themselves off waterfalls tied to a cross.The stuntwork in this movie is very impressive and we get to see these crazy guys performing waterfall drop after waterfall drop! Amazing! Two hours of this does nothing to diminish ones sense of awe and as the end credits rolled, I longed to see another waterfall drop just as an encore to the proceedings.Roland Jaffa does an incredible job of direction, although to be fair, he only has to point the camera and shout action. The real stars of the show are the extreme sport guys.I long for a sequel to this. Perhaps in that, they can go off a waterfall on a snowboard or something similar. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films ever made","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" (This will be the first of 30 essays on films that I believe are the 30 greatest of all time. Being the first written has nothing to do with the standing against the other films)Recently AFI released a top 25 list of best film scores written. It was a terrible list, with predictably the emotionally detached but hummable Star Wars at #1 and Gone With the Wind at #2. It doesn't get much better from there, but it did have Out of Africa (John Barry) and The Mission (Ennio Morricone) (although On Golden Pond and The Pink Panther are also good, they are not top 25 material)It may be the only thing The Mission is remembered for - that theme The River (Vita Nostra) that is used occasionally in film trailers. Oh yeah, and that notorious scene at the beginning where the guy is sent down a waterfall is bound to a cross.That scene, of mixed horror and spellbinding beauty, is a lot of what The Mission is like. Being as critical as possible, The Mission is one of the greatest, and certainly one of the most beautiful films ever made.The synopsis The setting is the 17th Century, South America. Our Protagonist is Jeremy Irons, a priest who, unlike the Hollywood stereotype of villanous priest, is really quite pacifist - Ghandi-style. I generally find Christians annoying, but I might just get along with this guy. He sets off, alone in the jungle, to start a mission to try and convert the natives to Christianity. He climbs the cliffs next to the waterfall and at the top runs into some naturals and manages to avoid becoming the guy in the opening scene by playing an Ennio Morricone theme on his oboe. Another character has to come into play here, and its Robert DeNiro. After Irons has successfully set up a small mission and befriended most of the naturals, he runs into DeNiro, a slave trader who takes some of the naturals captive. This time the camera follows DeNiro who inevitably kills his brother in a fit of jealousy. When Irons meets him later in jail, he is ready for redemption, so Irons, and another priest played by some guy called Liam Neeson (!) take him up the cliffs with them, DeNiro carrying a huge pack of armor. DeNiro mercilessly drags himself up out of self hatred. After making it to the top (barely) he feels redeemed and becomes a priest of the mission.I won't tell you the rest of the plot, but it involves Irons, DeNiro and young Liam trying to save the mission from Portuguese soldiers who would like to solve the problem of the naturals by enslaving them.The Mission was made by the people who made The Killing Fields which is a great film, but not as great as this. If Chris Menges' photography in The Killing Fields was pretty, in The Mission its stunning. If Roland Joffe(director) had an Axe to grind in The Killing Fields, he has an army of axes to grind here. If Haing Ngor was great in The Killing Fields...well, DeNiro is maybe not quite as great as Ngor, but still worthy of a huge amount of attention.And The Mission had a WAY better score than Star Wars "},{"Title":"'My uniform protects you from me'","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Even as a missionary, you know that De Niro has such range and depth, that he could explode at any minute. In this film where he plays a character that has fallen from grace and is punished, his personality transcends the role in parts, and you are almost dying for the gangster to leap out in him. "},{"Title":"Could've been a perfect movie","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Everyone should see this movie. It is a very well-made and satisfying movie that takes place in South America in the 18th century--a movie about conquistadores, native indians, and Jesuit priests. It stars two great actors, Jeremy Irons and Robert De Niro. The costumes and production design are excellent. Pretty good depiction of life in 18th century South America, with its class distinctions and mistreatment of the native indians. The score is wonderful and memorable--it's one of the best scores from a movie. In addition, the cinematography is breathtaking; this is certainly one of the most beautifully photographed movies. However, all of the different speaking accents ruined this movie  Jeremy Irons speaks with his proper British accent, De Niro speaks with his New York accent, Aidan Quinn speaks with his regular American accent (and his monotonous tone of voice), and then there are all of the other accents. It would've been nice if the director of this movie had required that all the actors speak only with an American accent, or only a British accent. Plus, the movie just moved along too slowly. For a movie of this subject matter, the emphasis should've been placed on making the story as interesting as possible, rather than making the movie just a visual spectacle. Overall, it is a very good movie with a nice message....were it not for its notable flaws, it could've been a perfect movie. *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Good, but...","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie has many excellent features.  It contains wonderful camera work in breathtaking scenery, an impressive score, and generally good performances.  All these things make the film quite powerful, and it can really draw the viewer in.  But there are a number of historical inaccuracies.  This is quite important, because the film begins with the words This is a true story that actually took place in 1750.  The movie's portrayal of the Indians, and their relationship to the missionaries, has been attacked by historians, among other aspects.    "},{"Title":"This will be an eternal masterpiece","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" A film that comes from so far away 22 years ago that the story, or the history, of the film is no longer important, but was it important even in 1986? Today the struggle between the two Christian kings of Portugal and of Spain on one hand, though hostile to each other when the other party is absent, and the church on the other hand, a church that is also divided between the European hierarchy that only sees the survival they have to go through in Europe by defending there their interests by sacrificing a few missions in South America. Today these details are irrelevant The Christian church or churches have long abandoned this kind of policy, particularly the Catholic church. But today the general pattern of the story, the massacre, the slaughter, the slaying of a whole Indian, local population to the sole interest of the colonial powers who try to put their hands on the riches and resources of some foreign countries, like oil in Iraq for instance is quite a familiar story. And what about that American war hero who became an American war hero in a war that killed several million people and devastated a whole country for the sole political and economic interests of one country, one country alone. Who cares in the west about the local indigenous population that gets killed by western bullets? Like The Sons of The Pioneers used to sing, Lie Low, Little Doggies, Lie Low on the Ground. We are living in a world that stands upside down in two ways. It is still standing upside down if we consider normal human ethics that tells us to help the poor and the weak and to respect the goods and property of other people, particularly their national territory. And yet that world that is upside down is in the process of tilting over and then getting upside down a second time, which might bring it upside up and downside down. The champion of deregulated free market jungle economy is nationalizing most of the American banking system and is getting ready to do the same with the car industry that has been playing with bankruptcy for quite a few years now. Less state he says the candidate of the party of this president. Yet this president nationalizes all that is getting into difficult straits by their own fault, but he does not forget that public money is the property of the rich since they did not contribute much and he is trying to give them a financial bonanza for their dumb incompetence. You see the pattern. That pattern that is still alive like hell and kicking like a dumb mule. Don't worry, as usual, before the world gets back to upright many people will be killed and will die. Before Brazil got a president that is starting the reversal of that historical injustice and mistake of 1750, quite a few millions were killed or enslaved or tortured or assassinated or whatever provided death was the end of it. But this film gives you another element of that pattern. The powerful who plan to genocide you manage to present the whole matter in such a way that you have to agree to foot the bill which will hurt you or otherwise the depression that would ensue would not only hurt, it would bring humanity a few hundred million individuals down, lower and shorter. And in the back of their heads they believe that this is sustainable since for at least twenty or thirty years the overpopulation of the world will be slowed down. As these vultures would say there is always a positive point in any negative event. But the more I try to think positively the more I stand on the side of all these priests, these Jesuits, those who fought and died fighting and those who did not fight and died trying to bring God's word down on earth. The only thing that came for all of them was bullets, bullets and more bullets. Is that pattern human, historical, or plain characteristic of one particular period? But why does it come back up so regularly through the centuries? Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "}{"Title":"A feast for eyes and ears but flawed in its emotions.","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission is without doubt a beautiful movie. The visual are absolutely stunning. Most credit for that has to go to Mother Nature. The music by Ennio Morricone is a real threat, it might very well be his best work till date in my opinion. However the movie is more style than substance. The movie is lacking the emotions it needed and the storytelling misses the point at times.I wish more movies were made about the European slave trade. Movies have become an important medium of history telling over the last couple of years. These kind of stories are important and because of that more movies about it should be made. I however feel that this particular movie misses the point at times. The movie should be about the natives and their struggle against the Portugues slave traders and how they want to contain their way of live and habitat. The movie however focuses at times a bit too much on the Jesuits instead. The movie could had really been an emotionally powerful one if we the viewers actually got to care more about the natives. The movie tries to be emotional but fails because the story is brought wrongly.Robert De Niro is really great in his role even though he doesn't get that much to do in this movie. It's a bit of a waste of a great actor. Main character of the movie is played by Jeremy Irons who also does more than great. Some smaller part are played by Liam Neeson and Aidan Quinn. To be honest I wouldn't call Quinn's appearance anything more than just a cameo.I have some mixed feelings about this movie. The first- and middle part of the movie were really good and powerful however in the last 30 minutes of the movie the story concentrates on how the natives with the help of some of the Jesuits fight back against the Portogues. The first and middle halve of the movie mainly concentrated on how peaceful and beautiful the world of the natives was, it was 'On Earth As It Is In Heaven', so when the natives suddenly decide to pick up their weapons and go to battle, suddenly all of the respect and emotional bond that was build up in the first- and middle part of the movie is gone. Another example of how the storytelling of the movie is flawed. If the story was brought in a better way I would perhaps had been more shocked and saddened by the fact that the natives got slaughters along with the Jesuits. Don't get me wrong I liked the ending but it just didn't blend in very well with the rest of the movie.Still I rate this movie highly for the following reason. I judge this movie as a movie not as a history lesson, which it really could had been. As a movie it is good, despite its at times flawed storytelling. The visuals are really what makes The Mission an unforgettable and highly recommendable movie. The movie might not be as powerful but it's still interesting to watch.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The Mission is one of the most powerful South American films about religion and colonialism.","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission was an amazing film for a myriad of reasons. First and foremost, the musical score showed why Ennio Morricone is a giant in the film industry. For this movie, Morricone displayed the serenity of the wind pipes and flutes beautifully. The soundtrack is one of my instrumental favorites. Secondly, the acting of both the Guarjani Indians with legends like Jeremy Irons and Robert DeNiro were amazing.I have to admit though, at times DeNiro did come across as a guy from Brooklyn stuck in the jungles of Paraguay, instead of the mercenary Mendoza. Thirdly, the sentimental value of the film is what really struck me. Whether one believes in the religious values of the Jesuits or not, the belief in G-d and love demonstrated in the movie were the film's epicenter. To see the growth of the Indians through trust in G-d were powerful. As Jeremy Irons sits and plays the flute to the anger of the Guarjani chief, until the end of the movie as the entire village walks into the Portuguese gunfire. To conclude, I will be spending part of my honeymoon in Foz De Iguazu on the Brazil/Paraguay border this December, the Guarjani struggle against the colonialists from Portugal will be on my mind as I reflect on The Mission. "},{"Title":"see it","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is a rare gem. It is a potent mix of faith, action, historical epic and alegory. It is a revelation of the power of humanity over politics and faith over cynicism. The acting, casting and narrative are as close to perfect as can be portrayed on celluliod.If you have not seen this movie then hunt it out and watch it with friends. It is based on true events but takes the perspective of and is sympathetic to the men on the ground over the great politicians and self serving churchmen of the time. Looking at the events of the past few years in particular this movie offers hope in the role individuals can play in change for the better of mankind.  "},{"Title":"This is not ancient history!","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The Mission can be read as a recounting of an early version of a strain of Catholicism which gained in popularity in Latin America during the 60's, 70's and 80's, called Liberation Theology by some and a Preferential Option for the Poor by others. It taught that the Church's primary responsibility lay in solidarity with those who suffered most in this life, and that salvation did not lie simply in acts of faith, but also in acts of justice. Grassroots priests and lay pastors who, by virtue of their contact with the lives of their congregations, came to identify with their daily struggles, much as the Irons and De Niro characters did in the film.  The Mission is a clearly political film, and probably one that is intended to be so by its Director and Writer. It's undoubtedly a moving film, especially with its decidedly non-Hollywood ending, but I think that it's greatest political force is derived from its implicit commentary on the political climate into which it was released in 1986, and by extension, the political climate today.In 1985, the year before this film was released, Reagan declared that he would ignore a ruling of the World Court, the highest judicial body on the planet, and one whose judgements the US is bound to uphold. The ruling in question was one which ordered on the US to cease its Illegal use of Force (which is another term for international terrorism) and to pay $17 billion in reparations. The plaintiff in the case was Nicaragua, which was under attack by a proxy army armed, organized, and managed by the US. The Congress, for its part, announced immediately that our proxy army, the Contra, were explicitly authorized to attack what were called soft targets, namely undefended civilian targets such as schools, clinics, and churches. That is, our response to the charge of International Terrorism was to increase our International Terrorism.Nicaragua at the time was one of the few places in Latin America where the State actively supported Liberation Theology, which by then was very prevalent amongst lay Jesuit pastors throughout Central America. It's hardly a coincidence that so many Jesuits were killed by US proxies, especially in  El Salvador, where we even had the temerity to kill a conservative Archbishop who had dared to do his job and defend the pastors of his order. Far fewer died in Nicaragua, where the army actually acted to defend the population instead of attacking it.So while it's nice to admire the film for its various technical and artistic achievements, and it makes us feel good to lament the past history it purports to tell, for the film to become truly relevant, we'd need to make the connection to what is going on in the present, and more importantly, what we can do about it.The attack on Nicaragua succeeded, like most of the violent undertakings of the Home of the Brave. If we're honest, we'll take a look at the rest of the world and see where we're continuing to play the role of the Portugese soldiers; if we're decent we'll do something to stop it. "},{"Title":"The Mission 5/10","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Holding the prestigious fame of the Palme d'Or winner of 1986, THE MISSION to me is a structurally uneven piece whose only prerogatives are Morricone's intriguing score and DP Chris Menges' picturesque shots (deserve his Oscar winning).I don't know what the accuracy between the film and the historical event, the film failed to impress me neither in a religious aspect, nor in its moral level. I could not totally commit myself into the narrative, judging by De Niro's character Rodrigo, since killing his brother during an unexpected duel, until the redemption in the midway, the performance is paper-thin and maybe director Roland Joffé didn't intend to dig into a deeper ground to elaborate on his character, which is a common measurement here, only Ray McAnally survives as the Cardinal Aktanurabo, not an arresting role, but the late McAnally owns every scene he presents. Another leader Jeremy Irons a (the iper-pious and righteous Father Gabriel), has also been hobbled by the mindless neglects, but he excels De Niro by a notch in the course of their restrained two- hander screen-time. Furthermore, I found it rather weird of the prolonged close-ups on Rodrigo's eyes before his ultimate demise (only after witnessing Father Gabriel being dispatched, he was able to close his intrepid eyes), maybe it is intentionally edited, but I could not figure it out the motivation. I should have rated this film a bit higher than a 5/10, but I must be loyal to my true feelings, the slaughter in the latter film is a pre-AVATOR holocaust (except one waterfall scene, reminds of Meryl Streep in THE RIVER WILD 1994), maybe the influence of a tragedy is a two-edged sword, in my case, all I receive is the negative energy, and renders a feeling of factitious propaganda for the Church and the Jesuits. So, bite me if you disagree. "},{"Title":"the cross and the crucible","Date":"7 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Religion squares off against politics in the unspoiled jungles of the New World, where Jesuit missionaries rescue heathen souls from eternal damnation before being forced to abandon them to the more civilized fate of musket and cannon fire. Robert De Niro is the Spanish mercenary and slave trader who sees the Light, wielding cross and sword with equal vigor in this visually rich but difficult and often uninvolving drama. The story itself is all but overwhelmed by the spectacular photography and my Ennio Morricone's typically overwrought music score, which at least succeeds in distracting attention away from the stiff formality of Robert Bolt's screenplay. Sincere efforts and a well-intended message ought to count for something, but the film distills complex issues into a simple slaughter of innocent women and children, with the added, condescending title reminding audiences of the continuing destruction of primitive cultures. "},{"Title":"It looks great","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  'The Mission' looks so beautiful that you almost forget the other things that can make a movie good or bad. That the story isn't that great and that some things don't make much sense is too bad but there is enough here to enjoy. The cinematography of the beautiful nature is great. Every shot has something beautiful in it. The music composed by Ennio Morricone is great as well.We also have Robert De Niro and Jeremy Irons with nice performances. The movie was directed by Roland Joffé who directed the great 'The Killing Fields' and he does a nice job here as well, most of the time. The fighting sequence in the end was hard to follow. Like I said the story is not that great either but it will not bore you at all. If you like one of the actors and beautiful nature you will definitely like this movie. Otherwise you might like it as well, but that is not sure. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This is absolutely the greatest movie I have ever seen.  The acting and cinematography were outstanding.  I bought the soundtrack and I can't listen to it without crying.  A wonderful movie all around. "},{"Title":"Lovingly filmed, thematically powerful, literately written.... but just a bit too solemn for comfort.","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The British film critic Leslie Halliwell said of this film sincere to the point of boredom, and that's a very accurate description indeed of The Mission. It is a beautiful film, both to look at and to listen to. It tells a moving story that leaves an intentionally sour taste in the mouth. It also features strong performances and incredible location work. One would assume that in any movie where the cinematography, music, script, acting and locality all slot together so smoothly and meaningfully, the finished product would be truly extraordinary. Such thinking would certainly be true of, say, Lawrence Of Arabia. But in spite of all its strengths and its evident potential, The Mission does not reach the classic heights to which it aspires. Instead, it comes across as a good - at some stages VERY good - historical account which never quite hits a level one might call excellent. I mused long and hard whether to give this film a 7-out-of-10 or an 8-out-of-10 rank, but 9 and 10 ratings never came into the equation.In the 18th Century, in the rainforest around the modern borders of Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay, a tribe called the Guarani kill a missionary priest by tying him to a wooden cross and sending him over the edge of a waterfall. The priest's replacement, Jesuit Father Gabriel (Jeremy Irons), approaches the same tribe and wins them over with his patience, love and respect. Before long, Gabriel has converted the tribe to the ways and customs of Christianity. Father Gabriel is joined by an ex-slaver, Rodrigo Mendoza (Robert De Niro), who exiled himself after murdering his own brother in a jealous rage, and who finds a chance of redemption by joining the Jesuit order and helping to preach to the Guarani people. Soon, problems arise that threaten the Jesuit cause and the existence of the Guarani. A change in border delineation results in the Portugese acquiring the Guarani land; the Portugese refuse to acknowledge the tribe as converted Christians, viewing them as little more than animals, good for nothing but slavery. The Catholic Cardinal, Altamirano (Ray McAnally), is told to make the Jesuits leave the area and forsake the tribe. Father Gabriel and Rodrigo refuse to turn their backs on the people they have worked with - even though they themselves disagree on how best to confront the Portugese. Gabriel, a man of peace, feels that he should die with them and show them how to go honourably to their graves; Rodrigo, a man of the sword, feels that the Indians should fight to protect their mission....The film's ending is very sad and demonstrates everything that is wrong with the policies of powerful countries exploiting those less powerful than their own (a theme that is still relevant today - it seems our politicians have learned little from history). Ennio Morricone provides a stunning score which is easily his best work since the spaghetti western days, and which brings great emotion to the proceedings. Irons and De Niro give good performances as the differing Jesuits who cannot let go of their ideals even though they know they're doomed if they don't. Both are actually upstaged by McAnally, whose role as the Cardinal is by far the best in the film, exploring as it does the humanistic and moral dilemma faced by the character. The Mission is quite a heavy-going film and, like Halliwell said, it is very sincere indeed. Therefore, whilst it has its good points, it is also a hard film to watch and is more likely to appeal to those interested in the events, the period and the politics than to more generally-minded audiences. "},{"Title":"So, so beautiful","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" When I first saw this movie, the first thing I remembered was thinking Hey, I know this song! But from where.... Then I remembered, the score is from my childhood. Every morning, my parents listened to a radio station and at 758 A.M. there was a show where a priest said some thoughts and this music was played.Well, what can I say about this movie? It is beautiful, one of the most beautiful ones I ever saw in my 27 years of existence.The story, even not being accurate (the Portuguese never massacred the Indians, but the Spanish did - but it really is not important to tell who did what. The important is to say that it was done, so let's not forget it never), is simple. There is a conflict of interests. The Spanish want slaves, the Portuguese can get some and the Church does not want to lose the power it has in Europe. And, as always, there are innocent who pay the bill.Jeremy Irons is a priest that risks his own life so that the Guarani can know the Word of God. He believes that love is stronger than the sword. And believes that until the end.De Niro is a trade slaver who kills his own brother due to a woman. A woman! said Jack Nicholson in Batman. Was that motive strong enough to do that? I don't believe so neither did he, because of the grief he felt and that almost killed him.The stronger moment in the film is the forgiveness of the Guarani to Mendonza (De Niro). They forgave what he had done to them. And what a scene that is. We can't say if De Niro is laughing or crying, maybe both, maybe none. Sometimes, when my life is not happy and something good happens, I wish I could do the same he did because I could cast all my sadness away.I dare everyone to watch this movie and say that never felt a bit touched by it's beauty.10/10 "}{"Title":"Not altogether cohesive or satisfying","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Roland Joffe's The Mission can, with hindsight, be seen as the first directoral misstep by a filmmaker who has subsequently been slumming it (The Scarlet Letter, anyone?). This film has all the individual ingredients of a rousing, heartfelt masterpiece Ennio Morricone's eponymous, redolent score, Chris Menges' strikingly mounted, symbolically saturated cinematography, Robert Bolt's erudite, literate and high-minded screenplay (apparently penned years earlier as a David Lean project) and a director just off from a round of plaudits for the excellent The Killing Fields. Although the film has a number of isolated merits, the end product is a resolute dissapointment.The opening sequence, a missionary attached to a cross making his way towards oblivion by way of a thunderous waterfall, masterfully segueing into Ennio Morricone's majestic theme; Jeremy Iron's Jesuit priest making his way up that same waterfall; the montage conveying the construction of the mission; the well placed use of Ray MacAnnalay's ambiguously doting, melancholy voice over, amongst others. The irony is that the film's major flaws result from these moments the constant crescendo of emotional peaks, swelling violins, etc. combined with a narrative which contains such an obvious, inevitable conclusion, underscores most of the film's dramatic power.The ending itself is a mess; it is badly choreographed (the soldier extra's don't seem to know in which direction to point their cannons and guns), with De Niro and Irons (as well as the Indian extra's) temporally confused as if their faculties have been clouded by langorous jungle narcotics. It seems rushed, probably due to its judiciously hurried inclusion in the 1987 Cannes Film Festival roster (it did win the 'Palme D'Or', granted).Overall, a noble failure. "},{"Title":"Mirrors My Values But Slow and Painful To Watch","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"17 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Spoilers AheadI am a theistic existentialist, it mirrors my values exactly but I must try to be objective about the movie. Beautiful music, photography and acting but forgive me, quite slow, with an ending you will only endure once unless you are masochistic. Irons gives a career defining performance as Gabriel fighting to keep the slave merchants from getting hegemony over the natives at the top of the falls. A living saint, but quite quixotic, he tragically believes if he founds missions there the Church will protect the indigenous natives from being turned into slaves for the rich swine down the river. Well, readers, you can guess how this is going to turn out? What a surprise, the Catholic church is not about to buck the rich nobility and their conquistadors; they send a big shot bishop to, ostensibly, decide the matter but for all world weary fellow misanthropists out there it is foregone conclusion. He admits to Gabriel's frustrated query that his sole purpose is to convince the priests to go quietly and abandon the natives to the tender mercies of the slave traders. Gabriel, was so child like, that he spent a half an hour showing the bishop the beauty of the mission actually believing this would provoke this intercession for the mission Fat Chance. Money rules then as it does now. There is a sub story of DeNiro's Mendoza, a slave trader who kills his youngest brother, in a duel, after the brother stole his wife. Guilt ridden and suicidal, Gabriel comes in and challenges him cleverly using his courage to convert him. Mendoza does convert but not completely. When the army approaches, Mendoza attempts to have Gabriel come with them to battle. Gabriel, a true priest, will have none of it. No real servant of God dies with blood upon his hands, Mendoza disagrees and they go separate directions. Gabriel to be with his converts and Mendoza to form a futile resistance. Here is the painful part, you do not need me to tell you what happens next. This is my problem, yes, beautiful and moving commensurately depressing and painful to watch. For all of this, it is one of the most beautifully spiritual movies you will ever watch. Gabriel's climb up the side of the falls, at the very beginning, after the martyrdom of the earlier priest who tried it, is the quintessence of being a good person. It is a beautiful existential metaphor of the struggle to be good. He almost slips and falls to his death several times; his faith and his courage sustain him to the top. See, sending the light and thinking only good thoughts is not goodness this is goodness. It comes with the heaviest of prices, I adore the movie because it models the costs of being a good person and defending the helpless with your very life's blood. It is the movie that made me the defender of my helpless ones. Gabriel models a faith so strong that is dispels all fear; Mendoza lifts his head before death one last time and sees Gabriel's martyrdom. You see the regret on his face; the battle was lost before it was fought. The film's transformative power over the human soul can never be underestimated. I cannot tell you the effect it had upon me. Gabriel was the model of what I wanted to become. I simply, as a movie reviewer, cannot review it to you without being honest about it being slow, depressing and painful to watch. For all these flaws, it models real, true goodness that our current decadent facsimile is a pathetic copy of. The cost is real; yet, I would pay it over a thousand lives again.The Light Shineth Into The Darkness And The Darkness Comprehendth It Not. Revelations. "},{"Title":"Liam Neeson","Date":"2 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" 18th century Spanish Jesuits try to protect a remote South American Indian tribe in danger of falling under the rule of pro-slavery Portugal.The Mission is based on events surrounding the Treaty of Madrid in 1750, in which Spain ceded part of Jesuit Paraguay to Portugal. A significant subtext is the impending Suppression of the Jesuits, of which Father Gabriel is warned by the film's narrator, Cardinal Altamirano, who was once himself a Jesuit.What struck me about this film is that I watched it immediately after Cannibal Ferox, another tale about Europeans / Americans going into the Amazon where the natives speak a little Portuguese. Both can be seen as anti-colonial films, though one is a period piece and the other is modern day (1981). What other messages do they share? "},{"Title":"The Mission","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I remember hearing about this film many times, especially because of the leading actor with the beard, I wondered if it a period war or something, but whatever the plot or concept I was definitely going to listen to the positive reviews and watch it, from Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated director Roland Joffé (The Killing Fields, Captivity). Basically set in 1750's, Spanish Jesuit priest Father Gabriel (Golden Globe nominated Jeremy Irons) enters the South American jungle and builds a mission to convert a Guaraní community to Christianity to Christianity, they are aggressive to any strangers coming into their place, but they are captivated by the music that he plays them and allow him to stay. Mercenary Rodrigo Mendoza (Robert De Niro) made his money kidnapping the natives and selling them into slavery, including to Spanish Governor Cabeza (Chuck Low), but following finding his fiancée Carlotta (Cherie Lunghi) and his younger half-brother Felipe (Aidan Quinn) sleeping together and killing him in a duel he spirals into depression, but Father Gabriel offers him redemption, as penance he carries heavy armour over a waterfall, and he settles eventually into the Guaraní community. The mission becomes a place of sanctuary and education for the Guaraní, and Mendoza is moved to help, he takes a vow and over time becomes a true Jesuit guided by Father Gabriel and his colleague Father Fielding (Liam Neeson), but the missions being safe under Spanish law changes due to the Treaty of Madrid over the land in South America, the Portugese colonials will be able to enslave the natives, and former Jesuit from the Vatican, Papal emissary Cardinal Altamirano (BAFTA winning Ray McAnally), is sent to survey all missions and determine if they will be allowed to remain or not. Cardinal Altamirano is put under pressure by Spanish Governor Cabeza and Portuguese Governor Don Hontar (The Jury's Ronald Pickup), if he sides with the colonists the indigenous people will be made slaves, if he sides with the mission they will condemned by the Portugese and fracturing could happen within the European Catholic Church, eventually he chooses to close the mission, the Guaraní will be forced to leave, but Father Gabriel and Mendoza will defend the mission if the colonists and plantation owners will try and attack them. Father Gabriel is against military force because violence goes against his religious beliefs, but Mendoza breaks his vow and does indeed use military defence, and against the Father's wishes teaches the natives the art of war, and once again wields his sword, a Portugese and Spanish army do come to attack the mission, with Mendoza being fatally wounded, and Fielding sacrificing himself, and after trying to distract the army Gabriel, the rest of the priests and many of the Guaraní, including women and children, are gunned down, only a few escaping into the jungle. The final scene sees Cardinal Altamirano and Don Hontar meeting and acknowledging the wrongs of what has happened, they agree to work together rebuild the community, surviving young children in a canoe return to the massacre within the mission to salvage some belongings, and while they travel down the river the text of the film says that priests continue to fight for the rights of the indigenous. Also starring Sigifredo Ismare as Witch Doctor, Asuncion Ontiveros as Indian Chief, Daniel Berrigan as Sebastian, Monirak Sisowath as Ibaye and Tony Lawn as Father Provincial. Irons gives a great sincere performance as the religious trying to make positive change for the native people, De Niro is is an interesting choice as the man who makes up for his mistakes and is also passionate toward the innocent people, and young Neeson gets his good moments as well as the other priest trying to help. This is a simple enough story of religion trying to solve terrible woe for a tribes people, the music throughout the film is beautiful, the scenes in the jungle and other sights look wonderful, and the 18th Century period and events are captured well, I agree it may be flabby at small moments, but overall it is enjoyable and moving historical drama. It won the Oscar for Best Cinematography, and it was nominated for Best Picture, Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Costume Design, Best Film Editing and Best Music for Ennio Morricone, it won the BAFTAs for Best Editing and Best Score, and it was nominated for Best Film, Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design, Best Original Screenplay, Best Production Design, Best Sound and Best Special Visual Effects, and it won the Golden Globes for Best Screenplay and Best Original Score, and it was nominated for Best Motion Picture - Drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"An Engrossing Visual Adventure","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission The Mission is the story of how Spanish Jesuits voyage to South America in the 18th Century in an attempt to spread Christianity to the native Indians who reside in the region. When there is transition from Spanish to Portuguese occupation however, the natives are legally treated as slaves and their status as Christians and indeed as human beings is effectively revoked. Robert De Niro plays a ruthless slave trader who becomes a priest after he is overcome by the guilt of his sins. Much of the film simultaneously documents his transition to the faith and these scenes are some of the most powerful in the film. Jeremy Irons plays Father Gabriel, head of the Spanish Jesuit order who is able to help both De Niro and the native Indians. The film also features the very young looking Liam Neeson and Aidan Quinn. The Mission received an Oscar for Cinematography and with stunning visuals and a breathtaking display of the jungle it is not hard to see why. Ennio Morricone's score also received an Oscar nomination and various other awards (e.g. Golden Globe and BAFTA). Morricone's score will undoubtedly stand the test of time as one of the most powerful soundtracks to grace the big screen. It is powerful, emotive and poetic and almost warrants viewing the movie alone. Fans of movie soundtracks will not be disappointed. Overall performances are decent with De Niro again stealing the show. The Mission is a good example of De Niro delivering a powerful performance without having to make too much of a song and dance visually. He also illustrates the contrast between an angry and menacing individual in the early part of the movie to one that is more at peace with others in the latter part of the movie suggesting that anyone can achieve redemption. The Mission is quite an engrossing movie that is possibly drawn out for a little too long. The visual and audio feast is enough to warrant a viewing but it somehow feels like it lacks the hall marks of a true classic. Given the subject matter is not the most optimistic or uplifting film but this is necessary to give the film any sense of realism about human history and indeed what is happening today. "},{"Title":"one of the best movies ever made","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is so good it's hard to write about it without sounding like a hysteric.   The script, acting, cinematography and score are wonderful, and the scenery is  breathtaking. The story is totally compelling, deeply moving, and true. In my book, it's  one of the ten best movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Not bad . . . just dull.","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This film was beautifully made and acted, but I personally found it dull. The dialogue (by playwright and screenwriter Robert Bolt) was wooden, uninteresting and verging on pseudo-Shakespearean (Bolt's eternal flaw, I believe, was his inferiority complex over William Shakespeare. I wish he could have stopped trying to be so classicist for once and attempted to write something with some real verve). The acting was fine (bravo Robert De Niro for adding some real depth) but could have been enhanced by a more vibrant script. The endless shots of foliage and waterfalls I feel were distracting more than anything else. I mean, how interesting is a waterfall after you've seen 20+ shots of it? Really? Overall this is not exactly a bad film, it can make one think, but I came away thinking that it could have been so much more. "},{"Title":"Article about the Mission by Miguel Llora, MA","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission (1986) is a dangerous movie. While it pretends to be both historically accurate and Indian friendly, the film actually re-enforces neo-imperialism, paternalism and a dangerous form of Otherness. A parallel can be drawn to the work of Edward Said who framed his examination of the interaction between the imagined geographical framework of the Orient and the dominant Occident in his book Orientalism as a production of actors constrained by forces outside of their art (Said 1). If you overlay this epistemological framework in examining The Mission (1986), which this work will limit itself; it will reveal as mentioned previously neo- imperialism, paternalism and a sinister form of Otherness. The nature of film is at question here. Why? Why include particular scenes? Why take liberties with history? Why include certain entries and exclude others? ....read morehttp//www.mllora.com/mission.doc "},{"Title":"Mission Impossibly Boring","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The highlights of this film about Jesuit priests in the South American jungles are beautiful cinematography and an intriguing score. There are a lot more lowlights. De Niro goes from a slave trader and killer to a noble hero but the transformation is not believable because the character has no depth. He is redeemed, he cries, he laughs, he gets a hug from Irons, but we have no idea what's going on inside. His line Are you laughing at me? is almost a parody of his Are you talking to me? from Taxi Driver. Joffe has no feel for pace as he lets the camera linger on mundane events, making the film seem about seven hours long. Even the big finale is a letdown, with poorly staged battle scenes. "},{"Title":"Three Words Worst Movie Ever","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This is a terrible movie. My teacher showed me this in class and i watched the whole thing. Main characters die out of no where for no reason all the time. The movie is boring and had no reason to be made. Also for some reason whoever directed this movie loved butts for some reason. There is lots of naked children in this movie (No sexual content though) The director should be arrested for this movie. It is terrible. I look at all of the reviews for this movie and i am shocked that they are good. Trust me if you watch this film you will HATE it. There is so many scenes that look terrible. Nothing is beautiful in this movie. In some ways, this movie is racist. I can't believe there are so many stars in this movie. They must be embarrassed. "}{"Title":"Falls short","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" In 1750 the Treaty of Madrid ceded parts of the Spanish territories in Brazil to Portugal. In those territories were several independent Catholic Jesuit missions that had been established to bring Christianity to the local Guarani tribes. One such mission, the San Carlos, is presented in this film as being hugely successful, where the priest, Father Gabriel (Jeremy Irons), has brought the Indians out of the jungle to create a near paradisaical community. The tribe lives in harmony and views its priest as the bringer of good, and adores him--smiles and warm feelings all round. This is the first problem I had with the film. Any clash of cultures is bound to create frictions; indeed at the beginning of this movie the very Indians that Father Gabriel has so won over had strapped their previous priest to a cross and sent him to his death by setting him afloat above falls some 200 feet high. It was not clear to me what special talents Father Gabriel had that would not only reverse the existing animosities but endear him to the tribe to the extent that he was venerated.Officially the Spanish disallowed slavery whereas the Portugese used slave labor to help build their empire (in actual fact both countries were complicit in the practice). Anyway, the transfer of the mission territories to the Portugese freed the Indians to become slaves. But the Catholic Church had a say in what should become of the missions and Cardinal Altamirano (Ray McAnally) was sent to resolve the issue. In some ways Altamirano was a tragic figure while he was encouraged by the Church to close the missions in order to stay in the good graces of Spain and Portugal (as well as to suppress the Jesuit order that the Church felt was becoming too powerful and independent), his sympathies lay with the missions and their priests. After having made his decision, one of Altamirano's aids remarked, We must work in the world, your eminence. The world is thus, to which Altamirano responded, No, thus have we made the world... thus have I made it. The most interesting parts of the movie involve the political manoeuvrings between Spain, Portugal, and the Catholic Church--in particular I found it interesting to see how deeply enmeshed in politics the Church was at the time.Jeremy Irons is well cast as Father Gabriel, ably encompassing a range of gentleness, sternness, and passionate devotion. Robert De Niro turns in a surprisingly weak performance; a scene that has him transform from tears to joy is embarrassing to watch. Apparently De Niro doesn't do weeping or fake joy well. Anyone hoping that the scenes between Irons and De Niro would be exceptional will be disappointed. The real standout in the acting department is Ray McAnally as Cardinal Altamirano--he has some of the best dialog and is able to communicate the anguish the Cardinal experiences in making his difficult decision. Many things just don't make sense. The San Carlos Mission is located above the falls and an initial scene that has Father Gabriel traveling to the mission shows him to be an expert rock climber--he is seen scaling a vertical rock wall and we are forced to watch the first of the obligatory, I'm slipping and I may fall to my death scenes. Shortly after Father Gabriel's trip to the mission De Niro, who is a slave trader at the beginning of the film, is seen riding into the town below the falls on horseback (with much fanfare) with about a dozen Indians in tow, both on foot and on horseback. Since De Niro was seen poaching Indians above the falls, I assumed that the Indians he had captured came from above the falls, but are all people in the area world-class rock climbers? Can horses scale vertical cliffs? Leaving that aside, how did De Niro, acting alone, capture over a dozen Indians? The Portugese soldiers are seen scaling the vertical cliffs, but others seem to pop up at the mission when it is convenient to have them there--even the good Cardinal winds up at San Carlos, and for sure he was no expert rock climber. I never had a good idea of the local topography. Confusion is a common reaction; it was never clear to me who some of the characters were, and the final battle scenes are totally chaotic.De Niro does penance for killing his brother in a duel by carrying a bagful of heavy armor up to the San Carlos Mission. That whole sequence is so tedious and prolonged that I began to think I was being asked to share in his misery. I kept saying to myself, I've paid my penance, let's move on.This film is advertised as a true story but it would more accurately be described as being loosely based on historical facts.As universally agreed, the film has scenes of stunning natural beauty, being filmed in part at the Iguazu Falls and in the jungles of Columbia. While these beautifully filmed scenes alone make the movie worth seeing, a drama should be more than a travelogue. Ennio Morricone's score is memorable, but I found it intrusive on occasion.The Mission had ample material for the making of a great movie, but its lack of narrative focus and inability to involve you emotionally causes it to fall short. For a more powerful movie that treats the same theme of a priest entering virgin territory to convert native Indians to Christianity, see the wonderful Black Robe. For a transfixing experience concerning early Conquistador forays into South America (accomapnied by a priest) see Aguirre, the Wrath of God. "},{"Title":"Fine film making lacks full impact","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Reputedly powerful film, but merely well made, about a mission in the South American jungle threatened with closure due to politics in the Vatican.Roland Joffe puts the movie together well, but still I find The Mission does not have the real impact it could have had. The cinematography is magnificent, Ennio Morricone's score is haunting to say the very least, and all the cast, including Jeremy Irons, Robert De Niro and Aiden Quinn give strong performances. Sadly however, aside from all the superb craftsmanship of movie-making on offer here, The Mission delivers little else in the way of entertainment. Please endeavour to see this on the big screen.Thursday, March 19, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"The films that SHOULD have won Oscar for Best Picture 1987","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" In 1750 Spain, Father Gabriel (Jeremy Irons) takes the place of a previous missionary whom was killed. He along with the help of reformed killer/slaver Mendoza (Robert DeNiro) and others hope to bring Christianity into the hearts of the natives of the land. He is successful, but when Portugal acquires the colony the question of if the missions are still under the protection of the Chuch arises. This is a powerful movie, one that I appreciated much more then Roland Joffe's previously directed Killing Fields which felt sanctimonious and one-sided. This film ,on the other hand, has breath-taking cinematography and well-developed characters. And while the film does falter in places (somewhat condescending and near the end over-preachy) the good far outweighs the bad. The Academy Awards had made yet another mis-step giving the Best Picture Oscar to Platton rather than this film.My Grade A DVD Extras Disk 1) Commentary by Roland Joffe; Theatrical Trailer; select Cast and crew filmographies; and list of Awards Disk 2) Omnibus (a great documentary on the movie) "},{"Title":"Has it all - and has nothing","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I was looking forward to see this movie - story looked great, De Niro is a great actor...what could go wrong? Well - I am very disappointed. All was much under expectations. Do not get me wrong - nature was fantastic(but I might better see documentary about this place) and story still might be interesting...only it feels that HOW it was done is so shallow in comparison how it was there to be. I will skip criticism of some technicalities - language of Indians, using muskets in water and so on... Problem was that symbols were hitting into the face...nothing was left to imagine, to feel. All was very much on surface and did not go deeper. People there were not real, did not have personality...My overall feeling was like if I am invited into great french restaurant and am served hamburger with french fries and drinking coke. Too bad... Alena "},{"Title":"Skip the movie, buy the soundtrack album","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Missionaries, slave traders, and colonizers mingle in this dishonest, naive and simplistic tale, in which a band of monks defend Native Indians from marauding Europeans in 18th Century South America. The film oozes the kind of bourgeois anger of Oliver Stone, beating us over the head with messages and placating us with nice cinematography, romantic primitivism and cosy Christianity. The film was produced by David Puttnam, a guy who specializes in making films which pretend to say the right thing (indictments of injustices), but actually say the reverse. Take Chariots of Fire, a film about social biases and anti-Semitism which everyone remembers instead for hunky, blonde haired runners running majestically in slow motion. Puttnam's films consistently seem to say the right things, whilst actually reinforcing something else, and so it's no surprise that The Mission bashes Colonialism, but not if it's done right and not if we forget that European religious enterprise was just as guilty as Portugal, France, Spain and England's economic apparatus in spreading disease, havoc, death, famine and political self renunciation.Some complain that the film shows little interest in the Indians and focuses instead on three Christian martyrs, but such is the norm. What's really annoying is the way the villains of this picture sanction the overthrowing of missions and tribes whilst constantly professing, through various monologues and conversations, that they knew better. That they knew what they were doing was wrong and would have ramifications.All bad historical message movies do this, neglecting to show the causes of history/behaviour at the time in favour for characters who impossibly possess a very modern vantage point which allows for false reflections and reconciliation. It's the Ridley Scott, Stephen Spielberg, Edward Zwick style of history.Still, if one is willing to bathe in pretty signs and sounds, be distracted by money (ie expensive location photography) and switch off one's brain, there are several good things on display. Jeremy Irons and Liam Neeson play a pair of affecting Jesuit priests, Robert De Niro at times looks handsome (this is where he stopped acting), Ennio Morricone's score is divine and the film possesses 3 sublime scenes. These three scenes are worth suffering through the film.6.5/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. See Pontecorvo's Burn! instead. "},{"Title":"Limited, lacking, listless","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" But then, I have always had great difficulty with films that religiously subscribe to the 'style over substance' formula. Joffe's The Mission (1986) is no different from the usual unremarkable visual fares. All cinematography and no story. In fact, the film goes to great lengths to place any aspect before story &#150; be it gorgeous nature visuals of the setting, classical musical score or actors. The latter is the most heavyweight weapon in its arsenal and it boasts of Robert De Niro, Jeremy Irons, Liam Neeson and Aidan Quinn... all of whom are ultimately unable to elevate The Mission above generic 'visual film' formula.It follows then that we have here an endless tirade of shots of trees blowing in the wind, pouring waterfalls off rocky cliffs, lush damp jungle air and, above all, long introspective images of Native Indians. If you have ever seen Malick's The New World &#150; another fatal 'style over substance' self-indulgence dribble about settlers coming across a Native population &#150; you know exactly what this film is like. Thankfully, it has slightly more substance when you scratch the visual-laden surface and it is more strongly acted by its leads. Nevertheless, expect the same kind of lofty narrative, lack of focus in dawdling nature visuals and SAME COMPLETE LACK OF ANY TEMPLATE STORY.There is, however, one scene that has remained with me from the film. This is Jeremy Irons embracing a crying, kneeling and broken Robert De Niro in the midst of the junglefloor, while the warm breath from the murky brown river gives rich to a tense, beautiful atmosphere. This is regrettably as poignant as it allows itself to get because a minute later it zooms back into listless wandering with the camera and falls apart once again. It simply loses itself in its own self-indulgence of nature portrayals and the Native civilisation, which is not nearly as fascinating or mesmerizing as the film tries to have you believe. Sure, it's pretty; it's picturesque &#150; but what else?I set out to watch The Mission for its triumvirate of fantastic actors (Irons, De Niro, Neeson) but was offered no showcase for any of their acting abilities. Although it was quite interesting to see a young very Oirish-looking Liam whenever his character was squeezed in between the thin nature visuals. It needs to be said that this is not an unwatchable film unless you have a short attention-span and demand non-stop action. It does, however, need to be said that The Mission is not a poignant or remarkable film and it manages merely competent.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Politics and religion are like oil and water; they should never mix.","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It is always very interesting how people react to movies and I was very surprised at my reaction to The Mission. After the movie ended, I was more angry and exasperated than moved. I had no problems with the production. The breathtaking opening scenes alone had me hooked. It was beautifully filmed by director Roland Joffé and Oscar-winning cinematographer Chris Menges. Two years earlier, they worked on the very moving drama The Killing Fields.I've listened to sections of Ennio Morricone's musical score performed live by various choral groups and had a chance to listen to his full score on CD a few months ago. It is probably one of Morricone's best works. Even after 19 years, I'm still very shocked that he did not win an Oscar for that work. (This not to say that Herbie Hancock, the eventual winner for 'Round Midnight did not deserve the award. Usually the Academy chooses traditional, epic-size scores like Morricone's. Go figure.) My major problem with the film was Robert Bolt's script. To me, the story should have been about the South American Indian chief and his tribe and not about the Jesuit priests (which included Jeremy Irons and, in one of his earliest roles, Liam Neeson) trying to convert them to Christianity.I also had a major problem with the character played by Robert De Niro. Was this character added to the story as an afterthought? I don't believe the character of the slave trader/mercenary/monk was necessary. It was more of a plot contrivance. It also did not help that De Niro was poorly miscast. Ironically, Spainard Antonio Banderas might have been a better choice. (I would have said Javier Bardem but he was 17 years old when the movie was released.)The late Ray McAnally easily gave the best performance as Cardinal Altamirano. Despite being enamored of the work of the Jesuits and having many natives becoming Christian, his decisions would eventually set in motion the fate of everyone. Is Altamirano an evil man? Did he do God's will? Were the decisions made to exert the power of the church? The character was very complex and McAnally should have gotten a Supporting Oscar nomination for his outstanding performance.There's a lot to admire but, overall, The Mission was a bit of a disappointment. It should have been better. "},{"Title":"Political fail","Date":"1 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" In an all too simple storyline this film tries to blur the responsibility of religion in the slaughter of people.This movie tries to tell you, that there is in fact a good (Jesuits) and bad church (rest of the catholic church). And if everyone would follow the good part, well, heaven on earth.Even though not as brutal as the rest of the catholic church, the Jesuits were in some way pathfinders for the west. And they did not have, and do not have, any respect for foreign cultures and believes. In their blind religious faith they think (until today) that a non-Christian soul is lost forever. In fact losing its eternal afterlife.And that justifies almost anything to convert heathens into Christians. They were and are in strict accordance with Rome.A large church of course has a lot of factions, true believers and straight forward earthly politicians. So the roman catholic church never has been a pure spiritual organization and often enough sacrificed believe over power.So in this example of its history. Big surprise, isn't it? And sure, the natives are living in a paradise and are true angels. The usual romantic stuff. So the audience feels a lot of sympathy for the natives. Classic Hollywood.This combined with rather uninspired movie-making results in a shallow piece of irrelevance. The simplicity might make it appeal to the masses. But the film fails with all major historic issues.Do not watch it, if you are politically interested. "},{"Title":"Completely trivial","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I didn't like this movie. It had nothing to say. The characters were one dimensional and their motives were not explored at all. For some reason the character played by deNiro had no depth at all and his crying scene did not affect me at all. Only the background music told me that this was supposed to be a significant event. But, for me, it didn't seem so. The movie would have needed more human interaction all around to make those so-called meaningful scenes to actually mean something. And the ending was the worst of it all. Supposedly dramatic, but the only thing that affected me was the realisation that 'that was it!?'.Only 2/10 for this one. "},{"Title":"horrible","Date":"16 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Mission tells the story of the effects of the Treaty of Madrid on native South American tribes and the Jesuits working to convert them. While this is a solid plot for a film, Roland Joffé displays the worst directing I have ever seen-a monkey could have done better-making this film complete trash. One of the more palpable failures was the sound track, a simple oboe tune that plays throughout the entirety of the film, which threatens to cause even the most energetic audiences to fall into a coma, the only purpose this film serves is putting hyper children into a deep sleep. This film does not display an actual antagonist but rather has characters that reinforce the idea of the unseen malicious presence of Portugal when done correctly this plot works well, but the poor execution and lack of explanation only serve in making the film more confusing. Even though this film was released in 1986 the effects are dreadful from bullets that leave a large circular hole when they enter with no exit wound nor blood splatter to actors looking down at the arrows already protruding from their chest as if they had just noticed them. The dreadful effects are only made more prevalent by the terrible acting watching these actors attempt to perform an emotional scene made me want to cry.I am disappointed that a film with so much potential was produced in such a disgraceful manor. "}{"Title":"WAY WAY too long","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie was excellent in portraying what happened in South America during the early colonial period. . .but it was way too long!There were some long scenes full of talking that could have been cut down.Still, excellent message. "},{"Title":"Mediocrity at best","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I see from the other reviews that people had a lot of good things to say about this movie, and I'm not denying the cinematography or the score. The Mission was overall boring and incoherent. Whatever the movie was trying to say was muddled in all the lack of continuity or resolve. The movie brings up a conflict between two Jesuits, one who is for peace and one who is for war, when they are both under attack. The same fate behalls them both. This movie in not satisfying in the least. It is boring with a couple of good waterfall shots. I know it's not an action movie, but the action that is in the movie is goofy and the score doesn't help it at all, either. Sometime the score even comes to ridiculously dramatic crescendo for no apparent reason. The acting is all fine, but there truley is little. Again, the score is good, the cinematography is excellent, good acting, now you just need the movie to bring it all togethor. And the fight coordinator should be killed. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie isn't nearly as good as many people claim it is. I think it's one of those emperor's clothes type effects. The plot isn't too bad or anything, and the acting is pretty solid.(What little there is....)But aside from that this movie has nothing going for it at all. There are massive amounts of time when nothing, nothing at all, is happening. You'll just just hear bad music(The soundtrack is horrible and it will stick in your head for days)and see random shots of the jungle. Maybe a few natives here and there building something, cooking something, walking through said jungle. It just goes on like that. I have seen this movie three times and each time it was a harder struggle to stay awake.Then (SPOILER) at the end, there is this small battle in which Mendoza,(Smart Priest) fights the Portugese army to save the mission. At the same time, the other guy, who I will dub Stupid Priest, decides to sing and walk peacefully toward the army of portugese who are shooting at him. The stupidity of this absolutely blew me away. Who sings when large groups of soldiers are trying to kill them? No one does. They run away. If they have guts they fight, but no one sings. Is this man that stupid? Apparently it was an attempt at a violence is never the answer type message. That's fine. There are plenty of movies that pulled that off very well.(American History X, for example)But this is just stupid. It really defeats itself too. Those Portugese were pretty violent and it looks like they definitely came out ahead when it was all said and done.  "},{"Title":"A long, difficult mess, with no payoff in the end","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Its sad, because I was really looking forward to this film, and at the end, I was highly dissapointed.  The story is plain and obvious, with the actors just acting it out.  There are several scenes where there is absolutely no diologue whatsoever, and the camera just pans along at the scenery.  I cannot recommend this film to anyone, its obviously an overlong mess, with little redeeming value.  *1/2 out of ****, or 3.6/10. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Have just watched the DVD of The Mission; the scenery may be very beautiful but this does not distract from the fact that this is one of the most boring films I have ever seen. I really don't know how to fill ten lines here, but the film makers managed to fill a whole hour with almost nothing. I'm just glad that I didn't pay to see the film in the cinema; I watched it at a friends and left after an hour. I'm afraid that nice music and beautiful scenery can't make up for a poor film, though I have to admit that I couldn't bear to watch the final sixty six minutes. I was so little enthused by what I saw that I perhaps missed the best of the film - or perhaps I didn't. "},{"Title":"Simply church propaganda.","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The whole movie plot is about to show us, what good the church do, when it can. In reality, where the church go, there bring chaos, death and degradation of culture. A prime example could be all the crusades against Arabs/Muslims. At that time we should learn from them, rather that convert them to Christianity by sword and fire. These jesuits are presented as heroes, but into reality, they bring the destruction of the Indians by driving them from the jungle to homes, witch can be subject to attack and conquer by the settlers. Back in Europe is was the jesuits, who started the chase on witches. So, given the general reality that any religion is just for control of people, I see these movie as unjust and very unfair church propaganda. Yes, there are individuals that tried to do good. But they can't overstep the shadow of their curse - their religion. Cristian religion (very interestingly founded by jews) is prime example of religion to divide and control the mankind. By proclamation of fake values it turning the real values to dust and bringing the degradation of culture altogether. The fall of Rome is nice example of early christians (jews?!) work. It is good to mention that when Rome fall, the holly lands god promised to jews are then free of Romans and fell into control of jews, so they had the motive too... Anyway, the movie play (mainly DeNiro) is excellent, however that won't overcome the propaganda in the plot... "}]