[{"Title":"Born in a crossfire hurricane","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" In my humble opinion at 5.3 this movie is horribly underrated it's a fun, colourful, exciting hour and a half of a movie. Whoopi Goldberg plays the quirky and livewire Terri Doolitle a low level bank employee who gets involved in a dangerous spy game involving the CIA, British Secret Service and the KGB (made in the 80's the cold war was still in full swing).Contacted via her computer (the computer geeks out there will love seeing this earlier version of the internet) by a secret agent codename 'Jumping Jack Flash' (Jonathan Pryce) Terri must use her street smarts and attitude to save the day against rogue agents, KGB the police and while not being fired from her own job.The only drawback to this movie is it is quite profane those adverse to the occasional swear word should probably steer clear. It's similar in the level of language used to Beverley Hills Cop, so probably not one for the small kids. But fun for everyone else.7/10 - Good honest fun probably Whoopi Goldbergs funniest movie and certainly no Sister Act thank god!!! "},{"Title":"It's a gas, gas, gas.","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Jumpin' Jack Flash is a very funny comedy-thriller starring comedienne and current Hollywood Squares star Whoopi Goldberg in the movie she made after her outstanding performance in The Color Purple. This was her first big comedy and she's terrific in it. Goldberg stars as Terry Doolittle, a computer operator at a New York bank. At the end of a long day of work, she gets an awkward message from a British spy who's in trouble. As a result she gets plunged into a world of international intrigue and danger. Sure the premise of Jumpin' Jack Flash is silly. But it's an entertaining movie, thanks to Goldberg's performance. She's the whole show here. One of the best moments in the film is the one when the spy asks her to sing with me and find the key, and she listens to the lyrics of the Mick Jagger song Jumpin' Jack Flash so she can find the word or words to crack the spy's code. This scene is a classic. Just get a load of the way Goldberg acts in this scene. It's hilarious. This scene proves that Goldberg is a great comic actress. There's also the scene where, after almost getting killed, Goldberg confronts a police detective played by Pretty Woman and Runaway Bride director Garry Marshall (who oddly enough is the brother of the director of this film, former Laverne & Shirley star Penny Marshall making her directorial debut here). Get a load of the foul language displayed by Goldberg in this scene. I was laughing hysterically out loud. There are also action scenes that really aren't necessary, but they're exciting and thrilling. And there are good supporting performances by Stephen Collins, Carol Kane, John Wood, Annie Potts, Roscoe Lee Browne, Jim Belushi, Jon Lovitz, and the late Phil Hartman. But the real star here is Whoopi. She alone makes Jumpin' Jack Flash worth seeing. And it's far better that Whoopi's next two movies after this Burglar and Fatal Beauty.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"I wouldn't go out with any woman who called me a sheet!","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Undercooked, but ribald, enjoyable espionage-themed comedy about a computer programmer for a national bank in New York City who gets her own Mission Impossible when a government agent taps into her system. Whoopi Goldberg really has no character to play here, so she wings it; tossing off one-liners and impersonations, she's a stitch, a true original. The production designer has decorated Whoopi's pad with offbeat movie posters, memorabilia and over-sized toys, but couldn't do much with the rest of this scenario, which dog-paddles along until we get to the predictable (though satisfying) conclusion. Some of the supporting characters (like Jim Belushi's mysterious heavy or Annie Potts' wife of a secret agent) come, go, and vanish completely, and the flick is held together with the barest minimum of tape. Still, it's a lot of fun anyway, which is completely due to Goldberg's sass. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Worthwhile Woopi Goldberg vehicle with humor, intrigue and hilarious action.","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A bank's clerk is humorously involved in international espionage when her computer terminal picks up words sent by electronic mail from a Brit spy trapped into Iron Curtain. The events break her monotony life and boring employment.The film packs comedy, suspense, tongue in check and lots of amusement. There are still some hilarious pieces, notably the comic tryings to decipher the lyrics to the film title song by famous Rolling Stones, when her dress get caught in a shredder, Whoopi singing at the British Embassy by impersonating Diane Ross and when she's dragged by a tow truck, among others. The picture is a Woopi Goldberg recital, she plays a wacky, foul-mouthed, and wisecracking spinster with no check. This is her first big success in comedy genre, after his known drama 'Purple color' by Steven Spielberg. Abundant secondaries and cameos by noted actors, such as Jim Belushi, Annie Potts, John Wood, Jeroan Krabbe, Roscoe Lee Browne, Sara Bostford, John Lovitz, Phil Hartman, among them. Agreeable musical score, though with abuse synthesizer by Thomas Newman . The motion picture is middling directed by Penny Marshall, in his film debut, but she was unable to control the star's excesses. Later Marshall achieved numerous hits as producer, actress and director, such as 'Renaissance man, Preacher's wife, Awakenings, A league of their own and Big'. "},{"Title":"IT'S A GAS GAS","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  There aren't not that many female directors around and Penny Marshall is one of the few who scored some hits with her movies in the eighties (She's having a baby, The hard way) and of course Jumpin' Jack Flash, one of those delicious comedies from the eighties that aren't dated, and that aren't silly. Whoopi Goldberg who was a bit the hot strange spot from Hollywood since her appearance in The color purple did some nice comedies from which this one must be one of the finest. She plays the role of Teresa aka Terry, a weirdo who is obsessed by movies and books, and during daytime she spend eight hours in a bank behind a computer (a must for pcfreaks to see how dated they are!!!). Her hilarious boss Mr James Page (Peter Michael Goetz) forbids her to chat, she obeys till Jumpin Jack Flash knocks. She can't resist the power not to respond and soon she discovers that Jumpin Jack Flash is a CIA-agent who is somewhere in East Europe (it was still a cold war) and he begs him to help. Sooner as Teresa thinks she has become a target from the KGB as well and as you can guess she ends up in dangerous hilarious situations (or are you kidnapped any day in a phone booth?). Absolutely do not to try to understand the plot, there isn't one and if there should be some it has no meaning...it's just a CIA-agent who runs for the KGB, that's all but that's not the reason why you should watch this, it's just to see a fine comedy that stands for 90 minutes of entertainment. "},{"Title":"funny every time","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The essence of a great film is that it makes us laugh each time we watch it and this film certainly fits this criteria .Whoopie Goldberg's star quality shines through as she carries scenes along mainly by herself as she supposedly communicates with an unseen man-in- trouble .The film has some superbly memorable lines and just fulfils our deepest wishes that one day we will be whisked into a glamorous world of intrigue and espionage.The end scene in the restaurant shows Whoopie's versatility and has us in tears for her.She does not need swearing though to carry her talents . She can act with her face as well as her script . The rest of the cast perform admirably and this is one to watch time and time again . "},{"Title":"Not as bad as its often made out to be","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Jumping Jack Flash has come in for some surprisingly negative opinions over the years. A lot of people consider it a black mark on Whoopi Goldberg's career. Although it does suffer from a few flaws, its quite watchable, it moves at a fair lick, and is in no way the turkey its often accused of being. Its nowhere near as bad as Theodore Rex. Now that was a turkey!After making her debut in The Colour Purple, Jumping Jack Flash was Whoopi Goldberg's first proper starring role, and a chance to flex her muscles as an actress. And she's up to the task. Some of the plot points of JJF don't always ring true, but its a testament to Whoopi's charm and magnetism that she turns an occasionally ludicrous adventure into a fairly entertaining comedy-thriller.Terry Dolittle (Whoopi) works a computer at a New York bank. Bored of such a hum-drum life, she finally gets a wake-up call from someone who taps into her computer. Someone called Jumping Jack Flash. Jack is in serious trouble. A British agent trapped in Russia, he needs help from Terry. The British Consulate won't acknowledge him, and he needs Terry to run errands for him. Everything from rooting out possible exit contacts on the back of frying pans to breaking into the Consulate itself and accessing their computers. All the while the situation gets more and more murkier, things go from one dangerous extreme to the next, and Terry and Jack's lives are both endangered.Although a lot of people have an astonishing hatred of this film, I can't say the same. I think JJF is great fun, with a twisty screenplay right out of a Kafka novel. It wouldn't be half as fun without Whoopi Goldberg at the helm, but its thanks to her dynamic energy the film's momentum is kept as steady as it is.The film pretty much rests on Whoopi's shoulders. And she does a great job. Delivering the laughs when they're needed, but also establishing a genuine fearful feeling when she gets in over her head. I especially liked the scenes of her conversing with Jack (Jonathan Pryce). There is real poignancy for Jack's situation, because it feels like Terry is the only friend he has.There is quite an exceptional cast too. Granted they tend to get reduced to mere minutes in the spotlight, but because there is such a large gallery of famous faces, they leave a lasting impression. Look out for the late Phil Hartman, Annie Potts from Ghostbusters, James Belushi, Tracy Ullman and even Carol Kane. One thing that surprised me about JJF is there are quite a few actors from This Is Spinal Tap in the film. So keep your eyes peeled for Michael McKean, June Chadwick and Tony Hendra.Penny Marshall made her debut as director here, and she does quite a fine job. She does sometimes overplay her hand, where the film tips over from genuine suspense to overblown farce. Such as the scenes of Whoopi Goldberg's dress caught in a paper shredder, being dragged along the streets of New York in a phone box, or wandering into Elizabeth Arden doped up on truth serum, but for the most part Marshall knows what she's doing. She's not as successful here as she was in her next film Big, her single finest hour, but JJF is still a lot of fun.The ending has genuine nerve jangling tension and equal parts pathos. Her near death at the British Consulate is exciting, although her escape from a police car is contrived. There's no way Terry wouldn't be handcuffed, and I don't know why there wasn't a grille separating the back seats from the front. But the final shootout at the bank is good. And the scene where Terry finally meets Jack is touching too.Jumping Jack Flash sometimes moves in fits and starts, but Penny Marshall's direction is assured at most of the right moments. Whoopi Goldberg hits a lot of the right notes, and its also a film that was ahead of its time in addressing the E-Mail system.So give Jumping Jack Flash a chance. If not for the film, than at least for the scene where Terry goes through the song for Jack's code-key. Worth the price of admission alone! "},{"Title":"A real fun film - not the best comedy ever, but if you want a light film with no pretensions...","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I have to admit to liking this film. I'm not sure or not how well it did on its release. I don't think there are any spoilers in revealing that Whoopi plays a computer genius who is contacted by a guy who needs her help (since it says so on the back of the DVD!). So as well as a comedy, there are some thrills thrown in as well.It's well written, with some pretty obvious stuff in there, but it makes it kind of fun. Whoopi Goldberg puts in a good performance. Today it's fun to watch because the computers are SO out of date and because at one point Whoopi hits about 40 keyboard keys to type the work 'Hi! Just listen to the sound of the keys. Whoopi's a good actress and comedian, but she's no typist - at least by the evidence here. And it's good to see Carol Kane and Stephen Collins, who both look about 12.There are some fabulous continuity errors as well for anyone looking for them - in the scene in the police station, not only does the blanket Whoopi's wearing change places from scene to scene, so does her collar.If you want a fun film that won't stretch your brain, this is well worth a look. Ingmar Bergman it isn't, but it's a nice feel good movie for those times when you just want to sit down and turn your brain off it's great. And if you want to know what computers used to look like and why you practically needed a second mortgage for somewhere to store them look no further. "},{"Title":"an awesome, funny moview","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  If you like Whoopie, you'll love this movie, full of fun and action. The stunts are wonderful and of course, Whoopie is delightfully funny. Recommend highly for a night of fun and laughs.  Id give it a 10 star. "},{"Title":"A Solid, Entertaining, and First Time Suspenseful Comedy","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" At times Whoopi Godberg goes too far and becomes weird and at other times brings her own unique, frolicking fresh comedy that outshines most traditional comic gaps. Sometimes the plot is convoluted from logical belief and at other times grips with a sizzling suspenseful twist. This movie is a mixed bag, but has a nice espionage storyline that holds up well especially considering this is an early mix of both serious spy drama with comic humor, a usually impossibly difficult blend to get right. There are some old new young faces here. The main plot point of rarely actually seeing one of the main characters is intriguing and unique to this movie, one of its claim of fame. Repeated viewing isn't recommended very often, as part of the compelling nature of this movie is its mystery action theme which gets somewhat old and helps to keep the movie going along with the usually balance drama-comic high points. "}{"Title":"Jack-in-a-box personality...","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is a star vehicle if ever there was one, so much so that the other characters barely even register on the scale. Like they did with Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy before her, Hollywood took the broad outline of Whoopi Goldberg's stand-up persona and tried to craft a movie around it. I suppose they figured she'd already proved her dramatic capabilities in The Color Purple, so staying close to her roots next time around for a possible cash-in was worth it. Whether you are endeared to this almost cut and paste approach depends largely on if you find appeal in her and her act, or not. I do, so I'm not troubled that so much of the focus is on just one person for so long.There's the usual 80's stock plot about spies and secret dealings, but really that's just a front to see if Goldberg can establish a wacky character and manage to keep the audience interested in following her journey until the end of the film. If that's the sum total of your expectations for this movie, then I'd say that all concerned accomplish their task rather well.Roger Ebert complained that her character is a loner who doesn't interact properly with others. In this case, there is a definite reason why she was forced into such a narrow pigeonhole - it's so there's little chance that one of her co-stars may inadvertently steal her thunder. There's no fear of that, this is a one woman show throughout, but to me she proved that she's got the tools to headline a movie all by herself, and still be funny. Sisters are doing it for themselves. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Whoopi Goldberg saves the day in this comedy, that is not brilliant (I've seen hundreds of better movies) but it pleases anyway. The plot is not that original, but it's interesting. Watching this movie is a good thing to do in a Sunday afternoon when you're together with your family and friends.  "},{"Title":"espionage thriller with limited thrills","Date":"7 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Single Terry Doolittle (Whoopi Goldberg) works for a Manhattan bank transferring money through a computer. Her co-worker Cynthia (Carol Kane) tries to set her up. Her boss warns her to stop online chatting with the clients. Then she gets a message from an unknown user named Jumping Jack Flash who pulls her into the world of espionage. Marty Phillips (Stephen Collins) is a new co-worker. She is taken by mystery man (Jim Belushi) but she escapes.One of the problems is that typing on a computer is not that thrilling. It's a problem that most modern movies alleviate by adding in a lot of flash. Eventually, there is a computerized voice but it's not that compelling. The most memorable images from this movie is Whoopi's Harry Potter outfit and dancing to the Stones. This is a thriller but it's not that thrilling. I keep thinking that Terry should simply call the FBI. Terry is interviewed by an idiot cop which is suppose to mean she can't call the authorities anymore. Whoopi tries to be funny but there are no laughs. She is an energetic center in a story without tension or good jokes. It's just blah. "},{"Title":"A fast-paced, flashy crime comedy!","Date":"11 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is a fast-paced and to-the-point crime comedy starring Whoopi Goldberg as banker Terry Doolittle who communicates with clients electronically on her computer throughout the world. One day, she receives a coded message from an unknown man who is pleading for help, as he is stuck in limbo in an unknown country. The suspense builds as an espionage case is revealed to be involved and culprits are after Terry.Goldberg delivers her unique brand of humor (especially liked the scene where her cocktail dress got caught in the shredder) and her fast-talking and no-nonsense attitude. Stephen Collins plays Terry's newly-hired co-worker Marty Phillips, who seems to be caught in places where Terry is in trouble. Carol Kane plays Terry's sassy and high-pitched voice co-worker Cynthia, and Annie Potts plays the mysterious Liz Carlson, who seems to be the only person Terry can trust in the espionage case.It's a somewhat classic-style spy genre film, which I thought could have used a bit more action and suspense. However, the plot was well-paced and the acting was pretty good, giving us a pretty entertaining feature.Grade B "},{"Title":"Are you on some kind of medication?","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It was a production beset with problems, a change of director (Penny Marshall replacing the jettisoned Howard Zieff) and enough script writers used to fill out a hockey team. So it's unsurprising to find that Jumpin' Jack Flash is a bit muddled, not fully formed as it were.Plot finds Whoopi Goldberg as a computer programmer thrust into a world of espionage when a plea for help appears on her monitor. Cue Whoopi following instructions from a guy claiming to be trapped in Eastern Europe, which of course leads to a number of fun scenes as she bluffs her way around the crooked underworld she now finds herself in. Will she stay alive long enough? Who are the undercover guys? Is the mysterious man on the computer screen really all he proclaims to be?It will all be answered in rank and file 1980s action comedy time, which as it happens is OK here because Goldberg is a good enough comedy actress to hold the attention. Nothing remotely smart or genre defining exists, but it's a fun snapshot of the burgeoning computer age in the 80s and it's a good time waster if stuck for something light to watch one night. 6/10 "},{"Title":"early internet","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The pre-internet online communications in Jumpin' Jack Flash might be the main thing that interests you, but you should watch the movie for much more than that. Having established herself as a serious actress in The Color Purple, Whoopi Goldberg plays a sassy bank employee who inadvertently gets herself involved in international espionage.The funniest scenes are when Goldberg gets herself worked up into a frenzy and starts verbally tearing people a new one. Along with the scene in the British consulate. Penny Marshall's directorial debut is basically an excuse for Goldberg to be as nutty as possible. In some scenes she has a little help, as in the phone booth scene. It's just a funny movie, and I suspect that they had a lot of fun filming it. Also starring Stephen Collins, Jonathan Pryce, John Wood (Prof. Falken in WarGames), Jeroen Krabbé, Jim Belushi, Carol Kane, Jon Lovitz, Phil Hartman, Annie Potts (Janeane in Ghostbusters and Bo Peep in Toy Story), Tracey Ullman and Michael McKean.A sad irony is that I'm reviewing this on September 11, and the movie opens with a shot of the Twin Towers. "},{"Title":"Memorably hilarious","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This film, starring Whoopi Goldberg, is an absolute HOOT. Whoopi is her usual non-stop self and the film moves along nicely with her. There are several memorable moments in the film, all hilarious. Whoopi doing her Stevie Wonder imitation Blind Terri Doolittle. Whoopi trying to walk elegantly in a ripped skirt and high heeled shoes. Whoopi, doped by a villain, describing a teen with multicolored hair as a tropical fish and it's mate. The plot it that Terri, who works in a bank on a computer all day, receives a mysterious message from a stranger asking for help. Turns out its someone in great danger. Terri ends up in danger, too, and the results are highly enjoyable. This is worth a watch! "},{"Title":"J.J.F. is a GAS!","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Watching Jumping Jack Flash reminds me dearly about the eighties, and really this is the oldest film I've Whoopi Goldberg in other than Sister Act. I have to admit that I myself fit right along with Whoopi's character-Terry Dolittle. She's obsessed with movies and posters of movies and what not, and hey, so am I! Anyway, I enjoyed this movie since I happen to be a fan of Comedy/Crime movies. And I think this film was great. It doesn't have much of a plot, though it seems to work just fine without one. All it really is, is a computer operator played by Goldberg works her everyday pain-in-the-neck job at First National Bank in New York. She receives an S.O.S. from Jumpin' Jack Flash, a British spy trapped in Russia. And he asks her for help. She doesn't even know what the hell's going on! And now that she's been dragged into this mess she has to come up with a way to get Jack home and keep their contact from falling into the wrong hands. This movie is great, you might like then again you might not but still I suggest you give it a try all you crime fans out there. Rating-8/10 "},{"Title":"Funny movie","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This movie has always been one of my favorite 80s movies. Is the plot particularly original? Nah. But I have always found bits and pieces of it to be funny enough to make me lose my breath.I like the pseudo-detective/spy work that Terry Doolittle accomplishes, especially the rough ways in which she accomplishes it. This may very well be the first computer romance movie. In that capacity, it provides a somewhat cute look at computers and even at office politics in the 80s. I don't think even Richard Pryor's characters can match the charming Terry Doolittle. Between her rough language and wild clothes, she's quite original. "},{"Title":"Queen of Comedy 'Does it Again'","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It's Gas, Gas, Gas, laughing gas good. Whoopi Goldberg is my favourite comedy actress, she is hilarious. I had seen this movie at the supermarket and i was thinking of buying it, so i came home and asked my mum had seen it and she said yes and also said it was a good film i then bought a week later and had real good laugh.This has become one of my favourite comedy movies i watched it for days. Whoopi Goldberg gives a hilarious and compelling, Goldberg plays a conspicuous computer operator at a bank she tries to blend in, although she is the type of character who cannot.The 1986 comedy which was Whoopi Golberg's claim to fame is about A computer operator at a bank is plunged into an exciting world of international intrigue, danger, surprise, fun and romance, when her terminal gets an S.O.S. from Jumpin' Jack Flash, a British spy stranded in Eastern Europe. She is soon matching wits with the deadliest members of the espionage community from the CIA to the KGB. Jon Lovitz and Jim Belushi co-star in this suspenseful, fast-paced and murderously funny comedy.Goldberg pulls off this character of a person who cannot find romance or a great deal of friends, but soon she will find romance and many more friends just as much as she finds danger and pleasure in this deep comical movie with a orthodox happy endingIt's not necessarily a fast paced murder blood and guts movie it is a fast paced movie of comedy, fun and thrill, i must say this film may not fit for everybody, but in my opinion i think it hasn't yet lost it's funniness and great story line an 8/10 an EXCELLENT film. "}{"Title":"PC-Chat","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  It´s a funny movie. But the point I really found exciting is chatting via PC. Now it is no problem and mostly everyone does it. But in 1986 there was no internet like we have today. I think it was a great job from Whoopie Goldberg and the producers, to visualize chatting over a computer network in 1986. "},{"Title":"A spy movie that fails on many levels","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Well, what do I have to say about this movie? Nothing much really. It was okay, but slow and not really all that original. The original things in this movie were the use of computers, but even then, there have been earlier movies, such as Wargames, where people were talking to each other over the computer.The movie is about a computer operator in New York who one day discovers a spy is trying to contact her. Thus she is sent on an adventure around New York to try and rescue him from behind the Iron Curtain. In the end this movie really turns out to be a spy movie with a few laughs in it which are not really all that funny. Whoopie Goldburg is portrayed as a comedian, but I really never found her all that funny. In fact she seems to do okay in the action-comedies, but even then she doesn't stand out like other actors do.This movie is more of a romantic in the sense that it tries to fuel the imagination of the swab spy (who doesn't turn out all the great in the end) that dates the humble young lady. It is not a true romantic film because that style of literature is actually quite dark and disturbing, especially if you have read any of Jane Austin's books. In fact Clueless, for all its pomp and gaiety, is actually quite a dark movie in places (but then it is based on the Jane Austin book Emma).This movie? Well, I would probably give it a miss as you are really not missing anything much anyway. "},{"Title":"Revisit this movie!","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Just recently caught the movie again on TV. While it still contained some great laughs, it also contained a very strong portrait of an African American woman that I never saw back when the movie first came out. Think about it--She's a computer operator, one of the first to be shown on screen chatting and skilled in hardware and software. She's gutsy, doesn't need a man to help her. She's independent, strong, and beautiful but not in a typical way. She's not a rock emotionally. You feel for here as she waits at the restaurant for Jack. You can feel the caring she shows for her friends, co-workers She still gets the man--a white man!-- in the end, at least that's the implication. All of this in 1986! This new perspective for the movie has certainly lifted it above all the dated material (Annie Potts' hair, the computer terminals) What a statement! Go Terr-eee! "},{"Title":"Great Movie, But A There's Something Missing","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" For those of you who know how talking over the internet can be risky, and that the Rolling Stones were one of the best bands ever, pick up this movie!!! It starts off with Teri, an internet banker who talkes to friends during her work hour accidentally talks to a spy whose codename is Jumpin Jack Flash. When Teri wants to learn more about him she is put is great danger after unravaling Jack's clue, and being put into the middle of international epsionage. The movie is full of funny one liners, a little bit of action, and a great plot. With all of this, you might think why the movie is only 7/10, but it actually has large amounts of time where NOTHING interesting happens. It is still a good movie if you need something to watch on your next movie night, and Woopie Goldburg does an amazing job of acting. Overall, I would say it will be worth your money if you picked it up at blockbuster. "},{"Title":"Jumpin' Jack Flash","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" In only her second role, Whoopi Golberg is quite good, even if the film isn't too compelling. Nevertheless, it is a good idea to stick with it. Basically Goldberg is Terry Dolittle who works in a bank, and one day she receives a message from someone called Jumpin' Jack Flash, and as she gets to know him she discovers he is a spy working for the British Secret Service. She helps him with many small jobs in secret espionage, all to help save his life. Many people are killed and she is chased, but she still continues. Also starring Stephen Collins as Marty Phillips, John Wood as Jeremy Talbott, Carol Kane as Cynthia, Annie Potts as Liz Carlson, Jonathan Pryce as Jack, Jon Lovitz .... Doug, 1st National Bank, Phil Hartman as Fred, 1st National Bank, James Belushi as Sperry Repairman/Furious Cab Driver/Injured Cop and Tracey Ullman as Fiona. It may be confusing towards the middle, but it is worth a look for some laughs and spy film elements. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Not quite a gas, gas, gas - 69%","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It seems that this is another of those films that TV networks (in the UK, at least) just loved to show two or three times a year. It also feels like years since I last watched it and having spotted it on my Better Half's DVD collection, it also felt like the time was right to reacquaint myself with Whoopi Goldberg's electrifying comic debut. Plus, I'd just worked a long night shift and was in the mood for something undemanding and this fit the bill perfectly.Whoopi plays Terry Dolittle, a computer worker in a New York bank who communicates with clients across the world. At least, she's supposed to and when her work is interrupted by someone calling themselves Jumping Jack Flash, she responds in typically brash fashion. But it soon transpires that Jack is a spy trapped on the wrong side of the Iron Curtain. Terry quickly finds herself up to her neck in international espionage and murky meetings at midnight in an effort to get Jack back, despite the efforts of the British Embassay and slimy diplomat Jeremy Talbott (John Wood).It's fair to be said that despite the obviously dated storyline and setting, Whoopi carries this film. She is surprisingly brilliant and suggests that apart from Ghost, she may have been wasted in most of her other films. She is genuinely funny in this film, which does have its moments but is rarely anything other than amusing. Nowhere is the film more dated than its feel as spies are little more than shadows in trench-coats and the baddies are all-too-eager in indulge in a little light torture. James Belushi's cameo as a hired thug is also amusing but like the rest of the film, he never really seems to go at full throttle. Only Whoopi develops a head of steam and is easily the best thing in Jumpin' Jack Flash.In summary, this is a disappointing waste of a timeless lead performance from one of America's most under-rated comic performers. Whoopi really shows us what she's capable of but sadly, the rest of the film cannot compete with her and she's simply in a class of her own. Without Whoopi, this would just be yet another Cold War caper with little laughs and less suspense. Sorry but this doesn't cut the mustard any longer and Jumpin' Jack Flash is no longer much of a gas, gas, gas. It's not a terrible film but if you want a light-hearted, easy-going spy caper then this could be the film for you but it isn't as memorable as Mick Jagger's lyrics... "},{"Title":"Silly but lively","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Not a great movie, but it is fun.  Never a dull moment with Goldberg around. Also it's interesting as Penny Marshall's directorial debut and for the supporting cast(Tracy Ullman, Michael McKean, Phil Hartman, etc, etc.). The plot is convuluted and forgettable...basically it's an excuse for Goldberg to dress up and/or do imitations and comedy sctick (her impersonation of Diana Ross was hilarious)!  A pretty good film. "},{"Title":"Has not aged well","Date":"12 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed this film when it was first released so on seeing the DVD in a charity shop it was an easy decision to part with a few coins, however age has not been kind to this movie.The sleeve describes the film as a suspenseful, fast-paced and murderously funny comedy. Unfortunately it is nothing of the sort. It is completely unfunny, repetitive and laboured. The acting is wooden by all the players and particularly by Whoopi Goldberg.If you enjoyed this film first time round, keep it as a happy memory, don't revisit or like me you will be sorely disappointed and wonder why you wasted an evening. "},{"Title":"Watched many times!","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  While I'm not much for comedies, this is one of the funniest I've ever watched.  I've seen it so many times, that I could easily quote it word for word! )  I now watch it late at night so as to not make my husband angry. Watching this movie a couple times was enough for him. The cast of characters were a perfect compliment to Whoopi's part.  "},{"Title":"How can I write a spoiler","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" when the writers seemed to be making it up as they went along, so that there is little to spoil. This film must have been conceived as a vehicle to get Ms. Goldberg in front of the cameras doing her shtick, raunchy comedy. Vehicles usually have minimalist plots; their purpose is to show off the lead's best qualities. Good,if not great, vehicles are Lucy and Desi in The Long, Long Trailer and Peter Sellers as the immortal inspector in A Shot in the Dark, which as it turned out was the second of the series. JJF made me not care if I saw Ms. Goldberg again. In fact when I noticed her as the center box of Hollywood Squares, I mourned the death of Paul Lynde even more. She operates on the machine gun comic principle that if she hurls enough comments and insults into the mix, some will be funny. She is right; some are, but not worth sitting through the noise level of the soundtrack. "}{"Title":"Profanely funny...Whoopi at her whoopiest...","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" If only for the dress shredding scene, this has enough laughs to keep the plot spinning as WHOOPI GOLDBERG gets deeper and deeper into deep you know what trying to help some guy in Russia do his spy thing.It's all impossible, shows the technological gap existing between then and now with old computers, and all the while has Whoopi cutting loose as only she can. The scene at the Embassy ball and the telephone scene with her being dragged through the city streets, are just two of the highlights in this comedy directed by Penny Marshall.STEPHEN COLLINS is totally wasted as the office worker replacement who lends some mild mannered assistance, as are JAMES BELUSHI and JONATHAN PRYCE in small parts, but since the film depends heavily on Whoopi for all the laughs, it doesn't matter much. PETER MICHAEL GOETZ is excellent as her impatient boss.The plot is a flimsy spy plot with lots of sight gags as Whoopi flits around New York City keeping one step ahead of the bad guys. Passes the time and is generally good fun, but it's peppered with lots of profanity and vulgarisms, mostly from Whoopi, of course. "},{"Title":"Poor 80s comedy...","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  People are wondering why this hasn't been released on DVD yet. Hmm...no big surprise, guys.It's a lousy movie. Whoopi Goldberg was OK in Ghost (filmed years later) but here she begins to wear her at-the-time comedy routine very dry.Whoopi is a computer programmer who stumbles onto a very weak plot. We all cringe as the Rolling Stones song is used to ill effect.What a poor movie.I can't believe people were actually rallying for this to be released on DVD. Who would ever want it?2/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Very funny movie!","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Great movie, comedy/suspense.  Very funny, one of Whoopie's best!I noticed there is no place to submit goofs for this movie and I found one. She uses a monochrome computer, but after she breaks the code, there is a color display of stars and such and then you see her chatting in color!A must see for any Whoopie fan!Favorite line Song I'm a slave to two lesbians; Whoopie Come on Mick, two lesbians?  F*** a duck! "},{"Title":"Dead men floatin' in rivers, little black women in silver boxes? It's gotta be Whoopi!","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is definitely Whoopi Goldberg at her very best (and funniest!). Here she plays Teri, DoLittle, a bank teller, who one day, starts receiving mysterious pleas for help from a British Intelligence going by the name Jumpin' Jack Flash, and asks her to help him get back home.This film was made in 1986, and a lot of the props, scenery, costumes and words are a bit old (particularly Teri's brightly-coloured shoes) and the computers have very little to them.However, what the film lacks in what is cool nowadays, it more than makes up for in comedy! Yep - this film is absolutely hilarious!! And mixed with elements of thrillers, mysteries and dramas, it all comes together nicely in this wicked film.There are a heap of favourite scenes - the tape deciphering one, the singing act, the police station scene and the truth serum part were so funny, I still laugh at it - and I've seen this film at least 30 times!!There are so many funny lines, I just had to put some inThere's a dead man floatin' around in the river!... What is it wit' you people, everytime you see a black woman she has to be a pimp or a John? What do you think there's a lotta work down at the docks as hookers? Do you think I give blowjobs down there to goldfish?!?What are you people doing spending all your money, take mine. Beauty comes from within you, it's not something you can buy! Except, except for you, you need the most help, take my credit cardSee? If you haven't already seen it, you just have to! And if you have? Well, you just gotta see it again! The acting's brilliant, the script is hilarious and the film plain and simply rocks! 9½/10!! "},{"Title":"It's a Run Out of Gas Gas Gas.","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Typical Goldberg fare in which she plays a banker who communicates with a Secret Agent with the code name Jumpin' Jack Flash while being pursued by a group of spies.  Goldberg has good potential here, and the film has an interesting premise, but it doesn't deliver much and the supporting actors fail to bring much life into it.  Whoopi's performance saves the film from being a major disappointment.2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"I've seen worse, but this movie is horrible.","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Jumpin' Jack Flash is an awful movie on many different levels.  The story does not make sense, which kinda ruins the whole thing from the start. However, the thing that makes this movie truly horrible is the mistake made by the director and producers in thinking that Whoopi Goldberg can be funny. This movie did not get a single laugh out of me, and I'm still wondering whether the movie was even supposed to be funny.Don't see Jumpin' Jack Flash. "},{"Title":"How You Feel About Goldberg Will Dictate Whether You Like This Or Not","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Here's a movie you'll either like a lot or can't stand, depending upon your feelings primarily about Whoopi Goldberg.If her constant profanity - especially her use of the Lord's name in vain - doesn't phase you, this is a very entertaining flick. The computer stuff was very cool 20 years ago but dated down, as we've come a long way in that technology. A good thriller, though, with interesting twists.If her language, and Goldberg's overall attitude, is not your liking, then pass this film up (and not all, but many others of hers) because this is typical of her humor and her profane mouth. What surprised me was that Penny Marshall is associated or at least had the reputation of a nice, family-oriented type director....yet she's involved with this? "},{"Title":"It's just a really funny movie!","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" JUMPIN' JACK FLASH has remained one of the best laugh-out-loud and quotable 80's comedies in my collection. I've always loved Whoopi Goldberg. She is a very funny, very smart woman. She's an original.The other female genius behind the film is director Penny Marshall. This film was panned if I remember right, and I'll never understand why. It's just a delight to watch, paced nearly perfectly from start to finish. It's got an interesting plot that stays fairly spare (to go into depth about how and why Jack came to be trapped in Russia in the first place would have taken an extra hour to explain), and easy to follow. Though it has almost wall-to-wall comedic dialogue, when things get serious or dangerous, the villains are among the nastiest you'll ever see on film.During the mid-to-late 80s, the KGB of the former Soviet Union was a hot topic and made for some cool movie plot devices. A New Yorker named Terri Doolittle (Goldberg) has an average life. She gets up, goes to work doing money transfers at a bank, comes home, watches some TV, and goes to bed. She doesn't dream of adventure or excitement, even though a friend of hers, sexpot Cynthia thinks Terri needs to get out more.One day Terri, after being scolded by her boss for having too many chats on her terminal with overseas bank associates, gets IM'd by someone calling himself Jumping Jack Flash. He won't go into detail, yet, but he says he desperately needs her assistance. Bewildered but unable to blow Jack off completely, she uses a famous Rolling Stones song's lyrics to break a secret code-key so that she can correspond with Jack on a private computer channel. Before she's realized it, Terri is up to her neck in the world of espionage, treachery, treason, deceit, all those fun mystery words! The whole spy plot, along with Goldberg's many quotables, plus a great supporting cast including Annie Potts, Stephen Collins, and John Wood, as well as many bit parts/cameos by the likes of Jim Belushi, Jon Lovitz, Jeroen Krabbe, Phil Hartman, Carole Kane, Michael McKean, Garry Marshall, Jonathan Hyde and Traci Ullmann, makes this film fun, and it never fails to get me laughing! If I had to name any flaws, it would be that the romantic thing that seems to develop in Terri about Jack wasn't necessary. But then, even if it's one-sided, it is possible to blow up an imaginary romance in your head with someone you talk to a lot, but do not really know. I'd say that Jack and Terri probably stayed good friends for a long time, if not for life. She saved his ass, after all. But the romance thing just didn't belong in this one. "},{"Title":"hysterical","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Terry Dolittle works in a bank doing some sort of financial stuff. One day she gets a message from some guy stuck in Eastern Europe. Apparently she is the only one who can get him out. She makes trips to the British Consulate, contacts other spies, etc. in her attempts to bring Jack home. If I had to just pick one scene that is my favorite I would be in big trouble. The scene at the police station where she is cursing at the cops for assuming she's a hooker and has a pimp; the dress shredding scene, the phone booth scene, the truth serum, her comments while listening to Jumpin' Jack Flash. The whole movie was a laugh riot. I am now 49 years old and still watch this if I need a good laugh. If people don't think it's funny, they have a poor sense of humor.It was a bloody fun movie "},{"Title":"still good","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I know this is an uneven movie. But. It is where I first really fell in love with Whoopie Goldberg. I thought she had a nice wistful air beneath her bravado, and it gave the piece heart. Steven Collins is actually an excellent foil for her. I saw it recently after many years and still laughed a lot. my favourite parts would be her trying to figure out the lyrics to the song Jumping jack flash. Mick, Mick, Mick ... speak English! Also loved the scene in the Police Station. Her rage at their racist assumptions that she is a prostitute is piquant. Uh, oh ... yeah ...you think I am a hooker, right? Yeah, that's what I would be doing down at the docks at two in the morning. Lot of business. What, you think I'm giving blow-jobs to goldfish or some damn thing? The sweet aside from Collins My that's a vivid image, isn't it? as he tries to explain that she has Toretts Syndrome is nothing short of hilarious. "}{"Title":"Amusing vehicle for Whoopi Goldberg's comic talents","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" What would you do if you suddenly found yourself corresponding with a man who says he's in a deadly situation and needs your help to get out of it? No doubt most of us would assume we were being jerked around, and forget about it. But, of course, this is the movies, and where would the fun be in that...Terry Doolittle (Whoopi Goldberg) is an energetic woman who has a boring job at a bank. She tries to liven things up during the eight hours a day she spends there, but only succeeds in running afoul of her boss, Mr. Page (Peter Michael Goetz). And then one day, she gets a message on her computer from someone who only identifies himself as Jumping Jack Flash (Jonathan Pryce, only seen at the tale end of the movie). Taunted by Jack with clues as to who - and where - he is, Terry starts digging, and comes up with a British agent in real trouble. Unfortunately, Jeremy Talbott (John Wood), the diplomat sent by the British embassy to talk to Terry only hinders things as he turns out to be a double agent. And Jack's former girlfriend, Lady Sarah Billings (Sara Botsford), won't help much to begin with either. Still, Terry believes Jack and tries to help him anyway, with the result that she is drawn further into the spy world. She proves surprisingly resourceful in dealing with enemy agents who drug her, knock her unconscious, and in one hysterically funny scene, kidnap her by dragging her through New York City in a phone booth. But for all her resources, can she save Jack before Talbott has him killed? The plot is incredibly full of holes, but the movie is so well paced that you really don't care. Like an amusement park ride, you go along merely for the illusion of it, and it's the illusion you enjoy.The acting is excellent, primarily because so much of it is Goldberg, who carries the film with ease. Aside from displaying an absolute genius for physical comedy, Goldberg makes you care about her character. Goetz is a wonderful actor, and sadly underrated, who makes Page an incredibly annoying boss. Wood is perfect as the slimy Brit, and Botsford does a good job of redeeming her character in the end. Carol Kane, Annie Potts, and Phil Hartman do well in unfortunately small parts. And Roscoe Lee Browne's cameo is delightful.It's not the greatest of movies, but from a pure entertainment standpoint, it can't be beat, and it is worth it to watch Goldberg strut her stuff on screen. "},{"Title":"Sing with me to find the key. (spoilers)","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I have always loved Jumpin' Jack Flash, but its really for those who love a particular kind of 80s movie. If you enjoy the early comedy stylings of Whoopie Goldberg, or seemingly absurd story lines, then this comedy is probably choice for you.Whoopie Goldberg stars in this Penny Marshall-directed comedy as Terry, an eccentric bank teller who accidentally receives a message from a guy known in code as Jumping Jack Flash. Within no time, Terry unwittingly finds herself playing the role of a contact for Jumping Jack Flash, chasing all over New York to help Jack get home safely. She quickly becomes the target of British spies who want to know what she knows about Jumping Jack Flash.It is quite an amusing comedy caper with Goldberg in a role that allows her to show off her true New York standup comedy persona. (I particularly love the scenes with her at the British consulate ball and in the upscale salon scene where she insults all of the snobby patrons). It is also one that is supported by a terrific comedic cast such as Carol Kane, Jon Lovitz, Phil Hartman, Stephen Collins (why he ever got stuck on 7th Heaven, I'll never know), John Pryce, Robert Gillaum, John Wood, and my personal favorite, Annie Potts. Give it a try when you're in the mood for light comedy. "},{"Title":"Who says this is not a great comedy?","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie from start to finish and don't understand people who don't think this movie is hilarious.  Maybe they just don't like Whoopie!  Or comedies.  I don't know.  This is a very clever and very funny movie and that's all she wrote.  I don't know what it takes to please people who sit there and analyze it and pick it apart, or qualify their praise by saying, oh, this isn't one of Whoopie's best, or Penny Marshall's best.  I think it is Whoopie's best and it seems to have also turned out to be Penny Marshall's best.  It is one of my all-time favorite perfect movies.  I will watch it forever.  It is fast-paced and great looking with a funny script and an even funnier (and I would say PERFECT) cast!.  What is not to like, for gosh sakes?  One reviewer whines that Whoopie's character is too over-the-top.  Hello out there!  This is a comedy, folks, not Gone With the Wind.  As far as that goes, I think Whoopie's character in this film is more believable than any character played by Robin Williams in any movie.  Including those of his that made the ridiculous AFI top 100 comedies list.  Well, to each his or her own.  But I am so glad this movie exists and highly recommend it to anyone who likes to have fun.  (I also agree with the reviewer who thinks Burglar is a funny movie.  It's not quite as great as Jumpin' Jack Flash, but it IS very funny.) "},{"Title":"becoming a favorite","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  It's never going to be called great or a classic of any sort, cult or otherwise...  It may not even be a star in Whoopie Goldberg's sizable crown, nor that of Penny Marshall who directed it.  The cast is of course notable and contains the best of that year's top comics...  but this is not why I have grown to love this film.  I love coming home after a really frustrating day at work and, after chatting on the internet with sympathetic friends about the problems I've had, I throw some spaghetti on the stove & pop in this tape just to hear some of the lines( F***aduck! This has got some weird-ass lyrics! Mick! Mick! Mick! Speak English!I'm down here on the docks at 130 in the morning.  I should just pin a hundred dollar bill to my ass and scream 'victim here! victim here!'How'dya like me to kick you in the nuts so hard they get lodged in your nostrils? My, that's a vivid image, isn't it?I got moths.  Big, junkie, mutant moths.You can't miss me!  I'm a little black woman in a big silver box!Earl, look at this face.  This is the face of a woman on the edge.  I know, my wife has that same face.How are you? Oh, boy, well, y'know I hate my job, I hate this city, 'm a little bit lonely from time to time, I feel like I got my period every day but for the most part this spy stuff is... a big mistake... but other than that I'm great!.If I'd known this was the way to get a promotion I'd have blown up the place years ago.) ... lines that ease my pain and bring a smile to my face...  to watch internet chat before the internet, before chat -- to laugh at the the suspension of disbelief required to believe the computer was talking to her in an english accent with her back turned to it...  to actually enjoy The Rolling Stones, who I never listen to otherwise.----- it's a gas! "},{"Title":"No Need to Jump Over this Flash *1/2","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Poorly scripted film where heroine Whoopi Goldberg works diligently on her computer at a bank only to get involved with spies when her computer connects with them.Carol Kane is totally wasted in a small role as an office worker. Miss Kane, who has the ability to be hilarious with that foolish Brooklyn accent, would have been far better had she been allowed to appear in the caper scenes. As for Stephen Collins, he appears in so many important scenes that it's just a simple matter to figure out if he is with the good guys or bad guys.The scenes where Goldberg's dress is caught in a shredding machine and where she is locked inside a moving telephone booth could have been hilarious but end too quickly. Another scene at the British embassy is also wasted.This apparent spoof of spy movies just doesn't cut it. "},{"Title":"A film from the 80's that I love","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  As a child of the eighties I have to say that I love this film and still do to this day (having recently purchased it on DVD). It may not be one of the more classic films of the era, but Whoopie Goldberg puts in a great performance which always leaves me with a tear in my eye at the end of the film!! It is also quite amusing to see how us Brits were portrayed in the eighties with references to Benny Hill and of course the Rolling Stones. If like me you are a collector of eighties films and are ever feeling nostalgic then I would add this one to your collection.Go on give this film a try you know you want to!!!  "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  i thought this was a really funny and entertaining film. ok, the plot is extremely far fetched but what the hell. Whoopi Goldberg is my favourite actress of all time. shes one of a kind. Highly reccomended if your stuck for something to watch one night,7 stars out of 10 ******* "},{"Title":"my favorite Whoopi Goldberg movie.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is without a doubt THE ULTIMATE WHOOPI GOLDBERG MOVIE. Its funny, its fast paced and has a goofy plot and a fun cast. I hate Burglar and there is only SOOO many times i can see Sister Act before i get sick of it, but i can always come back to this movie. This comedy has every thing!!! NO WHOOPI FAN CAN AFFORD TO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE.... "},{"Title":"Funny stuff!","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Admittedly, I've only seen the 'Edited for Australian TV' version of this, but what was left in place by the censors was definitely funny enough to satisfy this little, black duck.  For all those who might complain that its Whoopi alone who carries this film, I rather thought that was the idea - her timing is fantastic and, well, I have to admit the clothes they got her in were funny in themselves.  I will admit it, though, that Jonathan Pryce has a wonderful speaking voice, although he ain't much to look at (unless you go for that sort of thing). Its typical eighties humour that still does it in the naughties.  Now, to track down the full version... "},{"Title":"Whoopee! It's Whoopi!","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Imagine you worked in a bank. It'd be pretty dull right? WRONG! Because if Whoopi Goldberg worked there it'd be the best job you ever had! I think.But that's only about 6%of what &#145;Jumping Jack Flash' (I've spelt it correctly here) is actually about. You see Whoopi (Whoopi! Whoopi! I love saying her name) works on a computer and can dress how she likes when she meets this secret agent. I say &#145;meets' but he actually sends her an electronic message asking her to help him. The Wachowski brothers in the film &#145;The Matrix' later stole this idea. For my money they should have put Whoopi in that film too, as &#145;The Other One'. Awww man that would have been so cool! Neo kicking butts whilst Whoopi got all the other people in the matrix to join in and have a good time. `C'mon, we can really rock this place!' she'd shout as she brandished a Franchi SPAS12 at a security guard.For my money there's not enough of Whoopi in this film and the director doesn't make use of her comedy talents as much as she could. But having said that, it is very funny! Can you imagine sitting next to Whoopi for 8 hours a day and getting paid for it? No? Well I can and it'd be really, REALLY cool! We'd also probably hang out at lunchtime together as well, because I just know we'd be good friends.In homage to this film I have decided to call my first-born child Whoopi after the talented Ms Goldberg. Although I'm currently single so if anybody wants to meet up and get married then please let me know.Neonsamurai Movie Rating 14  "}{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  One of my Favorites... I love how the computer voice changes from Whoopie over to Jack AFTER she hears his voice on the answering machine. A Classic that you can watch Over and Over again. You Go Girl!  and add to that early Carol Kane, Phil Hartman. Lot's of Fun. "},{"Title":"Jumpin' Jack Flash is Trash, Trash, Trash!","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Whoopi Goldberg first made her name as a comedienne, so it is rather surprising that her first major cinema role was in the almost reverentially serious 'The Color Purple'. 'Jumpin' Jack Flash' was her first screen comedy, but it is unfortunate that she chose such a second-rate vehicle for her talents. Whoopi plays Terry Dolittle, a dealer in a New York bank. One day she gets a mysterious message on her computer screen. This turns out to come from a British secret agent code-named 'Jumpin' Jack Flash'. Jack is marooned somewhere in Eastern Europe behind the Iron Curtain and his life is in danger. He asks Terry to get a message to his contacts in the British consulate so that they can take steps to extricate him from his plight. (It is never explained exactly where Jack is, or what the danger is with which he is threatened, or what the consulate staff can do to save him). Terry does so, but discovers that one of the consular officials is a KGB agent and that her own life is in danger. The film is billed as a 'comedy-thriller', and like a number of films in this and other hybrid genres, it falls between two stools. It lacks the wit of a pure comedy or the excitement of a pure thriller. It must be the only spy thriller in which we do not see the spy except for a very brief appearance at the end. (A waste of that fine actor Jonathan Pryce). Jack is simply a mysterious presence at the other end of a computer line; the film concentrates exclusively on Terry's efforts. As a result, we never believe completely in her efforts to save him; had the film shown us more of Jack's situation it might have generated more tension. John Woods plays the villain as the stereotyped languid, drawling, upper-class Englishman (a common category of villain in films of the eighties and nineties), but never makes him seem very menacing. As for the comic element, there are occasionally some amusing scenes, particularly those involving Terry's patronising, sexist boss, but overall the film is largely free of genuine wit. I was surprised at the large amount of bad language in a film which does not have an explicitly 'adult' theme; I am not personally offended by this sort of language, but I felt that it could have the potential effect of alienating family audiences. Not, in all, a film worth watching. A 'gas, gas, gas'? More like trash, trash, trash. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Not very enjoyable","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Well, considering all of the talent that worked on this film, this would have to be called a disappointment.  There's some action and a few attempts at comedy, but it just isn't very entertaining.  Whoopi tries hard, and there are lots of other great actors with small parts in the movie, but the script lets everyone down.  This is a comedy that is rarely funny, and it was certainly a mediocre way for Penny Marshall to start her film directing career. "},{"Title":"I know it's dated 18 years on but it's still great fun and one of Whoopi's Best. MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS!","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" ***1/2 out of *****Plot- Whoopi plays Bank Worker Terry Dolittle who while working on her (very dated-It is 1986!) Computer, gets a coded message from an unknown Source, after Decoding the Message, she starts chatting to a man called Jack (Johnathan Pryce) who turns out to be a British Intelligence Spy whose in great danger,Terry tries to help her new friend out - but by doing so puts her own life in danger and bad guy Jeremy Talbot (John Wood) is on her tail.Will Terry Survive? will Jack make it home in one piece? will there be a Happy Ending? - What do you think? This is Hollywood After all!The stars- Yes, I know Whoopi does tend to go OTT in this film with a lot of shouting,screaming and swearing which might put some people off, but this is one of her Best Films, She is a very talented actress and become only the second African-American Woman to win an Oscar but sadly her career started heading south long ago with Flop after flop after flop tarnishing her achievements in 'The Colour Purple' and 'Ghost' and just to prove it by now she has been reduced to appearing in Baby Geniusses 2 Superbabies which is by all accounts one of the worst movies's ever made.Johnathan Pryce a fellow Welshman and also a very talented Actor is only seen in the last minute of the movie, but his voice is used throughout. Pryce is probably better known as the Bond Bad guy Elliot Carver in 1997's Tomorrow Never Dies, But has done a lot of work on the stage as well as on the Big Screen.The Co-stars- Stephen Collins. Carol Kane and Annie Potts and others are great and it really looks as if they're enjoying themselvesThe Directing By Penny Marshall (Sister of Garry) is really quite good considering it's her First shot at the job.This movie wasn't much of a hit on it's original release,but in my view it's one of the better movies from the 1980's & It's one of my favourites. "},{"Title":"The is a fun, mindless, comedy worth your time investment","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I disagree with John Ulmer. I'd give this movie a solid three out of five stars.This movie is fun escapism. Granted, it is not one of the greatest movies ever made, but it is cute and worth your time. It's a movie that I enjoy watching every other year or so. It is well worth the two hours investment of time. It beats watching the news of hurricane destruction and loss of life in Iraq! The cast is a lot of fun. They work well together. Stephen Collins is well cast as the mouse that saves the day! And what does the E stand for in Phil E. Hartman?I am hopeful that the movie will be released on DVD. I'd like to have a copy for my DVD collection.  "},{"Title":"It's a gas gas gas of a time!","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I gotta say that i am one of Whoopi Goldberg's biggest fan. She has amazed so many people with her quick wit of comedy. What a woman! This movie i have recently bought on DVD was worth buying.  Whoopi's character Terri Doolittle is a talk to yourself kind of person but that doesn't mean she's mental, it gives the film humour and outrageous behaviour when it comes to her stunts and assignments she needs to do, in order to save a British Intelligence agent who calls himself Jumpin' Jack Flash. It's filled with a great cast and i hope that all of you out there watch this film. I give it 8/10. B-FLAT!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Hilarious And Suspenseful","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Saw this movie's starting on TBS. And got hooked as the suspense keeps building from start. Good one time watch movie with mix of comedy,action and mystery. Not many big name actors.  But Whoppi does a good job and several funny one liners and scenes.The one about canceling the message  near the end Ouch!!.   Movie from the 80's  like these rocked and are fun to watch.A good movie to watch when bored.  Cant find many movies like that coming out today.  Should be released on DVD.   And hopefully will be soon. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, absolutely funny and entertaining","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is a must see for teenagers 18 & on up, some nauty language, but full of fun and comedy! Would recommend for late night watching after the kids have gone to bed! hehe Loads of laughter and has some good actors that are now famous. Wish it was on dvd.  "},{"Title":"weirdness","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  THIS WAS AN AWESOME FLICK! but i have a couple things to say about mister jack.... okay throughout the entire movie you hear this sexy freakin voice and you expect to see a mister james bond look alike at the end....but NOO!! you see this freakin 40 year old guy who's balding and with grey hair EVERYWHERE!! one word....eww. okay well that was about it...the movie rocked until i sawed mister jack. lexy "},{"Title":"Definitely will make you laugh!","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Its more than just a gas gas gas, Whoopi Goldberg gives out, I think, one of her funniest roles of her carrer, in this Penny Marshall film ( her directorial debut as well).  This movie didn't exactly got the critics raving, but that doesn't matter. Because this movie has a lot of humor, and just a touch supsense, and action. I defintley recommend this for you, and Whoopi Goldberg is what makes this one a must see!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Jumpin' around....","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Let's see Penny Marshall directs, Whoopi Goldberg debuts, there's SNL cast members, Tracey Ullman, Michael McKean....Sounds like a comedy.And it is, for the most part.  As a computer worker who stumbles onto international intrigue, Whoopi plays it to the hilt - she screams, hops around, dresses up like Tina Turner, scales walls, gets sedated, kidnapped and attacks the bad guys in a place where they would least like to be attacked.She's the movie herself, as it should be.  And she gets able support from everyone around her (even Collins turns in a good comic performance, who knew?).  Marshall's direction is pretty roughshod but that's to be expected from a first-timer.  For the most part, the scenes deliver and the look is good.  Everyone seems to be on top of their game.  Especially Whoopi.One quibble - why did they have to make her SO weird?  Well, that's Whoopi for you.Eight stars.Watch Jumpin' Jack Flash - it's a gas, gas, gas! "},{"Title":"Whoopi Goldberg is hilarious!","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Profanity is a great tool for humour. If it is done right it can add that extra element to a dry scene and add flavour to it. Eddie Murphy is pretty good at it and so is Chris Rock. When Whoopi Goldberg was making her comedies in the 80's, she was very good at it too. Burglar was a funny film and so is Jumping Jack Flash. Actually to be fair, this movie is quite hilarious.Take a bank employee who loves to play around with her computer. This is before the Internet so she is fairly limited to giving out recipees to co workers and such. But then one day she comes into contact with a mysterious man through her computer that seems to be held hostage somewhere. It is up to her to figure out this mystery and save the day. But before she can get to that stage of the adventure she must know the key to get into Jacks file so she can communicate with him. And what she does is buys the song  Jumpin Jack Flash  by the Stones. This is one of the funnier scenes as she tries to decipher what the hell it is that Mick is singing. By the end of her session, she is up late into the night and she is exhaustively mumbling words yet she sounds exactly like Mick Jagger. It is really quite funny.There is also quite the adventure here. We have shootouts, secret names on frying pans, spies, espionage, British Intelligence, and good old fashion comedy. Whoopi brings energy to every role that she is in and I felt that she had fun with this one. It certainly looks like it because she comes off so fresh and humorous. And when she ends up being given a truth serum, the laughs come fast and frenzied. It is an old gag, but it works so well in this film.I highly recommend this film for those who like Whoopi now and are interested in seeing some of her early work. And if I'm not mistaken, this is her first role after the Color Purple. It is really worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Too funny","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the greatest comedy movies I've ever seen.  It is Whoopi Goldberg's first comedy..and she does a good job.  She stars as a single woman who works a 9-to-5 job at a bank in corporate America.  She has a knack for chatting with other people from different countries on her computer at work which gets her in trouble with her boss.  Unexpectedly, a British spy (known as Jumpin' Jack Flash) begins chatting with her, asking for her help to secretly get him a passport back to America. In doing this, she has to run several errands for him across New York City city and gets into a whole lot of hilarious trouble!!  The best thing about this movie is the profanity and her feminism. I wouldn't recommend watching this movie on cable TV because all the good parts are either cut out or edited.8.5 stars out of 10 "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Jumpin' Jack Flash made me laugh so hard I hurt.  I know it got bad reviews but it is not a bad movie.  It is a very good movie and very funny.  It has one of the funniest sequences I have ever seen  from the time Terry is seen climbing up the side of the building wearing Cynthia's borrowed dress - through the paper shredder business - to the end of the sequence  where Marty asks her if there is something wrong with the dress.  If you have seen it, you know what I mean.  If you haven't seen it please do.  Rent the video rather than watching it on TV.  The TV version is cut.  "}]