[{"Title":"I'm free!","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Quite possibly the best film ever made! Okay, maybe i'm exaggerating but it's a really fun film filled with wacky characters and that distinct LA 80's feel. What sets this film apart is the dynamic lead performance by Deborah Foreman (where have you gone, Debbie?) In terms of comic timing and just being so damn adorable she rivals Katherine Hepburn in Bringing Up Baby (a film which My Chauffeur most resembles)David Baierd's direction keeps things brisk and light yet there are demented touches here and there which give the film a unique off-balanced vibe.Check this film out if you can and expect a pleasant surprise. I'll re-watch it again and again and have a blast each and every time. "},{"Title":"A thoroughly enjoyable romantic comedy","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, so it's no epic piece of cinematic history, and sure it's a formulaic and derivative romantic comedy, but I still rank it as one of my all-time favorite films because it possesses a wonderful plot structure, engaging vignettes (A blue lady with a blue dog! That's 20,000 points!), well-drawn characters, witty dialog, a lot of heart and a lot of laughs - not to mention a finger-snapping, so-80s soundtrack from a seemingly never-to-be-heard-from-again band called The Wigs My Chauffeur is all-around well written and well realized. Watching this film, you can tell the people involved both in front of and behind the camera really put their imaginations and talents into crafting something special. Deborah Foreman is quirky-cute-cool as Casey Meadows, an aspiring limo driver who shakes up the stuffy status quo of Brentwood Limousine Company when she's hush-hush hired by its reclusive owner (E.G. Marshall). She faces the cold shoulders of all of the older male drivers, save for a paternal Irish gent (played marvelously by Sean McClory) who takes her under his wing. Sam Jones is marvelous as Battle Witherspoon, the dictatorial corporate suit who's all business and no pleasure - until he meets Foreman's Casey and slowly melts for her. The romance that ensues between them is surrounded by a wonderful cast of characters who populate the movie's tangental scenes, such as the one that features the film debut of Penn & Teller (as a con man and a Middle Eastern prince, respectively). Myself, I get a little choked up every time I see the scenes where Casey comes to the transportation rescue of a young man being berated by his girlfriend for not having a car, and where Battle finally realizes what a jerk he's been and commands his long-suffering, single-mom secretary to march down to human resources the following Monday and name her own raise. Touching, heartfelt, sincere stuff. Yeah, it's a fairy tale film filled with other little fairy tales, but that's what makes it so much fun. Even more fun My Chauffeur has one of the most fall-down laughing drunk scenes I've ever seen. After Jones' character gets dumped by his girlfriend, he gets rip-roaring blotto in the back of Casey's limo. Chugging scotch, primal screaming and spewing venom he declares his freedom and commences to streak stark naked through a neighborhood park.  In terms of sheer hilarity it rivals the scene in The Money Pit where Tom Hanks laughs himself into hysterics after the bathtub plunges through the bathroom and shatters on the first floor. It's just movie magic. As you can tell, I've seen this film a few times, and will undoubtedly see it a few more in my lifetime. But everytime I see it, there is some bittersweetness that manifests itself as the credits roll at the end as I ask myself where are they now?  "},{"Title":"Fun Romp","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A quirky, fun-filled, romantic romp of a movie with unforgettable lines like Gawd, it's hot.  But thank gawd it's not sticky! You are now a prisoner of Brentwood Limousine, If I see something I haven't seen before, I'll throw a rock at it, and a one-legged nun walking a goat.  Major 80s nostalgia in the music.   Deborah Foreman's Casey Meadows character is adorable.  Annoying Penn and Teller were the only low point. "},{"Title":"It's a blue lady with a blue dog","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie....I've loved it since I first saw it at age 10...If you pride yourself on your love for off-beat movies, and have never seen this..please do..I can't promise you'll have the same love for it as I do...but I truly believe I would love it just as much if I saw it today for the first time....Deborah Foreman is perfect in this role..open enough to be such a great character.  All roles are distinct, no one gets lost in the chaos.  I hope you have fun..now get up go rent it..I'd loan you my copy, but I don't know you stranger!! "},{"Title":"Cheery little flick","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a light-hearted, cute movie about a girl whose father works in a snobby, stuffy chauffeur company. Things quickly change as she joins, turns the company inside out, and falls in love with one of the customers.Okay, so it's not THE best movie, but most people should like it. I give it a B+. It's got some good jokes, one-liners and a reasonable plot. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie!!","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is my all-time favorite movie.  Most definitely a feel good movie.  When I'm stressed or down, I watch this movie and it always brings a smile to my face and makes me laugh when I think nothing could.  Deborah Foreman is brilliant as a quirky, adorable female chauffeur who upsets the gentleman chauffeurs boring, stuffy existence and brings some light in their lives.  This movie is a great one to see when you just want to sit back and enjoy a good movie without investing too much emotion or thought process into it.  Try it, sit back and enjoy!!!! "},{"Title":"The greatest comedy of the 80's","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has many highlights -- the blue lady walking a dog scene, the tar pit scene, the hillbilly hospitality scene, the car thief scene and on and on including the entire Bone & Abdul (i.e. Penn & Teller) routine. There are no low points. Deb is in top form -- cute, coy and adorable. Aside from a couple of minor continuity flaws, the movie is perfect. And if your wondering where I got my name from, watch the movie. Yes, Deb, I wanna be your dog! -) "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK this movies is good for girl meets boy, they fall in love plot, that in it self is enough of a reason to watch it and no Flash Gordon or April Fools Day involved. The second reason and third is that rich guy grows up and becomes a human being and a man when he is forced to be a human and deal with human side of common person life. He finds out the real meaning in life, love, is much more important then money. And he learns the fact that having emotions is a good thing instead of the robot he starts out as. It also was a Cinderella story, poor girl gets a big break, then meets her prince and her father she thought was long gone. all in all a great romantic comedy I would recommend to any one looking for a good movie to see with a special person "},{"Title":"Cute and in search of a director","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You know what? It's true. Deborah ('Valley Girl') Foreman IS damned cute and so she can damned well ACT damned cute if she wants to. And she's even cuter when she's doing her omigod-this-is-crayzee grin. But it doesn't get any cuter when it is the ONLY mannerism she is allowed to display in response to EVERY situation through the entire running time of a feature comedy with her in virtually every scene. And - especially since Foreman strikes me as more of a comedienne than an actress - let me mention that this sort of thing is supposed to be the DIRECTOR'S job, guys!! I was even less impressed with hateful hunk Sam Jones, whose assitude quickly mutates into a plot problem she watches him be a complete unredeemed creep for a while, then falls in love. And to hell with spoilers, you're not gonna see it put yourself in Foreman's shoes for the big climactic revelations the guy you want to marry, and have in fact screwed (if that's what those three shots of bed-ridden, slow-motion kissing is supposed to symbolize) is your BROTHER; your BOSS is your FATHER; no wait your CO-WORKER - who hates your guts! - is in fact your FATHER so you can get married after all. I would not only not dance around the room - I would, I'm sure, undergo an immediate and public nervous breakdown. And how could I forget the screen debut of Penn and Teller, sullying their mystique as a talkative racist creep and random imaginary Arab, respectively. "},{"Title":"Godawful","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thought this was one of the worst 1980s comedies that I've seen. A grating young woman becomes a chauffeur through some irrelevance of the plotting and the film follows her as she deals with a number of clients. There's a sleazy British rock star (of course), a playboy, even a rich Arab, but the overriding theme is of diabolical and unfunny humour.The talent-free Deborah Foreman gives a performance of such blandness that I can barely remember her face just a few minutes after watching. FLASH GORDON star Sam Jones plays in support as a client and his drunk scene must go down in history as one of the most embarrassingly overacted ever. The likes of E. G. Marshall and even Penn & Teller show up too, but they don't stop this from being one of the least funny so-called comedies ever. "}{"Title":"Likable 80's light comedy","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A woman is hired as a chauffeur for a limousine company. Her appointment causes all manner of perturbation and despair in the chauvinistic environs of this male-only club. Much to her male colleagues annoyance, she pretty much immediately makes a good impression with their clients though and gets involved with a relationship with a hard-nosed businessman who hires her as a driver. As is the way of these films, they start out getting on very badly but as time progresses a love affair emerges and the businessman learns from the error of his ways.This 80's effort is overall pretty good fun. It's hardly going to blow your mind with its originality or anything though, as it is in essence a formulaic romantic comedy. But it has a very likable performance from Deborah Foreman underpinning it. She elevates the material up a notch or two. Appearing alongside her is Sam J. Jones, surely best known for his starring role in the earlier movie Flash Gordon (1980). There is also the first cinematic appearance of Penn and Teller, as a couple of oddballs who Foreman picks up latterly in the story. And we also have some very 80's music performed by the never popular new wave band, The Wigs. All-in-all, this is not bad for a low budget 80's comedy, it's corny but gets by on a reasonable amount of charm. "},{"Title":"One of the most hilarious movies I have ever seen.","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Let's be real - a cast of has beens or could bes is not going to make Oscar caliber films on a shoestring budget. But this movie is HILARIOUS. There are one liners galore and hysterical visual antics. It's a fun way to pass the time and you will forever be quoting this movie to the chortles of your friends. Deborah Foreman is spectacular and her comedic timing is impeccable. The wise assed Howard Hesseman with his dour timing is a perfect foil. There is a great 80s soundtrack (make sure and check out The Wigs), and the movie moves at a brisk clip. I have to admit that I enjoy the kitsch of it, but also that it is just genuinely funny. I still text my college roommate every time this is on because I can't help laughing through the whole thing. Now, not really family friendly with a few sexual references that are a little trashy but mostly its fine for older tweens and teenagers. "},{"Title":"Strange little comedy","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My Chauffeur was one of the last movies from Crown International to get a serious theatrical release. Maybe Crown International decided to wind things down considerably after making this movie thinking that if this was the best they could do... Anyway, this is a very strange movie. Half of the movie is of a sweet-natured tone, while the other half has R rated material like language and sexual elements. Also, the movie is often directed in a kind of surreal manner, which adds to the strangeness. But the movie ultimately doesn't work for two big reasons. One is that it really isn't all that funny, and the second reason is that it essentially runs out of plot long before it reaches the closing credits - the padding in this movie is considerable. All the same, the movie does show enough promise towards the idea of remaking it. With this movie sinking so low at times, any remake would have to be an improvement. "},{"Title":"If cuteness could kill...","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After her unforgettable turn in horror comedy Waxworks, in which she played the submissive plaything of The Marquis De Sade, I didn't think it would be possible to find chipmunk-cheeked cutie Deborah Foreman irritating, but My Chauffeur has proved me wrong. The actress is just as great to look at, her dimples no less adorable, but her character, Casey Meadows, is thoroughly abrasive, a 'kooky' free-spirited young woman with a nonchalant attitude to life whose response to any situation is an exaggerated expression of cuteness or surprise. In short, she hacks me off!Having firmly established her 'crazy credentials' during her first few assignments as chauffeur to the rich and famous (including ferrying a sleazy rock star to his gig in someone's front room, stopping along the way to let him assault an old lady), Casey is tasked with driving hard-nosed businessman Battle (Sam 'Flash Gordon' Jones) to a vineyard, a 300 mile trip during which the girl's incessant wacky mannerisms, cheeky grins, and spunky behaviour eventually melts her workaholic passenger's icy heart. Fetch me the bucket...But writer/director David Beaird isn't content with simply rolling out the hoary old romantic movie clichés. Oh no, he's got something special in store for his unwary viewers&#x97;one hell of a strange ending that beggars belief. For Casey's final job as a posh limo driver, she must drive a rich oil sheik (played by Teller, one half of magic duo Penn and Teller) to his embassy, a simple task but for the intervention of a conman (played by Penn, the other half of magic duo Penn and Teller) who sneaks into the back of the car and fast talks his way into changing the sheik's plans.Instead of the embassy, Casey drives to a wild party where the sheik and the conman pick up some big breasted bimbos and pay them to take off their clothes in the back of the car. Cue more cutesie smiles and looks of amusement from an unfazed Casey. The next day sees Casey given the heave ho from her job, discovering the true identity of her father, fleetingly believing that she has committed incest, and learning that her mother was a total slut who slept with almost all of the men in the limo company. Instead of flipping out at this news like any normal person, Casey simply grins cheekily and looks cute. Arrrgghhhhh!3.5 out of 10, rounded up to 4 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Deborah Foreman makes it all worthwhile.","Date":"20 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The lovely lady was one of the brightest stars of the 1980s, bringing an irresistible presence to such other favourites as Valley Girl, April Fool's Day, and Waxwork. Here she shines as Casey Meadows, a kooky free spirit hired by a limousine company. Unfortunately, she's not welcomed with open arms as the place is staffed almost exclusively by miserable, stuffy chauvinists. They do everything that they can to discourage her, including giving her the problem clients, such as an outrageous rock star. However, Casey finds that her most problematic client will be Battle (Sam Jones of the 1980 Flash Gordon movie), whose identity is going to come as a surprise to her. My Chauffeur is certainly very likable stuff. It goes far on the charms of Foreman, and while it gets very silly at times, it's nice that writer / director David Beaird gives it such a screwy quality, while toning down the kind of raunchiness to be found in many other comedies of the period. (That said, it's still an utter riot to see a drunken Jones run around nearly naked!) Among the memorable sequences are the extended episode with Penn & Teller (making their feature film debut) as Teller plays a sheik and Penn a fast talking con man, and the episode where the nutty rock singer Catfight (Leland Crooke) robs a blue lady (Diana Bellamy) of her panties as part of an ongoing game with his background singers. And Casey and Battle bicker a lot on their way to falling in love. The movie is very much of its time, with a catchy pop soundtrack as accompaniment. The supporting cast is very solid, with Howard Hesseman, Julius Harris, Laurie Main, and John O'Leary as some of the sour old chauvinist pigs; veterans Sean McClory, as O'Brien, and E.G. Marshall, as Witherspoon, are particularly endearing and effective. The pacing drags in places, but overall this is a very hard movie not to like, creating some good vibes for a pleasant enough 98 minutes. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Almost Impossible To Watch.","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is almost impossible to watch. Even my old lady who picked it out wanted to turn it off after the first ten minutes, but we persevered for the full 90 minutes of occipital torture.The chick from Valley Girl is cute but one cute girl and a lame Penn and Teller bit do not make a movie great. Why does this chick want to be a limo driver so bad. What's with the lame 80's soundtrack? Couldn't they have sprung a little extra for some tunes that people have heard on the radio? Sam Jones fan since Flash but come on man, his character is even more one dimensional than Flash. Penn and Teller, great I dig them, what will they do? Well dear friends, they will do a tired, hack, unfunny bit that would have stunk as a one minute bit, but stretch it into a 15 minute borefest. I really had to put my full weight down on my lady to keep her on the sofa during the miserable Penn and Teller portion of the film.Finally, what really upset me most was Sam Jones' unexplained super quick face turn. I mean he is the heel all movie long. Valley Girl and Sam walk in the woods, he is still heel. Then they find a cabin and bam immediate face turn, asking Valley Girl to marry him. Just 30 seconds before he wanted her fired and showed no emotion towards her. What happened? Did the editor have to trim 20 minutes of the film where it showed Valley Girl warming Flash's heart? Avoid at all costs, even free on basic cable or Netflix. I dig Sam Jones, the Valley Girl broad, EG Marshall, and that one handed villain from Live and Let Die with the alligators but come on man, let this movie rest in piece. "},{"Title":"A hugely enjoyable comedy","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sweet and vibrant free-spirited kook Casey Meadows (a delightfully perky portrayal by the adorable Deborah Foreman of Valley Girl fame) snags a job at a snobby all-male limousine service. Casey gets all the thankless difficult assignments and falls for the hunky, but jerky and hard-nosed rich cad Battle (a solid performance by Sam Jones). Writer/director Daniel Baird relates the pleasantly frothy and inane story at a constant snappy pace, maintains an engagingly breezy and silly tone throughout, further spices things up with a decent smidgen of tasty gratuitous distaff nudity, and milks the alternately broad and saucy goofy inoffensive humor for plenty of sizable belly laughs. Foreman and Jones display a warm and sharp chemistry; they receive fine support from Howard Hesseman as Casey's snooty, disapproving superior McBride, E.G. Marshall as nice, courtly millionaire Witherspoon, Sean McClory as the friendly and supportive O'Brien, John O'Leary as uptight butler Giles, Julius Harris as the grumpy Johnson, and Laurie Main as the snippy Jenkins. Moreover, there are positively hysterical appearances by Penn as silent, stoical sheik Abdul and Teller as rowdy fast-talking hipster Bone. Better still, this film has an infectiously good-natured sensibility which adds immensely to the overall amiable charm. Harry Mathias' sunny cinematography gives the movie a bright and polished look. Both Paul Hertzog's bouncy score and the groovy rockin' soundtrack hit the right-on funky spot. A total treat. "},{"Title":"Horrible Low Point in 80's Film-making.","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I, like everyone else in the world, let the gut-wrenchingly-cute Foreman melt my heart in 1983's Valley Girl. After that classic performance, why did her career go nowhere? This movie answers that question. Foreman is as beautiful and likable as ever, and her character has so much charm you really, really WANT to like this movie. But it's just not possible. The soul-less script was seemingly written in a day by randomly pulling gags, plot elements and scenes from a dozen other exploitative, formulaic b-movies with no consideration of whether or not they added up to a meaningful story. What I thought was a fresh, authentic performance by Foreman in Valley Girl has mutated in My Chauffeur into stilted, ham-fisted overacting. In her defense, she has very little material here to add any authenticity to. The bored, lifeless actors around her in every scene (such as the unalterable, dreary Howard Hessman) and the totally cardboard dialog she has to recite are insufferable. The film is tastelessly exploitative. Various scenes showcasing incongruent nudity, foul language, and other unseemly story elements are unskillfully layered over a basically boring plot in an attempt to transform the story into a wacky, unpredictable adventure. Such crude attempts rarely succeed. At one point, when Foreman's character is informed of her apparent unwitting incest, she simply cocks a wry grin and giggles a coy, We've been BAAAD!That's right, little lady. You've been BAAAD all through this movie. "}]