[{"Title":"That championship season","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"48 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" David Anspaugh's Hoosiers is a film about the passion to excel in sports. It's also about a man's comeback to the game after a rough patch in his own life. Hoosiers is a timeless film that will look good after years of its release because it speaks to us about how someone can inspire a group of people to do their best, as they become confident in what they are trying to accomplish. The film was lovingly written for the screen by Angelo Pizzo.Coach Norman Dale gets a reprieve in life when he is hired to coach the Hickory basket ball team in rural Indiana. Basketball is the game where most people in that state take an unusual interest. Their passion for the sport is evident. The new coach is looked with suspicion because he is an outsider and he believes in teamwork. He wants everyone to participate equally, which doesn't make for excitement in the court. The coach doesn't want anyone overshadowing another, that's why he insists in total involvement. Needless to say, his method clashes with the parents and towns people from the start.The coach's past comes to haunt him when Myra Fleener, one of the teachers, discovers an article that reveals an incident Mr. Dale would like to forget. At the same time, Myra realizes the goodness in the coach's heart by involving the drunken Shooter into helping him with the team.Gene Hackman has one of the best opportunities of his distinguished career with his portrayal of Coach Dale. He is splendid in the film and he wins us with his decency and by sticking to his principles, which he passes on to the team members. Barbara Hershey is also good as Myra, the young woman who falls in love with Dale. Dennis Hopper plays Shooter, the father of one of the kids in the team who has a drinking problem.Hoosiers is an inspiring film that ought to be seen by young people because of its message about team spirit and how to interact with one another in peace and harmony. "},{"Title":"In Inspiriing Story Of Second-Chances","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"39 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" What makes this one of the most popular sports films of all time isn't just the sport, it's because it's such a human-interest film, such a wonderful story of giving people second chances in life. Add a true-life David beat Goliath story and you have an appealing film.It doesn't hurt that Gene Hackman is the star, either. He may not have that celebrity appeal or the looks of Clark Gable or Bratt Pitt, but this man can flat-out act! He makes a very believable high school basketball coach who is tough-but-fair on the outside and soft-and-compassionate on the inside.The story of an extremely tiny school defying the odds and becoming a state champion in dramatic form was so inspiring that this film has played thousands of times for 20 years now by high school coaches to their kids for motivation.But the key to the story is the coach getting a second chance in life to do what he loves and does best and he, in turn, giving others a second chance such as the alcoholic here played by Dennis Hopper. There are great lessons on teamwork, patience, tolerance and a whole bunch of other qualities. In one of the DVD documentaries, both Hackman and Hoppper comment on how many times people have approached them and THIS is the movie they mention that meant so much them. That says a lot since both men have made many famous movies.An unsung hero of this movie is the cinematography. Man, this is beautifully filmed and the rural Midwest has never looked so pretty and appealing. It paints a beautiful picture of this part of the United States. It also paints a fond remembrance of the early 1950s. You get an honest-to-goodness feel of what it's like to be part of a basketball in this area during that time, Basketball meant an awful lot - and still does - to these folks. If you are sports fan in particularly, this movie will bring a tear or two to your eyes. However, this story is for everyone who believes people deserve chances to overcome previous mistakes. Few films, whatever the topic, have the heart this movie demonstrates. "},{"Title":"Hoosiers is misunderstood","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"50 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I have been reading, and summing up comments about this movie. I can't believe how misunderstood this movie is. First and foremost this is not a movie about the Milan team's championship, and Bobby Plump's winning shot. The Milan game is the most famous, and storied game in Indiana and is only used as the quientessential example.The movie is a collection of typical things that happen in Indiana High School basketball which is known as Hoosier Hysteria. The locker room scenes are typical, found each year at tournament time. The small town involvement is typical. Players deciding if they want to succumb to the social pressures of the sport, or dreaming of winning is typical. Teacher nudging is typical. The appearance of religious faith is also typical in small town Indiana. It's right in the bible belt.Smaller, less talented underdog teams are the life-blood of passion about playing, and winning. Winning systems, coaching tactics, fundamentals, and character-building are staples of the Hoosier H.S. game. Read John Wooden's books and you'll see them clearly. (John Wooden-Martinsville, IN; Purdue, and UCLA).The character played by Dennis Hopper is underscored, not by his drunken state and redemption, but by his basketball knowledge. In Indiana, everyone from every walk of life knows more about the history of the game, and how to win the game than the coach. There are walking, talking Hoosier basketball historians in every small town.Another Hoosier staple is the sequence of the tournament. Every march since the 1920's the Indiana H.S. tournament starts with a sectional, regional, sweetsixteen, and final four state championship. Hence, all games and scores that were shown in the movie. Although, Hickory H.S. is fictictious, the opposing team names were real Indiana schools in the western part of the state Jasper, Linton, Logootee, etc.The movie actually tried, but fell short in my opinion of the excitement at tournament time. The noise level, and absolute excitement of the H.S. tournaments is something you have to experience. Just walking into the gyms gives you chill bumps. Being the local game night hero is paramount, (but it creates it's own special problems.) I firmly feel, having experienced it myself, that the movie makers were trying to capture a unique phenomenon in sports using typical events. They displayed the key aspects of Indiana H.S. basketball in film to communicate the experience to the rest of the world.I was pleased, and excited to see how many reviewers were inspired by the film. Many who lived these events over the years are similarly motivated.P.S. Coaches do not kiss teachers except in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Easily the best sports movie ever made.","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"42 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  A movie that defines the idea of the underdogs rising to meet the challenge of greatness, Hoosiers gives the audience something to cheer for.  A tough-as-nails coach with a heart of gold, a team of farmboys with dreams of making it to the state finals, a small town pinning their hopes on their little high school - the movie has it all.  It is well-paced, and is not overladen with side-plots and frivolities.  There are no doped-up, foul-mouthed players, no need for gratuitous party hearty shots of the players behaving like hedonists or abusing their opponents.  Some sports movies may trade in that stock and be considered great for it; this film doesn't and it's better for it.  Superbly cast, superbly acted, and superbly executed.  A worthy addition to the library of any sports film fan. "},{"Title":"A superb time-capsule of mid-century, mid-western Americana.","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" This movie is authentic nostalgia for anyone who grew up in the mid-west in the 50's and 60's. It's what life looked like when I myself came down to this planet in the late 1940's and experienced my teens in the 60's.The old school with high ceilings and gleaming wooden floors, the gyms with the gold-toned wall-tiles, even the hospital scene with the nurse in her starched white uniform -- all evoke a peculiar beauty that you no longer find today.There is even a scene where a young teen girl yells NO! to an unjust referee call, and her pointy glasses and pony tail look so much like me back then, it feels like a glimpse into a parallel dimension.I'd say this is a must-see experience for people my age -- although all ages can thoroughly enjoy the basketball action.I'm glad for the social progress since then. But there is a peculiar beauty from those times that is starkly missing today. "},{"Title":"You WILL Love This Movie","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Everybody, especially those who live in the Midwest, will love this movie about an intense coach (Gene Hackman) with a questionable reputation who finds himself in a small Indiana town faced with the unenviable task of turning around tiny Hickory High's 8-man basketball team.  Basketball fans will appreciate the movie for its authentic portrayal of small-town high school basketball in the 1950's.  ALL viewers will enjoy this fun film for its triumphs and its classic, feel-good story of David and Goliath.  This movie is not about a basketball team.  This movie is about an entire community that comes together and rallies around the one thing they can all share - the Hickory High Huskers.  10/10 "},{"Title":"A great portrait of Indiana high school basketball's glory days!","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" When I heard that a movie was being made about Milan (Indiana) High School's improbable 1954 boys' basketball state championship54, I was excited. Not only because I, like most Hoosiers, love basketball but also because of my family connection to The Milan Miracle, as it's widely known. One of my uncles, Bob Wichmann, was a member of that team. MHS was by far the smallest school to win the championship in Indiana's 87 years of single class basketball. I was really looking forward to see who they were going to choose to play Uncle Bob!When I learned around the time of the movie's release that it wasn't going to be be an actual biography but merely inspired by the Milan 1954 team, I was disappointed. Shortly afterward, on my 16th birthday, my maternal grandparents - Uncle Bob's parents - took me to see the movie at a theater. I didn't dislike it but I had a hard time being objective about it because it was something other than what hoped it would be.But I recently gave Hoosiers another shot. I bought its two DVD collector's edition - largely for the bonus features - and saw the movie for only the second time ever and the first time in 18 years, a little over half of my life. The second time, I managed to view it simply as it is as opposed to my original expectations and I enjoyed it much more.Hoosiers in a fictional story about the 1951-52 Hickory High School team. The Huskers are coming off a solid 15-10 season but are now in disarray following the death of their coach and the subsequent departure of their best player, the painfully quiet Jimmy Chitwood (played by Maris Valainis).Their new coach, Norman Dale (Gene Hackman), arrives after practice for the new season has already begun. Dale is a former college coach who has spent the last 10 years in the Navy and his tenure with the Huskers gets off to a bad start. Two of the team's seven remaining players quit during his first practice - though both end up returning - and he alienates much of the town with his dogmatic philosophy and sometimes abrasive style.Among those not pleased with Dale is fellow teacher Myra Fleener (Barbara Hershey) who thinks that basketball is over emphasized and academics are under emphasized. She and Dale clash a few times early on, which means, of course, that they end up falling in love.The season starts off badly for the Huskers and a town meeting is soon scheduled to decide whether to fire Dale of keep him. Fleener has discovered that he was fired from his college coaching job for hitting one of his players but doesn't reveal that information and speaks on his behalf. Still, the audience seems largely unmoved.It looks like Dale is about to be fired but Chitwood enters like the calvary and, speaking for one of the few times in the movie, says that he is ready to return to playing but will do so only if the coach stays. Dale's job is saved and from there, the team improves greatly and becomes a state championship contender.You can probably figure out what happens in the end, but the movie works the underdog formula to perfection without being overly cliché.The performances in Hoosiers are great, particularly Dennis Hopper's best supporting actor Oscar nominated role as Shooter, the father of one of the players. Hopper does a phenomenal job of acting like a basketball crazed drunk, though I thought it was a bit much for Dale to make him an assistant coach. That is one of a few cases of over Hollywoodization in this movie.And where I think the movie succeeds the most is in portraying Indiana's unique love for high school basketball. Many non-Hoosiers who see the movie probably think that the residents criticizing the coach on the street, the caravan of cars traveling to away games, the emotional town meeting on the coach's fate and the general hysteria are an exaggeration. That is not the case.High school basketball in Indiana was an obsession for several decades and still is, though to a lesser extent. Many small towns passionately embraced the local high school team, which was often a point of unity, identity and pride.One other strong point about the movie, the late, great Jerry Goldsmith's adrenaline pumping music heightens the emotion of the game scenes down the stretch.The collector's edition DVD set also contains three bonus features that I think are worthy of mention here*A 29 minute documentary about the making of the movie, the Milan '54 story and Indiana's love for basketball.*The 1954 state championship game between Milan and Muncie Central. I'm almost 100% sure that the commentary is done by Tom Carnegie, who was been the voice of the Indianapolis 500 since 1946. Tom was the commentator on the ESPN broadcast of the game last year.The game footage is far from great but it's not bad and it's good to have any at all. The audio quality is shaky. But it's great to finally have this monumentally historic game easily available.*Several deleted scenes, introduced by director David Anspaugh and writer Angelo Pizzo. In my opinion, a few of the scenes were unnecessary but many should have been included. One of those scenes gives insight in Buddy Walker's (Brad Long) return to the team and several others give deeper insight into the romantic relationship that developed between Dale and Fleener. Pizzo and Anspaugh said they wanted to include some of those scenes but were told by the movie company to make the movie under two hours.In conclusion, I now greatly enjoy Hoosiers as fiction and its new collector's edition DVD set is a great buy for any sports movie fan! 8/10 "},{"Title":"The ROCKY of Basketball","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Classic movie which effectively transports the audience to 1952 Indiana countryside and the story's circumstances.One of the all time best sports dramas ever and also one of film's all time best pure dramas as well.The lead actors are so believable and the attention to detail so admirable.Love story subplot is created to please romance fans as well as add more to the story.To Basketball fans,it is also a great lesson regarding the POWER OF GAME  FUNDAMENTAL KNOW HOW.Athletics is a great weapon in Basketball BUT INTELLIGENT KNOW HOW can take a player with little athletic ability to a very high level.When a young player with great athletic ability takes the patience to learn the KNOW HOWS,he becomes superhuman like.This is the lesson HOOSIERS has effectively demonstrated.A must see for all Basketball fans and most sports movie fans......       "},{"Title":"Full of passion and heart.","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  This film is primarily about Basketball, but don't let that fool you, I have no interest in the game but I was yanked into it and was feeling the passion of the coach, players and the town all the way through.The underlying thread is of forgiveness and second chances. You never really know what was behind the need for these second chances, but that doesn't matter, you feel for these people, and a lot of that is to do with Gene Hackman.One of my favourite actors, Hackman pulls off a fantastic performance here, with an amazing backup from Dennis Hopper. What a combination.Passion, guts, determination, and without too much of a sickly taste in the mouth. A lovely film to watch. "},{"Title":"This was the best sports movie I've ever seen.","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Gene Hackman gave his usual Oscar-winning performance while Dennis Hopper was simply outstanding. What can you say about a feel good movie like this. I've always enjoyed happy ending and this was one of the best. It almost made me feel like I wanted to be a basketball fan in Indiana in 1951. This movie left me feeling that I wanted to watch it again (I've already seen it five times). That's what great movies do to you, they force you to keep coming back. For me, Patton and The Sting were like that. I've seen Patton 15 times and The Sting at least 10. That's why I purchased Hoosiers instead of renting it. I've recommended it to my friends so they can derive the same satisfaction from it that I did. It helps to be a sports fan but not necessarily because this movie was a metaphor for life. It was truly a David versus Goliath-type story. "}{"Title":"Hard To Take Seriously.","Date":"5 October 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" It's 1951 and Gene Hackman is an ex basketball coach who has spent the war years and then some in the Navy. He's hired by a small-town high school in rural Indiana to care for their team. The team members are a little self satisfied, having been runners up in some small-time contest a few years ago. Hackman finds the town unfriendly. They liked their last coach and resent him. He brings new ideas to the game -- no more zone defense but rather man-on-man. But he's determined to see these boys whipped into shape and win Big Time.I ask you, the discerning viewer, does he succeed? Barbara Hershey is a teacher hostile to Hackman. Does he win her over? Dennis Hopper is a disgusting drunk but he knows everything about the local teams and how they play basketball. Does Hackman hire him as Assistant Coach? Does Hopper overcome his demons? Is Hackman fired by the town but saved at the last minute by a revelation of some sort? Does he improve the team's spirit. Does he make them want to fight like dogs? Does this get them to the Big Tournament at the state capitol? Does the music on the sound track swell with triumphant fanfares? Are you kidding? I couldn't predict all of the obstacles that would crop up in the screenplay but, once presented with them, pretty much knew exactly how they'd be solved.Maybe part of the reason I found it so tiresome is that I'm not a fan of basketball. But I don't follow baseball either and always enjoy The Natural. And I'm a lousy pool shooter but think The Hustler is a near masterpiece.On the plus side, the cinematography by Fred Murphy is very good indeed, and so is the location shooting. When the distracted Hackman first arrives in Hickory, Indiana, it LOOKS like the beginning of school in September. It's misty, people's breath steams, the ground is littered with tannic leaves. And, as the season progresses, the branches become bare and patches of snow appear in the shadows. If you were driven to find a small farming community dominated by an over-sized white church and an elderly brick high school, you'd want to come here.But how is it possible to take any of this seriously, as the writer and director seem to expect us to? It's a heart-warming write-by-the-numbers story of dispiritedness turning to success. It seems to be aimed at the kind of audience represented by the gangly pituitary cases we watch on the court. The harder you pray, the harder you play.Ho hum. "},{"Title":"Simply great drama for non-sports fans, too","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I'm no armchair sportsman and I've never played basketball, but to enjoy Hoosiers you don't need to meet those requirements. Hoosiers is simply great, superbly acted drama. The story is standard underdog material, but with a terrific cast including Gene Hackman, Dennis Hopper and Barbara Hershey, it soars. It is refreshing to see a sports movie in which the players are not a bunch of arrogant, obnoxious, beer-swilling yahoos whose only ambition off the court is to get laid. No, these high school boys from a very small town are a sorry lot whose spirits are revived by a coach (Hackman) on the last legs of his checkered career. Dennis Hopper, who plays the embarrassing, alcoholic father of one of the players, is a revelation here as a man given yet another chance to prove that he isn't a terminal loser. The film is comprised of many games, and in the hands of a hack, it might have become tiresome. But director David Anspaugh works hard to inject great dramatic tension into every game and is ably assisted by Fred Murphy's beautiful photography and Jerry Goldsmith's extraordinary score, a mix of electronic and strong orchestral elements. The film has an extremely emotional build and powers along like a steam train. Hackman, a long way from fine work such as Prime Cut and The Hunting Party, is simply ultra-solid and commanding. A marvellous film about being given chances. I suggest you give it one, too. "},{"Title":"classic movie!","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" This is one of the greatest movies ever. If you don't know how important basketball is in Indiana just watch the movie and you will find out quickly. This is such a true movie and it does a great job describing the feeling you get during basketball season in Indiana. This movie is a great movie for the entire family. There is no sex no violence and no foul language and it gives everyone a great warm feeling. The actors do a great job of making you feel like it really was filmed in the 1950's. This is a must see for everyone not just basketball fans. It shows you that it's not always the big schools that win championships and it gives hope to every small school and every underdog. "},{"Title":"Best basketball movie ever made","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I have seen it more times than southern people have been UFO's. It's a true story of a basketball coach who led his little high school basketball team to victory against all odds. Coach Norman Dale (Gene Hackman) is a former college basketball coach of the Ithaca Warriors who turns up in French Lick, Indiana to coach their local high school basketball team. He has a checkered past and a history of causing trouble. Right off the bat he gets into it with Barbara Hershey who is a teacher who becomes acting principal when the former one has a heart attack. Hershey doesn't like Dale at first but gradually warms up and becomes his ardent supporter and romantic interest. The townspeople don't like the Coach at all either and try to get him fired to no avail. But Dale has a recipe for success and it shows quickly when his team keeps winning and winning. I must say all the performances are terrific the best being Hackman and Dennis Hopper in his best role as Shooter, an alcoholic dad of one of the players who loves and knows basketball better than anyone and who Hackman recruits as assistant coach. Hopper is pure magic and it's touching to watch him with Hackman as Dale cares about him and won't give up on him. If you haven't ever watched this one do so it's an inspiration. "},{"Title":"A classic tale of  triumph and redemption  ,  being based on a true story","Date":"4 February 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Sport film with sentimental story and intelligent character studio . Classic story rings true because of Hackman's complex and sensitive acting and stunningly realized by director David Anspaugh . Exceptional Gene Hackman who gets a chance job coaching a little town , displaying a first rate performance reaching an important milestone and a terrific Dennis Hooper . It is set in Indiana where basketball is the sport of the Gods , a small town called Hickery ; there a high school basketball team gets an opportunity , thanks to supposedly experienced coach . A coach (Gene Hackman, Jack Nicholson was the original choice to play Coach Norman Dale) with a checkered past and a local alcoholic (Dennis Hooper) train a small town high school basketball team to become a top contender for the championship . The coach makes the team and each person in it , better than they thought possible . The physically unsuitable team to achieve for big time , thanks to the coach who triumphs over by odds , but sheer determination helps them attain their dream . The team dreams of playing basketball final , no matter how far-fetched the dream .This agreeable tale based on the 1954 Indiana State champs, Milan Indians , contains a classic plot and deals about a slice of American history , and is plenty of good feeling , heartfelt, interesting characters and formidable performances . However , sometimes is some sentimental and predictable but is still pretty amusing . Likable and enjoyable plot about a team and the coach , both of them face the dual challenge of bringing the players to the state championship and redeeming themselves . Splendid film from the filmmaker and writer of another David beats Goliath sports movie , ¨Rudy¨ with Sean Astin .Sentimental plot stretches Hollywood manipulation , but is still entertaining . Gene Hackman delivers an engaging acting as is backed by a good supporting cast such as Barbara Hershey , Whooley , Sassone and Chelcie Roos . Hackman is coupled with Dennis Hooper's touching portrait of a drunk basketball fanatic . Spectacular and sensitive musical score by the great Jerry Goldsmith , though composed by means of synthesizer . Fine production design and good sets , filmmakers had trouble filling the FieldHouse with extras for the final game, and needed to move people around when shooting different angles ; extras were given 1950's hairstyles and their clothing was checked for anachronisms . The motion picture was compellingly directed by David Anspaugh , he's a notorious writer , producer and director (Wisegirls , Fresh horses , Moonlight and Valentino). Rating  Better than average , worthwhile seeing and it ranked #4 on the American Film Institute's list of the 10 greatest films in the genre Sports in June 2008. "},{"Title":"Another Corny Sports Film","Date":"6 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" The sports film Hoosiers is directed by David Anspaugh and stars Gene Hackman, Barbara Hershey, and Dennis Hopper. The film takes place in 1951 Indiana.The film starts off with Norman Dale (Hackman) coming to a high school in Indiana to coach the team and also teach. He is not welcomed very warmly by the town because of how they are not used to change. Dale has not coached basketball for twelve years due to the fact that he was in the marines. At first the basketball season goes quite poorly and everyone in the town thinks that it is because that Jimmy, the town's best player, is not playing on the team because his mother is sick and that his father died. The local drunk of the town, Shooter (Hopper), knows much about the sport and becomes Dale's assistant coach. The two of them try and lead the team to a successful season and maybe a championship. Yippee!The screenplay was written by Angelo Pizzo and is one of the corniest films I have ever seen. How does someone make a true story feel so fake? It feels so formulaic in how that the team is down but then they come up and then they go down again. It seems like Pizzo just read the guidelines for how to make a basic sports film. There was just too much on the side of the sports story that makes it feel fake. For one is how suddenly the coach and Myra Fleener have a relationship out of nowhere and it really has no effect on the film at all. Another is how at every game they win with only three seconds left and it is really lucky. I've seen many basketball games and that really happens. So the screenplay for this film is poor.The direction for this film by Anspaugh was also poor. He helped create the fakeness and corniness that is felt throughout the film. The only thing I can say that he did well was get good performances out of his actors, but I have a feeling that since Hackman and Hopper are some of the greatest actors there are they just gave good performances without the help of Anspaugh. It also annoys how directors think that when they have shots of beautiful scenery it makes them a good director. It is not that hard to do that and it is not something for a director to be proud of.As I said in the last paragraph the acting was pretty good. Hackman played the coach and he gave a funny yet motivational performance and kept the film entertaining. His character did not have that much depth so Hackman couldn't really give that much depth so that is why Hackman couldn't really give a great performance. Hershey's character I truly believed had no purpose in the film besides being an unneeded love interest for the coach and she did not give a memorable performance what so ever. Dennis Hopper is the only one that really shined in this film as the drunk man trying to get his act together to be the assistant coach. When he performed best I believed was when he was forced to coach when Hackman was kicked out and his nervous face was just so funnily brilliant. I think he deserved his Oscar nomination and he made the film.Overall I give this film a 5/10. I would have given it lower if it wasn't for Dennis Hopper's performance. I would recommend this film for anyone who enjoys the sports genre. "},{"Title":"A winner anyway you look at it","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" What's the best sports film of all time, you ask? Well, it's debatable, but I'd rank HOOSIERS high up there. Coming out in 1986 (the dated decade!), HOOSIERS still holds up remarkably well thanks to really great cinematography and set design. It really looks and feels like 1950s Indiana, even today. Without overdoing the period piece aspect and focusing on small town life and hometown values, HOOSIERS is a top-notch movie. In particular, the film is incredibly fast-paced.All credit goes to the great Gene Hackman, who plays dejected, displaced, and disgraced Coach Norman Dale from a big-time college program, who must take a downgraded high school coaching position as head coach at Hickory High School, the Huskers. Hackman exudes credibility as a no-nonsense, firm, yet sensitive man at the crossroads of his coaching career and his life. This actor could do it all by just being himself! Coach Dale arrives in the small town of Hickory, Indiana circa 1951 and immediately faces disdain and uncertainty upon his arrival. The small towners see him as a big-city guy who looks down on them and won't fit in. The locals question his coaching tactics and even challenge his authority directly at times. But Dale sticks to his guns and instills discipline and toughness into the promising basketball team. In particular, Dale shows particular interest in Jimmy Chitwood, a pure shooting guard who at first is not on the team, but then decides to re-join them on the condition that Coach Dale stays.Dale also has an initially rocky relationship with local Myra Fleener (well played by Barbara Hershey), who isn't very crazy about basketball and thinks education is more important. Best Supporting Actor nominee Dennis Hopper plays town drunk Shooter, whose son is on the team. Hopper almost steals the show, but I still think this film belongs completely to Hackman, especially with 20+ years of hindsight.Special mention should also go to the young men who played the Hickory Huskers. Really a band of unknowns who I don't think any have become famous since this film, the fact that real teens (and basketball players) played these characters helps make HOOSIERS all the more authentic.Of course, you have the obligatory happy ending, but it all fits into this gem of a sports film. Really, it doesn't get much better than HOOSIERS! "},{"Title":"The Great American Movie?","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" When this film came out in 1986, my 5-year-old son Jeff was absolutely determined to see it -- and on the first day of release, at that. He had read about it and seen the trailer on TV, and wouldn't take no for an answer. So, I relented, took that Friday afternoon off, and we went to the theater for the first showing.Just as the title credits started to roll, with Gene Hackman driving through the early autumn Indiana countryside toward his date with Destiny, Jeff laid his head on my shoulder and promptly went to sleep -- and slept throughout the entire film. He had apparently gotten so excited over the prospect of seeing the movie that exhaustion overcame him, as it will with children. I didn't have the heart to wake him up, since I knew we could come back again -- and by the time the movie was over, I knew that I would indeed be seeing it again...and again, because it was plainly one of the all-time greats. It was the best sports movie I had seen up until that time, and it still is. In fact, it has legitimate claim as the best American movie ever. It incorporates all that is unique and good in American culture, and does it better than any other film has ever done. It is a magnificent artistic achievement, quintessentially American and an inspiration to everyone who sees it.Jeff forgave me for not waking him up -- but not before we went back the very next day. He immediately agreed with me on its greatness. Every time he comes home now, we watch it together, and marvel at its perfection. He has become something of an expert on artistic values (Ph.D. in literature from Yale), but even at the age of 5 he could see that this movie was truly something special. And that it certainly is. "},{"Title":"A perfect feel-good movie","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" This site shows this movie to have about the normal number of goofs (here, all minor) - but its perfection is in the fact that this is an interesting, truly uplifting story, with warm characters, outstanding performances, and an appeal to everyone, whatever sex, age, background - and equally for those who know and/or care little for the game of basketball.There isn't a finer actor around than Gene Hackman, and Dennis Hopper is in the same league. All of the rest of the cast perform admirably, also.With the film now 20-years-old, since it depicted events in the 1950's, 30 years prior, it is just as fresh, and even a bit more nostalgic now than when originally released.(An interesting fact to note if you watch the film again the actor playing Jimmy, the team's super-stat, while athletic, had not been a basket-baller in real life; whereas the shorter young man playing the team's scrub, was the best in reality, and had to act to appear less-talented than he was.) "},{"Title":"Perfect 10!","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" This film is a classic! What more can you say about Gene Hackman but pure brilliance in Hoosiers. The story line is one that perfectly depicts not only small-town and rural life, but small-town and rural attitudes. Having grown up in a rural area near a town of 300 people, I can tell you that this movie accurately depicts life in a small-town even in 2005! Sure, the cars and buildings have changed since the story of Hoosiers took place, but the values and the sense of community have not. Perhaps that is the greatest lesson in this movie - that community is something to be proud of and participate in. Having moved to a large city, I miss the Friday nights where the entire town shuts down to go to the high school ball games, I miss the Saturday mornings spent discussing the games, and the rest of the week preparing for the next game. I miss the anticipation of meeting up with friends, young and old, over a good game on the hardwood while cheering on the hometown team. But I also can tell you that the way Norman Dale was treated as an outsider is absolutely true. If you are not from a small-town or born and raised there, prepare to spend a considerable amount of time proving yourself. While the sense of community is bold, breaking into that community isn't as easy. It takes someone of bold character, thick skin and determination to break into that community - but like Norman Dale, once you do, you too can become the hometown hero! "}{"Title":"Hackman is great as always","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Gene Hackman is a fantastic actor who has not become a cartoon version of himself like DeNiro and Pacino has.  Neither of those guys try anymore, they just be themselves, and everybody loves them for it.  Hackman on the other hand always hand in a good and often varied performance (see Unforgiven, Crimson Tide, Hoosiers) that has me belive that he is the character he is playing, and not just Gene Hackman.  Anyway, this movie was pretty good, even the simple basketball games have you cheering for the small town Indiana team.  Dennis Hopper turns in a great performance as a drunk (I'm not so sure it was a performance though) that wants to redeem himself in the eyes of his son, and isn't sure he can handle it.  Good flick to watch if you can't decide on anything else at the video store. "},{"Title":"A strong, feel-good movie","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  This film is entertaining, well-written, and definitely one that will get you cheering for the team! The down-side is that it's at times melodramatic and overly-tear-jerking and uses almost every sentimental cliche ever written at least once. While there are some great lines ('God wants you on the floor, son') there are also some *horribly* cliched lines as well ('I've wanted to kiss you since the moment we first met!')Gene Hackman is fabulous in this, as the former college coach turned Navyman who comes to small town Hickory, IA to coach basketball. And being from Bloomington, I can vouch for the frenzied obsession we of Indiana have for basketball;), so it was no surprise to see how unwelcome he was in town with unorthodox methods and bing an outsider as well (always a good kicker for a plot). Add the loss of then best player in town, who decides not to play ball that year, and the challenge is on!But the plot slips away too much at times. The Dennis Hopper as an alcoholic former basketball star who is given a chance to be an assistant if he cleans up plotline could have been interesting; but his 'agonized' moments on the floor dragged on too much, and the plot turned sour when he relapsed, and was eventually discarded and never resolved properly (save for a sloppy and cheezy heartstrings moment where his son declares that they'll move in together when it's all over, -snif-snif-snif-). As well, the shameless and worthless attempt to inject romance into the film stuttered and failed...Barbara Hershey playing a colleague who the coach gets off on the wrong foot with and then falls for, is too typical and rated barely a glimpse or two in the overall story. Why bother?? It was a subplot that had absolutely nothing to do with the story, hardly had any screen time, and was never properly dealt with. It was just wasted screen time.Still, the film as a whole is worth the cheeziness of some parts. The ending is predictable, but in a heart-swelling way. Sure, some of the scenes are a bit too long and jerking, but in the end it doesn't matter because it just feels right. It's handled as well as possible, considering it has to be Hollywood, even in little Hickory. A solid film, could have been better, but not by too much. 7/10. "},{"Title":"ESPN was right","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  ESPN was absolutely correct in rating Hoosiers as the number one sports movie of the last 25 years. Every time it's on cable, no matter where it is in the movie, I'm captivated all over again. The basketball scenes are realistic, the characters are compelling, and the music is the best accompanying score of any movie in its genre. Hoosiers is truly #1.In my spare time, I'm a basketball coach, and I always use Hoosiers as a way to get psyched up for the season, or for a big game. Despite the fact that the style of play is from the early '50's, today's players relate to it. It's as close to the perfect sports movie as you can come.  "},{"Title":"Another Great Underdog Team Finds Success Movie!","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" After watching Coach Carter and reading many reviews that make a comparison between that movie and Hoosiers, I decided I wanted to take a look. What I found was pretty much what I have read elsewhere. Coach Carter is pretty much the same story as Hoosiers. I am not sure if Hoosiers was adapted from a true story or not, as Carter was, but never the less, the movies are very similar.Norman Dale (Gene Hackman) is the new coach hired by an old friend to give him a second chance. Dale has been banned from coaching college basketball due to slugging out one of his own team member (apparently, one he liked). Of course, his past comes back to haunt him but not before he can get his players to trust him and inevitably help him not to lose his job.Dale was doing a good job getting his team ready, going back to the basics and working on the fundamentals of basketball but his team was not enjoying much success in the beginning. After the town's star player, Jimmy (Maris Valainis), comes to play for him, the final piece of the puzzle falls into place.For the record, I hate basketball. Can't stand it but something about sports movies, whether or not I like the sport, I just can not get enough of. I could watch a badminton movie if it was done well. I guess I like the whole underdog thing. I liked Hoosiers enough to give it a good review despite what I feel about watching the game itself. Coach Carter was good, too, but not as good as Hoosiers and to be honest, I would never have thought of seeing Hoosiers if I did not see Coach Carter first. Highly recommended if you like sports movies. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Hackman at his best!","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  One can not watch this movie and dislike it. The cast, scenery and story is outstanding. A true David and Goliath that touched me inside in a way comparable with Stallones masterpiece Rocky. This is Drama at a high level. "},{"Title":"A terrific film","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" This film has great heart. Gene Hackman turns in a great performance, as does Dennis Hopper. Having grown up in Indiana, and having been part of more than one caravan to watch a high school basketball game, I know of no film that captures the heart and spirit of the Midwest -- let alone Hoosier basketball -- like Hoosiers. One sign of a great film is the ability to drop in at any time and be absorbed in the film. This is such a film. And yes, it's about a lot more than basketball. It's about new beginnings and overcoming hardship and adversity and second chances -- and in that respect it is a quintessentially American film. It's worth revisiting every NCAA season. "},{"Title":"amazing, just amazing","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Im not a big fan of sports movies, lately they are 90% clichés, and the rest is bad comedy.However, Hoosiers has nothing to do with that, (perhaps because it was recorded more than 20 years ago), the acting was flawless, character development was quite good, showing each character personality and issues without taking the focus out of the sport.The script is very good, you can see it was carefully thought, realistic, believable, and deep. It's hard to see a flaw in this film, i was amazed at the dimension of u.s school basketball culture, and how it's importance in people life is displayed in the movie with absolute credibility.I also got to see a couple clichés during the movie (but the movie turned out to be so good that i actually think it may very well be the one movie that started them) and a couple scenes that should be a cliché in today's movie-making. Probably what i loved the most about the movie was that it's not pretentious at all, and these days that's so common that it's a relief to see a great movie not relying on forcing the movie in any way (music, nudity,violence,drugs,etc) and been as powerful as this one is. I truly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Clichéd but very heartwarming, Excellent Hackman","Date":"28 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" This film does an excellent job in painting the picture of a sport-obsessed Mid-West small town. The story is the classic come-back-from-behind, a staple of sports movies, but the authenticity of the backdrop helps a great deal. Gene Hackman is excellent in an understated performance as the new coach of the basketball team. He has a few skeletons in his closet and the film handles this cliché well. Dennis Hopper plays a redeemed alcoholic and convinces. The energy in the high school games is effortlessly captured. I found 'Hoosiers' clichéd but heartwarming and its one of my all time favorite sports movies.Overall 8/10 "},{"Title":"Too formulaic to be great","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" If Hoosiers was the first movie I'd ever seen, I'd give it a 10.This movie has all the elements of a great story. It's, on the surface, an exciting movie depicting a shorthanded boys basketball team from a tiny high school that is inspired to overachieve by a middle-aged coach seeking redemption. Most viewers surely root for the players and coach.In addition, Hoosiers has, on the surface, many very interesting external and internal character conflicts. The coach, played by Gene Hackman, battles the town's old-timers, who are resistant to outsiders and anyone with new ideas and methods. The coach also battles players unaccustomed to working hard on defense and passing as well as a teacher/assistant principal who is more interested in academics than sports.The stories of a drunk ex-basketball star being given a chance to be an assistant coach and a star player who won't join the team until he respects the coach are also, on the surface, compelling.Hoosiers, though, is not the first movie I've seen. In fact, I've watched plenty of movies that have excellent stories like Hoosiers does, but also have way more depth beneath the surface. In short, this movie is way too formulaic and unsurprising to be great.How was Hoosiers unsurprising? As I watched Hackman's character meet and argue with the teacher played by Barbara Hershey, I jotted down a prediction that they would have a romance. Check. As I watched the principal tell Hackman that Jimmy, who was not on the team, was a great player, I predicted that he would return to the squad and lead it to the championship. Check. And, obviously, I knew Hackman would win over his players and the town.Nevertheless, Hoosiers would have been outstanding if it had depth and more interesting characters. Rocky was formulaic in many ways, but it had quirky characters who were developed, surprising and compelling scenes, and passionate dialogue.Hoosiers, though, didn't thoroughly develop characters like Jimmy and the assistant coach played by Dennis Hopper, dealt superficially with subplots, and had dialogue that had the feel of trite coach sportspeak rather than moving in-depth conversations.Defending the film's formulaic nature by saying it's based on a true story just doesn't cut it because it is NOT close to being non-fiction. In fact, I wonder how people came to believe the movie was based on reality.Wikipedia's list of differences between reality and Hoosiers is very long. This might be typical, but the movie's two major premises differ from reality. The real coach was not a hotheaded middle-aged single guy and Milan High was a preseason favorite, not an underdog.I know my review focuses on the negative. This is because I am trying to make the point that Hoosiers had a chance for greatness, but came up short.The truth is that Hoosiers is still a pretty good movie. I give it a 7.ZWrite "},{"Title":"Well, we're way past big speech time.","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" This is a sweet, gentle fairy tale, full of nice writing and subtle performances. The good kind of sports movie, it mostly allows the game to serve as a tool of the story. If the end is not difficult to guess, still it is a thrilling emotional journey. This is quite a trick with a handful of clichés as your plot points; but pros can pull it off, and there are many jobs well done on this production.The photography is in a lovely muted palette, and the design is exquisite. The Midwestern landscape has rarely been quite so Norman Rockwelled by a movie. The games look like old Life Magazine Ektachrome prints come to life. The town and especially the school are straight out of the American collective memory. Barbara Hershey is complex and fascinating; the ball players break your heart; Gene Hackman wisely does not try to be likable, instead bleeding loss and hope from his scuffed leather jacket. My dad always liked Dennis Hopper as a wasted father figure - Rumble Fish, True Romance, River's Edge, this - so it's hard for me to fault Hoosiers for trading shamelessly on the inherent melodrama of the situation. The relationships are economically revealed, conservatively developed, and satisfyingly hokey without very often becoming unlikely. There are only two things really wrong. One is the Airwolf synthesizer score that crashes in the 50s heartland like a flying saucer on crack. Two is the equally dated easy-out of a series of montages instead of a third act. Come on. That's using condiments as food. Because of this hurry, several scenes in the second hour are more scaffolding than story.But when it's good it's very good, which is most of the time; more often, I think, than David Anspaugh's other Sports Underdog Who Achieves Momentary Greatness movie. I mean Rudy, not The Game of Their Lives, which I'm not likely to see because I'm an American and could care less about real football. "}{"Title":"A Great Sports Movie!","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I'm not a big sports fan except for hockey but even though this is a basketball movie I just loved it.Not a big Gene Hackman fan either but he was fantastic as the coach and Dennis Hopper was also very good as the alcoholic who gets another chance as the assistant coach (and father of one of the team's players). The plot is great.Basically Hackman is a coach who was banned from college coaching for hitting one of his players, he's a very serious and angry coach who only cared about winning. He gets another chance at this small Indiana high school that only has six or seven players total on the team. The town though is huge on basketball and really wants to win.They try to get rid of the coach because they don't like how he's coaching (in one game he only puts four players on the court after he doesn't like how one is playing and benches him). In the end though the players believe in him and want to keep him, then they end up making it all the way to the championship game against one of the state's biggest schools as huge underdogs.You just end up pulling for the team and the players the whole time so even though it's pretty formulaic for a sports movie it does it very well, it's a great sports movie that's great for the whole family. "},{"Title":"A slice of Americana","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Hoosiers is about more than basketball, it's about American values. The movie begins with cinematic view of the beautiful Indiana landscape in the 1950s, psychologically taking you to where you need to be.This is a film about being an underdog and coming out on top. It's a film about redemption, which every character gets a chance at. It's a film about optimism, selflessness and hard work. All of this is embodied wonderful story.The reason Hoosiers is considered the greatest sports more ever is because it's about more than basketball, it speaks to the heart of the American experience. This is not a film that requires a great knowledge of basketball or sports. Anyone can connect with the themes of this movie.If you haven't seen this movie because you're apprehensive about sports movies or you think it looks outdated, I urge you to pick it up and watch it. I guarantee you'll be uplifted. "},{"Title":"Hoosiers","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Just a quick comment to ccthemovieman. I am a Hoosier. I enjoyed your review of the movie. I agree with most of what you said, except Hoosiers was not filmed in Illinois. Check the film credits at the end of the movie. I played basketball as a kid in that gymnasium in Nineveh, Indiana. I played high school games against Knightstown, recognized that gym, also in Indiana. The trailer shows the front of a movie theater. That is actually the front of the Artcraft Theater in Franklin, Indiana. There was also a gym in Franklin they used. It was the high school in the 50s, then junior high in the 70s, then at the time of the movie it was a Boys and Girls Club. The rest of the building had been torn down but the gym remained. "},{"Title":"More than just a sports movie","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Yes, it's VERY loosely based on fact. Yes, there are a few errors in continuity. But this is less of a sports movie than a people movie. There is a central challenge that the characters revolve around and forces all involved to a triumphant conclusion. Remember that despite the basis in history, the basketball is more metaphor than fact. It's really about be better side of human nature. This is one not to be missed. There is no disappointment here. Gene Hackman turns in a solid, understated performance that shows why this Oscar winner continues to excel in his profession. Dennis Hopper (as an alcoholic basketball fanatic) brings both humor and pathos to a fan and father who has lost his anchor. The emotional side to this film could be overwhelming if not for the central story, that of a very small basketball team as David in the drama. Coupled with beautiful but understated cinematography this film will still stand above the crowd for many years to come. "},{"Title":"Solid Sports Drama","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" (Possible Spoilers)Hoosiers is the definition of a well-rounded, strong sports movie. Taking place in southern Indiana where basketball is life, a new coach named Norman Dale (played by Gene Hackman) takes over as coach of a small town high school team in Hickory. Within his first ten minutes of coaching two players have quit. Things don't start out well, the team only has six players. Soon, however, the team rebounds and a new player joins up with them, Jimmy Chitwood (based on the actual player for the state championship team Milan, Bobby Plump), and things go up. Coach Dale soon finds an assistant in a drunk towns person named Shooter. Throughout the film we watch Coach Dale deal with everything from being booted as coach to helping Shooter get over his alcoholism to constantly being the underdog.What else is there to say, Hoosiers gives a person the real-sense of what high school basketball is and how it's a persons life in some places. The movie is well-acted, well-written (even though over forty minutes was cut) and well directed. The only problems with the film I had was that the events actually took place in 1954 and the actual school name is Milan. these details are small and don't have any effect on the movie.All in all see Hoosiers. 4 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Just a great sports movie.","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Certainly an excellent sports movie and it may be the best sports movie ever. The actors who played the high school team really could play basketball which gives the movie much credibility for sports fans. Hoosiers tells a simple story that unfolds in an understated way. It has an excellent cast. The characters are, for the most part, very believable. The setting seemed authentic for the fifties period; although the gymnasium was too small and the home basketball court was way too short (the half court line was only a few steps from the foul lines). While the plot was fairly predictable, there were enough twists along the way to keep the viewer interested throughout. Its a feel good movie that's just good entertainment. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time....","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is without a doubt the best sports movie of all time, as well as my favorite movie.  Maybe I'm biased as a college basketball player and the son of a basketball coach, but its lessons are universal.  Anyone who appreciates the pureness of sports will love this movie.Set in 1952 Indiana, this movie is an adaptation of a true story.  The shots of the Indiana corn fields and the haunting music are great.  I thought every actor in this film turned in unbelievable performances and were very believable.The major theme of the movie is redemption, and it is everywhere.  This movie shows how painful life can be and how people can really do great things for others.  From Norman Dale getting a second chance, to Shooter and his son, to Jimmy and Ollie, and the small town Hickory folks-second chances can be the opportunity of a life time.  This movie has some of the most memorable scenes ever, such as the measurements taken at the Butler Fieldhouse and the David and Goliath prayer before the championship game.  I absolutely love this movie and it is an emotional ride.  I would recommend and defend this movie to anyone. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Just Voted #1 Sports Movie ever!","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Just saw ESPN's Top 25 Sports movies of all time and Hoosiers was TOPS! Numero Uno!Amazing! I had no idea!I was figuring it would be Field of Dreams or Bull Durham, but no..it was Hoosiers.So I guess that means its good?Yea, it is.And Gene Hackman shows once again what an amazing actor he was and is.  "},{"Title":"The real story and the movie","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  I rate it 7 basketballs out of ten. See this movie's discussion board to reply my comments.The movie is loosely based on the 1954 season of the tiny town of the Milan Indians in Indiana.  I dug up some facts about this team. It was coached by Marvin Wood and his coaching was met with great controversy in the town as in the movie.  The movie plays with the actual events to increase drama but the real story seems just as sensational. It is called the greatest story in Indiana sports history.  The team beat NBA great Oscar Roberston's high school team in the semifinals. Coach Wood actually did measure the height of the basketball goal in the fieldhouse to keep the team from being intimidated.  Towards the end of the real final game, the Milan team was exhausted.  To help out, Milan's best shooter, Bobby Plump, held the ball for an excruciating 4 minutes, an eternity in basketball, before taking a final shot. He then missed the shot!  In the final seconds the Indians were able to get the ball back from Muncie and Plump hit the last second winning shot. Where the movie strayed is that the real `Hickory' team had a roster of 12 players, and the real coach was in his second year of coaching the team and was long-time married. I dunno if there was a real life alcoholic character like Shooter.   Coach Wood died of cancer Oct. 13, 1999  at the age of 71. At the funeral the 1954 basketball team members who attended all wore carnations, dyed in the school's yellow-gold team color. Wood had often said, God was coaching that team, not me. "},{"Title":"One of the best sports movies out there; Hackman is wonderful...","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  One of the primary influences for the over-used underdog formula that we would see years later in many mainstream and straight-to-video/TV movies, Hoosiers is about a big-time coach (Gene Hackman) who arrives at a small town in the middle of rural America and transforms the basketball team into a winning one.Predictable outcome but it's a lot of fun getting there. One of Hackman's finer roles and also one of the best sports movies you're likely to find out there.I rate it a strong 4 of 5 stars. This isn't my favorite genre, but this is a very good movie. If I were a fan of the genre I might five it a higher rating. But for me to give a sports movie four stars is quite an achievement. It's the normal equivalent of a five.- John Ulmer "}{"Title":"It doesn't get any better than this","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Nominated for Best Picture, and deservedly so, Hoosiers is movie-making at its best. Maybe not for the wine and cheese crowd, but just about everyone else. Within the classic, all-American story-line of the underdog overcoming incredible odds to achieve greatness through hard work and sacrifice, Hoosiers gives the audience a unique inside look at the game of basketball as well as a glimpse of  small-town life in the early '50's. Beautifully written and scored by the same team that brought us Rudy, well cast and acted from top to bottom featuring, perhaps, Dennis Hopper's finest performance, I feel Hoosiers will continue to delight and inspire for long time to come. In other words, it's a classic......Don't miss it!!!       "},{"Title":"A wonderful, often underrated movie","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  I saw this movie today, and I really was touched. Not only is it a great sports movie, it also deals with many of the characters personal problems. I always feel bad for Gene Hackman, because very few of his movies are appreciated, and this was one thatmany people have forgotton about. If you are a fan of Hackman, or like basketball, see this film. 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great entertainment","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  I was surprised that I just read a very negative review of this movie. Someone actually gave it a 2/10.  What an insult!While I will admit that Gene Hackman has had more noteworthy films, in no way should that detract from this one.  It was very entertaining and had a great soundtrack (yet another credit for long-time veteran Jerry Goldsmith). All too often I find this movie playing on Saturday & Sunday afternoons...and why not?  It makes for a great matinee.The story was very basic small town basketball team begins rising through the ranks with a shot at the state championship.  Strong acting, a good script, and the soundtrack made it very worthwhile.I would rate this movie in the same ranks as A LEAGUE OF THEIR OWN, which was another good one.  So if it's rainy day or if you're just staying in, then rent this one.   "},{"Title":"The movie was almost as good as the game.","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  As a Hoosier who had just graduated from high school, I remember this game vividly. Even though I watched it on a small black and white TV, remember this was 1954, the heart stopping, pulse pounding suspense was almost unbearable.  The movie follows the game fairly well, but there are some inaccuracies.  The school was named Milan, not Hickory, and they played Muncie Central, not South Bend Central.  The name of the hero was Bobby Plump.  I will never forget Plump holding the ball at the center of the court for over 4 minutes with the score tied, and then with 18 seconds left he worked the clock down to five seconds, and then made the shot heard round the world.  Butler Fieldhouse held around 15,000 people, but there are several million Hoosiers who claim to have been there that night.  Hackman and Hopper were marvelous in their respective roles, but they really don't represent the real coaches at Milan.  I don't believe there was that much strife on the team, like it is depicted in the movie either.  For sports fans, or just people who like to root for the little guy, this movie is for you.  "},{"Title":"corn-fed inspiration","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Critics compared it to 'Rocky', but this hackneyed inspirational drama actually looks and sounds more like 'The Natural', trading an enduring baseball myth for the fairy tale of small town high school basketball. Never mind the competitive spirit the film is more a celebration of spacious skies and amber waves of grain, with hard luck coach Gene Hackman leading his undisciplined team to the Indiana State championship, bullying his way into the hearts of taciturn, conservative farm community where the game is regarded almost as a religion. The outcome of every match up is never in doubt; no matter how far behind they may be, the Hickory Hucksters always manage to find themselves with a tie score just before the final buzzer. But the music-and-montage approach to the sport flattens the genuine mania and suspense generated on a high school basketball court. Every cliché, from the triumphant music fanfares to the slow motion, game winning jump shots to the exultant crowd scenes, is as familiar as an old pair of gym sneakers, which is sure to be a reassuring comfort to some viewers. But to others it may simply mean the time has come to buy a new pair of shoes. "},{"Title":"Greatest Sports Movie Ever!","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I've been a huge fan of Sports movies, but Hoosiers tops them all! This is the greatest sports movie ever, with a spectacular performance by Gene Hackman who plays a coach with a troubled past that transforms an average looking high school basketball team from Indiana into state champions. And to do this, he makes them work really hard. At first they are all frustrated but once a kid named Jimmy Chitwood joins the team, they start winning games and reaches the state playoffs and defeat an all black- team to become Indiana State Champs! Other noteworthy performances are by Barbara Hershey as a teacher who can't stand basketball and won't let Jimmy play; but eventually Jimmy joins and she falls for Hackman, and Dennis Hopper as one of the players' drunken father who knows a lot about basketball and becomes an assistant coach. This is probably Hopper's best performance and I think he should have definitely won the Oscar for best supporting actor.Let me say that this is definitely one great movie that families should watch. My advice to athletes whether in high school or college should believe in themselves. Good luck will never come your way unless you believe that you're good and you're willing to give it your all to win it all. 10 out of 10! Must see! "},{"Title":"Living The Dream!","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" David Anspaugh's Hooisers is a classic, despite the predictability of the film. It illustrates the concept of the underdog dream by showing not only what is seen in successful teams from the outside, but what also happens behind the scenes. Using a high school basketball team to focus this discussion of the underdog story, the film expresses how difficult the obstacles are to achieve such a feat, as some people could possibly see it just as a lucky miracle. At the end of the day, the film hopes to show what must happen to accomplish such a hard goal, and also to show what the key to success is in order to achieve that certain goal.The movie successfully demonstrates teamwork as the moral. Teamwork was simply the result from the support that they gave to each other which resulted in their championship season. This team could not win for the life of them before that crucial emergency meeting, in which the support from the community finally came out for the head coach. Look where that got them! They became champions. This film is a perfect guide on how to accomplish that mindset of teamwork by connecting all the tiny details into our daily lives. Just as in this great movie, you can't win alone. Even the little things require the idea of teamwork if we want to be truly effective, which is why this movie is a must- see. "},{"Title":"Decent Basketball Film","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" A coach with a checkered past (Gene Hackman) and a local drunk (Dennis Hopper) train a small town high school basketball team to become a top contender for the championship.Although I am not one who cares for basketball or sports films (they all seem to follow the same general plot), this one does have some good things going for it. Namely, Gene Hackman, who never makes a bad movie (or at least never plays a bad role). And Dennis Hopper, who is something of a wild card and is appropriately cast as a drunk.Beyond that, it is just a feel good movie. Nothing too heavy, sort of the thing you expect from the 1980s. And that is just alright. "},{"Title":"traditional underdog sports movie","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" It's 1951. Coach Norman Dale (Gene Hackman) arrives in the small Indiana town of Hickory. His old friend Cletus gets him a high school teaching and basketball coaching job. He's a former college coach with a troubled past. Fellow teacher Myra Fleener (Barbara Hershey) is intrigued by the newcomer. The best player Jimmy Chitwood refuses to play after the lost of his beloved coach. Myra looks after Jimmy with his troubled home life and doesn't want him to play. Dale throws out the bossy local coach and a mouthy player in the first practice. They are severely undermanned and he benches a disobedient player despite having only four players on the floor. Shooter Flatch (Dennis Hopper) is a drunken former star player and father to one of the players.This follows the long tradition of the underdog sports movie and builds on it. The story is all cliché and proud of it. Hackman is masterful. Hopper is a great drunk. Hershey is the wearied type and I'm glad that they don't have a 20 year old bright-eyed hottie to play the romantic lead. The movie is earnest to its core and there lies its charms. "},{"Title":"I Loved It","Date":"8 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I got to experience this movie in Bu-Ray High Definition with my Dad I actually loved this movie Gene Hackman did a great job playing the coach and then what was cool a couple of months after I had seen the movie we had a wedding to go to because that is where some of our cousins live and some on of them was getting married so on the way there I saw the sign for the exit to take to go see the Hoosiers Basketball Museum and High School and you could also see where they filmed the movie I wanted to go but we were on a very tight schedule for the wedding me and my dad were very bummed anyway you should actually definitely really see this movie film. "}{"Title":"One of the Great Sport Movies","Date":"18 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I grew up near Northeastern Indiana on the Ohio side. Those fields are my fields, those skies are like the midwestern skies of my childhood. Hoosiers is not only a great sports movie, it reflects the ambiance of the early 50's in midwestern farm country in a way few artistic efforts do. There is a quietness, a beauty of those times and those places that you don't see any more. Progress is great, but it is nice to remember where you came from.Gene Hackman does an outstanding job playing Norman Dale, coach of the Hickory Hoosiers. They are farm boys from a small Indiana town who play basketball as easily as some people ride a bycycle. Dale molds them into an unbeatable team who eventually win the state championship. He has a checkered past. This chance to coach a winning team is a redemption for him as well as a victory for the whole town.Hoosiers is a joy to watch and experience. Time hasn't dimmed its excellence. "},{"Title":"OK Hoop Drama","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" A shy but talented young man leads his small town high school basketball team to the state championship. The small town atmosphere is nicely evoked in this film, which was inspired by the true story of the Milan High School's 1954 state title in Indiana. The game action is well simulated, but it seems too calculated and predictable to create true excitement. Hackman is terrific as usual as the coach who's been given a second chance to revive his career. Hershey is also effective as a teacher that Hackman initially clashes with. Hopper has a showy role as a former star player who's now a drunk, but is given a chance by Hackman to redeem himself. "},{"Title":"Good period piece","Date":"25 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Eleanor Roosevelt famously said that you can't be made to feel inferior without your own consent.Gene Hackman proves the words true as a coach from out of town whom the small-minded dismiss as washed-out and a has-been. He doesn't buy into the put-downs and winds up leading his rural Indiana basketball team to victory in this true-life tale dating to 1954. This may be one of those rare sports films that would interest even to those who don't follow the game. It's fairly easy to understand the court action, and it's enjoyable to savor the pretty scenes of Indiana along the way.Some time is wasted on internecine spats and a few too many cheer-leading scenes but the slow-to-simmer romance between Hackman and Barbara Hershey is believable. I remember seeing this ages ago in the theater. It stands up pretty well to time. "},{"Title":"good but repetitive","Date":"24 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Hoosiers is a movie about a coach who makes a comeback with a Hickory high school team.In my opinion this movie was touching, but very, very, repetitive. The whole movie was about the coach getting ejected from the game, and Hickory winning every game. The rest of the movie was good. I personally liked the story line of the underdogs coming back.I am giving it a 5.5 out of ten.If it was not so repetitive I would give it an 8. But overall a pretty good movie.You should really give it a chance if you are a sports fan, and like underdog stories. "},{"Title":"A movie about leadership and teamwork","Date":"24 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" If not for a Leadership workshop, I would not have known about this movie. About 10 years ago I went to a one week leadership workshop. The instructor showed us half of this movie as an example of a leadership style (Coach Norman Dale's). It was so interesting that we asked to see the rest of the movie. It did not disappoint. Recently I watched the DVD, and paid attention to other aspects of the movie- like acting, which was superb. Cinematography, score all very good. Since this is an old movie (1986, but seems older), you don't see some of the technical advances in movie making, but the story is straightforward, and the movie focuses on the story and the characters. Gene Hackman is great as the coach. Others support him well. The sound is not very good, and the DVD did not have the English subtitles (only French and Spanish, which did not help, obviously). It was hard to hear the dialog clearly at times. I had to watch the movie for the second time on the DVD to fully understand it. Other than that, this is a very good sports movie about small town folks in Indiana in the 1950s, and their kids in high school, with their dreams of winning basketball games. If you don't expect to see some fancy technical things that are now being used in movie making, this is definitely worth seeing if you enjoy sports, and stories focused on characters. "},{"Title":"A solid sports film","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Let me start by saying the best aspect of this movie besides it's factual basis is the acting. Gene Hackman was a great choice to lead the film, but the star of the show was Dennis Hopper. He was perfectly casted as an alcoholic sports fanatic, who later became the team's assistant coach. Nothing he does is surprising because everything fits to a tee exactly what he brought to the role. Hopper really brings emotion out of you and gives you a character you think of as a proud father, rather than an alcoholic bum. See this for the late Dennis Hopper alone.Hoosiers is far from perfect. I didn't enjoy the soundtrack at all. Most of it seemed like it was taken right from Rocky IV or A Nightmare of Elm Street sequel. While the story line is a goodie, it seems to just focus on B-ball. They only go briefly through Hackman's background while also ignoring all the kids except Jimmy and Hopper's son. I believe the film would of benefited by being a little longer.It was a powerful film that has may moments that are sure to always be in your memory. And while the basketball scenes and locker room talks tend to become cliché, the movie's secondary plot of Hopper finding himself with his son more than makes up for it. "},{"Title":"Basketball, the Indiana state religion","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I guess because on either side of Indiana, both Ohio and Illinois have two major league baseball team franchises, the state of Indiana has rebelled and adopted basketball as the official state sport. Some could compare Indiana's basketball mania to many southern states and their local devotion to college and high school football. It's more like a secular religion down there.In the early Fifties Gene Hackman has been hired by a local high school to coach its floundering basketball team which is built around one star player, Maris Valainis. Maris's father was the assistant coach and is also the town drunk and is played by Dennis Hopper. He's as jealous as Lloyd Bridges was when Gary Cooper didn't recommend he move up to the job of marshal in High Noon.Barbara Hershey plays a teacher who is worried about Valainis getting a good education and who actually now has custody of the kid because Hopper's been ruled an unfit dad won't let him play. That's the specific problem that Hackman is facing.The general problem is that especially in a small town setting everyone and his brother think they can do a better job than the current athletic coach of whatever sport. Just listen to any sports phone-in show on the radio and you'll have that fact confirmed. Still that's just what comes with the territory. The best character in Hoosiers is without a doubt Hopper. He was a star basketball player in the town and he can't get over the fact that those years in high school were the high point of his life. He never went on to anything else and that's what Hershey is trying to prevent happening with his son. Ironically this same situation is humorously exploited in Married With Children where Al Bundy waxes nostalgically about his high school football days, remember four touchdowns in a single game.In fact Dennis Hopper got an Oscar nomination in the Best Supporting Actor category, one of two that Hoosiers got the other being for best musical scoring. I think Hoosiers misses being a classic though a lot will disagree with me. The characters except for Hopper are not really developed by the script. Other than Valainis the kids on the team have no real individual identities, we never learn just Hackman did that brought him out of college ranks and in the Navy for eleven years between his last college job and this one.The basketball scenes move at a good pace though and Hoosiers is after all about basketball. And nothing but basketball. "},{"Title":"Qualities of a Great Leader","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I have not read anything about what great qualities Coach Dale had as a coach in general. First and foremost it is all about character. He had an aura about him when he walked into the room. The team quickly followed all of his instructions even though they were totally different from what they had done in the past. They didn't even question his new approach. They just did it. The townspeople questioned his new approach as well. They even tried to get him fired. The team started winning and winning and winning and everyone had extreme respect now. I thought this movie was extremely inspiring to all. I don't know how anyone cold not feel the same. "},{"Title":"Great Sports Movie","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I first saw this movie in one of my bible studies, I heard quite a bit about this film before hand and I heard from everyone that it was good. When we were done with it I saw that it lives up to its reputation. It is a classic movie based on a true story about a small school in rural Indiana were basketball is big. It follows the journey of a coach who has a very good reputation for his coaching skills, but hasn't coached in a very long time. This movie teaches you what can happen if you work hard and never give up on anything. I also saw about a year later that this movie made AFI's list of 100 most inspirational films of all time, I say that it was a well earned spot. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" A wonderful movie. And a perennial favorite that is (I think loosely) based upon the story of an actual southern Indiana high school team. As it follows the fortunes of the Hickory Huskers, it really gets what small town basketball was like (and perhaps still is like)in rural areas. You owe it to yourself to watch it.A bit of trivia Watching it just now, I noticed that in the locker room before the 'big game' the coach is discussing the opposing players names, which are written on a blackboard. A quick check to IMDb revealed that these names are the actual last names of the actor/ballplayers portraying the Huskers. "}{"Title":"Danville, Illinois Classic Star","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Over the years I missed this film starring Gene Hackman,(Coach, Norman Dale),Heartbreakers,'01, a true story about a small high school in Indiana who struggle with many ups and downs and are considered one of the worst teams in the Hoosier State. Coach Norman seeks the help of an old pro at Basketball, who is a burned out drunk who goes on and off the wagon and needs to dry out most of the time. The film keeps you on the edge of your seat wondering if this team will ever amount to anything. However, the town people are big supportive fans and do get tired and discussed with their coach and have a local meeting in a town church. There are lots of scenes showing plenty of corn fields and even some romance is squeezed in between games. Gene Hackman was born in Danville, Illinois, near the Indiana border where all you can see for miles is corn fields not far from Champaign, Illinois where the University of Illinois is located. Gene fit in perfectly with this film and it was great entertainment. "},{"Title":"Captures Its Time Period","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I like good sports movies. There is a delicate touch involved in making them work. As a child, my friends and I would read every sports book we could get our hands on and we were very critical of the authors. I remember a basketball book where a team that was fouled declined the foul and kept the ball. This was the end of that author as far as we were concerned. We were pretty picky. I started watching basketball in fourth grade which would have been about three years after the time of this movie. When I looked at the portrayal of the players in the movie I was impressed. The old gym, the cars heading to the visitors' town on a Friday night, the whole town completely involved, mainly because there was nothing else to do. Then, of course, it was Indiana. I couldn't begin to understand that since we never got that serious.I will go to a Gene Hackman film and assume it will be above average. I really like his portrayal of the coach. He has incredible baggage as he hits the small town and is past the time when he needs to just please people. He is complex and proud and knows deep down inside that this team isn't going anywhere unless there is a commitment. The townspeople want a lot of scoring. He wants discipline. This of course causes him to get into a war with the townies. He even throws one of the better players off the team. Of course, there's the subplot of getting the young phenom to come back to the team and the romance angle. But ultimately it is the way basketball was in the fifties. Hackman takes his character, which has many failings, and throws it into the soup. He's a master craftsman as an actor. See this. "},{"Title":"memories..","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie is probably the ONLY movie that, if i am channel surfing and it comes on, i must watch it all. Its not really an obsession, i have really only scene the movie a total of maybe 10-15 times (very low frequency for a hoosier). I was 5 years old with this movie was released, and i remember there was a 1-screen theatre on the east side of Indianapolis that played this movie two times a night, EVERY night, for the first year after it was released. You could see it for $4, and on the weekends they had drawings to give out basketballs and shirts and fun stuff like that. Every time i see this movie it reminds me of being a kid, going to that theatre and enjoying this, a movie that encapsulates what Indiana Basketball is all about. Basketball is indeed a passion that defines Indiana, and i think this movie did an OK job of capturing that. This isn't so much a review, but rather an explanation for why so many people love it.  "},{"Title":"One of the top 3 all-times sports movies.","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"     It takes alot to make a sports movie great and Hoosiers has it all. It's about getting a second chance, it's about redemption and it's about love. Anyone who is a sports fan and has been lucky enough to feel the incredible joy when your team when wins it all will really enjoy this flick. I would have to rate this movie right up there with Pride of The Yankees and The Natural. "},{"Title":"On the Set of Hoosiers","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Hoosiers is a great movie that truly captures 'Hoosier Hysteria' at its best. I have read many of the reviews on this forum and understand where some of the comments come from; those who never had the experience of living in a small-town Indiana environment can't appreciate how well the film captured the mood and emotion associated with Indiana sports, especially basketball.What you see in Hoosiers is as real as it gets. I am fortunate to have a deeper tie to the movie than most, in that my uncle, aunt and mother were all part of the Hoosiers movie making experience. My uncle was one of the 'Good ol' Boys' and the inside stories they told about the event and the stars was exciting.As a filmmaker, I for one appreciated the drama of the struggle the team endured that was captured to film. The passing of time as the team progressed to the state finals and the buildup in emotion and focus were real. During March, basketball is on the tip of any Hoosier's tongue and more so in the fifties! Hackman and Hopper were believable and created a dual drama in overcoming adversity and character building.For those of you who were not big on the film, remember the art of movie making is designed to entertain and allow one to take a break from life as we live it and immerse ourselves in what's on the screen. Hoosiers let's us do just that. It's a feel-good movie that touches all the emotions. You laugh, you cry, you feel anger and pride. Hoosiers is a winner and worth seeing again and again.  "},{"Title":"the basketball movie","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Hoosiers tells the true story of a group of underdogs who become champions. Set in the 1950s, Hoosiers is about a hard luck, unemployed college basketball coach (Gene Hackman) who gets a chance to coach a small town Indiana high school basketball team. Facing resentment from the community and the team itself, Hackman manages to inspire his young athletes, leading them to the state championship with the help of assistant coach (Dennis Hopper), who happens to be a recovering alcoholic. Hoosiers has to be the best basketball film ever, the acting, story, and overall movie are stellar. You got to love Hackman and Hopper in this classic. "},{"Title":"A Generation X Classic","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  There are two types of movie watchers  Those who appreciate Hoosiers for what it is and those who dislike it for what it's not.  Guess which one I am?  I refuse to watch a movie like this looking for discrepancies in its representation of Indiana basketball, or as a study of acting (although this movie does have a nicely star-studded cast).  That's not the purpose of this movie at all, and if were I'd probably like it much less.  If it's any indication to you of what kind of movie fan I am, I'd rather watch Cannonball Run than Gosford Park any day, but that's besides the point... this movie is for people to feel good and feel inspired.  It brings hope to the millions of us for whom the term suburbanite or city slicker doesn't fit, and shows that there is a sense of pride and accomplishment in enjoying life no matter where you choose to live or what you choose to do.  So for those of you who don't like this movie, I think you should give it a second chance, and realize what it's true intent is.  Not that I don't value your opinion... I do, as such critique often inspires the industry as a whole to improve, but realize that not every movie is made to be valued along the same lines as other serious movies.  I mean, really, who would want to see this movie in the style of the English Patient?  I know I wouldn't. "},{"Title":"Basketball is only the cover...","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" In Hoosiers, one gets a view of 'flyover' country -- the part of America that people get through quickly on the way to somewhere else. Small-town life isn't as simple as it looks from urban America, and it wasn't very simple even in the 1950s. Human relationships are as complicated and intense in rural America as they are anywhere else. Just because few people are around doesn't mean that they can't get in one's face (to use an anachronistic term); one can't hide from any personal conflicts that arise from trying to do things differently, and one can't even get away from the town drunk. What is there is there, and one challenges other people's sensibilities and habits at considerable risk to one's happiness in such a place. Small towns allow privacy only at the price of all intimacy, and intimacy only at the price of all individuality. Trust me on this -- I live in a small town just outside of Indiana. Hoosiers gets the visual feel of rural America in the 1950s, specifically Indiana, very well. It's apparent that the cinematography exploits the changing seasons of the Midwest as beautifully as can be done, rivaling Alfred Hitchcock's >The Trouble with Harry< (to be sure a very different movie) in part because preparation for basketball season begins in the fall and that basketball ends as winter gives way to the ugly, nasty time of early spring.The sets are real high schools -- available cheaply because many school districts have abandoned high school buildings once a new, more modern high school has been built. (A little secret about Indiana -- the public buildings of a certain age in rural Indiana are essentially identical in Indiana for each type because such buildings all have the same architectural plan). The basketball sequences are almost hackneyed. How much variety can one get out of winning, even by setting the scene thirty years (now fifty) years earlier)? Basketball is the pretext for personal conflicts -- such as the coach's ideas of how to win and the ideas of the supposed experts in town and that between the coach and the English teacher, who wants the star basketball player to seek an academic scholarship (requiring him to give up basketball) instead of a basketball scholarship, even though basketball is the surest source of lasting esteem in a small town that offers few economic opportunities other than working on the family farm and waiting to inherit the farm when Dear Old Dad dies. Most of all, we have conflict between characters and their worst tendencies -- selfishness, low self-esteem, alcoholism, and anger. Hoosiers is a great movie, one of the best (better than, for example, >Field Dreams<, even if it falls short of >Raging Bull>) of involving sports, because human drama overpowers the sport. Thoroughly unpretentious, it catches rural Midwestern reality very well. It is neither saccharine nor maudlin, and it doesn't require that one be a basketball fan or to have much knowledge about basketball. "},{"Title":"Makes You Feel Good","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  It seemed incomplete.  Perhaps a narrator would have enhanced it.  The characters and relationships could have been more developed.  Show us more about their lives.  Show us what's behind their thoughts and beliefs.  It just did not feel deep enough.  It didn't feel real to me.  It is a decent movie overall, but it is not great.  None of the stars' acting performances were very impressive, although I could believe Hershey's character in some scenes.  It's possible that this had an influence on future sports movies.  It's worth a watch.  If we're talking about quality, I'd say it's nothing special.  If we're talking about the sort of story that this is, I'd say it's hard not to like because it just makes you feel good. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is an excellent movie for anyone who is a basketball fan. Gene Hackman did a outstanding job as coach Norman Dale. He is faced with bringing a small Indiana town's high school basketball team together. The coach has a questionable past,but really wants to work with this team. The  town holds a referundum as to whether or not to fire the coach, and one of the players informs the town that IF he stays, I play, but if he goes, I go. It was great to see how these players rallyed around the coach. He was assisted by Dennis Hopper, who's a drnkard and his son plays on the team. At first his son doesn't like the fact that his dad is coaching, but later comes around. It was great to see how this coach molded the players into a team, and take them to the state finals. I want to add this movie to my collection. It is worthy of any collection. "}{"Title":"The best basketball movie ever made.","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Hoosiers was a great movie. It chronicles a coach with a troubled past (Hackman) who must try to turn around a small Indiana school's 8 man basketball team. In the process he must find a way to get the team's former best player back on the team, keep himself from getting fired, and earn the respect that the team rightfully deserves. This is the only basketball movie that is worth seeing. This movie will especially be loved by people in the Midwest, because it takes place in the Midwest (actually more the Mideast) and features a small town team fighting to earn their much deserved respect. "},{"Title":"A whole range of emotions","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  If you want the whole line of emotions from feeling bad for Norman Dale; loving him or hating him, to feeling great for the state championship, to a realistic view of small town life with its blessings and hypocritical sides, this is a movie that you can watch over and over again. It is a truly great movie and should be rated a classic. It is a tear jerker which can also keep you the edge of your seat.  "},{"Title":"Brings back memories","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Okay, maybe I'm biased, having played basketball at a school barely larger than Hickory High (their enrollment was 64, mine was 82) but Hoosiers is one of the best sports movies I've seen in years.  So what if it's obvious how it's going to end? Or whether the events seem improbable?  Whoever wrote the screenplay knows life in a town like Hickory - how everyone wants to meddle in the team's affairs, how high school basketball is everything to such a town in the winter, and how kids grow up idolizing the local varsity and hoping that one day they will lead the team, and therefore the town, to glory.  The reporters, the cameras, the crowds all lend an Indiana flavor to high school basketball that isn't found outside the rural midwest.  Folks growing up in California or Massachusetts can't imagine the attention the general public and media give to high school basketball but, believe me in the midwest, it's real.The story is based loosely on the 1954 Milan Indians, who knocked off Muncie Central 32-30 in the final.  The similarities end there.  Milan was small - around 150 students - but they were supposed to go far in the '54 tournament, having advanced to the state semifinals the previous year (losing to South Bend Central) and bringing back much of that team for the '54 run.  Along the way they beat Oscar Robertson's Crispus Attucks team, which won the final the following year.Hackman is terrific as a coach seeking redemption, teaching his wayward pupils discipline and strategy.  Hopper deserved his Academy nomination in his role of the town's wayward soul, also seeking redemption but having no idea how to achieve it.  Hershey gives a good performance as the teacher suspicious of the outsider like most of us small-town folk appear to be at first.Not every high school has two thousand pupils, and many public high schools like Hickory still exist; although they seem to have vanished from Indiana (Milan consolidated and now enrolls over 300) there are plenty in the northern Great Lakes and the Great Plains. Hollywood seems to have forgotten the small high school and rural life in general.Every March, this movie still inspires countless players and coaches to rise to the challenge while all around them think they're overmatched and outgunned.  That is the legacy of Hoosiers. "},{"Title":"Delightfully entertaining.","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Magnificent sports tale about a former college coach, Norman Dale (Gene Hackman)who's given a chance to redeem himself by coaching a boys' high school basketball team in a rural Indiana town.Director David Anspaugh and his screen-writer, Angelo Pizzo, don't go for over-the-top in providing the numerous issues that Dale deals with constantly. Some of those issues play a pivotal role in the movie such as Dale hiring Shooter (Dennis Hopper), a former basketball star who's now confined to being the town drunk and father to one of the players. Another one being that Dale has only eight, not twelve team members, which includes the equipment manager (no pun intended).As for the games, the tension is so real that you could feel like that you're there, watching the game unfold so quickly. Plus, I couldn't help to admit that it was certainly heart-pounding, without a doubt. The movie's photography, shot by Fred Murphy (October Sky) with such excellent skill, makes the appearance of each gym and even the landscape takes your breath away. Also, the musical score, composed by Jerry Goldsmith, is definitely authentic and I'm left wondering why it's not available on CD.Hoosiers is like the Rocky of basketball in a certain way, but by looking at these underdogs for a moment. Hackman and Hopper are both excellent here as the sports' version of The Odd Couple. It immediately reminded me of the boys' prep teams in Wisconsin, not in Indiana.Delightfully entertaining. "},{"Title":"A unique town, called Hickory","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Life to the town was untouched by the effects of the outside world.  The progression of life was as unique to the town as a constellation is to the sky.  The past was never really the past in this town, for it was always living in the present along with it's future, which caused time to balance in it's own blissful state-no care, no need to care.  Time knew that the town would grow on it's own watch.  It was the type of town where thoughts were lost, but memories lived on forever.  Confusion to an outside force or idea was the very organized way to the town. When somebody would come to the town of Hickory, Indiana, they would simply be in awe of how the town could function on such a simple level.  The town folk who saw this knew what the outsider was thinking, but would just kindly simile and not bring news to the thought that maybe life here is not the same life everywhere else.  As it was a simple town, the people of Hickory could appreciate the simplest things in life-a good walk, a hard day's work, but above all else, an unforgettable basketball game.  "},{"Title":"a terrific little film","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Maybe I'm biased, being born and raised in Indiana, playing ball and feasting on stories of Bobby Plump, Oscar Robinson, Damon Bailey, and legends of Hoosier Hysteria, but this film is my favorite sports flick of all time.  Based in part of the story of how tiny Milan upset mighty Muncie Central in the 1954 Indiana state championship game, the movie is inspirational.  Hackman and Hopper give great performance as a coach looking for redemption, and his drunken assistant looking to do the same.  There's also sweet-shooting Jimmy Chitwood (a thinly veiled nod to Plump) who ever good ole Indiana boy like myself wanted to be.At it's heart this is a movie about David overcoming Goliath, and of characters redeeming themselves in the face of incredible odds.  It's your classic inspirational sports movie that also manages to capture the feel of small-town Indiana incredibly well.  A darn good flick. "},{"Title":"Please. Try it; rent it.","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Look; I don't want to get all dramatic. This movie was never commercially big.  But TRUST ME; It is underrated.  See it, and you will say wow!!!  Why are classic works like these often overlooked? I just rented this movie for the first time.  I know nothing about basketball, nor do I care.  This is just a GOOD movie... "},{"Title":"A small town team's love of basketball drives them to greatness","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  A truly mesmerizing movie that makes you feel good.  A beautiful story of how a coach has realized his past mistakes and takes a small town team in Indiana, where high school basketball is a religion, to the state finals. Based on a true story, Hoosiers will always make you root for the underdog. "},{"Title":"One of the best of the '80s","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  It's difficult to find things to say that haven't been said before. However this is one of the few movies where you actually care about the characters involved. They are all likeable, but have complexities that aren't evident from the start of the film.Best scene - when Coach Dale leaves only 4 players out on the floor to finish the game. He conveyed a feeling of true leadership & love for his players.One of the few films that you can really say everyone in the family will enjoy.The last 5 minutes of the movie always give me goosebumps.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film That Has Always Been Vastly Under-Rated","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Hoosiers is a film that feels like it was made during Hollywood's Golden Age.  The movie is somewhat based on the true story of a small Indiana high school that defied the odds in 1952 and won the state basketball championship.  Gene Hackman is the mysterious, hard-nosed coach that must win at all costs.  However, he has a secret from his past that could tear the team apart.  Hackman does some of the best work of his storied career here.  His character is reminiscent of his Oscar-winning turn in The French Connection some 15 years earlier.  Barbara Hershey is super as usual as one of the school teachers in town.  Dennis Hopper shines the most in his greatest screen role.  He received his lone Oscar-nomination here by playing a drunken father of one of Hackman's players.  Hoosiers is very similar to The Last Picture Show in its ability to show small-town life at its most realistic.  It is also a film that will have the whole audience cheering, ala Rocky.  Easily the best basketball film ever made and one of the best, and most under-rated, films of the 1980s.  5 stars out of 5.     "}{"Title":"Hoosiers is a Slam Dunk!","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is the ultimate basketball movie whether you like the sport or not! Gene Hackman performs brilliantly and Dennis Hopper probably plays his best role in this film (though I am not a huge fan of his so I haven't seen many of his movies). This movie has drama, suspense, action, and love all wrapped in one! Having being based on a true story makes it even more appealing. It's refreshing not to see gore, mutilation, sex, and even sponsorship in this movie like so many movies out there right now. You CAN have a great movie without any of that stuff - and this movie is it! A must watch for sure. "},{"Title":"The movie that makes you cheer for the underdogs!","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  This film is one of the few out there that I have heard nothing but positive remarks on. But what has made HOOSIERS stand the test of time? Let's talk about the music. From the opening scene to the closing credits, the music in this film truly captures the emotions of the viewer. You can FEEL yourself in the stands, cheering for the underdog team until you lose your voice. You want to reach out and lend a hand when your heroes have their moments of pain. You can hardly contain your apprehension while the final seconds tick off the clock. But what about the story?       Timeless. Who doesn't want to hear about a team that beats the odds? Some of us have had moments like this in our own lives, and some wish they could have been a part of one. HOOSIERS gives an open invitation for viewers to share the glory.       I loved this movie for two main reasons. The first is, NO ONE IS THE LONE HERO. _Everyone_ gets a chance to shine in their own way, like a true team effort should. As Gene Hackman states, No one more important than the other. The next reason, I just want to rewind it and watch it over again the second it ends. But judge for yourself - give HOOSIERS a try. "},{"Title":"If you didn't like it the first time, watch it again.","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is a great film I see every year.  There is a gravity and reality to it where some of the character arcs and not-quite character arcs may test some viewers who are used to no-mind hollywood fluff.  If you didn't like this movie the first time or thought it was only passable, watch it again when you grow up.   "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie for sports nuts of all kinds....","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie is a must see for any basketball fan, especially those of small town high school basketball.  Also a stellar performance by Hackman.  Fans of him will love this movie as well.  Hoosiers does a great job of capturing small town life, and how it all revolves around the town living vicariously through their high school sports team.  Hackman is wonderful as a new coach with a shady past that has different ideas from what has been done before. As he tries to restore discipline and integrity to the team, he is met with opposition by the town's leaders.  All in all, a great 'feel good' movie where you find yourself pulling for the main character and the ideals and principles that he stands for.  A must see.... "},{"Title":"One of the best sports movies ever.","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  One of my top ten favorite movies of all time.  It touched me deeply in my personal yearning for what sports should be about, but sadly today too often is not.  Sports as a model for life.  Of hope.  Of innocence. Of ideals. Of overcoming adversity through hard work.  Of what most of us deep inside wish life would be more about. "},{"Title":"Best pure basketball movie ever.","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is fairly easily the best pure basketball movie made.  Others, like The Harlem Globetrotters, or Space Jam, might be more historic or funny, but this is great movie-making regards basketball.  Of special merit  Editing. I have nothing but great compliments for the outstanding editing done to put this film up on the screen.  There seems to be no breaks in the many action sequences.  The photography and acting are also superb. "},{"Title":"This is one of the greatest sports movie ever made and scores on several levels.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is a beautiful film that offers much more than the usual sports action.  It tells the story of a tiny Indiana high school whose basketball team soars to great heights in the Indiana State High School Basketball Tournament.Gene Hackman plays a coach with a checkered past.  Ultimately, we find out about his past.  Dennis Hopper, an avid basketball fan and the local drunk knows but doesn't tell.  Barbara Hershey finds out and the story is revealed in the stubble of a cornfield as they talk.  Hershey plays a local girl who has come back to teach school after going away to college.  Why'd you come back to Hickory?, Hackman asks her in one scene.  She doesn't tell him.  I wish she had.  Her character is very enigmatic and is perhaps the most interesting in the movie.  The character has unusual depth.  She is a substitute mom for a local basketball star.  She wants him to focus on his studies and to get away from Hickory and basketball.  She doesn't understand the importance of basketball to everyone around her.  It appears that she may even resent the importance that her parents' placed on her brother's basketball experiences.  Resentful or not, she too attends the games to cheer the team on.  Her enthusiasm for the game and the team is more muted than most, however.  There is a deep ambivalence in her character.Dennis Hopper delivers a terrific performance as Shooter, the former high school basketball turned drunk.  In one scene where he is describing an upcoming opponent to Hackman he is almost poetic.  Hackman offers him a chance for redemption when his assistant coach (Sheb Wooley) becomes ill.  The film offers us an opportunity to cheer for Shooter's redemption as well as the team.  Hopper plays the role with sincerity, humor and emotion.  There is a touching scene late in the film in which he and his son interact before the big game.  Shooter who is now in the hospital must listen on the radio, but the film doesn't forget him.I particularly enjoyed the visual aspects of this film.  The film's opening scenes of Hackman driving through the rural Indiana countryside are some of the most beautiful images ever put on film.  In one scene he stops at an intersection on a narrow road.  There is a prettly little white church and a lot of corn.  Otherwise, there is nothing.  He passes a barn where some boys are playing basketball against a makeshift basket and backboard.  This establishes at the beginning the importance of basketball in Indiana.  Throughout the film there are beautiful scenes that showcase the Indiana countryside.  The film deserves credit for showing Indiana's beauty against the backdrop of Winter.The film found an beautiful old elementary school at Ninevah, Indiana to serve as the exterior for the Hickory High School.  The school was closed several years ago because of asbestos contamination.  The last time I saw it it was a wreck.  The windows were broken and the building was surrounded by broken bricks and glass.  I almost cried. There is an intimacy in the basketball scenes that is missing from most sports movies.  The gym at Hickory reminds me of my old home town at Winlock, Washington.  The gym at Hickory, like the one at Winlock, has a dim, boxlike quality which roars to life on game night.  In the final scenes the game loses this intimacy as the team goes to Indianapolis for the finals.  Hackman realizes this and tries to help his team realize it's just another gym.  He has them measure the distance from the foul line to the basket and the height of the rim.  Same as at Hickory, he says.I also enjoyed Jerry Goldsmith's musical score for this film.  There are beautiful cues to help us appreciate the beauty of rural Indiana.  There are also pulsating themes underscore the sometimes tense basketball.This is a great film which can be enjoyed on several levels.  It has great characters, a wonderful script and awesome visual values. I watch it over and over again and have never tired of it. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  A masterpiece, I am pleased that Universal is re-releasing it this February. If you have not seen this film, you are missing out on some great storytelling. This is the greatest sports movie made (The Natural is a close second), and in my view. perhaps the greatest movie ever. It truly has both emotion and intensity without sacrificing credibility, as many movies in this genre tend to do. This film is gritty, believable, and inspiring . . . a must see for all. Do not pass this classic up. "},{"Title":"Americans Love a Winner!","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  As General George Patton so aptly put it in his pre-D-Day speech, Americans love a winner.  This is one of those films that ties everything together a down-and-out aging coach (Hackman); a want-a-be basketball hero and drunk (Hopper); and the tentative, soon-to-be old maid (Hershey).  Coupled with great location shooting, a rousing musical soundtrack, outstanding action sequences, and the tried and true underdog plot, Hoosiers gives the viewer that winning combination that we all so enjoy.  This is a must-see for any basketball nut, not to mention anyone who just needs a good 114 minutes of pure enjoyment.  Few people I know can resist the urge to buy this tape after viewing.  I know I did! "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Being IN this movie was a real treat.  The movie itself is a fine adaption of courage, teamwork, excitement and hope.  I still watch it and get nervous if they are going to win the BIG game. Great movie "}{"Title":"The Best regarding the American Sports Dream","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  How can you idiots not give this a 10? All non-athletes must have given it a low grade. The best that it could be. Gene Hackman and Barbara Hershey are great even though the romance is not the greatest. Who cares anyway... its a movie about heart. "},{"Title":"A stunning portrait of Indiana basketball...","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Growing up in Indiana, I've had the pleasure to experience Hoosier Hysteria my entire life.  High School basketball is something special around here - much like High School football in Texas.  In addition to being a heart-warming film about second chances and overcoming staunch adversity, Hoosiers gives the rest of the world a glimpse into the treasured tradition of Indiana hoops.The two main characters pay homage to this tradition.  Norman Dale - standing outside a raucous arena and about to enter his first game as an Indiana HS basketball coach - sighs quietly Welcome to Indiana Basketball. Myra Fleener (Barbara Hershey) gives a nail-on-the-head speech about star basketball players in Indiana.  They are indeed treated like gods.  Old stars like Bobby Plump, Oscar Robertson, Larry Bird, Rick Mount, Steve Alford, Glenn Robinson, and Damon Bailey were (and still are) at god status in Indiana.  As you travel into the smaller towns in the state, you find that each one has their own local hoop heroes from days past.One other interesting tidbit about this film were the casting choices of Hackman and Hopper - both of whom were at relative low points in their careers upon embarking on this project.  The film's obvious themes of redemption are lived out by these two Hollywood icons as they both found resurgence in their careers after Hoosiers.Yes, I loved the film for its story and uplifting themes.  But I also love the representation of the greatest basketball state in the country.Note  In 1997, the Indiana High School Athletic Association convened to decide the future of single-class sports (including basketball).  Milan High School's former star Bobby Plump, the inspiration for Hickory's Jimmy Chitwood, became a vocal critic of the IHSAA's decision to move to multi-class basketball.  The move was mostly championed by small schools like Milan.  In the end, the small schools won the fight and Hoosier Hysteria as we've come to know it died the following year. "},{"Title":"The Quintessential Redemption Movie","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  To me, this film ranks right up there with Babe as one of the greatest redemption movies of our generation.  The early scene where Hackman defends his makeshift team at the pep rally against the students chanting for Jimmy Chitwood is classic, as is the previously-mentioned scene where-in Hackman gets himself kicked out of the game intentionally.  A couple scenes could stand to be re-scored, but other than that, it still holds up remarkably well.  This is a film that deserves to be re-discovered.  "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites...","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Hoosiers is not only the best sports-oriented movie ever, it is a great movie on its own merits. It really began the underdog sports team overcomes the odds to become champions genre that is recycled all too often. The genius of the film is simple it's not about basketball, or sports, or coaching; it's about standing up for what you believe in. It's about personal convictions that cannot be sacrificed due to pressure from others. It's about redemption (both Coach Dale's and Shooter's) and forgiveness. These themes are universal and transcend the vehicle used to perpetuate them, that of a basketball team. The individual aspects of the film itself are equally impressive. The performances by Hackman and Hopper are second-to-none. Jerry Goldsmith's score is rousing, memorable, and catchy. The game scenes are shot and edited with masterful precision. And the players are all likable, memorable personalities (despite their short screen time). All in all, a great film that should be added to all personal libraries. "},{"Title":"Classic sports flick!","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  For anyone who has ever played the game of basketball, particularly at the high school level, this movie should be required viewing. The game has a magic that is lost on the pros, and only seems to rear its head in March at the collegiate level, but that magic is forever a part of high school basketball and Hoosiers is a resounding voice in proclaiming this simple truth.  "},{"Title":"exciting sports drama","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Very good movie about the price one has to pay for a grand achievement. The basketball coach took a group of goof-offs and losers, and showed them that there is no free ride; if you want something, you have to sweat and work for it. The ending of this film could have been corny and anti-climactic, however, it came off as a real nail biter. I honestly didn't know who was going to come out on top all the way to the final gun. A real heart stopper, and an entertaining story with a good lesson. 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Probably the best sports movie ever","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is a film whose central theme of rebirth and revitalization (which occurs in all major characters in addition to the team and the town as a whole) is all too common in cinema. Yet, its scenes are presented with a wholesome authenticity that somehow makes its message seem fresh, despite all the formulatic elements.  This is achieved predominantly through the incredible screen prescence of Hackman and Hopper.  Especially poignant is the scene in which Hackman intentionally gets himself thrown out in order to force Hopper to pull himself together and take responsibility.  In this part and others, Hackman's dry wit and Hopper's nervousness remain fully convincing.  This is one of those movies that will keep its magic even if you have - like me - been watching it an average of 3 times a year since you were six years old...even to the extent that I'll still get a little teary-eyed in the last scene.    "},{"Title":"Watch if you ever played a team sport","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" A lot of reviewers have given their arguments already. All I can say is this will bring joy to your heart if you have ever played a team sport. It's a feel good movie, and you should not be ashamed to feel good when you watch it. Three points! *** But it seems IMDb does not allow reviews of less than 10 lines. Sorry. The rest of the review is superfluous to what I said, but ... the mood in the locker room, the bonding as a team in opposition, Gene Hackmann's redemption, a coach actually making a difference with his personal style of how to train; it all resonated with me, a former (absolutely former) elite athlete, having experienced a coach not unlike the protagonist. Just watch, m'kay. I did tonight that for the third time, on a whim, and this movie still holds up. "},{"Title":"One of the better sports movies out there","Date":"23 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I am not a big sports fan, but I do like a good film with some. Hoosiers is exactly that, one of the better ones along with Breaking Away and Remember the Titans. Is it clichéd? Perhaps, but even so everything else is so good you are past caring. The movie looks beautiful with crisp cinematography and scenery and the basketball sequences are stunning. Jerry Goldsmith's score is very evocative, the film is sharply directed, the script has a perfect balance and the story is heart-warming and snappily paced. The acting I have no qualms with either, Gene Hackman is simply brilliant as is Dennis Hopper. Overall, Hoosiers(or Best Shot) is wonderful and one of the better sports movies out there. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I would have preferred the true story. I was waiting at the end to read about what happened to the team as a result of the great win and there was nothing, just credits. I checked it out on the internet and found that a lot of it was fiction. The coach wasn't a washed up middle aged man, but a handsome young married man with a strong faith in God.The best part of the true story was that 9 out of the 12 players on the team did graduate from college and that probably had a lot to do with the esteem gained from winning the State Championship. The star player did benefit from playing.Plump's famous final second shot assured the championship victory for the Indians, and the Indiana High School Athletic Association awarded him the Trester Award for mental attitude, sportsmanship, and character. Plump played collegiately at Butler, where he set single-season and career scoring records, and then played four seasons with the Phillips 66 Oilers in the National Industrial League.The shot heard 'round the world' changed his life, his teammates' lives, and his community's image forever.NOW THAT IS A STORY WORTH TELLING!!!! "}{"Title":"Okay so this one chokes me up too","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I don't think there's any question that this movie is the best basketball movie EVER (even better than the classic Teen Wolf), and certainly up there for best sports movie of all-time. I start getting choked up about 20 minutes in and it goes all the way to the end. Hackman is fabulous in sometimes understated role as embattled coach for small Indiana high school, I don't know if there's ever been a sports movie tour de force like Hackman in this one. The period stuff is spot on, the music fantastic and the supporting cast (particularly Hershey) wonderful. My favorite moment, of many moments, is when Hackman gets thrown out of at the end of a game so Hopper can coach. So they threw every sports movie cliché and some new ones into the mix, and the resemblance to the facts of the real 1954 Milan championship are stretched to say the least. It's a wonderful time, don't see how it didn't win the Oscar for Best Picture. "},{"Title":"this movie sucked so bad simply OVER RATED!","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I expect this review will be a bit controversial to some. I am going to say something that some of you will agree with and well will outrage some as well. What is this magic word that will divide the hopefully two people who see this at some point before this blog disappears, well it is OVER RATED !!!!!!!!!. I hated this movie. I thought the very 80's theme music sucked, I thought Dennis Hopper who got an Oscar nod for this over acted. I thought the love interest angle involving Barbara Hershey and Gene Hackman was obvious. Every thing from the towns people hating newly arrived basketball coach Gene Hackman , to the local phenom stepping up to the figuritive plate just at the right moment, to the incredible and subtlety racist ending was obvious. Have you said the phrase this thing just writes itself well the chuckleheads who got the green light to do this must have uttered that constantly as they wrote this piece of garbage. Oh and by the way I know I forgot to say it earlier but hoosiers is an Oscar nominated film about a basketball team that wins the big game in the 1950's and was made in 1986. You can skip this one over rated over rated over rated! "},{"Title":"Fantastic for anyone playing the sport!","Date":"22 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" As a young kid I grew up around sports everywhere I went so this was naturally my favorite movie. It still is today. It's a feel good story with a somewhat slow introduction and it can be slow at times but you must be patient with this movie. Once it gets into the thick of things (the games) it really tenses up. Gene Hackman is just phenomenal in this film. Coach Norman Dale does everything he can to develop his team HIS way. He takes a semi-decent to poor team in high school and turns them into winners. The town people aren't exactly fond of his ways so he fights many battles. It seems as though the only way to prove himself is to win the championship, which is a long shot for what this team has accomplished recently. "},{"Title":"Formulaic...but in a good way.","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" The film begins with the hiring of a new high school basketball coach (Gene Hackman) in a rural Indiana town in 1951. Despite the townsfolk loving basketball (after all, it IS Indiana), the people really aren't that friendly. They try to tell him how to coach and some of his players have major attitudes as well. It's easy to say that it's a downright unfriendly place for outsiders. However, being a movie, you figure things must change...otherwise it wouldn't make for an interesting film! Into this enjoyable but predictable formula, fortunately, you have a lot of great characters. There is the nice but sick Principal, the teacher who initially hates the coach (Barbara Hershey) and, the most interesting of all, an alcoholic who is actually hired to be the coach's assistant (Dennis Hopper). All of these, along with lovely writing and a strong attention to 1950s details, make this an inspiring and impressive film.I wish all basketball players were forced to watch this game today. It has a lot to say about the game, self-discipline, self-respect and teamwork. So, even thought today's players are probably a lot better than those back in the old days (they are a lot bigger and stronger, that's for sure), they still have a lot to learn.As you watch the film, you need to keep reminding yourself that basketball was MUCH different back in the 50s. There was no shot clock and games OFTEN had total scores below 60...or even 40! So, the Coach's insistence on passing, passing, passing is pretty consistent with the way the game was played at the time--sort of like playing keep-away with occasional shots. So, actually, while the game seems kind of slow in this film, it's really a lot faster than they usually played it back then. They also seemed to have a lot more fights in the film than they probably had in real life.Recently another film was made that was clearly patterned on Hoosiers (The Winning Season). However, this newer clearly ignored the positive lessons of Hoosiers and is a funny film...though I clearly would NOT want to have a real coach be THAT awful! Well worth seeing...sort of an Anti-Hoosiers!One of the best films of the genre. "},{"Title":"The most powerful and inspirational American Sports movies made.","Date":"15 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I've always wished I could have caught this film on the big screen but I finally saw it on HBO one year after it's release. I have to say it this IS THE BEST SPORTS MOVIE EVER MADE!!! The story begins with a man whose fallen from grace as a high school basketball coach who we later learn had lost his job years before for getting physical with one of his players. Now his second chance will come into play in Hickory, Indiana he will have to coach a team of 6 kids and with unfriendly folk who just want to get rid of him before he even begins coaching the team. Gene Hackman is incredible as a distant, yet dedicated to what he is doing athletic coach. Barbara Hershey turns in a great performance as a villain in the first half and an unlikely love interest towards the second half of the film. That second part is probably the film's only flaw I thought it would've just been more believable the two become great friends until maybe the last scene. Don't be mistaken this is a feeble section of an amazing movie about redemption, the glory of high school sports some say -God. I haven't even mentioned the sub-plot involving the late great Dennis Hopper who should've gotten that Oscar for his nomination as an alcoholic father of one of boys on the team. This one would have ganered the Best Picture Oscar night that year had it not been for another small but powerful movie named Platoon. There are probably 3 pivotal scenes that will break your heart and inspire you at the same time. Definitely in my top 10 of the 1980's!!! "},{"Title":"The perfect sports movie","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" If you were going to make the absolute best possible movie a sports movie can be, this would be it. You have a great lead in Gene Hackman playing a high school basketball coach coming to a small town to turn around a bunch of sad sack losers into a championship team. Overcoming teams from much bigger schools with much bigger players on their rosters. The locations and the atmosphere of the movie was spot on, they had a very bar minimum gymnasium to play in. The emphasis they put on basketball in small town Indiana was perfect since it really is the most important thing to the towns people since a small town like that doesn't have any pro sports teams of their own so they have to latch onto their high school teams. "},{"Title":"UnderRated By Many, But A Spirited Classic","Date":"29 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" With the recent death of Dennis Hopper whose support in this one as Shooter is a classic support role, this film was very much over looked by everybody when it was released. After all, this is only about high school basketball and it is very much a period piece. It is set in the 1950's, in the Mid-West, but with a very big city cast. It was over looked despite the fact that this is the classic under dog from the small town getting to the state championship at the high school level. This is the theme that the NCAA's are built on in college basketball every year. Yet the film did not get positive press on it's initial release.Then the film hit television, & like the Wizard of Oz, this film has a plot that plays well on television. It has Gene Hackman proving he is more than Popeye Doyle as he plays a high school basketball coach who rarely exists in reality. He plays that role with a relish that carries this film. With Shooter (Hopper) in support as a mentor, but a mentor with a drinking problem, a small school beats the odds. That is a heart which works in many classic motion pictures, & it works well here.This is a big time cast working with a director who really, this is the best & only big time film he has directed. Like the underdog, his directing here is just classic. What makes this film work is the dream. This film represents that dream, the underdog coming through. Hackmans speech, the cast around him, & a great story line, come together here by accident. While this is not Dennis Hoppers most memorable role, Shooter too represents this spirit. "},{"Title":"Oscar nomination was in 1986","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Sorry about the repetition, but needed 10 lines...Not sure about the other awards, but Hoosiers' Oscar year was 1986. I tried to correct it, but it didn't work. Someone should change that.Not sure about the other awards, but Hoosiers' Oscar year was 1986. I tried to correct it, but it didn't work. Someone should change that. Not sure about the other awards, but Hoosiers' Oscar year was 1986. I tried to correct it, but it didn't work. Someone should change that. Not sure about the other awards, but Hoosiers' Oscar year was 1986. I tried to correct it, but it didn't work. Someone should change that. Not sure about the other awards, but Hoosiers' Oscar year was 1986. I tried to correct it, but it didn't work. Someone should change that. "},{"Title":"A Basketball CLASSIC for the Ages!!!","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" If ever there was a basketball film that made you stand up and cheer, this one is it! Gene Hackman was simply brilliant in his portrayal of Norman Dale, the once failed college coach who gets another chance to make a mark for good. This is a film about redemption, about second chances and about coming together. It is a film about life itself. Perhaps this is why writer Angelo Pizzo said emphatically, This is NOT a sports movie! It all begins when Norman Dale is hired as a replacement for the previous coach who had died, and the blatant hostility that small town Hickory, Indiana gives him as part of his welcome. The locals complain that he has 'unconventional' coaching methods; he has closed practices in that the local townspeople are not allowed to attend; he has a specified regimen he expects his players to adhere to; and his word is law on matters pertaining to the team. All of this while the best player sits out because Norman is not the old coach.Keep in mind that Norman has been out of coaching for a while and has learned some life's lessons along the way. He's smart enough to learn &#150; as I did &#150; that athletics for almost all of us is a means to an end, and that most of use basketball or other sports either for increasing skill, or learning lessons that will help us in our lives after high school or college, and that we are not going into the NBA upon graduation.The townspeople get restless and want results, and as Coach gets results, the tide begins to turn and the locals begin to see the long-range vision of what Coach had in mind all along.Co-starring with Hackman is Dennis Hopper (in an Oscar®-nominated role) and Barbara Hershey as one of the teachers/vice-principal who learns there is another side to the coach, and in the process we see all the things that make this not a sports movie.HOOSIERS is indeed a modern American classic that will be more and more treasured over time. It is well worth the purchase price and a welcome addition to any film library.On a scale of 1 to 10, I give this film a 10/10. *** "},{"Title":"Hall of Famer","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie teaches respect, discipline, and redemption. Their is no doubt in my mind that this title is far and away the best sports film of the last 25 years. The heart that these guys show in this title is all the inspiration needed to fuel film that only uses basketball as a vehicle. You get a great man once again looking for greatness, and a town of hopefuls believing in what can only be described as Indiana Basketball. Forget Iowa, and cornfields, Hoosiers is the only sports title you need in your collection. Hopefully now that this titles has been recognized by ESPN, a new transfer with where are they now, and cast and pro athlete interviews will be put into production.  "}{"Title":"A Pretty Good Piece of Work","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  After hearing all the extreme praise for this movie, I must admit I was a tad disappointed. But that doesn't mean I didn't like it, no sirree. It was quite entertaining, and I thought Gene Hackman was very good as the coach. Took me awhile to get through, but I still liked it. It was certainly better than another basketball movie,--Space Jam. Would I watch Hoosiers again? Perhaps. But only if I reaaallly wanted to. "},{"Title":"Please, somebody clarify!!","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  I saw this movie at the theater when it came out, and must have seen it 20 times since. Sorry, but it is perhaps the greatest basketball film ever! I now own it on dvd. In the first seen where the coach first meets the players, Buddy (one of the players) walks out of practice, apparently for good. About half way into the movie, after several games, Buddy is suddenly on the team again. His return was never explained. Am I the only one that has noticed, or did I miss something???? "},{"Title":"How can you not like this movie","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Granted this film may not be academy award material, but the photography and music alone make this a worthwhile film. So if you are bored on a sunday afternoon, especially if it is the dead of autumn...this is a great one to curl up to and watch. "},{"Title":"gene hackman who used to be a top basketball coach is the new coach of a mediocre small county highschool team. the town doesn't agree with his methods and want him replaced, but the players won't play for a","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  a most excellent movie.  even if you aren't a basketball fan a great movie to see.  it helps you to view things from more than one angle.  "},{"Title":"Clichéd and mushy - but very enjoyable","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  An ex-college basketball coach comes to a small Indiana town to coach the basketball team.  Despite opposition to his methods from the locals he works with the team in his own style - learning lessons about humanity and second chances.  As the season begins so does his work.From the opening scene you know how this film is going to go - a small town basketball team? I wonder if they'll win a major competition despite overwhelming odds?  I wonder......  Basically this is just another US sports movie that gives a nice warm glow that comes from seeing underdogs putting their all into a game.  However it's better than that, the basic set up is a bit clichéd but the characters and the delivery makes it feel better that it is.  The plot however, doesn't really manage to rise out of the usual sports movie clichés - coach with controversial methods, smallest kid on team scoring game winning baskets etc. and is ultimately nothing new.The subplots however do add value to the film.  Dennis Hopper's drunk is a key character and is perhaps the most interesting strand to the film - dealing with second chances, failure and redemption.  Hackman's romance with Hershey is perhaps a little stale and unnecessary but is still quite an interesting addition to the story.  The performances are also good.  Hackman, Hershey and Hopper give the whole film a very professional feel, even if Hopper is the only one who's character is not a total genre stereotype.Overall this is a very enjoyable film - yes it's very clichéd and you basically know how things are going to go as soon as the first character says we don't like new methods round here, but it's very charming and full of good performances.  The basketball action is well filmed and it does feel like small town high school basketball.  Clichéd but warm and fuzzy! "},{"Title":"Everyday between three and five","Date":"28 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" A formulaic sports movie, Hoosiers stars Gene Hackman and Dennis Hopper as a couple of maladjusted men who coach a small town basketball team. Overcoming obstacles, their underdog team wins the 1954 state championship. Along the way, coaches and players learn various life lessons.Though viewed as a classic by many (it was one of the earliest mainstream basketball flicks), Hoosiers is mostly thin and comprised of clichés. Director Angelo Pizzo's cinematography, some fine small-town ambiance and another strong performance by Gene Hackman makes up for this, but it's not enough.7.5/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. See Bull Durham and He Got Game. "},{"Title":"Hooray for Hoosiers ****","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" A truly wonderful basketball film with Gene Hackman arriving at a small Indiana town in 1951 to coach a high school basketball team. Hackman's arrival meets with contempt by the town's people as he attempts to instill his brand of discipline to a young team. Of course, when it's discovered why he left New York, it doesn't help his cause as well.The set decorations best depict Indiana during this period. Conservative as always, the people respect human values, but will they be tolerant of this newcomer?Barbara Hershey, as the acting principal of the school, is a difficult character to fathom. With pride for her school, yet an unhappiness but willingness to remain at the home town, her character needed more development, but is more than sufficient as depicted.This is definitely a story of redemption, commitment, and small town values in the 1950s. Dennis Hopper has some scene stealing moments as a town drunkard, who with a son on the team, eventually finds his way. Hopper was nominated for a well deserved best supporting actor Oscar for this 1986 film. "},{"Title":"A True American Classic","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Hoosiers (1986) **** (out of 4)The sports genre has been around since films became entertainment and they really haven't changed much in over one-hundred years. They can be about fun, bonding or redemption. I think there's a reason the genre has remained one of the most popular out there and it's because everyone can root for the underdog. This film tells the true story of Coach Norman Dale (Gene Hackman) who takes his checkered past to a small town in Indiana where he takes a team no one had heard of and gets them to the state championship. I'm certainly not going to try and lie because I love this film. To me this is one of the purist American movies ever made. Everything here, story wise, is stuff we've seen before in countless other sports movies but every cliché comes off as fresh and original here and in the end you've got a rather remarkable tale of second chances and hope no matter how small you are. It's funny to think that this movie is one that no one really had high hopes for yet it has turned out to be one of the most loved classics in film history. I guess you can compare this to the actual team as I'm sure no one expected them to do anything yet they turned out to be one of the most remarkable teams in history for what they achieved. There's so much in this film that works but I think the real key is the heart that it shows. Not only do we have the story of the coach getting a second shot but we also have a drunk (Dennis Hopper) trying to overcome his own demons and get his life back on track with his son. The way the film takes a look at the coach and the drunk is something everyone can connect with and I really can't think of a film that gets so much out of making the viewer want to see someone succeed. A lot of credit has to go to both Hackman and Hopper as both actors turn in some of their best work here. Hackman's performance here has somewhat already became legendary as you can always find people able to quote him or at least remember everything that happens here. The amount of dignity Hackman brings to the role is rather remarkable to watch as he has the fire, energy and passion to make you think you're watching a real person and not just some sentimental role. Hopper is the real eye-catcher here as he had only been sober for a few years so I'm sure he knew this character very well as he had been given several second chances in his own life. The amount of passion Hopper brings to the role makes this easily one of his greatest performances. It could be early one during a scene where he simply smiles at what the coach is trying to do with the team or when his is suffering the shakes from the alcohol with drawls. Hopper nails every inch of this character and his broken down weakness is up there with the greatest alcoholic performances. The supporting cast, including Barbara Hershey, are great as well but there's no question that the film belongs to Hackman and Hopper. It's rather hard to say anything that hasn't already been said about this film and it's easy to tell I'm one of its major fans. To me this is storytelling at its very best as the film manages to show why sports remain so powerful and how they can touch so many lives. "},{"Title":"It's just because I'm not a huge sports fan!!!","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Although a good movie, I honestly believe that you need to be a sports buff to fully appreciate this film.   I had a hard time concentrating on the movie due to  all of the background noise of the canned croud.   I also found the plot to be predictable and overdone. After watching the movie for the first time, I could already tell what the ending was going to be like...It was almost like, why should I continue watching this?   However, if you are a coach, this would be great movie to show inorder to captivate and motivate a team. "},{"Title":"The epitome of small time lunacy","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  While some regard this is an endearing  epithet to the hunger of Indiana basketball,  it seems to make fun of the madness which  surrounds the sport in the little Midwestern  state. While the story seemed hackneyed  and disbelieving, one has to look at the  power of the film as opposed to the technical  aspects. While Hoosiers is virtually every  basketball fan's perfect movie, it is one  that really encompasses the spirit of fortitude,  much in the same way Rocky I did.  "}{"Title":"Hoopla","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Isn't diversity wonderful? Isn't it nice to know that there are all kinds of people in this world, each with different tastes and standards for what pleases them? I think so. So far every single reviewer on the IMDB has absolutely loved this movie. They all think it is an amazing feel-good masterpiece. Not one killjoy has yet to show up and suggest that it is anything short of awesome. Well, ta-daaa, here I am. I wouldn't want to sit through this movie again for anything less than a hundred bucks.    Gene Hackman is a new coach in town and for no logical reason everyone treats him like he is a leper out to blow up the school and slaughter the livestock. Okay, he overcomes all this illogical hatred and manages to shape his understaffed basketball team into a unit that will even compete for the Indiana State Championship! High School basketball is big in Indiana in 1951. 79 reporters are outside the locker room fighting to talk to the coach long before they even get to the finals!    The music is overbearing and awful. I can't even describe it. Every time they try to show us basketball action they have to include a rock/pop/muzak concert that drowns out everything. I thought the basketball scenes were totally unconvincing. I never got the sense that I was watching game action, only actors.   One teenager is supposed to be the greatest basketball player in the state but he won't play anymore because his father died. That's half the plot in the movie, getting this pouting prima Donna to play. What's so great about his game? He's got a good jump shot with very little elevation on his jump. Big deal. That's ALL he's got, and with editing, there are 79,000 teen-agers in Rhode Island that can make 99% of their jump shots.   The ending was a predictable as the sunrise in Tahiti and as usual, was a rip-off of THE LONGEST YARD. That's the film that initiated the slow-mo final play that all the others have copied. And YARD had a dynamite story to go along with it, unlike the snooze-plot in HOOSIERS.    Hackman is way too old to be making out with Barbara Hershey. It's the standard Hollywood casting nonsense. Of course, they hate each other when they first meet. I immediately knew they'd be necking before this flick was out. That's always the dead giveaway.   I wish that reviewers would speak for themselves in their reviews. Just tell me what YOU think and we can compare notes accordingly. But please stop insisting that, `you will absolutely love this movie.' You don't know me. I did not like this move. My wife loved it. All of the others on this board loved it. And by the way, it IS fiction. The tiniest school in the state does not go on to the state championships with an undermanned squad to boot.   I did like one thing. Dennis Hopper was excellent and his role as the boozer battling his problem was touching and effective. But the feel-good sports story was dopey.   "},{"Title":"It's not for everyone","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" 'Hoosiers' is a film about a rural basketball team and their coach, and it's one of those feel-good, spiritual films that probably have their target audience in the midwestern states in America. While I can see that some may enjoy the film, I found it difficult to sit through because I do not enjoy watching/following basketball, and it was just a little too flowery and feel-good for my liking. It's the typical underdog sports story where the team and the coach overcome the hurdles then go to win it all. Very touching, but it did nothing for me. Basketball and sports fans will probably love this film, but I am not within that target audience. "},{"Title":"Hoosiers is a good example of a film that moves too fast","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Hoosiers is a good example of a film that moves too fast. Gene Hackman stars as a new high school basketball coach in small-town Indiana. He tries to do his best despite the absence of the school's two best players. The first player is a sure bet to turn around Hackman's new basketball program but some random hot teacher who also is the boy's unofficial guardian, who Hackman has a crush on, won't let him play because she wants him to focus on academics. The second player, who's not as good, is just flat-out disrespectful to him and walks out on him, and Hackman stands his ground and says, fine, don't return. This leaves the coach with a short-handed rotation to work with, but Hackman, who is supposed to be the story's hero, naturally acts unphased and dispenses the following advice pass the ball three times before shooting it. Although it sounds brilliant when he says it, they still lose. Then, all of a sudden, Scooter, the hot teacher's surrogate nephew, magically changes his mind, joins the team, they start winning and the rest is history. There's really a lack of anything gradual here, the big obstacles are all suddenly overcome and it just takes away the drama. Sure, the film is filled with those clichéd scenes where in the middle of a game en route to their state championship, they're one-point down with three seconds on the clock and they MIGHT lose if they don't make the basket, but without seeing the strenuous process by which the coach and the team turned themselves around, the payoff just isn't rewarding. The film is a classic among Indiana basketball fans and rightly so. The state's love of basketball is something special, and despite the lack of story, the film still portrays the heart of basketball country very well. Sadly, the story is too formulaic and devoid of drama. Did I also mention that the bickering hot teacher and the coach hook up later in the movie? Well, the movie is so predictable you'd have figured that out anyway. Two stars (out of 4) "},{"Title":"Not Very Good, boring actually","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" If anyone thinks this is a great sports movie it is probably the only sports movie they have ever seen. There are different aspects a sports movie can take. Whether it be professional or college or high school. Examples of sports movies I liked (and I haven't seen many) are Jim Thorpe All American, All the Right Moves, Any Given Sunday, Eight Men Out, and Rocky, among others. All of those movies had a little more than just plain sports. Whether it was a mans ascent and then descent from greatness, or a man losing out on a dream by the actions of a vindictive coach, or the effect of money on professional sports. In Hoosiers, there is not much content. It didn't even seem as though the movie had a beginning or an end. There was no character development, all of them were forced on us. I could sum up this movie, by quoting a very bad coach Go out and try to score more points than the other guy. "},{"Title":"Good Performances Outweigh No-So-Good Everything Else","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Some of our finest performers (Gene Hackman, Barbara Hershey, Dennis Hopper) are terrific here but David Anspaugh's high school basketball Cinderella story works more like a industrial motivational film promoting teamwork, which it does all the way up to its conclusion--and then it abandons the concept in favor of the individual heroics that's been chastised throughout. Anspaugh tries to cloak his rah-rah enthusiasm by setting his story in 1951 rural Indiana (it's based on a true story about the 1954 Milan Indians, the smallest Indiana school to ever win the state championship), projecting a more innocent time so that this type of story can be conferred the status of legend. But the contemporary (for 1986--it's very dated today) synthesized score by Jerry Goldsmith gives it away and Angelo Pizzo's misguided screenplay doesn't trust its own premise, leaving the viewer confused and a little skeptical. Still, there's plenty to admire in the committed performances by the leads regardless of the spacy script, they insist on delivering top-notch work, even though the filmmakers don't deserve it.   "},{"Title":"Bring on the Clichés","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" A coach who used to be good, but has had to move to a new area to get away from what he once did; a team of no hopers; the star player who has a row with the coach; the assistant coach with an alcohol problem, the little guy who gets kicked around scoring the winning basket; the whole town against the coach (all except for the leading lady). It's the old story - right out of the British comic books, where a team of speccy geeks and fatties take on the Brazilians at soccer and win.This film, admittedly well put together, is full of these clichés. The only part I didn't predict was when at the town meeting, the star player suddenly decided to side with the coach. No reason was ever given. It seemed like a very strange thing to do seeing that everything was going his way hitherto. Maybe he just felt sorry for the poor guy.Gene Hackman plays a locker room Popey Doyle. I am sure that an actor of Dennis Hopper's calibre found nothing particularly challenging about his role. The same can be said about Barbara Hershey.All in all, a film full of clichés that might have been done a lot better than it was. "},{"Title":"Absolutely stock-standard sports movie.","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" There is absolutely nothing in Hoosiers that is original or innovative. it follows the standard formula for a sport movie unorganised, undisciplined team is miraculously transformed into a team of disciplined, hard working champions in a matter of weeks. throw in a cheesy undeveloped romance and some opposition from some redneck townspeople and you've got the blueprint for years of predictable sports movies to come. there is nothing different between a film such as the Might Ducks and Hoosiers, except that Hoosiers did it first. does this make it a better film than mighty ducks, or any of the million sports movies that came after...? in my mind it does not. "},{"Title":"Gene Hackman saves the day!","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  A poor basketball movie.  A gruff coach with a dubious background comes to a small Indiana high school basketball team in the 1950's and coaches the boys to victory by breaking them down first, and then building them up.Not a bad subject. Photography OK.  But the plot is totally predictable. No real sub-plots.  Nothing added to make the movie exciting.  You know what is going to happen from the very beginning.  Suitable for 4th Graders.  "},{"Title":"Good but not involving enough","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Hoosiers is one of the great sports movies of all time...but that's not saying much. Out of all of the sports films I've seen, there are three I can recommend this one, 2001's 'Remember the Titans' and 2004's 'Miracle'. The best part of the latter two was that they succeeded in a balancing act of getting to know the coaches intimately as well as the players (though a good majority of the players in 'Remember the Titans' were caricatures). 'Hoosiers' biggest problem is that we only get to know the coaches, and all the players are just vaguely different variations of the same person.This makes the film's basketball scenes quite boring to watch because of how little we care for the players. It seems that the writer was writing so much about the coaches that he forgot about the players and tried to make up for it by adding little traits in a vain attempt to make them more interesting. One is a Jesus freak. One is inconveniently short. I couldn't tell you anything about the rest.Except, there is one interesting player in this movie. And no, it's not the 'main' player, Jimmy Chitwood (Maris Valainis). No, we don't even get to know him. Instead, it's the character of Everett Flatch (David Neidorf), who plays the son of the Dennis Hopper character, a moronic drunk. We see the pain in his eyes when his father is drunk, and the disappointment when he's not able to coach right for a big game. We see how this affects him during the game, but what's more, we care.Once you look past the shallowness of the players' characters and the blandness of the basketball scenes, 'Hoosiers' is actually pretty good. Gene Hackman's performance as the tough new coach to the small town basketball team is the film's best aspect, though I personally would've liked it if he was a little meaner. Barbara Hershey is fine as the female lead and sort-of love interest to Hackman's character but her character isn't interesting enough for us to care whether Hackman ends up with her, or if he doesn't, or if she dies in a tragic bowling accident (really).Dennis Hopper was nominated for his only acting Oscar for this movie&#133;and, well, at least we can say he only has one undeserved acting nomination. He overacts to a glorious point as the drunk, climbing the ladder of parody and then jumping off to the next side near the end. He is a caricature; everything from the way he slurs to the way he moves is like a cartoon drawing of a drunk. And I like Hopper too, but this is not one of his high points.Watch the film for Hackman's performance, and for a few interesting and tense scenes, but for nothing else, 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing That Sums Up The Movie And Hackman's Performance","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I tuned into this movie not because I am a fan of U.S. High School basketball (in fact I only rarely watch NBA games) but rather because I am a fan of Gene Hackman, who usually manages to bring an impressive depth to his performances. In this case, however, I was sorely disappointed. This was not one of the bright shining stars of Hackman's career.In fairness to him, he didn't have a lot to work with. As Norman Dale, the new coach of a small town high school basketball team in Indiana, he wasn't called on to do much acting. Basically his performance consisted of pacing up and down basketball sidelines ranting at the referees. I didn't find him particularly believable in the role to be honest. I also was unimpressed with the requisite romance between Dale and Myra Fleener (Barbara Hershey). Quite honestly there was absolutely no chemistry between Hackman and Hershey. The romance never captured my attention, and neither did the basketball action, which was altogether too predictable.There were far too many problems with this movie to make it worthwhile. I never did understand the depth of the sheer hatred that so many of the townsfolk had for Dale, almost from before the time he arrived. The character development was poor and the story itself was poorly developed. Too much basketball and not enough human interaction, in my opinion. How many shots of kids shooting baskets do we need to see to get the point that this is a basketball movie? There was no suspense is it even possible to doubt that Hickory is going to win the big one? I realize that this is based on a true story, but I guess it proves that not every true story should be a movie. Quite frankly, it just wasn't a very interesting movie. Definitely a movie Gene Hackman would like to forget.No better than a 2/10 in my opinion. "}]