[{"Title":"Many producers spend a lifetime trying to make one of these...","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"59 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ... and never really come close.How can one be the witness to this much acting, such a strong storyline about greed (which makes us appreciate human qualities - all the more), and not be touched/moved by this ?Combined with part II (which really is not optional - considering it's dramatic revelation) - it makes for superbe movie-going experience that is barely 1 notch short of GodFather quality, as far as drama goes. Character development is excellent, pretty much all of it is plausible, nothing really grates, except to see a good man suffer.Jean is good, an erudite - but he cannot understand nor smell a conspiracy - as this makes no real sense to someone with his principles. And when is all said and done - what matters most once you are heading to the pearly gates (should you be so lucky) the amount of wealth you've amassed or how you lived ? How do you hope to be remembered ?As cunning and sly as Soubeyrand is - I guess he never figured it out....A cruel, stunning classic, with impeccable french nuances. A must-see.J.M. "},{"Title":"Subtitles can be interesting...","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"53 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was 10 when my parents rented this and it's sequel the first time. They tried to make me watch it, but I refused. Subtitled movies are for cultured people was my thoughts at the time. I came down a few hours later when they had just started Manon De Sources. Emanuelle Beart had just started playing harmonica. If you've seen this then you'll know why I was instantly captivated. Before I realized what was happening I was caught up in the tale. For many years I have remembered the film, and meant to see it again, it made such an impression on me. I finally saw them again today, and they were magnificent.I watched them both, one after the other. The scenery is spectacular, and the story is so spellbinding that time will fly. I am usually an action junkie, but these films just appealed to me as no other ever has.Even if you hate subtitles I guarantee that you will love this film, and an hour later you'll remember the characters speaking in English. No matter how tough you are, if your heart doesn't break for Jean, then it never will. "},{"Title":"Escape to a rural idyll from another age","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"38 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film captures another world, and makes you a part of it. The acting is superb, the scenery breathtaking, and a huge amount of skill and effort has gone into evoking the heat of summer and the details of village life in a harsh, pre-industrial world. If you cannot stand watching a film in a foreign language, or you only watch films with special effects and non-stop action,then you may find something to object to in this one, but otherwise it is perfection. The story is heart-wrenching, all the characters (both good and bad) demand sympathy, and the story is both credible, and beautifully told. That is the true quality of this film - it tells a simple, gripping story in a way that grips any viewer with a heart from start to finish. "},{"Title":"excellent film","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"32 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Certainly one of the best examples of French cinema. A searing powerful story of greed, and its effects. All the actors are excellent, Yves Montand is especially heartbreaking. This movie and its sequel are two of the best films of the 1980's. By the way it's about time they were re-released on DVD i want to add them to my collection.I do not understand why such films are released and the go out of print these are important wonderful films that deserve new audiences, and a new generation of admirers. If it is a business decision that they don't create as much revenue as most of the garbage that comes out of Hollywood, they should be ashamed of themselves. "},{"Title":"Flowers Mean Forgiveness","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Marcel Pagnol was rightly admitted into the Acadamie Francaise, just about the highest honor a French writer can receive.  No less a major force than Orson Welles described Pagnol's own movie 'La Femme du Boulanger' (The Baker's Wife) as the greatest movie ever made.  For someone with a limited canvas - Provence, its small hamlets, the port of Marseilles, and the people who lived there - he sure extracted the maximum mileage.  Jean de Florette and its sequel Manon des Source has now arguably become the highest profile of all Pagnol's work eclipsing even the great trilogy 'Marius', 'Cesar' and 'Fanny' featuring the great Raimu, and his two autobiographical works My Father's Glory and My Mother's Castle.  It is very gratifying for someone with a healthy streak of cynicism in their makeup to read such glowing tributes to this movie.  If French cinema NEEDED an ambassador, which it doesn't, then these two titles - shot back to back as Montand's wife, Simone Signoret, lay dying - could not be bettered.  To add any superlatives to those already posted here would be superfluous so just let me say that Montand is at the top of his game and that is saying something. Superb entertainment with terrific ensemble playing.  An all-time great. 11/10 "},{"Title":"Breathtaking motion picture classic from the French countryside","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Of all the French movies I've ever seen (and I've seen quite a bunch of them, let me tell ya) Claude Berri's Jean de Florette has to be one of the best if not the best. I saw this couple of times in the television some years ago and recently bought the DVD just to find out that this film seems to be excellent no matter how often and many times I decide to watch it.Jean de Florette works in so many different levels. I love the breathtaking settings, beautiful French countryside - superterranean paradise. Actors are magnificent, Gérard Depardieu has a long and respected career in the cinema but if you ask me the role of Jean de Florette is truly the very greatest performance of his life. Yves Montand and Daniel Auteuil equally shine as the greedy and devious Soubeyrans.Characters are simply incredible. Naturally audience immediately loves the hunchback. He's so warm, nice, sympathetic, unyielding and persistent yet jovial - truly the amiable hero of the story. However, no one can't help of loving those crooked rogues as well. They are so incomprehensibly mean it's definitely comical.That's what makes Jean de Florette such a great and memorable experience. It's a very sad and tragic story but it makes you laugh a lot. In the same time it manages to be extremely cruel, funny and touching. This is exactly what movies are made of. It's safe to call Jean de Florette a perfection, powerful and stirring motion picture experience and a grand classic everyone should watch. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Storytelling Keeps You Involved","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm not quite sure what the appeal is to this movie, but it's definitely there. I've watched this several times in the past 15 years and always got involved with it....and it's companion piece, Manon of the Spring. If given a choice, I prefer the latter movie, only perhaps because this is a frustrating story, seeing a good man get ruined simply for greed. Both stories are well-done.This tragic tale of two greedy people driving a nice man and his family off their land is not just frustrating but sad, especially since their is no happy ending, with the man dying while trying to salvage his property. The second film is years later when the daughter, now grown up, gets revenge.Gerald Depardieu is the nice guy here, the one we all root for while Yves Montand and Daniel Auteuil are the greedy jerks. These three are famous French actors who always give their audiences good performances.A big plus in this film is the very nice cinematography, which is why I bought this when it first came out on DVD. If the story depresses you at all, go right into the sequel immediately for a more satisfying ending to the whole tale. Both movies were made in 1987.In a nutshell, this is good storytelling. "},{"Title":"Bravo!","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"27 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Okay, you have to give a lot of the credit to Pagnol for the book, but this to me is one of the best movies ever made.  - A classic, simple story, beautiful location beautifully filmed, and a triumvirate of marvellous actors in Depardieu, Auteuil and Montand.- I saw this again a few days ago and enjoyed very minute. - Is it really true I have to submit at least ten lines? This is a new rule, right? Shouldn't you warn people before they start writing? "},{"Title":"beautifully depressing (depressingly beautiful?)","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a marvel of story-telling. Rarely have I felt so much pain for a fictional character. The force of destiny (great sound track motif selection!) is nowhere as evidently crushing as in this movie. I'm astounded and stunned by the beauty of human suffering, not, of course, out of sadism but out of melancholy. Great, great movie (though the Southern French accent is very hard to understand). "},{"Title":"A superbly acted French film with fine music and good cinematography","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jean de Florette is a magnificently acted, superb film with fine music and excellent cinematography.  The colors used are vibrant and the red carnations are a stunning adjunct of the movie.  Its sequel, Manon of the Spring, is even better, and its dramatic ending is quite well written and enacted.  Together, these two films are amongst the finest to come from France. "}{"Title":"a case where the sequel even exceeds the original","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie and was worried the sequel, Manon of the Spring would be a letdown--so often, sequels just can't compare to the originals. However, I say watch this movie so you can really enjoy just how wonderful the sequel is! So my advice is to see this film and then rush out and see the follow-up film.Considering that this film is from a script by the great Marcel Pagnol (who was responsible for many of the best French films), it's not at all surprising that this is a wonderful film. It's a sad and despicable story about greed. A man (Yves Montand) concocts a scheme to ruin an innocent man (Gérard Depardieu) and his family in order to force them off the land. It's even worse because the man and his family are so decent and deserve better. However, despite this being morally wrong, this plan was created because Montand wanted this land to remain in his family and be passed on to his descendants. Nice scheme, huh? The acting, writing, cinematography and pacing are superb--so good that I was EAGER to find the sequel. So, watch this movie and understand it only gets better in part 2! "},{"Title":"A Heartbreaking Epic of Greediness and Cruelty","Date":"26 October 2010","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the French countryside, the farmer Cesar Soubeyran (Yves Montand) welcomes his grandson Ugolin (Daniel Auteuil) in his property that intends to plant carnation in the land, but they need a spring of water to cultivate the flowers. Cesar decides to buy the land of his lazy neighbor Martial that has a spring; however, they argue and fight and Cesar accidentally kills him. The nephew Jean Cadoret (Gerard Depardieu) that is a townsman and former fiscal inherits the real estate and moves with his wife Aimee (Elisabeth Depardieu) and his daughter Manon (Ernestine Mazurowna) with intention of living in the farm, cropping and raise rabbits based on readings. Cesar and Ugolin block and seal the spring with cement and Cesar asks Ugolin to get closer to Jean to sabotage his work. Jean, who is called Jean de Florette by the locals, slowly spends all his savings and inheritance and sacrifices his family to get water in a distant spring while the hypocrite Ugolin jeopardizes his efforts pretending to be his friend. Jean de Florette is a heartbreaking epic of greediness and cruelty. I bought this VHS many years ago and only today I have watched this masterpiece of the French cinema (I have no words to tell how much I regret this). The impressive saga of Jean Cadoret a.k.a. Jean de Florette is engaging and supported by a magnificent story and awesome performances, highlighting Daniel Auteuil, Yves Montand and Gerard Depardieu. The characters are very well developed and Daniel Auteuil is impressive in the role of the contradictory character Ugolin. The scene when he tells to his grandfather that he is not crying but his eyes, is fantastic. Jean de Florette somehow recalled me the unforgettable Jean Valjean of The Miserables, and his saga shows how unfair and cruel a human being can be. Tomorrow I will see the sequel Manon des Sources. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Jean de Florette "},{"Title":"The Carnations of Wrath","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jean de Florette owes its success to Pagnol's particularly intelligent story, which, taken verbatim from his novel, Claude Berry and Gerard Brach translated into images.A good story must have a plot, a compelling conflict, and characters that we care about who change as a result of their experiences. This particular story qualifies unquestionably as a good one, on all these points. The viewer is kept in suspense, continuously questioning the outcome of the story, which moves forward from crisis point to crisis point. We can see that a large part of the scriptwriter's role is to ask questions, and then provide the right answers at the right time. These answers can be partial, ambiguous, even contradictory, in order to reinforce the viewer's suspense and questioning.The first question posed in Jean de Florette concerns the success of Ugolin and César in their carnation project. Will they succeed in getting the critical water necessary for the cultivation of these flowers? This question interests us because these two characters have been introduced as somewhat likable, worthy of our support, although, following Pique-Bouffigue's demise, we may have second thoughts about their integrity.A second question rises with the arrival of Jean Cadoret. Will his project of raising rabbits, a project directly in conflict with Ugolin's, succeed? Although we may have considered at first Jean as an intruder who comes and upsets Ugolin's plan, we also realize that the dice are loaded in Ugolin's favor, and our sympathy slowly shifts toward Jean. But we still keep a somewhat favorable image of Ugolin and le Papet, still hoping for positive answers to these first two questions.Pagnol now determines that the progress of the drama toward its conclusion, that is to say the answers to these two questions, will depend on subjective, internal factors, such as the personalities or the stubbornness of the characters, and not on external or providential circumstances.Thus, the new questions now being posed are about the nature of the characters. Can Ugolin carry out his duplicitous game to its conclusion? Will he make a mistake and be discovered, or will he be overcome by a sense of guilt and help Jean by revealing the presence of the spring at les Romarins? The viewer hopes that in the end Ugolin will give in to his positive instincts. As for César, the spectator knows that le Papet, in spite of all the difficulties arising along the way, will never abandon Ugolin's project. Yet the viewer has detected something peculiar concerning César 's reaction when Florette's departure from the village is mentioned. We therefore suspect that somehow Florette's past relationship with César could bring about a positive change in his behavior. Independently, Jean's character will also dominate the outcome of the story. We wonder if his enthusiasm, boundless optimism, and his erudition will somehow contribute to his failure. Jean's scientific approach to his project is itself a sort of revenge against Nature that made him un bossu, - a hunchback, and therefore he will never abandon it.As the film progresses, our attention narrowly focuses on the principal characters and their evolution. We are not distracted by outside events. At the same time, we are torn between the two conflicting wishes for the success of two conflicting projects. This is the originality of Jean de Florette and what distinguishes this story from the usual, vulgar Manichaean novels or films.The themes are the city versus the country, modern versus traditional, and good versus bad.Jean, returning to the country to cultivate the othentic, is an idealist, more or less in the Jean-Jacques Rousseau's tradition. His knowledge has all been acquired in books. He speaks in the idiom of the bureaucrat that he was. He constantly quotes statistics to guide his project and to convince himself and his listeners how Nature should and will behave. He tackles his project with a definitively modern, scientific approach. Nothing is left to chance everything is anticipated and calculated.To the villagers, because of his language, education, and culture, Jean is a kind of pedantic usurper colliding with the peaceful, traditional aspects of their village life. They make fun of Jean because his knowledge was acquired in books, not by experience. These villagers speak with the melodious Provençal accent, their conversations peppered with old, colorful sayings and local proverbs. The people of les Bastides are isolated from Jean's world by their hills. They are attached to the land they have worked for centuries, and to their way of life.However, Pagnol, by presenting us with Jean's failure, seems to distance himself from the intellectual tradition, while, at the same time, not considering the country life as a perfect universe, without conflicts. He illustrates the violence that can result from the peasants' deep attachment to their lands. Pagnol exposes us to the tribal mentality of the villagers against foreigners, such as the inhabitants of the nearby village of Crespin. The only outsiders accepted by the villagers are the pillars of a village society the priest, the doctor, and the school teacher, which the village needs in order to exist. Finally, Pagnol shows us the deep motivation of Ugolin and César that is also easily understood by a city-dweller making money.Pagnol's message is thus humanistic in so far as, without ridicule or Manichaeism, he presents the motivations and different points of view of each of his characters. On the same humanistic level, the story demonstrates that not withstanding apparent differences, such as social, regional or physical, all people are alike and deserve to be treated humanely. As such, according to Pagnol, the village life is idyllic, but for the eventual presence of harmful individuals such as Ugolin and César.In spite of Pagnol's naïve idealism, the films still succeed, because we are ultimately able to tie up all the loose ends, and to reconcile the warring factions through family and blood ties that transcend any geography. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I bought this (along with its sequel) for my mum's birthday as she's an avid lover of French films and this was filmed where they go on holiday and at first it didn't really appeal to me (To be quite frank the only historical French film that appealed to me before was Pacte de Loups). But when I actually saw this I was amazed at how beautiful and amazing it is. First class casting, particularly the late, great Yves Montand and the always excellent Daniel Auteil and Gerard Depardieu, a tight knit but tragic story and wonderful, classic cinematography combined with the picturesque Provencal backdrop make for a wonderful film. One of the best of all time, along with the sequel Manon de Sources "},{"Title":"Beautiful, cynical and sad film","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The story starts of pretty simple. Ugolin (wonderfully portrayed by Daniel Auteuil) has returned to his home, after serving in the army. He now wants to devote his life planting nelliks. His friend and old mentor Papet (powerfull done by Yves Montad) see that without water (which is scarce in the area) he will fail. He helps him with money, and get him to buy land from his nabour, which has a very good water source. But he wont sell. Without spoiling to much, he dies. His land goes over to his sister, who dies shortly after. The land is inherited by her rather naive son, Jean de Florette (Gerard Depardieu, who gives the most impressive acting) a man of the city, he dreams of living of the land, farming what he needs, and selling rabbits. He moves there with his daugther and wife. Ugolin and Papet is then devoted to driving him down, so they can buy the land. They cover the water source.The film is beautifully shot, the area looks wonderful. Also, the score is absolutely marvelous, making the film throughly exquisite. A good thing, the film is not overwhelmed by this beauty. It is strongly concentrated around telling the story, about the up and downfalls of the family, who strive to survive. Also portrays humans as decivefull and evil. Ugolin's envy of the land Jean owns, is a strong theme in the film, together with mans battle to survive. I have not seen the second part, but I really look forward to it. Jean de Florette is a great film in all ways, and I recommend it to anyone. This is one of the few must see films out there. "},{"Title":"The epitome of a great movie","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have watched this one several times, and get something new out of it each time.  This, and its sequel, Manon des Sources, are my favorite movies of all time.  The acting, the setting, the story line make these absolutely unforgettable movies.  "},{"Title":"Qualifies as a classic Greek tragedy.","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have many favorites, and this is one of the crème de la crème. This is a visually stunning film more like beautiful photographic montage. It is simple, tragic story well told, unlike many of today's plots - implausibly lame, suffering on a CGI crutch for 85 minutes. The simple story is about enduring truths which have been the mainstay of the Greek classics and Shakespeare Our human strengths, our failings, our virtues, and our vices. The story may be a fiction, but its kernel is not. It is stories and story telling like this which has kept our rapt attention for four thousand years.First we should understand that this film is only the first half the novel by Marcel Pagnol which would have been too long as a single film, and out of necessity, was shot as two. The second half is titled, Manon of the Spring. Neither film stands alone as satisfactory because, obviously, it would be incomplete, and naturally, is also important that the two halves be viewed in sequence. For a fairly dispassionate précis of the plots, I suggest reading the ones on Wikipedia, so I won't be repetitive here. I also recommend reading the boards for comments and discussions.JdF & MotS were both shot at the same time in 1986 with a budget of $17 million making it/them the biggest budget French films up to that time. JdF grossed $86M worldwide, and of that sum, only $4.9M was from the USA. MotS grossed $56M worldwide, of which only $3.9M was from the USA. In other words, culture films are not a good fit for the American viewing audience, and the gross revenue numbers bear this out. The rest of the world seems to bear out this conclusion.Foreign language films rarely do well in the USA for the simple reason that the vast majority of the viewing audience are unilingual anglophones who do not wish to burden themselves with having to work at understanding their entertainment - they wish to merely consume it. If it requires the work of reading subtitles or thought, it becomes unpalatable. This film requires your attention and thought!But to be fair to the US viewers, the subtitles are at times incomplete or inaccurate, and unlike the spoken word, they do not convey the emphasis or importance of certain bits of dialogue well. The plot is woven steadily throughout the film, so the viewers with no understanding at all of the French language are missing essential dialogue, and therefore plot.The bottom line is this You will either be entranced by these two films and love them, or you will be bored by the first 15 minutes, and you'll translate that into bad film. If your highest quality level of reading is Marvel comics then I suggest you stay away from this one.However, I recall years ago walking into a video store where this was playing on all the monitors. All the patrons in the store, ranging in age from 5 to 75 years, were standing transfixed watching this film. There was something magical about it! "},{"Title":"Breathtaking!","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm usually not into the epic genre, but this movie, together with its sequel Manon des source blew me away! Whether it was the magnificent storyline, the beautifully shot scenery of the Provence region, the brilliant acting (Daniel Auteuil giving what can only be described as a superb performance) or the view into the depths of the human soul, I cannot say. Perhaps a combination of all the above. This has got to be a masterpiece of world cinema. I only just got to see this movie, 22 years after it was filmed, on the recommendation of a relative, and I cannot believe that I missed out on such a masterpiece for such a long time. It is surely a film that I won't forget so quickly. "},{"Title":"Sub standard sub-titles","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The French pulled out all the stops when they made this film even involving the French Ministry of Culture and the Centre National de la Cinématographie but it is marred by just one thing and that is the subtitling. When translating from one language to a second it is imperative that the translator is a native speaker of the second language. It is soon apparent that that was not the case here. Why oh why did they not devote the care and attention they gave to the original to the foreign language version? Nevertheless cinematography wins through and this is a joy to watch.Firstly, those sub-titles; these include several obscure English words such as genuflect, midden and farrier. Subtitles are literally gone in a flash so they must be sharp, to the point and in everyday language; one does not have time to ponder over them in the cinema, they became an irritant and are off putting. Even when watching a recording at home it is too distracting to have to keep on resorting to a dictionary. Having got that off my chest, let's turn to the film itself.The story is based on a novel L'eau des Collines by Marcel Pagnol, itself an expansion of an earlier novel filmed and directed by Pagnol as Manon des Sources in 1952. Pagnol was a member of the French Académie and achieved fame with his Marseillaise film trilogy César, Marius and Fanny made in the early 30s. After Pagnol's death in 1976 Manon des Sources was remade with the original title at the same time as Jean de Florette(1986) so forming a sequel. The film is set in a small sleepy village, little more than a hamlet, in Provence near the town of Aubagne (Pagnol's birthplace) some dozen or so miles to the east of Marseilles in the 1920s. Much of Pagnol's writing is set in his beloved Provence of which he is a true and passionate observer. The film, made almost 10 years after his death, is the French nation's tribute to him; it presents an idyllic view of life in the sparsely populated rocky hilly region, falling not far short of a masterpiece. One sees all the features of a village run by old men playing pétanque or just sitting around doing nothing and saying very little. Yves Montand is excellent as César aka Le Papet, one of the village patriarchs. Aged but unmarried he lives with his nephew Ugolin (Daniel Auteuil), a very withdrawn and ugly youth in his twenties with not much to say for himself. They are the sole survivors of the Soubeyran family who once dominated the region. César treats him as the son that was never his. Ugolin finds that the soil around their farm is ideal for growing carnations but as the area is arid they need water for irrigation. They are aware of a long forgotten spring on an adjoining farm, so plot to acquire the land by deception from some townspeople who have recently acquired it. Gerald Dépardieu plays the part of the hunchbacked owner of the land and is the son of a former local beauty Florette who caught many a young man's eye not least that of César. The Soubeyrans are content to bide their time as the years go by, seeming to help their new neighbours become farmers but all the time finding ways of undermining them.The film proceeds at a leisurely pace creating the true atmosphere of this sleepy community and with the breathtaking cinematography coupled with the fine acting it all adds up to a very rare cinematic experience. So much of what César has to say or is thinking is seen in expression on his face; a slight twitch here, a raising of an eyebrow, a nod, they say it all truly a masterly performance reflecting the leisurely way of life. Daniel Auteil also gives a fantastic performance as the seldom-speaking nephew.César is evil and wicked beyond belief and will stoop to anything to get his way, yet he has the most pleasant of disarming smiles and an ever-present twinkle in his eyes. Usually well mannered, his Achilles heel is his temper and when he loses it the consequences are disastrous. Somehow one is drawn to him and sympathises with him. The hunchbacked Jean comes across as the unwanted intruder from the town and one does not feel for him in the way that the story demands. It's all part of the craft of film-making.Quite a few reviewers have praised the background music taken from Verdi's The Force of Destiny. I was so enthralled by the film that I was not aware of any background music until I read these comments, but opera stops for me after Carmen. This exemplary film is in the great tradition of French cinema, which it should be as Marcel Pagnol was himself a great film maker and the founder in 1936 of the journal Les Cahiers du Film. I have given this film only nine marks out of a possible ten on account of the defects I have referred to in the subtitling. One essential quality I expect a film to possess to deserve ten marks is that I must be able to enjoy viewing it time and time again, and Jean de Florette certainly passes that test. "},{"Title":"Wonderfull movie","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This must be one of the best dramas that i've ever seen. It's so pure and simple. The struggle in a little community that touches your heart. Beautifully acted. Daniel Auteuil is just suberb. This must be one of the best films Gerard Depardieu have made. Yves Montand gives his character all that he has learned thru his years in the film buisness. If you love the story Les Miserables you will love this too.Best regardsRisto Pohjola,Kokkola,Finland "}{"Title":"excellent beyond measure","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All I have to say is that this is the most wonderful movie I have ever seen. It is the first movie that ever made me cry, and I don't often cry in movies. First of all, the acting is superb. When you see the movie, you can almost feel what the characters are feeling and you can see why they do what they do. Second of all, the story is enchanting, and third of all, the music is beautiful and haunting. I have never seen a movie that was as perfect as this. "},{"Title":"Greatest  2  French movies of all time","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a great story...translates well in spite of subtitles....I love the characters good and evil sides...you truly begin to hate Ugolin You have to see Jean first, then Manon 2nd. I found myself quoting some of the lines after seeing it a couple of times. Yves Montand is great. Jean's dreams have elements of greatness and are dumbstruck at the same time. What a screenplay! These are great movies to see if you are a French student or in love with Provence. These are great movies when you can't find anything else at Blockbuster. They can be considered all-time classics. These are the movies that really propelled Daniel Auteuil and Gerard Depardieu's careers. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Period Film","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When Ugolin (Daniel Auteuil) returns from his military service between the two world wars he has a dream of growing carnations &#150; a scheme that his uncle Cesar/Le Papey (Yves Montard) quickly understands. However they soon realise that they need a great deal more water, a problem that can be solved by a spring that has long been forgotten in a neighbour's field. The neighbour dies and it is left to a hunchbacked tax collector Jean (Gerard Depardieu), who also has a dream to live as a farmer. As their dreams are not compatible, Ugolin and Cesar block up the spring and plot to rid themselves of their unwanted neighbour.Director Claude Berri shows great skill in bringing the classic Marcel Pagnol novel to the big screen and does it without losing any of the integrity of the source material, making a masterpiece of cinema in the process. Having seen it for the first time some years ago as part of French class at school, it has not disappointed on repeated viewings.The acting from all the cast is impeccable, especially the three leads, Yves Montard, Gerard Depardieu and Daniel Auteuil, whose names are not among the most famous in the history of French cinema for nothing. Casting Elisabeth Depardieu (at the time the wife of Gerard) in the role of Jean's wife adds something to the realism and Ernestine Mazurowna acquits herself admirably in her only film role to date as Jean's daughter.The film acts as a beautifully observed study in human nature and morality. What I love about the book is that unlike the majority of fiction that labels actions in black or white, all through both parts of this drama there are shades of grey. Despicable though the actions of Papet are, he is working for the benefit of Ugolin rather than himself. Also, though most of the villagers appear to suspect that Papet and Ugolin have blocked up the spring, none seem willing to do anything about it and they just watch Jean on his way to his inevitable destruction, so the whole blame can not be left at the doorstep of the Soubeyrans. It is interesting how different the characters of the three leads are. Simple-minded Ugolin gradually loses patience and is corrupted by the far more intelligent and hard-hearted Papet into following his greed. Jean remains steadfast despite all the setbacks he faces, remaining good and ever optimistic despite his increasing troubles.The decision to use Giuseppe Verdi's 'The Force of Destiny' as the title music is entirely apt, though makes more sense after the viewing of 'Manon des Sources.' The cinematography is also superb, making a stunning backdrop to the film and capturing the mood of the story perfectly. Though it is debatable as to whether or not this film or the sequel is superior, I prefer to think of them as two halves of a whole rather than two separate entities. Manon des Sources is pretty much required viewing for anyone who wants to get a fuller appreciation of 'Jean de Florette.' Cinema at its best. "},{"Title":"The best there is...","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Movies just don't get better than this. Sure this is slow paced but that comes with the scenery and the story (rural France), you don't expect anything else when you know what the movie is about Great storytelling, and fantastic acting (Depardieu and Montand are just outstanding...)If this movie cannot move you, then you should stick to action flicks because I have never seen more touching!! A definite 10/10 "},{"Title":"In my top 10","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw Jean de Florette and then Manon des Sources after more that a few friends suggested I saw it. This is definitely my favourite foreign film series. One day I had a meal with a couple of friends who suggested that we grab a couple of movies for dessert. On their discovery that I had not seen J.D.F. and M.D.S. they Immediately grabbed both. These 2 movies are in my top 10 list of Foreign films. I later showed these 2 movies to a girl friend, who didn't like films with subtitles. She now does not like films with subtitles &#133;. With a few exceptions.P.S. May I take this opportunity to thank Eric and Sue for selecting these movies.  "},{"Title":"Flawless","Date":"27 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a beautifully told tale of a hunchback who moves from the town to the country when he inherits a farm. The cinematography is brilliant and the languid pace of the movie suits this perfectly. The acting is out of the top drawer especially from Yves Montand and Daniel Autiel who are mesmerising as the farmers intent on grabbing Gerard Depardieu's land. Depardieu is also in fine form as the hunchback who although bombastic and stubborn eventually evokes a deal of sympathy. It is hard to fault this film on any level and it absorbs you from the start to the finale. Although you can watch the film on it's own the subsequent Manon Des Sources ( another fine film) concludes the story in full. I have known a fair few people who don't like foreign language films who have watched this and every one has enjoyed it. This is a French classic not to be missed. "},{"Title":"J'adore!","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having been so blown away by Cyrano De Bergerac, I also watched Jean De Florette, also starring Gerard Depardieu. Jean De Florette is a very different film, but every bit as fantastic. Depardieu is very endearing in a performance that has in his career only been surpassed by Cyrano De Bergerac to me. Yves Montand and Daniel Auteuil are also outstanding as the scheming Soubeyrans. The acting is not Jean De Florette's only good asset. This is an example of a film where everything works. The story is beautifully paced and evocative, the script is witty and very cinematic, the cinematography shimmers, the scenery is breathtaking, the music is lively yet again very understated and the direction does wonderfully in capturing the pace of the seasons changing and Provence's unique atmosphere. All in all, I love this movie just as much as Cyrano De Bergerac, and I am watching Manon of the Spring(and loving it) even as we speak. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A personal all-time favorite","Date":"31 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is an epic film(s). (It must really be seen with Manon of the Spring, which is not a sequel but really the second part of the movie.) The photography, music, acting, writing, are top notch. A must see for any film buff. Full of eye and ear candy! It really stirred an emotional response in me, especially at the end. So many great movies flounder at the conclusion. This one delivers!It deals with the themes of family loyalty, miscommunication, love, betrayal, failure, and persistence in the face of catastrophe. But most importantly it deals with almost impossible redemption. This is a great movie to watch with your spouse or partner. It is equally appealing to both men and women and is a great film for a movie date! "},{"Title":"Utter Perfection - one of the very very greatest films of all time","Date":"29 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I only had the pleasure of seeing this film (and Manon Des Sources) a couple of years ago. The story, the acting, the scenery, the photography will have you gripped from start to finish. This is a film that requires nothing in the way of special effects to show its greatness. There are also 'no - liners' and nothing technical needs to be applied to either film to bring the best out of the extremely powerful and touching storyline.The second and final film of the story Manon Des Sources is equally as breath taking in its power, thoughtfulness, execution and conclusion.....These are 2 films you need to see before you die! "},{"Title":"Beautiful Study of Human Spirit","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The rating reflects this film and its sequel, Manon of the Spring, taken together. A beautiful film about greed, deception, and the human spirit, based on the novel by Pagnol. Montand and Auteuil are terrific as an old man and his nephew, respectively, the last surviving members of a proud family living in a French village in the early part of the twentieth century. Depardieu is outstanding as the tragic title figure, a hunchback who moves his family to the village and tries to survive as a farmer while dealing with the capricious weather. Berri's mise en scene is breathtaking, as he masterfully captures the beauty of the French countryside. "}{"Title":"The duo of Jean de Florette & Manon des Sources a French epic and masterpiece","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This along with Manon are the two greatest movies I have ever seen. The development of each character, not only Ugolin and Jean, are sympathetic, showing flaws and strengths and even in the character of Pepin (Yves Montand) we can't help but sympathize with his desire to carry on the Soubreyan name in the progeny of Ugolin. And yet we can despise the crude and corrupt ways that he and his sympathetic protégé, Ugolin, proceed. The irony, the writing of Marcel Pagnol, the characters and the flavor of Provence, and the ending of the two movies is of such a magnitude and power that I rate it as the greatest to ever come out of France and as great as I have seen elsewhere. Merwin Waite "},{"Title":"french cinema at it's best","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The reason why I was watched this film is because I read both la gloire de mon pere and la château de ma mere, two other books written by Marcel Pagnol, and I found them fascinating. This film is a fabulous portrayal of one man's greed over another man's dream. The performances given in this film are mesmerising, from Depardieu's hunch back to Montand's le papet. Although this film is sublime, I think it would be a wise choice to see the following film, Manon des Sources, as it gives the whole story through both the films. The film really goes to show how far some people will go to get what they want, whether it's le papet trying to secure a legacy for his family's name, or Jean de Florette trying to get his amazing ideas on farming to work. Everything comes together so well in this film-the score, the storyline and the performances, something modern movie makers should take note of. "},{"Title":"Farming land...","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is story-telling of the highest order. Gerard Depardieu is the tax collector who inherits a piece of farming land and decides to leave his job and do something with the soil. He comes up with several bright ideas (all defeated because of his neighbours machinations) and it isn't easy for him to accept defeat. This film makes you want to be a farmer! The physical beauty of it, the sense of achievement.....it was followed by a sequel the same year (Manon de Sources) which most people feel is better. I preferred Jean simply for Depardieu in one of his best performances (Cyrano is his best!!!) in a truly distinguished career. Actually both films are one complete (and amazing) story. Tears will well up in your eyes at the end of Manon.I really admired the Depardieu character in this movie. He is literate, intelligent and a true salt of the earth type. The harmonica theme and rural setting sort of reminded me of parts of Godfather (the scenes with Pacino in Sicily). There are other similarities as well. You have to watch this movie - its one of the best in French cinematic history and I was glad to see people wondering on the message board why it wasn't in IMDb's Top 250 list (actually within the Top 20). It really is a stunning story. "},{"Title":"What cinema is about","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  With all the hype surrounding special effects and action movies, people forget that cinema is essentially story telling. This is one reason that some tales have been brought to the screen over and over again. Unless we are interested in the actions or fate of the central character a film will fail to grab a viewer's attention.This is where Jean de Florette is pre-eminent. It tells a tale. It tells it simply and engages the viewers heart. The film is wonderfully shot in the French countryside with an almost photographic eye for images.Gerard Depardieu's performance must rank as one of cinema's greatest performances and he is more than ably assisted by Yves Montand and the rest of the cast.Also worthy of note is the selection of Verdi's The Force of Destiny as the theme music because throughout the film I felt that Destiny, cruel and heartless was driving the story forward.This is without doubt my favourite film and is recommended as a peerless effort in what cinema should be - story telling. "},{"Title":"Guy de Maupassant would have loved this","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The acting-pick any of the three stars, Yves Montand, Gerard Depardieu, Daniel Auteuil-is superb, and the supporting cast is excellent. But what makes this and its sequel, Manon des Sources (1986), jewels of the French cinema is the story and the characterizations, which go hand in hand. There is genius in how naturally and almost inevitably the story unfolds. Although I haven't read the novel by Marcel Pagnol, I'm sure he's the genius. And this is not to slight Claude Berri's direction which is invisible and at the same time in total control, so that the film is simply a work of art. The characters are true to themselves, and what they do seems natural because of who they are. Jean Florette (Depardieu) fails because he puts too much faith in science, knowledge and the good will and fairness of his fellow man. (He should have listened to his suspicious wife!) Ugolin (Auteuil), whose selfishness and little guy envy lead him to do the harm that he does, is not a despicable character. We do not hate him the way Manon understandably does. He is a man of weakness who gave into greed. Papet (Montand), believes in the lineage of man, in property, money-all the standard burgher values. He is led to do his dirty deeds because of who he is. What is so, so superior in Florette compared to most movies is the lack of propaganda, the lack of adherence to some political or philosophic preconception. What shines forth is people living their lives and falling into some very human traps. I am reminded of Balzac and Guy De Maupassant in the depiction of French peasant and petit bourgeois life and psychology.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Movies don't get better than this","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jean de Florette and its sequel, Manon des Sources, constitute one of those rare film experiences which have the gravity and impact of classical tragedy for a modern audience. The story of Cesar's greed, sins and retribution revealed the cathartic experience which I'd always heard about in school, but had never before felt while watching classical or Elizabethan tragedy.  I will never forget the mix of horror, pity and satisfaction which I felt when Manon exposed Cesar's crime in all its dimensions.  Yves Montand creates a character so real (though monumental) that you respond to his undoing as you would to that of someone you know personally -- not some character in a movie. Berri's art as a film-maker here vanishes into the telling of the story and transcends any technical or stylistic concerns. The films must, of course, both be seen in sequence for their full impact to be felt.  And you have to read subtitles or learn French no dubbing can be tolerated!  "},{"Title":"Moving study of human nature","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When Galinette (Daniel Auteuil) returns from military service to his farm house in France he plans to cultivate carnations. However he and his uncle Cesar Soubeyran (Yves Montard) don't have sufficient water on their land to feed a profitable crop. When they find an unused spring on a neighbour's land they block in and plan to buy the land. When the land is inherited by Jean (Depardieu) and his family, Galinette and Cesar plan his downfall so they can later buy his land and use his spring for their crops.This is a beautifully filmed movie - almost a tourist film for the France countryside. However the plot is not so picturesque, but rather deals with the conflicting human qualities of hope and greed, enthusiasm and envy. Jean represents the spirit of hope, a city worker who comes to the farm with new plans for breeding rabbits, growing vegetables etc., all to the scorn of the locals who believe his mad schemes will never work. Cesar represents the greed of the film, he drives the plan to frustrate Jean to the point that he'll leave and sell his land for cheap. The main character is Galinette, and it is him that we're meant to follow. He starts with the gentle dream of building up his land and growing his flowers but during the course of the film he is changed by the envy of Jean and the greed added to by Cesar. While Jean is the study of a man driven by hope who fights frustration and despair throughout, Galinette gives into greed to achieve his dream. It isn't reading too much into it to see Cesar as the devil driving Galinette while Jean is watched over by Manon (Mazurowna) his angel daughter.The performances are good with Auteuil (Galinette) good as the man torn by his desires. Depardieu and Montard (Cesar) are good as the flip sides of humanity. Mazurowna is good as Manon, she doesn't have too much to do but is good considering her age. The three male leads are the key and don't disappoint - they are all totally believable in their roles as devils, angels and mankind placed in the bodies of French farmers.This film is powerful as it gradually shows us how greed corrupts and perhaps how hope is not a quality appreciated by all - especially where envy exists. It is difficult to stomach because we're meant to like Galinette from the start but the ease with which he changes it alarming, but all the more frightening by the way it could easily happen to anyone in their life.The film is not complete as it is part one with the sequel Manon des Sources providing the conclusion. On it's own the conclusions it leaves you with are perhaps realistic but quite bleak none the less. This is an interesting, beautifully shot study of human nature in all it's horror. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Movies Ever","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This great, great movie - along with its necessary follow-up, Manon Of The Spring - features one of the best stories, best casts, best cinematography, best direction, best scripts of all time. And Gerard Depardieu was never better. Great to see an aging Yves Montand at his very best, too, as the evil, scheming Cesar. Stick with it - through its many twists and turns. On the surface, it is a gentle movie, at a gentle pace, but it bubbles with an underlying tension that never quits - through to the end of Part 2 (Manon Of The Spring). When I first saw this film, I couldn't wait for Manon Of The Spring to come out, to find out how the story finally ended. It's that good. You will be enraptured, get involved with the characters, and care about them intensely to the very end. This film - and its Part 2 - are so far above the quality of the average American film these days it's not funny. This is the kind of film Hollywood should be putting out. It speaks volumes about the human tendency toward pettiness, cruelty and jealousy - and the terrible consequences of this kind of behavior. A tragedy almost on a Shakespearean level (certainly Shakespeare would have been proud to have written it) - this is one of the greatest movies ever made. The ending - which comes with the next movie - will absolutely devastate and haunt you. About the subtitles (this movie is in French) - you have got to put up with that because otherwise you will miss out on an exceptional experience you will never forget. "},{"Title":"First rate","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In post World War I Provence, unscrupulous patriarch Papet and his nephew Ugolin are planning to acquire some land from a local who dies, in the course of which they block up the spring on the land, the source of local water. The land is inherited by a stranger - the titular Jean de Florette - who moves in with his wife and small daughter, and begins to put his own plans into operation. Jean, trying to unblock the spring, dies in an explosion, his wife and daughter have to move, and Papet and Ugolin acquire the land. But there is a sequel...This subtitled French language film (which provided both the music and the ambiance of the UK Stella Artois commercials of the 90s and noughties) is first rate. The story is strong, the characters are stronger, and the feeling of 'tween-Wars rural France is stronger still. Gerard Depardieu as John, Yves Montand as Papet, and Jean Auteuil as Ugolin are all excellent.Just bear in mind that you can't watch it in isolation - you HAVE to watch the sequel, Manon Des Sources immediately afterwards. "},{"Title":"Rare gem.","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just watched Jean De Florrete and it was great, very rare for me to say this but I was not once bored or restless during the entire movie. Jean De Florrete, about this French farmer who moves onto his uncle's land and decides it would be profitable to grow flowers. But in order to grow a enough flowers to make a profit they'll need more water than they have available. Their neighbor has an untapped underground spring. The farmer and his uncle go over to negotiate buying the land with the spring on it. Unfortunately for them their neighbor hates the uncle, and when they offer to buy some of his land the uncle and him get into a fight and during the bustle his head suffers a fatal blow against a rock and he dies almost instantaneously. The whole ordeal took place by a tree, so the farmer and his uncle make it look like the old man fell from the tree and hit his head. They think the land will be theirs but a relative of the neighbor, a hunchback, moves onto the property. The uncle offers to buy the land from him but the hunchback wants to use it for raising rabbits and growing squash. Fascinating to watch the triumphs and failures of the hunchback as he goes about trying to fulfill his dream, always with a happy upbeat attitude. The thing that amazed me about the movie would be just how simple the actual plot feels. There are no huge twists, no distracting sub-plots, not much happens for most of the movie until the last 15 minutes; despite that it manages to grab the viewers attention wonderfully and it doesn't let it go until the credits roll either. Unless you hate French movies. I highly recommend Jean De Floret. "}{"Title":"Jean de Florette / Manon of the Spring","Date":"2 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Two part film, that was 1st released as two separate features. Terrific telling of a complex story of intertwined farming families in rural France in the early part of the 20th century. The acting is mostly of the highest order. Yves Montand, one of the most suave men in history is completely believable as a rough hewn, self-centered farmer, Gerard Depardieu, also cast against type, as a gentle, educated city born man trying to make it as a farmer also is astounding. Almost as good is Daniel Auteuil as Montand's not-very-bright son. Only Emmanuelle Beart, gorgeous though she may be, doesn't quite convince me as the wild woman of the fields. Some of it is performance, some of it is how perfect she looks. The story is wonderful in a Dickensian sort of way, with clues and character elements showing up early, only to pay off three hours later. I love the first part even more, somehow it feels more truly tragic and dense, the 2nd part just a bit too neat by the end. But still a grand, intelligent, great looking entertainment. "},{"Title":"Remarkably narrated and invariably moving...","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" French actor, producer, screenwriter and director Claude Berri's twelfth feature film which he co-wrote with French screenwriter Gérard Brach (1927-2006) is an adaptation of a novel, L'Eau des Collines - Jean de Florette and Manon des Sources (1964) by French author, playwright and filmmaker Marcel Pagnol (1895-1974), which was inspired by true events. It was shot on numerous locations in the Vaucluse department of Provence in the southeast of France and is part of a duology which was succeeded by Manon des Sources (1986). It tells the story about Ugolin Soubeyran who one summer after having served his time in World War I returns to his home in rural Provence where he is welcomed by his highly revered uncle Cesar Le Papet Soubeyran. Back at his home place in the highlands, Ugolin initiates a planned project which involves growing plants, but soon discovers that he is going to need a water resource to keep his enterprise afloat. He let's Papet in on his new activity and the old man is eager to help his nephew, but his good intentions get's the better of him and leads to fatal consequences. Though having their plan ruined they are dead set on finding a way to gain their obstacle, so when a man from the village named Jean Cadoret moves in to his newly inherited property with his wife Aimèe and their adolescent daughter Manon, the two farmers decides to mislead him.Subtly and acutely directed by French filmmaker Claude Berri (1934-2009) and with it's ardent and naturalistic milieu depictions and efficient narrative structure, this historic period piece, at the time the most expensive French film in French history, draws a throughout engaging portrayal of a kind-hearted and loving husband and father with an urban background who whilst struggling to create a good life for himself and his family in a rural area at the turn of the twentieth century, becomes a victim of deception and prejudice. This mid-1980s co-production between France, Italy and Switzerland, known as part of a movement in France during the 1980s called heritage cinema which mainly consisted of costume dramas, has a powerful score by French composer and arranger Jean-Claude Petit, based on Italian composer Giuseppe Verdi's Italian opera The Force of Destiny (1862), which reinforces the films pivotal atmosphere.Produced by French producers Pierre Grunstein and Alain Poiré (1917-2000) and notable for it's wonderful production design by production designer Bernard Vézat and cinematography by French director and cinematographer Bruno Nuytten, this character-driven and dialog-driven countryside epic which examines themes like interpersonal relations, greed, faith and the distinctions between human goodness and human cruelty is impelled by the splendid acting performances by French actor and producer Gérard Depardieu, Italian-born French actor and singer Yves Montand (1921-1991) and French actor, director and screenwriter Daniel Auteuil. A remarkably narrated and invariably moving drama which gained, among several other awards, the BAFTA Film Award for Best Film, Best cinematography Bruno Nuytten, Best Adapted Screenplay Claude Berri and Gérard Brach and Best Supporting Actor Daniel Auteuil at the 41st British Academy Film Awards in 1988, the NBR Award for Best Foreign Language Film at the National Board of Review of Motion Pictures Awards in 1987 and the César Award for Best Actor Daniel Auteuil at the 13th César Awards in 1987. "},{"Title":"Slow but beautiful","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Gerard Depardieu is Jean de Florette, a simple, hard working landowner and farmer who grows and sells flowers and also raises rabbits for food. Some of Jean's neighbors would like to buy his land but Jean refuses to sell to them.They then find the main spring nearby and plug it with cement to prevent water from reaching the farm. Jean has to travel a good distance to carry large containers to his farm. He later gets badly injured and they take advantage of the situation quickly.This is a simple and slow moving drama which looks like a painting come to life. It is followed by the equally masterful Manon of the Spring. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful!","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is simply beautiful. It's the moving and touching story of Jean Cadoret (played marvelously by Depardieu) is a town guy who buy a little farm in Southern France. He's got a plan to raise and sell rabbits. But Cesar Soubeyran (played by Montant) wants that land, so he manage to cut the water supply of Cadoret. Without water, it's more and more difficult for Cadoret to continue exploiting his little farm.Beautifully shot in Southern France. The acting is also excellent.See this one and than try to see Manon des sources, the sequel, which is a little bit less excellent but still very enjoyable to watch.What a good choice of music theme for this movie The Force of Destiny, by Verdi.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This was my favorite movie of all time!","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is probably one of my favorite movies now. I love the part when Papet kills the old owner of the farm because i found it hilarious. Probably my favorite scene was the sex scene between the rabbits, because the male rabbit was a beast. Although I didn't understand how it was cross breaded from a rabbit and a ram. Me and my friend turned to each other when Jean said that there would be 1,000 male rabbits and 5,000 female rabbits nd we both said we wanted to be a male rabbit. I rated this movie a perfect 10 out of 10 because it had a great plot and it had pretty funny scenes to me. All in all, this was a great film and the sex scene was the best part of the movie. Unfortunately I saw this film in school so I missed out on the nude scene. "},{"Title":"A Tragic and Beautiful Film","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved this film the first time I saw it 14 years ago.  It's still a very good film and has stood the test of time.You have to have a little patience waiting for the film to unfold, but you will find yourself moved by what happens--especially when you view its sequel Manon of the Spring.I saw this film on DVD recently and the transfer is a little dark and not the best I've ever seen, but the film is good enough that you will forget about the transfer and reading subtitles.If you haven't seen this film, rent it and its sequel and watch them both one after the other.If you aren't moved, you must have a heart of stone. "},{"Title":"Tragicomedy at its Best","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In a flood of fully corsetted period pieces by Merchant-Ivory, French Director/Producer Claude Berri gave us the sublime, poetic Jean De Florette, along with its companion film Manon des Sources.  With humour and heartache, intrigue and passion, Berri weaves this morality tale of a city born hunchback and his quest to become a successful Provincial farmer. Gerard Depardieu acts with finesse along with the late Yves Montand, whose portrayal of Papet Cesar Soubeyran is astounding. "},{"Title":"Superb rural tragedy","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The story is simple yet fascinating. It's universal appeal resides in the themes it looks at greed, community, selfishness, virtue... The acting is superb with Yves Montand and Daniel Auteil pulling off masterpiece performances with Gérard Depardieu cast as the slightly naive town person who can only see goodness wherever he looks.A modern chef-d'oeuvre. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It has been 5 or 6 years since I saw this film and its sequel Manon of the Spring.  I came across it late at night on television and was riveted by what I saw at the time.  I couldn't leave it and go to bed, and so stayed up into the wee hours watching it and the sequel which immediately followed.We talk about good theatre and film letting us glimpse ourselves  as human beings.  Well, these two movies did an outstanding job at that.  The acting was superb and I hardly noticed the subtitles.  Jean de Florette was a beautiful and moving insight into human nature.  It really makes us stop and think about the power we have, in many ways, to alter the suffering of others -- lessening or increasing it.I hadn't seen this movie and its sequel since then.  But coming across the information about it here at IMDb, I've decided to rent them soon!  "},{"Title":"Opera without Music","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The opening credits that roll over the overture to Forza del Destino foreshadow the plot of the film. We wait for Montand, Depardieu and company to break into song, but none come. I'm not sure this is a good thing, or a bad thing, but the film is pure late 19th Century drama. Pagnol, the author of the book, had a trilogy turned into film in the thirties in France. These films, one of which Pagnol directed, contain less melodrama than Jean but were closer to the author's intent. Not that this matters, for screenwriters and directors need a peg to hang their hats.Montand in his own way resembles Brando's Don Corleone, but with only one surviving relative, ugly Ugolin. Daniel Auteil in that part is the linchpin on which the film either works or founders, and his performance is great. Inside his plain being is a conscience, unlike Montand or Depardieu's Jean for that matter, who takes his family down to ruin in his quest to farm and populate the land with rabbits. Jean is Sisyphus, pushing the stone up the hill, not realizing that the gods have fixed the game. When Auteil sees the end results of his game playing, he breaks into tears, and in the sequel, does the honorable thing and 'falls on his sword.'Because the film is melodrama, we get carried along with Jean's effort and want to see Manon get even with Montand; we rush out to the video store for the sequel, but when all is over, we've not been changed, but rather have been to the theater.  "}{"Title":"Incredible Film Uses Soft Touch","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film shows human beings at their absolute worst, greed driven selves. In this film, a man who is respected in his community, destroys the life of another, better man. He and his son want to be able to access a spring which can be used to water their agricultural products, primarily carnations. When they go to negotiate a deal with the land owner, he abuses them verbally and the end up killing him. Since they don't own the property they locate the spring and block it, hoping to get the new owners to be more cooperative. They never bat an eye over the murder. Soon a hunchbacked relative comes to claim the property. He is played by Gerard Depardieu. He is the epitome of optimism. He has a lovely family. He wants to farm the land and have a modest existence. The problem is the water needed to make the farm work is being held hostage by these two jerks. The literally destroy his life by sidling up to him and trying to get him to sell. The dynamics of the relationship are so well done. The acting is superb. The story is so tragic. "},{"Title":"If you say I'm a Monsieur Farmer, you will agree. - Le Papet, probably","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I wonder, or can possibly try to visualize, if Yves Montand literally lept for joy when he got the script for Jean de Florette (and by proxy Gerard Depardeiu and Daniel Auteuil, but more on them in a moment). He was in his 60's by this point, but many of the roles that he was made famous for (Wages of Fear, Z) were years behind him. Here the role of the Monseiur Soubeyran, aka Le Papet, is one of those major, awesomely commanding roles for an older actor to take on, even as it's not the most complex character of the lot. He basically gets to be conniving and cunning, and yet I think that's not the tough part to play; the hard part, I'd wager, is to make a human being out of someone who lacks empathy, or even basic sympathy. This is where all of the troubles lie for Jean (Depardieu) when he inherits a farm that was left to him by his mother, which in turn was an inheritance from her brother... I should also mention that he was accidentally killed as Le Papet was there, and sort of, you know, let it happen.How does he have some human quality to him? What can Montand play? I think the part of the intelligence is one thing, and of course one can see this man as a villain in a similar respect to the great villains who puppet-master their greed - the summary line refers to Daniel Plainview from There Will be Blood, but also Noah Cross from Chinatown (also a movie where water - how it's drained, where it flows to, how it's plugged counts more than anything and to where). He has a plan - plug up the water spring that is there on the property so that Jean has to resort to a much father spring, without the help of a mule (which his nephew could give him, but he won't by instruction) - and goes for it, hook line and sinker.Something about these men, who are the sort of very real monsters who ruin lives in everyday life, keep us watching, and with Montand I think it's that he imbues him with some odd, continuous form of dignity, at least from his perspective. He sees who owns what as just formalities - if you want something, you just take it, even if it takes years of plotting (not that a little bad luck, like a lack of rain, can't help along the process). Montand very likely didn't *like* this character, but understands him and certainly knows how to make him come alive and, of all things, make the audience see what he'll plot for his nephew to do next.Jean de Florette is a very rich film in how Claude Berri presents the story and characters since this theme of who cares and who shows what to one another, what it means to be a good neighbor (or not) and how everyone just wants to try to get what's theirs, or do from day to day, month to month. Depardeiu gets to play someone who is the opposite of Le Papet - Jean is someone who has grown up in a city, not a farm, but sees the possibilities and hopes (or just knows) that he can overcome things through having knowledge from books. A story like this might be tougher to pull off set in the 21st century just due to how many things have changed (better transportation, better weather prediction, loans), but there's still a resonance to the themes completely because Jean is a dreamer and yet at the same time puts in a lot of hard work - he deserves what he's working hard for. Shouldn't he get it, if not just for himself his wife and daughter? If I had to nitpick the film (it's great but not perfect, if that makes sense) some of the music is a little on-the-nose in some parts, like when Jean is running outside as a storm may (or may not) come to answer his prayers, and I wondered why the townspeople, shown occasionally, have such an immediate animosity to Jean just due to his hunch and being a city person. But these are minor, or I can let that go as far as 'it was the time/small towners', in the grand scope of what the film is trying to accomplish. You have a force of good (making one's own place prosper for oneself and family) and a force of not so good (total meddling to do a take-over, which one can see in action in major ways every day with corporations taking over small businesses and so on).But when it comes to Auteil, he has the best character to play, the one with the most conflict. He's not shown as someone very handsome, on the contrary Manon, Jean's daughter, calls him ugly and judges him. Maybe she can sense through some intuition something is fishy about him (and at times the wife doesn't like him either, only Jean is fine with him). Auteil has to play a character who is having to be the friendly neighbor, the cordial type, one who can help and give advice and be conversational and hear out Jean's ideas about how to do this or that with his crops and rabbit breeding. But what happens if he gets some empathy, which he has deep down? How does he reconcile it? I loved seeing this actor deal with this character on screen, and it's a shame Auteil missed out on some acting prizes for his work (or rather, I should say, in America).Beautifully shot (it looks like it was made recently with its solid 35mm film stock) and acted to such a high degree, this is a quality drama about success, failure and manipulation of people and land. "},{"Title":"wonderful roller coaster","Date":"3 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Weak-minded Ugolin Soubeyran (Daniel Auteuil) returns to his uncle Cesar 'Le Papet' Soubeyran (Yves Montand) after his military service. Ugolin has a plan to grow carnations. With his greedy uncle, they go to their neighbor to buy his land. However the uncle gets into a fight and kills the owner. The death is assumed to be an accident. Le Papet directs Ugolin to block up a natural spring on the property and destroy the place so the new owner would sell it cheap. Hunchback Jean de Florette (Gérard Depardieu) from the city inherits the property. He brings his family with big plans to spend his inheritance to build a rabbit farm. Ugolin pretends to be his best friend while they sabotage Jean's operation. At first, Jean's hard work and book smarts make the place successful. However a dry summer makes it impossible to farm without water.This is a movie of great ups and downs. I was leery of the movie in the first half as the villains keep getting away with their evil deeds. The little temporary reversal of fortune is the key to the drama. It builds up the hopes of the audience so that the fall could be even greater. The three main actors are terrific. The cinematography is beautiful. "},{"Title":"Cinema!","Date":"24 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A greedy landowner and his backward nephew conspire to block the only water source for an adjoining property in order to bankrupt the owner and force him to sell.Roger Ebert commented on Berri's exploration of human character, the feeling that the land is so important the human spirit can be sacrificed to it. Is human character in this sense shaped by the land? Of course. Is it always? Maybe not.Jean de Florette and Manon des Sources have been interpreted as part of a wider trend in the 1980s of so-called 'heritage cinema' period pieces and costume dramas that celebrated the history, culture and landscape of France. And good on them for that. "},{"Title":"Enjoy the wonderful surroundings and relax","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The surroundings near Aubagne in the Bouche Du Rhône in France are wonderfully shot. The story by Marcel Pagnol is well adapted that takes step by step a dramatic end. All the actors did a fine Job and I am curious to see part two Manon La Source. The sceneries in the time after the second world war are well built and developed. I recommend you to watch it in the original south french dialect with English subtitles. I spent an enjoyable and relaxing Saturday night with my wife.Don't miss the other great movie from the writer Pagnol called La Fille Du Pusatier. Please read my critic on IMDb.Final vote 8/10. "},{"Title":"Agonising; enrapturing and taut all-at-once period piece, detailing the struggles of two sets of farm-set family units at evens and odds with one another.","Date":"18 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Has farming, indeed agriculture in general, ever been as cinematic as it is in Claude Berri's Jean de Florette? The joy is in observing the rather articulate nuances that the characters must undertake when particular farming tasks require particular tools and items for a job at hand; the film eventually coming to resemble a tale about a man most probably as alien to farming as the audience and enjoying it as much as we enjoy watching his taking up of this challenge. The farming within the film, in its specificities revolving around the planning; the predicting; the techniques and the use of certain items and animals for certain events, is as intrinsic as the film's core study of greed and the capitalist infused garnering of an industrial item, an item which will bring large amounts of personal wealth and riches, eventually at the expense of others. The film eventually coming to form a remarkably executed, heart breakingly tragic, blackly comic, devilishly well put together period drama from France well worth checking out.The film begins with a young man named Ugolin (Auteuil) returning home to the South of France, and his uncle's farm, having served time with the French army; the soundtrack a dry and sleepy orchestral tune suggesting much in the way of travels and tiredness, only momentarily breaking off into louder bursts of a much more positive tone as he nears home. Upon arriving home, Ugolin takes clear glee in rushing to a small patch of soil on the grounds and unwrapping a plant of some kind so he may observe it; something he appears to enjoy more than being reconciled with his uncle after such a stretch of time and furthermore suggesting an inclination towards agricultural work, his dream eventually revealed to be one of which revolves around the growing and selling of flowers for a living. His uncle is Cesar (Montand), an elderly man whom demands Ugolin find a wife and have children in the near future so that the land may be passed down and kept within the family; his other eye on a stretch of land lying nearby to his own, a stretch functional enough as it stands and with a natural spring beneath it capable of escalating the quality of the goods that only Cesar knows of, but a stretch already owned by a man no way willing to just sell up.Berri spends a good deal of time with these two farmers, their dreams; their positions and their core characteristics filling up most of the film's opening act. We come to like them during this early part and their blackly funny misadventures as well as their dry observations on life and newfound situations which open up as a result of other events. We side with young Ugolin, this simple young man whom has only just returned from national service and wishes to move into floristry. It is only when the titular Jean of Florette arrives, in the form of Gérard Depardieu, that we see the true nature of them; Jean being the rightful heir to that of the land when Cesar and Ugolin accidentally-on-purpose murder the owner of the land thus bringing Jean into the equation following a string of other legal complications with the rightful land owner.Jean and his family of wife Aimee (Elisabeth Depardieu) and young daughter Manon (Mazurowna) are not used to such surroundings; their previous incarnation of living in a more urbanite locale ill preparing them for what they come into contact with here, the beauty and calmness of the locale coming to resemble mere surface featurettes as those within plot and brew. The obvious distinctions between themselves and those more attributed to the land arrive in the form of their clear differences in clothing, as well as their talk of things of a more cultured nature, namely the opera, as on occasion Aimee breaks out int chorus of song to Jean's own harmonica tunes.What unfolds is a game of cat and mouse and hope and frustration between the two farmers, in Ugolin and Cesar, and the Florettes whom hang around much to the annoyance of their neighbours whom still want the land, know of its true flourishing nature and retain the spring as their secret. Jean's gradual coming around to realise how wondrous and how magnificent the locale is, and how enthralling the individual tasks and procedures which make up farming echoes our own coming around to feel similarly towards the film. Just as agricultural activity is fresh to that of Jean, the arrival of he and his family acts as a fresh and very crisp presence within the film to that of the audience; the very gradual bringing of the audience around on Berri's behalf to have us see the two original farmers as cruel and calculating businessmen as this initial outsider and his family capture our hearts, is outstanding. The film is a really well executed drama, a wonderful piece persistently flicking from tone to tone and character to character in perfect tandem; a film working on a level of family drama, fish out of water storytelling and dark comedy culminating in something quite special. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Rural Bath","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When Voltaire says something like  I disagree with what your saying but would die for your right to say it I feel, in the context of these linked 2 beautiful movies that really are one, like saying I disagree with what you're saying and will shout you if you say it again Yes after raving homage to this work there are some people who can't see anything about it, some who have only seen part one! I can't even begin to comprehend why they bother to say so. There you are i'm not a Voltairian! Once again, perhaps after 15 years I have enjoyed immensely J d F and M des sources that I consider to be only one movie in two parts and not a movie and its sequel. The first time I saw it a the cinema and was so impressed with part one that my wife and I purchased the ticket for MDS on the way out that we did not take but 2 hours later mesmerized by what we watched. My earliest knowledge of Marcel Pagnol must have been a X'mas record something like Noel with the santons de Provence a beautiful X'mas tale a la Pagnol (ave l'acceng du midi qui n'en fini pas) yes with the French southern accent that seems to never end! I read here a comment about inappropriate subtitles, I must admit for this movie I felt highly privileged to understand French, French rural area and French accent. Definitely these 3 ingredient give again another dimension to this work and I would believe getting the appropriate subtitle to emulate the accent would be a phenomenal task. I guess four hours can be a little taxing on some, but like many have reported it's really worth it and I can only feel sorry for the few who are or will be displeased with such a master piece. "},{"Title":"the force of destiny","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Part One of Claude Berri's intimate twin epic of the Provençal countryside (adapted from a novel by Marcel Pagnol) may be little more than a long prologue to Part Two, but it struck a responsive chord in audiences hungry for literate, unpretentious entertainment. The film draws its strength from the simple, straightforward force of its story and from the elemental virtues, vices, and passions of its characters sturdy peasant farmers working the arid hills of southern France. Yves Montand is the wealthy landowner who hopes to secure a fertile plot of land for his simpleminded nephew (Daniel Auteuil, hiding his leading man looks behind ugly backwoods makeup) by blocking its all-important source of water, forcing the new tenant (hunchbacked Gerard Depardieu) to sell the property cheap. There's quite a lot of background to establish, but from that simple plot hook Berri and his cast have created a leisurely (yet surprisingly involving) melodrama. It ends on an unresolved, downbeat note, a tease for the sequel, which will continue the saga with the surviving characters ten years later. "},{"Title":"Fear and loathing in a rural idyll","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well maybe not quite.. but this is a rewarding and fully engaging cinematic experience, a low - key story of greed, envy, deception, blackmail and ultimately, no doubt revenge, as Gerard Depardieu's title-role Jean is tricked but gently (although ultimately cold - heartedly) by Papet and Ugolin (Montand and Auteuil) into an early grave as his impassioned efforts to make his inherited farm realise his dream of self - sufficiency dries up and literally dies in an extended heatwave. That's the plot exposition basically but of course what we really have here is a study of on the one hand avarice, as exhibited by the calculating Montand and his occasionally conscience - affected nephew Auteuil against the nobility, enthusiasm and family - loving values of Depardieu's character. The fact that by the film's end, the former appears to have won of course will be overturned in the sequel (which I've yet to view) as Jean's young daughter Manon witnesses the deception of Montand and Auteuil as they glory in their apparent victory, even at the cost of Jean's death. The cinematography is beautiful, the acting characterful - you really feel that the actors fully inhabit their roles, and the story just unfolds in front of you like a classic novel made flesh. I loved the film whilst accepting criticisms of its being old - fashioned and conservative. But in the era, when it was made, of Rambo, Arnie and any number of SFX movies this film must have seemed then, as now, an oasis in a desert. Too bad the oasis never appeared to Jean de Florette! "},{"Title":"simple and effective story-telling","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i recently viewed jean de florette and its sequel, manon of the spring. florette is a strong cinematic experience than manon-- a beautifully told, simple story. what makes florette so wonderful is the strength of characters given simple, but well defined motivations that clash.set in a small village in France, our villains are looking to protect a source of water for their thriving flower business-- but the source is on the property of a gentleman farmer who needs water for his crops but can't find any-- this simple plot carries an entire movie. and it's terrific! who needs car chases and love interests! character and motivation will win out every time! "}{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched it as a necessary part of my French course (we were reading the novel), and I liked the film. I think that Jean's frustration was portrayed excellently, and that the movie was very faithful to the book. Watching this movie, you'll feel pity for Jean, due to the 'nature vs. man' theme, and his unnecessary difficulties (if he only knew about the spring!). Daniel Auteuil really suits his role; he looks like an Ugolin, the pathetic man who tries to get rich at Jean's expense. I don't know what else to write (I'm trying to meet the 10 lines minimum rule)--You need to watch Manon des Sources, the 'sequel', which I haven't watched yet. "},{"Title":"One of the best French movies ever (and that says something)","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jean de Florette is a French classic although it is a movie from the 80's.To me it stands along with other French greats like Le Fabuleux Destin d'Amélie Poulain ,Le Samourai and Les Diaboliques.What I most enjoyed of the film was the beautiful settingThe Provence in Southern France.Every shot is exquisite and carefully picked so it seems.Another great asset is the first class acting by French legends like Yves Montand (who is also a respectable singer),Gerard Depardieu and Daniel Auteuil. Yves Montand puts down a character that easily can be measured as one of the ultimate bad guys in cinema history,although considering the movie that is hard to believe but it's true.After seeing the movie you'll probably concur with me.The music is good,but like I said the camera work is brilliant.This movie has got some of the most beautiful pictures ever shot on film,I salute cinematographer Bruno Nuytten for that.He and director Claude Berri have made a sublime picture about betrayal and family love.Every aspect of French culture like Jeu de Boules is seen in this film and after watching it you're dying to go there.I've been in the Provence many times since I've got a French mother and I must say that the movie is a good reflection of the actual place.A definite must see for every fan of French Film of just Film for that matter.A great drama with some comic touches.  9/10 (number 87 in my all time 100 list) "},{"Title":"One the most amazing movies that i ever see.","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jean de Florette is one the most amazing movies that i ever see. The principal actors, Yves Montand, Gerard Depardieu and Daniel Auteuil, acting brilliant. Their characters are performed with incredible beauty. Gerard Depardieu has a better performance of this entire career, also Yves Montand and Daniel has great performances make a greedy and malicious Cesar Souberan and Ugolin. The storyline is perfect and its sequel Manon the sources is also a great movie. Anyone that like a good movie should seen these movies. "},{"Title":"City fellow moves to the country to breed rabbits. Ill treated by locals.","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the first movie of two, the second being Manon of the Spring. Although the second one should feel better to watch, the first one is better. If you haven't seen them, do rent them. Jean is about a man who moves to a farm in the country to breed rabbits. He is an educated man and has planned the rabbit farm from his research. He has a pretty detailed plan and knowledge of his subject. However, the locals, an uncle played by Yves Montand and his nephew, are interested in buying the land farm for a good price. In order to do this they block the passage of a stream of water toward the land making it unbearably arid. Depardieu, the city fellow, and his family log water all day and all night practically. The locals perpetrate other dirty deeds. In fact the Depardieu character died. But he left a child, Manon of the Spring, who returns to take revenge on Montand and nephew. Both films are very good. "},{"Title":"One of the finest French movies I've seen lately","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" French cinema sometimes reminds me of Hollywood. And they have more in common with Hollywood as they sometimes would like to believe. When they find a foreign actor who really can act very well, they try to forget as soon as possible that he or she isn't French; chauvinistic as the French are, they prefer their own movies over foreign ones; making movies sometimes seems like mass-production;... Because of this mass-production it's also a fact that not too many movies are excellent (just like in Hollywood), but from time to time something special comes along like this Jean de Florette.The movie has been based on a novel from Marcel Pagnol and tells the story of Jean, son of Florette and a hunch-back, who moves with his family from the city to a small town in the Provence. He has inherited a small farm house with a spring (very precious in a region where there isn't too much water) and a lot of land around it. But an old man and his only remaining relative already were interested in the property themselves. They need the spring water for growing their flowers and when they find out that Jean de Florette will move in, they block up the source. With pleasure they see how Jean gets desperate and how he tries to water his crops with water from wells far afield. The hard labor and the hot summer break Jean's health and the hearts of his wife and daughter, but all the old man and his relative can think about is the cheap land which will soon be available again...I admit that I'm normally not a big fan of French cinema, but when a movie is good, it doesn't matter where it comes from. Thanks to the strong story with its well-developed characters and the very nice acting by Yves Montand, Daniel Auteuil, Elisabeth Depardieu and yes even Gérard Depardieu (I normally don't like him all that much) this movie is much better than the average French cinema. This is a very nice drama that deserves to be seen by a great audience. It is one of the best French movies that I've seen lately. And what more than a nice story, some fine performances and a nice setting (In my opinion the Provence is by far the nicest and prettiest region in France - I wonder why people always think of Paris when they think of France, the country has a lot more and better things to offer) do you need to be convinced? The overall quality is very nice and that's why I believe that this movie doesn't deserve a rating lower than 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece, a terrific picture, I love it!","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wow, this is an amazing picture from France. The story is simple, yet so much can be drained from such a wonderful and sad picture!The acting is astounding, the direction is perfect and the music is awesome.The story is shot perfectly, the location adds to the storytelling. As I said the film has wonder, but ultimately it's about evil in this world, you what they say... ...what goes around must come around.The film is told in two parts... ...Part 2 is called Manon des source. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Before I saw this movie, i didn't like French movies. And after this movie, I still didn't. But for me Jean de Florette is the exception in French film industry. It shows how dramatic reality can be. Trust and friendship are just hollow phrases. The viewer was already informed about the abuse of trust that Ugolin did towards Jean. That's why the persistency of Jean and his family was so painful to see. I hope you understand that I really like this movie, but I'm trying to keep as unclear as can be. Watch this movie (and his sequel) and you'll understand what I mean. "},{"Title":"Magnifique.","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film on a Friday afternoon in my Highschool French class. I was mostly concerned with squinting at the subtitles on the television screen back then, but the grandeur of the film wasn't lost on me. I stumbled across the movie years later on late-night television, and gasped when I recognized it. I sat enraptured for the rest of the film and fell in love with it all over again. Then I later saw the sequel, which brought the story full circle. There was finally closure to the tragic deception that troubled me about the first film.    "},{"Title":"A Truly Beautiful Product of French Cinema","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you are the kind of cinema-goer who would choose popcorn entertainment like 'The Mummy Returns' over a beautiful, thought-provoking film, you'd better steer clear of Jean de Florette.There are no murderous mummies or scuttling, ancient beetles, not even a beefy Brendan Fraser. Instead, an intricate tale of greed, family ties, and blindness to evil.It tells the story of Galinet (Daniel Auteuil), who dreams of all the riches he could gain from selling blood-red carnations to local florists. After his grandfather (the fantastic Yves Montand) 'accidentally' kills the owner of the next-door farm, Galinet sets his sights on the plush, fertile soil of the land. However, a northern hunchback, Jean (Gerard Depardieu) inherits the farm, and plans to settle there with his family indefinitely. Galinet and his grandfather attempt to stir up trouble amongst the townsfolk over the hunchback, > with disastrous results.All 3 main performances are exquisite. Auteuil and Montand (a former lover of Marilyn Monroe) appear loving yet deceitful, without turning the audience against them. Depardieu brings an innocent freshness as the hunchback who naively believes that they want to be his friends.Indeed, the direction is also beautifully done. There is no singular viewpoint to enable the audience to side with a particular character. We see the strong love between the grandson and his relative, but also the underlying greed and selfish motivations. The camera does not waste too much time on languid shops of lush landscape, but involves them almost as another character. When Jean - who is desperate during a drought for water to feed his vegetation - hears a clap of thunder in the middle of the night, he runs out into the garden, whooping for joy. We see monstrous, looming hills, with flashing skies behind. Jean realises the rain is in another valley, and breaks down sobbing. He knows he has nothing to feed his family, and begins shouting at the sky and mountains, as if they - and God - are the enemy.There is no point in seeing this movie if you do not follow it with its sequel, Manon des Sources. Without the follow-up, it may seem pointless and slow. YOU MUST SEE THE SEQUEL. It explains why the ending of the first part is so poignant and painfully tragic. "},{"Title":"The epitome of relentlessness and greed","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rating 8 out of 10. Directed by Claude Berri. This is one of the most impressive French language films ever, Jean de Florette is thoughtfully powerful and kept me extremely interested throughout the movie.Set in Provence, France in the 1920s, `Jean de Florette' is a story of how two farmers of the Soubeyran family methodically extinguish the happiness of their new neighbour, Jean, played by well renowned French actor Gérard Depardieu, who left his job as a tax collector and has moved from the city to build a utopia for his family to live in. Jean has inherited the house and land next to the Soubeyran's farm. Before Jean moves onto his new land, the Soubeyran's had plans to buy it because of a valuable supply of water; they block this water spring with concrete, hoping that the lack of a good source of water will discourage the new owner so that they could buy the land cheaply.Initially, Jean has some success growing his crops and raising his rabbits, but then a long drought comes, forcing Jean to bring water from a far away well, this starts Jean's plunge into desolation.The story continues in the sequel, `Manon of the Spring'.  "}{"Title":"Solid film about selfishness and idealism","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jean de Florette explores how people end up in dire life situations, from their own devising and from the evil of others.The plot is fairly simple Jean, a city man, inherits a country farm, and tries to achieve his grand plans of success. Meanwhile, his neighbors conspire to ensure that he fails so that they can get the property from him.The film explores how Jean's own naiveté and blind idealism get him in over his head in the first place a man's wild dreams that deny hard reality can endanger himself and his family.At the same time, it also shows how his neighbors can justify any bad action to get what they want. Whenever one of them doubts whether his bad deeds against Jean should continue, the other is always ready with a justification. The combination of Jean's actions with those of his neighbors prove dangerous for him.The story is set against stunning countryside -- even in the midst of showing its most unforgiving side, the natural surroundings always seem gorgeous.The acting is outstanding. The film is at heart a character study, and the main characters are able to bear up under strong study. A lot can be read simply in the faces of Jean and the peasants, and the final shot of a child's face is especially suggestive.The film lacks a certain charm that keeps it out of the ranks of the truly great films, but it is well done and worth watching, and can provoke a good discussion afterwards. "},{"Title":"A simple yet beautiful film","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A story about a sympathetic hunchback named Jean de Florette, who dreams of a simple life, but his efforts are thwarted by his two neighbors. They wish to buy his land, because they and only they know its true value. The two schemers offer to help Jean, but really they only want to keep close track of what he is doing and has planned so that they may persuade and influence him to that which will not succeed so that he will be forced to sell - to them. To fully appreciate the story and this film, one must see the sequel 'Manon of the Spring', where the final ironic tragic ending is revealed. To quote the bible ...am I my brother's keeper, it seems a perfect epithet for this movie. "},{"Title":"The film has the scope of opera and the precision of a short story.","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film feels like a novel in its richness of detail and the complexity of its saga. The story is lovely and sad, the direction is light almost comedic, the images are beautiful, the sound design is good, even the sub-titles are very well done. All of the performances are solid but Daniel Auteuil is exceptional as a tender, twisted, villain. His performance alone is reason enough to watch this film. But then there is Yves Montand, and the two of them together is an embarrassment of riches. This is drama at is best. "},{"Title":"a beautifully shot, unmissable film","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In a compelling, poignant fairytale of greed, betrayal and the determination of two men to realise their dreams, we follow the fortunes of a likeable hunchback and his family as they inherit a farm in the scenic French countryside. Their dream to escape the 'city hell' and live in the peaceful rustic idyll, is gradually destroyed by their seemingly friendly neighbour, with tragic results. Set in a small, rural community in 1920's post-war France, the film centers around our most basic human necessity - water and the two men who are each convinced that one farm holds the key to their future. With a strong cast led by Gerard Depardieu and Yves Montand , this is a beautifully shot film with just a touch of nostalgia that will leave you longing to live in the stunning French countryside. An unmissable film.  "},{"Title":"Not to be watched without the sequel, not to be missed with it.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I first watched this film, I was angry at the end because it left absolutely everything unresolved. Only after seeing Manon of the Spring did I understand why Claud Berri did that to me.The two films should be considered two halves of the whole, not really thought of as a film and a sequel. By the end of the second half, the viewer has been made to feel and be convinced that there is hope of justice in the world. One cannot escape the fact that evil actions have consequences, even if it takes a generation or two before they become apparent. That is the underlying message of this pair of films. Never, in any play, film or novel have I seen this truth portrayed more convincingly.The performances of Ives Montand and Gerard Depardieu in Jean de Florette are magnificent, and the story sets the viewer up for the resolution of the conflicts and the surprising revelations of the sequel, Manon of the Spring.This pair of films should not be missed. If you have a choice, I recommend the subtitled version over the dubbed version for non-French speakers.WATCH THESE FILMS! "},{"Title":"What a load of rubbish","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Not the film! but the comments in the review. To really enjoy this film you have to watch it and its sequel Manon de Sources. The story is wonderful, the cast are marvellous and no matter how hard bitten you are, if you don't shed a tear at the end of the story then you are simply not human.Yes the characters are starkly written; the gloriously heroic, naive and enthusiastic lawyer from the big city struggling to make a new life in the country, the wickedly cunning Uncle who plots his downfall with not a thought for the wife or the little girl.But its only at the end that you learn of the tragedy in his own life that explains this. The characters demonstrate the all too common frailty in human beings, people at their worst as well as their best. Its glorious. "},{"Title":"Fabulous Movie","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is so ironic and so tragic.  Beautiful movie with a beautiful story. Esp. when seen together w/ Manon of the Spring.  I have to say this is one of my all time favorite foreign flicks.  Maybe it's just because I'm a sucker for these types of stories. "},{"Title":"A moral lesson from the film","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I do not want to get in the habit of conversing with the currently featured commentator, but it is a mistake to say that Depardieu is clumsy in English-language films.  Watch him in the minor role of Reynaldo in Branagh's Hamlet, and you will change your mind.  In contrast, Jack Lemmon stinks in the film.But to get to the point, there is a specific and profound moral in this marvelous film that is unfortunately softened by what I consider to be its inferior sequel Manon should not be able to get the spring going so quickly.  Obtuseness in moral matters can lead to the same ends as serious attempts to commit evil. The moral demands on humans approach the limitless.  Yes, those two guys are despicable, but they're not monsters.  They don't want to kill M. Jean, but they succeed in doing so.  All that is needed for evil to triumph is for good men to do nothing.   Or something slightly wrong. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched a movie entitled `Jean de Florette' in French class.  It takes place in a rural community in Southern France.  The plot revolves around his relationship with his neighbour, who is a hunchback, and the things that he does to try and obtain the land. The protagonist in the movie is the farmer who wants to grow carnations for a living.  He spends his time plotting with his uncle as to how he will be able to buy his neighbours land. The antagonist is a hunchback from the city who inherits his grandfathers farm.  The main conflict for the protagonist is the man against man conflict that comes from his neighbour.  Even though the man acts kindly to his neighbour, he is also trying to do things that will sabotage his efforts to create a productive farm.  The carnation farmer also has to deal with some man against himself conflict because he does not always feel right about sneaking around and trying to force his neighbour to sell his land. "},{"Title":"Jean de Florette makes more sense with Manon des Sources","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Just a few words of advice to anyone planning on watching the film Jean de Florette go ahead and rent Manon des Sources at the same time and save yourself a lot of unnecessary anguish anticipating what will happen to little Manon and whether or not Cesar and Ugolin are ever punished for their petit mal pour un grand bien, ie. their selfish little crime in the name of achieving a big dream.  The secret of Jean de Florette's past, and an unexpected little secret it is at that, is discovered in the second film, and it's well worth the wait to find it out!  Actually, I am surprised not to have heard a word here of mention about the two fine novels by Marcel Pagnol (whom I believe also directed the first Jean de Florette film back in the 50's); it's interesting to see how closely the films follow the action and plot in the novels.  In general, I would recommend Jean de Florette to an adult audience (since children may find the subtitles too much of a challenge for a short attention span).  And though I'm certain a lot of English speakers don't ordinarily like reading subtitles, je pense qu'une personne d'une culture differente puisse apprecier Jean de Florette et Manon des Sources;.  That is to say, Jean de Florette is a tender human story with universal appeal that I think most people would enjoy. My rating 8/10 "}{"Title":"Part of a must see TOGETHER duo along with Manon of The Spring","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Probably one of the finest films of all times.  However there should be criminal prosecution if one is allowed to watch this without watching Manon of the Spring at the same time....if you watch only one?  You have only half of a great work....Cannot tell you how important it is to rent or buy....but particularly watch these two films together and on the same day in the same sitting "},{"Title":"Superior movie","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film has been much awarded, and there is no need to review it, so I'd like to draw the attention of potential viewers to a couple of interesting thingsThe film is a merciless look at human nature. Two men conspire to destroy the farm of another man so that they can buy his property cheap. There is very little redemption, and the farthest possible thing from a happy ending.There aren't any real plot twists. The interesting twists come at the end of the sequel, Manon of the Spring. This first episode is pure character study. Performances by Depardieu and Montand are absolutely first-rate.Depardieu is an interesting actor in a role made for him. Unless most actors, who study movement and dance, and move quite elegantly, Depardieu is a big clumsy guy. In this particular role, as an city-educated hunchback trying to be a farmer, he seems pluperfect. He is not hampered by his clumsiness, but uses it to lift the role to the apex of realism. I bought it completely. I loved the scene where he impersonates his rabbits.Those of you who find him impossibly incompetent in English-language films will be astounded by the excellence of his portrayal, and will understand a bit of why his stature is deserved.This film is excellent, but a tad slow. The sequel, Manon, is a much faster-moving film. "},{"Title":"Predictable but worth watching","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think that this is an excellent film though many may not be able to stomach the sad ending. Jean de Florette is a miserable man with very little wit. He wishes to create his own farm of flowers but the land that he covets is owned by a city-born hunchback who is determined to live there to escape the hell of city life. I had to watch Jean de Florette in French class and believe me, it's much more intriguing than learning how to conjugate verbs in the imperfect tense. Though some parts are corny like when the hunchback and his wife begin to sing in a real Disney moment, I think that the characters' plights were touching. The hunchback is my favorite because he creates such a sympathetic character that even though the ending is predictable, you hope upon hope that things will turn out okay for him. "},{"Title":"Predictable but worth watching","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think that this is an excellent film though many may not be able to stomach the sad ending. Ugolin is a miserable man with very little wit. He wishes to create his own farm of flowers but the land that he covets is owned by a city-born hunchback. The hunchback is determined to live there to escape the hell of city life. I had to watch Jean de Florette in French class and believe me, it's much more intriguing than learning how to conjugate verbs in the imperfect tense. Though some parts are corny like when the hunchback and his wife begin to sing in a real Disney moment, I think that the characters' plights were touching. The hunchback is my favorite because he creates such a sympathetic character. Even though the ending is predictable, your hope is that things will turn out okay for him. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of my favorite French movies of all time. Excellent, just excellent. If you haven't seen it, I recommend it very strongly. It's a bit hard to get into, but it's worth it. Wonderful story, excellent acting, beautifully shot. I loved it.Vive la France. "},{"Title":"human nature","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  People is born selfish, no matter how great the man is. when I first saw this film, I can't help to think that Ugolin and Cesar are bad men, because of the education I got from childhood. But when I'm having a second thinking, I know it is the human nature made the tragedy. The three people are all simple brain man, they struggled just for a simple aim, one is to get a piece of land , the other is to get spring. But they all can't flee away from the hold of fate.   "},{"Title":"please do yourself a favor...","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really liked Jean de Florette and Manon des Sources, they are great films - but the ORIGINAL Manon des Sources from 1953 is even better (directed by Marcel Pagnol). Give it a try - you won't regret it!I just looked up the votes for the original there have only been 5 voters so far but 3 of them gave it a 10 and the other 2 gave it a 9. I added another 10! "},{"Title":"Well-made but ultimately unrewarding","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Jean de Florette tells the tale of two greedy, seemingly remorseless characters, played by Yves Montand and Daniel Auteuil, who block up the only water source of a property in order to conserve it for their own use, after the inherited owner, our hero Jean de Florette (Gérard Depardieu), occupies it with his family. Jean de Florette is a cripple, yet hunchbacked and in feigning health, he makes the back-breaking hike to a well a long distance away to provide water. If only he knew what the two men knew.It's a nicely crafted French film but it's the sort of film that leaves you feeling hollow. I kept wanting something good to come of our hero, but no. The townsfolk shun the cripple, and his family. Nobody comes to aid him, in fact everybody is always on the side of the two villains of the piece, and of course the dramatic irony that de Florette thinks Ugolin is helping him is more savage than I'm used to.It's well written, directed and acted but it's not a satisfying film. Not having seen the sequel Manon des Sources which apparently piles just desserts on Ugolin and Cesar, I can't say this film intrinsically wooed me. I joked at the end how I would have loved to see Ugolin and Cesar club each other to death, or something that could re-enflame my faith in a just world, it would have been a fairly poor film then but it would have made me feel better.Really, this film is for lovers of fine cinema rather than your general movie-loving public. I'm a little of both, so I can appreciate this film for all its splendour but I still guiltily like a happy ending. Or something more fulfilling than this.**** / ***** "},{"Title":"This Gallic evocation of a Province, Midi?, ambiance is stacked . . .","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Neither Claude Berri nor his collaborator, nor even the great Marcel Pagnol himself can gainsay the cinematic fact that this exploration of French soil and French appetits is anything less than a propped-up scarecrow of a theme or more than just one more exploitation of the obvious and the truth that is, at heart, a lie. Anyone who can credit a mere child in the fields as the nemesis of her father's murderers has to be a romanticist at heart, and I rather doubt Pagnol was any less than realist, must be a subscriber to a Gollywood of smoke and mirrors and easy self-assurances. NO city type, much less a country hick, as in Stix Nix Hicks Pix, could begin to aspire to the ingenuousness of Jean in or out of Florette. No, fellow cineastes, this one is a shill and a clunker, themewise that is, because the on-screen realization is more than competent and believable and persuasive. But, personally, I found Yves here and Gerard as well, a distant second and third to Daniel's three-dimensional and more than human witness to greed and corruption and murder. It's HIS vehicle, donkeys and cartwheels and all. For the rest, I give you the Marsellais of Psgnol's Fanny trilogy, which is, every bit. another candidate for cinemstic glory and box office, like Bergman's Fanny. och Alexander. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Deathly boring in some parts, especially since i had to sit in a hard desk in french class to watch it. but i know that claude berri dragged the film out on purpose to make it like real time. so, even though there were those scenes where nothing happens (though i would want one of those with ugolin and a bucket of water so i can see that he actually showers) i liked this movie. the end was deliciously tragic, the characters really evil and it was just...good. but the sequel Manon Des Sources is better.  "}{"Title":"one-track movie","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So this hunchback marries a supermodel... Beyond how the valorized title family ever came together this movie has beaucoup des problems.My sister and I were discussing this movie and it's sequel a few years back. Thinking I was making a non-controversial remark, I said the second movie was obviously better. She yelped NO WAY! The first one was way better. I thought she must be recalling it wrong, or maybe I was. It's taken me a while, but I finally rewatched this last night.And... I was right. It's exactly the way I remember it, and I've never viewed it a 2nd time in the twenty years that passed, since it was released in '86. It is precisely as deliberate, plodding, overlong, tiresome, repetitive, obvious... as I recall.Since a laugh might disrupt the sermon, there isn't an ounce of humor in it. And for a movie that has no developments in its 2nd act, Jean D.F. is easily half an hour too long. It just sits there, and viewers are asked to do nothing beyond identifying the virtuous and villainous within a minute of their appearance. Then the pattern begins; each new scene again affirms that Jean, and the 2 genetically-blessed females in his household, are virtuous, and that the ugly or old Soubeyrans are treacherous dogs. This movie has NO dramatic arc and no payoff. It's a completely non-rich, non-nourishing viewing experience. Oh? The villagers don't reach out to the new family? Well neither do we see Jean & co. make any effort to connect to the community in the 3 years (!) they're there, unless the community comes to their farm offering gifts. Without Ugolin they'd be monks. Mrs. Jean and Manon have no emotional life whatsoever in this. The part of Mrs. Jean is barely written. Manon is a taciturn, blank-faced little robot. They're both infinitely less interesting or likable than Ugolin, even with his faults.The height of absurdity is reached when Jean & co arrive at the farm; he plays the theme music on his harmonica and Mrs. Jean chimes in (a la Snow White) with some tra-la-las. Jean embraces and caresses Mrs. Jean, framed perfectly by a rustic window. Guh!, it's like porn for women. The only way to squeeze more pastiche into the frame is if a bird landed on her finger, and began to tweet along. It's a powerfully unsubtle image that will probably never be matched for sheer corniness.The sequel Manon of the Spring is amazing, supplying all the development and emotion that this never gets around to; sorrow, pity, pathos, humor, rueful ironies, and of course that devastating ending. The fates visited upon Ugolin and Soubeyran are truly terrible. Plus, it actually has pacing! This is a tedious obstacle to endure on the way to the superior sequel. "},{"Title":"Someone wants to buy a field to plant flowers, but the field is owned by other people.","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I thought this film was poor and lacked any subtlety. The absurd plot dragged along and there was no sense of conclusion at the end. The acting was hardly believable in parts, due to the uninspiring dialogue that let the film down. The camera angles added slightly to the atmosphere of desolation, and the make up and dress were accurate to that region of France.The worst thing about the film was the lack of point to the story; why have a film without a decent subject? The director was clearly relying on the success of his previous films to churn out rubbish and expected the masses to lap it up. "},{"Title":"Am I missing something?","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  How can I stay within the IMDb guidelines and still say that this is my least favourite film ever.  That it is a film for people who don't like cinema, and want it to be as respectable, tasteful and dead as the books they read.  That it is dreary and predictable, with not one interesting use of the cinematic medium.  There isn't even any sympathy with the subject matter, a plot filled with real nastiness; anything too unpleasant is balmed by bland shots of pretty landscape.  Yves Montand excepted, the acting is barnstorming ham more properly belonging to a 19th century melodrama. "}]