[{"Title":"one of my all-time favorites","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"34 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies. I laughed hysterically at every joke, every joke hit its target. But that's not what's so great about this movie. This movie has an all-star cast (Devito, Midler, Reinhold, Pullman) and they do a great job with the script. But that's not what's so great about this movie. The best thing about this movie is the intricately woven plot, which keeps your attention and comes to a hilarious finale. This is one of the funniest movies ever. See this and you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly one of the funniest movies EVER!!!!","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ruthless People is a genuinely original farce that kept me laughing to the point of exhaustion.  It's masterful how all these characters interweave, creating more and more hilarious subplots.  The cast is a tour de force.  Danny DeVito gives quite possibly the best comic performance of his career!  Bette Midler is also great as his whiny, obnoxious wife.  It's good to see Judge Reinhold, who practically disappeared after finishing the Beverly Hills Cop flicks.  An early performance by Bill Pullman is also worth checking out.  I think he's a real cool actor, but he usually plays the same yuppie roles.  Here, he plays a dim-witted, trailer-trash airhead and is a delight to watch.  There are so many funny moments that will stick in my mind forever, like when the serial killer invades the house.  You look like my mother, I hate my mother.  And the confusion that was created with the sex video was absolutely classic.  I haven't seen a good comedy in a while, nor have laughed this hard in a while.  That's why I was glad to catch this movie on the Starz Network, because it is one of the funniest comedies I've ever seen and nowadays, you ain't gonna see too many good comedies, nor great ones like this.  A MUST-SEE!!!My score  9 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"A comedy of miscommunication","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"24 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought this movie was hilarious. Almost everything anyone says has a double meaning. (The police chief and the hooker, the big dog, etc) This movie will keep you laughing from beginning to end. Bette Midler is terrific as the kidnapped rich man's wife, and Danny DeVito is also fabulous as the scheming rich man himself. There are thousands of great one-liners that you will keep quoting for years after you see this movie (I know I have) like the unforgettable I've been kidnapped by K-Mart! and You lying @#$*%^!!! Oh, honey, they made me say that! This is a must see! So go see it! Now! What are you still reading this for, you should be out renting the movie!!  "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest Comedies of Errors I Have Ever Seen (and Re-Seen)","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The executive of the clothing industry Sam Stone (Danny DeVito) tells his mistress Carol Dodsworth (Anita Morris) that he can not bear his wealthy wife Barbara (Bette Midler) anymore and that he is going to kill her. When Sam arrives at his mansion in Bel-Air with chloroform, he does not finds Barbara; sooner he receives a phone call telling that Barbara has been kidnapped and asking a five hundred thousand dollar ransom. Further, he is warned that he should not call the press or the police, otherwise Barbara would be murdered. However, forty-five minutes later, his house is surrounded by the police and the press and Sam is celebrating the abduction in his room, without any intention of paying the ransom and expecting that the kidnappers kill Barbara for him. Meanwhile, the clumsy and inexperienced kidnappers Ken Kessler (Judge Reinhold) and his wife and stylist Sandy (Helen Slater) have been lured in a business with Sam in the past, when he stole a design of Sandy an raised a fortune, and they are actually seeking a financial compensation for their loss; however they are having difficulties to handle with Barbara in the basement of their lower medium-class house. When Carol asks her stupid lover Earl Mott (Bill Pullman) to make a videotape of Sam killing Barbara, Earl commits a mistake and records the Chief of Police Henry Benton (William G. Schilling) having kinky and noise sex with a prostitute in his car instead. Carol decides to blackmail Sam with the tape believing he killed Barbara, and she sends a copy to Benton to press him to arrest Sam. Ken reduces the ransom to ten thousand dollars, but Sam refuses to pay while Barbara loses twenty pounds working out while imprisoned and befriends Sandy. When Barbara discovers the intentions of Sam, she decides to help the young couple to take Sam's money.Ruthless People is one of the funniest comedies of errors I have ever seen and re-seen. The plot is excellent, supported by a magnificent screenplay and wonderful performances highlighting Bette Midler and Danny DeVito). Bill Pullman in the beginning of his career is recognizable performing a tacky and stupid character. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Por Favor Matem a Minha Mulher (Please Kill My Wife) "},{"Title":"Great comedy!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bette Midler, Danny DeVito, Judge Reinhold  and Helen Slater all mixed and matched  perfectly in this film about one loud and  obnoxious woman. Hilarious in its  implementation, the way the lives of the  characters unfold in a funny and unpredictable  manner. If you haven't seen this classic  comedy, then get a whiff of this film, just to  see the genius of DeVito and Midler in their  primes. While the humor may be a little  dated, it still offers some fairly clean  fun  for all to enjoy. "},{"Title":"A scream!","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This may well be the funniest American film of the 1980's, with nonstop laughs from beginning to end. The pace of the film is almost exhausting, your throat will be sore from laughing yourself silly. It's closer in style to British farce than probably any other American film I can think of. It also sports a great ensemble cast. This was Bette Midler's *real* comeback. And Danny DeVito is delightfully nasty. Probably of best note is an early role for Bill Pullman, who is the brain-dead boy-toy lover of Anita Morris' character. Not to be missed by comedy fans, but make sure you see the uncut version (on cable or video). "},{"Title":"Midler's Shining Moment.","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Brought by the makers of AIRPLANE, RUTHLESS PEOPLE is a laugh riot of a movie.  Danny DeVito leads the pack as a greedy millionaire who plans to murder his wife for her money, but becomes rapturous when she is kidnapped.  DeVito is hilarious in the lead role.  Judge Reinhold delivers a wacky performance as the kidnapper.  Helen Slater does a great job &#150; and she's also beautiful &#150; as the kidnapper's fashion designer wife, but the real star of the movie is Bette Midler, as DeVito's kidnapped wife.  Though this movie lacks a little bit of the quality that AIRPLANE had, it still has its share of really good performances and hilarious one-liners.  Great entertainment!4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Laugh Out Loud Funny","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this film in the theatre when it was released in 1986. I have been to a lot of movies, and this is the only one that I HAD to see again--just to hear the lines that had been drowned out by the audience's laughter!Often a movie's previews will give away all the funny lines of a movie, and I remember that the previews for Ruthless People gave away the classic I've been kidnapped by KMart line. But for once, there were so many hysterically funny moments in this movie that it didn't matter. It's just that funny. So if you haven't seen it, you really are missing something. Rent it and be prepared to hurt your sides laughing.  "},{"Title":"Be Ruthless -- It's Good for You","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ruthless People has one of the best premises in film comedy history.Spandex miniskirt millionaire Sam Stone (Danny DeVito) plans to kill his battle axe wife (Bette Midler) for her inheritance. However, his plan is put on hold when she is kidnapped and held for ransom. The kidnappers threaten to kill her if Sam doesn't pay, which is a-o.k. with Sam, and means he doesn't have to do his own dirty work. But the kidnappers (Judge Reinhold and Helen Slater) are too kind hearted to follow through with what they start. Meanwhile, Sam's floozy mistress (a smokin' Anita Morris) knows about Sam's plans, and sends her doofus boyfriend (Bill Pullman) out to videotape what he thinks is Sam killing his wife so that they can blackmail him.This is a lot of plot to cram into a brisk 90 minutes, but this well written film never feels forced or rushed. Every scene conveys something important either for the story or about one of the characters, and not a moment feels wasted. The ensemble is terrific, each actor landing his/her jokes without fail. The standouts, though, are Bette Midler, who gives an outrageously vulgar performance pitched to the third balcony; and Judge Reinhold, who gives the film its heart.One of the most quotable movies ever, the film also boasts a great opening credits sequence, one more reason to lament the fact that movies hardly ever have opening credits anymore.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Required viewing for cynics","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  ***POSSIBLE SPOILERS***Ruthless People is wonderfully sardonic piece of work. This film not only suggests the world is filled with horndogs and idiots. It revels in the notion.Everyone here is well cast, including Helen Slater, and how often can you say that? Danny DeVito cranks up his Napoleon-Complex malevolence several notches, Bette Midler snarls through her role like it's anger-release therapy, and everyone else chips exactly as needed.When Bill Pullman drives up in a Gremlin and robs Judge Reinhold, who is in the middle of a ransom grab AND wearing a clown mask, I actually had to pause the tape and just laugh for ten solid minutes. That whole exchange is probably still in my top five comedy scenes of all time, and I haven't seen it in years.I'd recommend this sharp, wicked comedy to anyone, especially those who believe people's actions are governed by lust and avarice. Almost every joke here works, but more than that, the film's entire attitude will make you laugh. Any movie that salutes people's obsession with crotches is OK with me. "}{"Title":"25+ years later, it still delivers","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's a tight script for Touchstone, a comedy of errors where three plots and serial killer meet in a happy end. I saw this during its original release and loved it. I still love it. It's nice to see a movie without a lot of toilet humour and f-bombs. The dialog is filled with memorable lines but the humour is in knowing what the characters don't and the on screen charisma of Di Vito and Middler.Pay attention and you'll see the L.A. cityscape during the 80's along with all that was bad in 80's design along with Santa Monica Pier before the redesign in the 90's. Great film for a rain day or a bad mood. "},{"Title":"Very funny '80s comedy","Date":"17 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Businessman Sam Stone does not like his wife Barbara; he only married her for her money and as the film opens he is telling his mistress Carol that he is going to kill Barbara. When he gets home he is ready to do the deed; the problem is there is no sign of her. The phone then rings&#x85; it turns out that Barbara has been kidnapped and the kidnappers want half a million dollars and total secrecy if he is to see her alive. He can't believe his luck and informs the police and media then waits for the kidnappers to keep their promise. It doesn't work out as planned though as the kidnappers aren't the ruthless people they claim to be; they just want the money they think Stone owes them after he stole their idea and made a fortune. In a secondary plot Carol decides to blackmail Sam by filming him dumping the body; of course there is no body but Carol's stupid partner films a couple's rather noisy love making and thinks he is witnessing a murder&#x85; Sam enjoys the tape but the police chief doesn't as he is the man in it! As the film progresses the kidnappers lower their demands and Barbara uses her captivity as an opportunity to get fit.The actresses' hairdos may place this film firmly in the eighties but the film hasn't dated. Danny DeVito is great as the poisonous Stone; a character who is as odious as he is hilarious. Bette Midler is equally good as his wife; one can see why he wants her dead as she starts off as unpleasant as him. Judge Reinhold and Helen Slater are both on good form as bumbling kidnappers Ken and Sandy Kessler&#x85; the most likable of the protagonists. The laughs are plentiful and the story is entertaining; it is definitely worth watching and although there are a few slightly adult moments it doesn't descend into crudeness. "},{"Title":"Will keep you laughing","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A comedy of a different kind from the creators of The Naked Gun and Hot Shots, Ruthless People is not the usual sight-gag, send-up stuff. It is however, still a very funny film.Danny De Vito is miniskirt entrepreneur 'Sam Stone', a man who would like nothing better than to kill his wife. So when she is kidnapped by some 'ruthless people' who threaten to bump her off, Sam celebrates and refuses to pay the ransom. The cast are keen in this riotous movie about blackmail, lust and money. De Vito and Judge Reinhold are good, while Bette Midler is at times fantastically funny.Even though the crazy plot may not keep you guessing, it will keep you laughing. That's what this picture is all about!Tuesday, September 22, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie (SPOILERS)","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  (SPOILERS)Yes, I love comedy.  I also love and absolutely adore Bette Midler.  Had a friend tell me today she is so genuine.  Well top that with Anita Morris, Helen Slater, Danny DeVito, and Judge Reinhold and you have the absolutely most hysterically put together film EVER.  Each person has lines that really work well and to this day my family makes comments about poking the whiskers, I've got to get out of here, and You low life *&^*&^*&^*^&, oh, they made me say that too!  But my all time favorite is I've been kidnapped by K-Mart.  If you hate any of these actors you STILL MUST WATCH THIS MOVIE!  And besides, Bill Pullman has this nasty asty dye job that will make you cry for days. "},{"Title":"Way back when there were studios...","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...they made movies with comic premises, story structure, and denoument. This movie has them all, and most comedies by comparison are puffed-up TV fare.The tone is almost European There are no good guys, and the protagonist is willing, even eager, for his wife to be killed by her kidnappers.Forget nudity or explicit violence. You know you're watching a film for grown-ups when it's willing to plumb the depths of this situation for the comic gold within, not just string a few gags on it.Highest accolades all around. "},{"Title":"She Was Kidnapped By K Mart","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Spoilers AheadI am not a big Zucker Airplane guy. DeVito's Sam Stone is the vilest, biggest creep you will love to loathe. Reveling in his wife's kidnapping, doing precisely what the kidnappers told him not to do or they will kill her, trust me, you will look forward to his comeuppance the whole movie. Unlike Airplane, the writing is excellent, like my header when Barbara finds out that the desperate kidnappers, a couple Sam stole the wife's spandex miniskirt idea from, start marking Barbara down like a discount store because they are too kind to do her harm. This is what gives this movie its resonance, Sam is a reptile who even tries killing her dog in her absence but like all his schemes things do not go well. His mistress, whose boyfriend is the world's dumbest criminal, videotapes what is supposed to be Sam killing Barbara but instead gets the chief of police with a hooker. He doesn't watch, her yells of simulated orgasm he takes for death screams of pain. This is a multi-layered comedy with great trenchant dialog you will be quoting the rest of your days. I admit, I use Sam's line,He was so old it was like the Angel Of Death was in the room with him watching the clock. Even in small scenes the writing is excellent. Watch for Sam's response to someone calling him accidentally. The young couple, played well, are just trying, in their own way, to get even for all the money Sam stole from them but they are so kind and gentle, well, things don't go well for them. Barbara beats the living crap out of both of them, I love,My husband does business with the Mafia. When they find out, you and your entire family will get chain saw enemas. The movie, underneath the great humor, is about a couple that resists the urge to go 'ruthless' and they and Barbara turn the tables on the loathsome 'spandex mini skirt king' that has to be seen to be believed. Firmly tongue-in-cheek while never becoming a true parody like Airplane, this is one of my favorite comedies. Middler never gave a better performance as do Slater and Judge Reinhold. I know many of you reading this were not Airplane fans, I was not, do not be put off by their names on the header. The hilarious scenes of Sam's mistress blackmailing the chief for what she thinks is a snuff tape of Sam and Barbara but is the Chief with a hooker is worth owning the movie for. My favorite,That poor woman the Hell she went through, I would prefer a quicker death. The chief doesn't precisely like that description of his sexual skills. This was a monster hit in 1986. It has, inexplicably, faded not even on blu ray yet. DeVito's movie above all his other efforts. His Sam Stone will have you rooting all through this classic for their revenge upon this slime ball. Usually comedies have slow parts in them but this one moves well all the way through from the opening frame. One Funny Comedy. "},{"Title":"How kidnapping can go wrong","Date":"18 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The movie is a great 80's comedy about a rich man's wife being kidnapped by people he betrayed right when he wants her to be gone and who are not very good in doing it.It doesn't even start slowly. The first scene is a dialogue of Sam (Danny DeVito) and his mistress Carol (Anita Morris) where he passionately describes how much he hates his wife and how he wants to kill her so she suffers. Danny DeVito is great in this scene, as through the whole movie. He does a great job playing the bad guy and his character seems to have so much (evil) energy and strength.Other characters are also very well selected and played. There are moments where it seems that Bette Midler is overplaying it, but considering that the movie is to some point a farce comedy it doesn't seem to be too out of line. As well it gives her character the craziness that makes her a bit scary and yet lovely. The kidnapping couple (Judge Reinhold and Helen Slater) are greatly created characters, they are so kind and nice that one just has to root for them and feel for them. They are so not made to be evil that their failings in it bring us a lot of amusement. To make it a bit more complicated throw in the mistress I mentioned before and her dumb lover (a great career start for Bill Pullman) who have their own shenanigans planned and the movie gets even more complicated and hilarious. One basically laughs at every scene and the 90 minutes pass by very quick.Sure, it is predictable most of the time, but it sure doesn't ruin the movie that is mainly made to make us laugh and truly accomplishes it both with plot related and the side jokes. I loved the movie when I first saw it (must have been in the 90's) and it still didn't lose it's humor for me 3 decades after it's release.It is actually funny that back in the days it was promoted as crude, adult humor and now it seems to be so innocent. Times sure have changed the average comedy. "},{"Title":"gotta love those '80s","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I confess to loving comedies of the '80s, preferring them to what now passes for comedy. Ruthless People is a classic example of the genre, an extremely clever and funny film with a wonderful cast Danny DeVito, Bette Midler, Judge Reinhold, Helen Slater, Anita Morris, and Bill Pullman.The story concerns a wealthy clothing manufacturer Sam Stone (DeVito) who wants to see his wife Barbara (Midler) dead and informs his mistress Carol (Morris) that he's going to kill her. The mistress sends her boyfriend (Pullman) to get the murder on tape so they can blackmail him. He gets something on tape, but it's not Stone killing Barbara. Carol doesn't look at the tape, and her boyfriend has never seen Stone, so they don't know what they have. Sam isn't able to murder Barbara because she's been kidnapped by two nice people who just want some money (Reinhold and Slater). Sam is thrilled - all he has to do is disobey all their orders, not pay up, and someone else will kill his wife.This is a very engaging comedy about blackmail, attempted murder, mistaken identity, infidelity, stealing ideas -- none of which is a great premise for a comedy but all of which work beautifully here. Danny DeVito is hilarious, and Bette Midler gives probably her best performance as his wife, who just wants to lose a few pounds. Reinhold and Slater are as adorable as they are guileless.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"I Howled With Laughter Throughout This Film; This Is So Side-splittingly Hilarious","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Being born in the 80s, there were many great films that came out during this decade and Ruthless People is just one of them. I didn't catch it first time round but when it was shown on TV during the 90s when I saw it for the first time, I couldn't help but laugh my arse off. It was so hilarious and farcical it was awesome and the thing is, you didn't know what was going to happen, one scene after the other.Bette Midler and Danny Devito were fabulous throughout as Barbara and Sam Stone and Judge Reinhold and Helen Slater were just as good, if not better than the two main leads. It was an interesting surprise to see Reinhold play a different type of role to the one that we usually associate him with as Det Billy Rosewood in the Beverly Hills cop franchise. Devito is nasty, devious, crude and yet at the same time he was also funny as Sam. Though arguably, this has to be Midler's funniest and best performance in a film that she has turned in. She was a revelation throughout. One of the funniest lines she had uttered came when she was tied up in a chair and was confronted by two kidnappers (reinhold and slater) wearing duck masks 'oh my god! I have been kidnapped by Huey and Dewey!' LMAO! Bill Pullman was equally on form as well. The laughs and the gags came thick and fast and the longer it went on, the more intriguing and interesting the story became as there were so many twists and turns, what with the characters backstabbing and turning on one another, from one situation to the next.I think it is brilliant the fact that Sam intended to go to great lengths to have his wife murdered by the very people he has hired to do so-only for them to side with and team up with her to get their revenge on Sam! Because as much as I think he cracks me up, he is also an evil and manipulating little (fill in the blanks!). Barbera is a hoot and I thought Bette Midler did justice to that role so perfectly- I laughed at the wisecracks she made- thanks to the brilliant writing that is by the Zucker Bros.The dark, condescending humour was juxtaposed along with the often patronising wit and sarcasm of the characters lines within the movie itself. Ruthless People was dark comedy at its very best! There is no other film that can rival this type of comedy, nor is there one that can match this. This was a riot from start to finish and the scene towards the end when Barbera and Sam fight and she pushes him into the water is just magic! Funny gags, great plot, wonderful timing from the actors part. what more do you least expect from this film, i'd say? "},{"Title":"Ruthless People","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" From the directing team of Airplane!, the Zucker brothers (David and Jerry) and Jim Abrahams, this is a good comedy with two of my favourite comedy actors in the lead roles. Basically Sam Stone (Golden Globe nominated Danny DeVito) is a clothing manufacturer, he married his wife Barbara (Bette Midler) for the money she didn't get from her dying father, who didn't die for 15 years. He planned to kill her himself, but then he gets a phone call from kidnappers Ken (Judge Reinhold) and Sandy (Helen Slater) Kessler threatening to kill her unless he pays them. Sam celebrates when he hears this, and soon enough the press have to believe that he does care about her. By the way, Ken and Sandy are not the best of kidnappers, Barbara' more lethal, but slowly she will learn to like them. Meanwhile, Sam's girlfriend Carol Dodsworth (Anita Morris) secretly plans with dumb Earl Mott (Bill Pullman) to blackmail him with a video tape of him dumping Barbara's body. The big laugh is that the threats to the chief of police are worthless when the video is in fact him having it on with a whore. Eventually when Barbara, Ken and Sandy can trust each other, they plan to con Sam out of the fortune he stole from Barbara continuing the kidnap drop-off, which Sam actually cares about this time because he can't do much with the money without his wife. Filled with great actors, some good lines and slapstick comedy, it is a fun film with plenty to enjoy. Very good! "}{"Title":"Another Zucker/Abrahams/Zucker laugh riot!","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ruthless People opened in the summer of 1986. After I saw the coming attractions trailer for this film, I predicted it would come out on top as the funniest movie of the year. And I was right. 1986 was a memorable year for Bette Midler, who at the beginning of 1986 starred in Down and Out in Beverly Hills which was also a very funny film. After her 1982 movie Jinxed nearly killed her acting career, Midler made her comeback with Down and Out..., and after the movie became a box-office hit and her terrific performance got noticed, she sent a message that her acting career was getting a jumpstart. It got an even bigger boost five months later when Ruthless People came out. Midler is a hoot in this black comedy which co-stars Danny DeVito in one of his best movie roles. DeVito plays Sam Stone, a clothing manufacturer known as The Spandex Mini-Skirt King. He can't stand his obnoxious wife Barbara, played by Midler. He plans to kill her, until he finds out that she's been kidnapped by a cute couple played by Judge Reinhold and Helen Slater. The couple want Mr. Stone to pay a huge ransom because they claim that he stole their clothing designs. Once Mr. Stone pays the ransom at the deadline date, his wife will be freed. If he doesn't, his wife will be killed. Killed is exactly what Mr. Stone has in mind, so he refuses to pay a cent. And the results are hilarious from start to finish. Ruthless People had me laughing out loud when I first saw it during its opening weekend in theaters back in '86. The movie was so funny that I went and saw it a second time a few weeks later. 1986 was a memorable year for movie comedies. In addition to Ruthless People and Down and Out in Beverly Hills, released the same year were Hannah and Her Sisters, Wildcats, Gung Ho, Short Circuit, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Back to School, Running Scared, Crocodile Dundee, Jumpin' Jack Flash, The Golden Child, Little Shop of Horrors, and (a major guilty pleasure) A Fine Mess. But of all of these movie comedies, Ruthless People was easily my favorite because it delivered the biggest laughs of any movie released in '86. That comes as no surprise to me because Ruthless People was directed by my favorite comedymakers, Jim Abrahams, David and Jerry Zucker, the men who created (in my opinion) the two best comedies ever made, Airplane! (#1) and The Naked Gun (#2). They made Ruthless People in between, and this movie ranks in my top 10 best movie comedies of all-time. Only difference with this one is that they didn't write the script to Ruthless People like they did for Airplane! and The Naked Gun. Ruthless People was written by first-timer Dale Launer who wrote a outrageously funny screenplay. His next film was the Blake Edwards comedy Blind Date which starred Kim Basinger and Bruce Willis (in his film debut back when he was starring on TV's Moonlighting). Zucker/Abrahams/Zucker were lucky to find this guy because he wrote one hilarious script, and ZAZ put the finishing touches with their directing. Plus, the performances are great. Judge Reinhold and Helen Slater are very good here, so is Anita Morris and Bill Pullman as DeVito's mistress and her dumb boyfriend who plot a blackmail attempt on DeVito. But Ruthless People belongs to Danny DeVito and Bette Midler. They're the ones who get the biggest laughs in this film. And they're comic performances are picture perfect. A great comedy!**** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Great farce","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Face it - there aren't a lot of truly funny comedies out there. Some of them start out ok, but once the gags already seen in the trailers are exhausted, there's not much left - and the lead characters have to learn some lesson or grow as people. Blah! Ruthless people is pure comedy from start to finish. This film is well-written, well cast and, if you'll excuse this lapse into blurb-speak, is a fun romp. One of my favourite comedies of all time. "},{"Title":"A funny film from those Airplane guys","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of those 80's comedies that was miles better than some of the other dross that was released around the same time.Danny de Vito is brilliant as the guy who deliberately doesn't pay the ransom when he doesn't want Bette Midler back after she is kidnapped.Great comic performances, funny dialogue and a very satisfying conclusion.  "},{"Title":"A clever story, funny characters, and an unbeatable cast make up this comic gem...","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" RUTHLESS PEOPLE was one of the funniest comedies to come out of the 1980's and it just seemed to get funnier and funnier with repeat viewings. This clever and completely winning comedy stars Danny DeVito as Sam Stone, an unscrupulous owner of a fashion company whose theft of a fashion idea from a young struggling designer turned him into a billionaire. In an attempt to exact revenge, the designer and her husband decide to kidnap Stone's wife, Barbara (Bette Midler)for an enormous ransom. Unknown to the poor couple, Sam can't stand Barbara and refuses to pay the ransom. This is just the beginning and to reveal anymore to the uninitiated would be criminal, but this sets the stage for a raucously funny comedy that became an instant classic. DeVito and Midler deliver razor sharp performances as the Stones. Helen Slater and Judge Reinhold are charming as the hapless designer and her husband. Also thrown in the mix are the late Anita Morris as Devito's sexy mistress and Bill Pullman, in one of his earliest roles, as the goof ball she's seeing on the side. This film generates laughs throughout with a few surprise twists and turns leading to a finale which will have you cheering. Don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"Bette gets kidnapped!","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Danny DeVito plays a husband whose wife gets kidnapped by two bungling thieves who run into a problem when DeVito refuses to pay the ransom. Soon the kidnappers are begging to be rid of Bette! Some hilarious bits in this excellent comedy on a scale of one to ten...8 "},{"Title":"My only regret, Carol, is that the plan isn't more violent.","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Did I like Ruthless People? That is a tough question and just like every good story, there are two sides. On the positive side, I miss this type of comedy in cinema today. I miss the physical humor, the goofiness, and the instant creativity that could be seen behind the camera. In today's movie world, this is normally cluttered with 'fart' jokes and sexual innuendo. I miss the comedies of the 80s; there was some innocence to them. Perhaps it was that warm fuzzy feeling that they always left you with (no matter if you were rooting for the bad guy or the good guy) or maybe it was the actors of that era. The youth of today do not have actors like Danny DeVito (who can now be found most of the time producing films), Bette Midler, Bill Pullman (pre-Independence Day), and especially the infamous Judge Reinhold. What would my generation be like without the shenanigans of Judge? His humor was so perfect that if I were going to make a movie today, he would be cast no matter what. I would also like to add that Danny DeVito was superb in this film. His ability to play the ruthless, soulless, anti-hero was amazing. He had me grinning from ear to ear whenever he was on screen.Another great aspect was the stories. They were simple, yet imaginative. They were stupid, yet somewhat funny. They were incoherent, yet always ended on a happy note. Look at the story behind Ruthless People and look at the stories in today's modern cinema &#133; see any similarities? I surely do not. There was something just plain 80s about the standoff scene with Reinhold, DeVito, and Pullman that could not be done the same today. There would be CGI or unmasking, or anything that would detract from the main focus of this film &#133; the actors. Films of this era were focused on the actors, that is what sold the movie and made it popular. Today, I wish we could say the same. Now it is all about the CGI and the explosions. It is very rare that you find a very actor centered comedy and for this I will forever be sad.As I stated above, there are two sides to every story. While I did enjoy the actors in this film and the imagination, there was something that tugged me the wrong way and that was story overloading. There was too much happening in this film. I totally disliked the side story with the Bedroom killer. I honestly felt as if this could have (and should have) been left out of this film. In a 93 minute film, there was just too much happening. I didn't feel as if everything had a conclusion. There were parts still floating up in the air when the final credits rolled. Carol and Pullman's scenes were important in moving the story, but I didn't feel they ever finalized anything. The problem that you run into when you try to push this much into 93 minutes is under developing some possible funny parts. I could have used some pre-story on the Kesslers and even some more information on the random killer. The quickness of this film also lead to a quick ending for DeVito when I was finally starting to see the brilliance behind his character. I say this, but perhaps this is what the 80s comedy was all about. An undeveloped story coupled with amazing comedic actors make for a decent film. Possibly, but it still doesn't make Ruthless People rank up there with the likes of Ghostbusters and Quick Change. Overall, this was a decent film. I first thought that it wasn't the greatest, but the ending knocked it up a notch. The DVD quality really wasn't the best, but I guess we are more concerned about the extra 50 minutes on LoTR instead of refurbishing some of our classics.Grade *** out of *****  "},{"Title":"Aged a Bit But Still Funny","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" What ever happened to the farce? As time has progressed, pure movie comedies seem to be less about goofy, over-the-top characters and contrived situations and more about the characters themselves growing in unexpected ways and mining as much gold out of a singularly enjoyable premise. Think The 40-Year-Old Virgin (2005) or more recently, The Big Short (2015) to see what I mean. The competing thought in American comedy is that of the vehicle; a movie specifically designed for one actor or actress in mind. It's sad to think that in the last few years (heck arguably within the last two decades) we have not seen a good 'ol fashion farce come out of Hollywood. Honestly I think the only movie that ever came close to the delirious heights of One, Two, Three (1961) over the last decade was Crazy, Stupid, Love. (2011).Ruthless People is a relic; a true, blue unadulterated farce made by the same loons that made Airplane! (1980). Danny DeVito stars as businessman Sam Stone, the repugnant spandex mini-skirt king. In a bid to rid himself of his irritating wife, gain her $15 million fortune and rid himself of her un-house trained poodle, Sam has a surefire plan to murder her without implicating himself. He comes home to do the deed; Barbara (Midler) is nowhere to be found. The phone rings; Sam picks it up and a man on the other line informs him his wife has been kidnapped and they expect a ransom. If you notify the police, your wife will be killed. If you notify the media, your wife will be killed. Naturally Sam is tickled pink. Thus a dozen or so fateful events and circumstances tie the lives of Sam, Barbara, the kidnappers (Reinhold and Slater), Sam's mistress (Dodsworth), her doltish Don Juan (Pullman) and a particularly nasty serial killer with mommy issues (Freeman).The screenplay is written by the underrated Dale Launer based on an O. Henry short story. Launer's other credits include other well constructed and executed farces including Dirty Rotten Scoundrels (1988) and My Cousin Vinny (1992). Ruthless People however is his first screenplay thus the story occasionally suffers from a narrative lull as well as some conspicuously dropped exposition. The characters are perilously stock, forged from the collective works of Shakespeare and Moliere and diluted to pander to 80's sensibilities. Yet despite all this, the story is reliably funny, seething with venomous cynicism and stitched together by the fun performances of Danny DeVito and Bette Midler.The direction however leaves much to be desired. A hit during its time, Ruthless People has aged about as well as Weekend at Bernie's (1989) and Arthur 2 On the Rocks (1988). Part of it has to do with directors David Zucker, Jerry Zucker and Jim Abrahams (known collectively as ZAZ) whom temper their knack for slapstick and anarchistic flights of fancy. Perhaps it's their desire to try something different, or perhaps it's their inability to visually translate something they didn't write themselves, but what results is so-so physical comedy; largely and disappointingly provided by Judge Reinhold's milquetoast face.Then there's the unmistakably 80's feel of the art direction. I realize the film is supposed to take place in glitzy Bel Air neighborhood of Los Angeles and I realize a lot of the characters are somehow involved in high fashion but for the love of God my eyes are bleeding! The angular decor, nasty amalgamation of pastels and paisleys mixed with harsh primary colors makes it seem as if a bullet train ran into John Waters's walk-in closet. Those who lived through the eighties and decide to watch this movie 30 years later, please enjoy yourselves then go home and burn the rest of your spandex.Making a movie like Ruthless People today would be nearly impossible. Developing a screenplay basing its humor on goofy characters and miscommunication would seem out of place in an era of near constant communication. We deal with our own miniature farces everyday to be sure; especially every time we talk past each other on social media. Yet those are not the type of misunderstanding that farce feeds on to create scenes of discomfort, double meanings and giddy hilarity. In other words your Facebook feed has nothing on Ruthless People. "},{"Title":"great black comedy","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Sam Stone (Danny DeVito) married the boss's daughter Barbara (Bette Midler) expecting he would quickly die. Instead it took him 15 years to die and now Sam wants all of the family fortune. He relishes his plan to kill her with his mistress Carol. To his surprise, Barbara has been kidnapped by nice couple Ken (Judge Reinhold) and Sandy Kessler (Helen Slater). The amateur kidnappers demand $500k but Sam has no intention of paying and would love to have them kill her. The Kesslers blame Sam for stealing her spandex ideas. Carol plans to blackmail Sam with her real boyfriend idiot Earl (Bill Pullman).The team of Jim Abrahams, David Zucker and Jerry Zucker try their hands in a black comedy and deliver. It doesn't have the same silliness of Airplane! and Top Secret!. It is still hilarious and much darker. I might even like it more darker. Devito and Midler are wild. The whole cast is great. It is super fun. "},{"Title":"Ruthless People","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Zucker, Abrahams, and Zucker once again pull out all the stops with this multi-layered comedy featuring one absurd surprise after another. The general plot has two kidnappers (Judge Reinhold and Helen Slater) taking the wife of a mini-skirt spandex king for ransom. A greater motivation is behind the kidnapping Slater was actually the one who came up with the mini-skirt spandex idea, but Danny Devito betrayed her with a crooked handshake! What Reinhold and Slater didn't anticipate was that Devito hates his wife (Bette Midler, in ferocious form), has a piece on the side (luscious red head Anita Morris), and had previously planned to have her abducted and killed himself! This has as good a comic cast as the 80s could provide Slater is so adorable as the sweet wife who really was hesitant about the kidnap job, Reinhold's eyes are working overtime (this is a case where eyes produce some animated expressions, as Midler also bugs those bad boys in opportune moments) as are his funny reactions to one complex situation after another, Devito's facial expressions to the highs and lows that the plot provides are pure gold, the running gag of the police chief (William G Schilling) caught shagging a hooker (who agrees to make loud noises to arouse her client, ultimately sounding like she is being killed!) and Anita Morris (who keeps calling him, not realizing it was him in the car instead of Devito!) produces some uproarious dialogues, and Bill Pullman (his hair colored blood and costume imitating Sonny Crocket from Miami Vice!), as Morris' *other* lover, is as moronic as they come.How Midler bonds with Slater after the comment of weight loss (Midler spends her past time while in the basement, chained, working out to exercise videos!), Slater's talent at fashion designing (well, 80s fashion design), Reinhold's bargaining down the ransom price of Midler (I've been kidnapped by K-mart!), the sex tape of the chief of police getting eyes from a number of television sets in an electronic store thanks to Pullman's miscalculation, Pullman believing Devito was killing a girl instead of the chief banging a call girl causing him to get queasy, Midler getting quite intense (her Rocky training, you could say) working out in the basement, Pullman's rather clueless attempt to steal from Reinhold (in clown mask) as the police tell him to stop, Devito's joy when it appears his wife is kidnapped and could be killed, Midler kicking Devito's ass while the cops walk away believing their marriage is on solid ground, and Reinhold's electronics salesman scenes (his dialogue about big speakers twice gets amusing results; one is equated to sexual compensation, another nearly lands an impressionable teenager with a pregnant girlfriend, overpriced speakers they certainly couldn't afford to be stuck with) all provide a wealth of inspired hilarity, spirited exchanges, and clever touches here and there. Ultimately, seeing Devito get his comeuppance makes for a satisfying finish. Midler is almost Devito's equal in terms of how the dialogue explodes off their face and rumbles volcanically from their voice. A strong 80s example of the right actors with the right kind of material at the right time. How the film inserts so many moving parts and yet ties them together where Devito is trapped in an ever-increasing bind is actually quite brilliant! "},{"Title":"old-style zany comedy meets 1980s excess","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jim Abrahams, David Zucker and Jerry Zucker started out making movies like Airplane!. With Ruthless People, they took the style epitomized by 1960s comedies - a scheme snowballs - and turned it into a satire on the nouveau riche. Upon learning that his wife has gotten kidnapped by a pair of designers angry about a stolen prototype, a clothing designer celebrates, hoping that he can run off with his mistress. And before too long, more and more people get pulled into the fiasco.Danny DeVito's character is the typical slimy businessman; he even buys a dog and names it Adolf! Bette Midler looks bizarre wearing a wig. I think that Helen Slater's character was my favorite, but Anita Morris's was also enigmatic. And then there's Bill Pullman (whom I never confused with Bill Paxton) he has bleached hair! It's not the funniest movie but I enjoyed it. It's got a lot of oh no...oh yes scenes. You'll like it and you'll like Midler's other 1986 movie poking fun at rich Angelenos Down and Out in Beverly Hills.PS Weird Al Yankovic spoofed the theme song as Toothless People. "}{"Title":"Still a laugh riot nearly 30 years later.","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jerry Zucker, David Zucker and Jim Abrahams are known for their spoof movies such as Airplane!, Hot Shots and The Naked Gun trilogy but they did direct some straight comedies and Ruthless People remains uproariously funny in 2014. In fact, it seems more realistic nowadays.Sam Stone (Danny DeVito) is a slimy little man who is married to Barbara Stone (Bette Midler), a frumpy and gaudy woman who he detests. He has plans to kill her for her 15 million dollar fortune and run off with his long time mistress Carol (Anita Morris). The day he plans to do the dirty deed he finds out that she's been kidnapped by Ken (Judge Reinhold) and Sandy Kessler (Helen Slater) and they demand a huge ransom or else they will off her. Sam, of course, refuses to pay since now they will do the dirty work for him. Meanwhile, Carol is planning to double- cross Sam by filming the murder and she has her punk boyfriend Earl (Bill Pullman) do it. He ends up filming the guy who played the Principal on Head Of The Class having sex with a hooker instead but Carol never bothers to watch the film because of the screams of joy the hooker makes and just assumes it's Sam murdering Barbara.It turns out the Kesslers aren't ruthless people and seemingly won't carry out the murder despite Sam making a decent fortune himself from stealing Sandy's ideas years ago and leaving the Kesslers living in squalor. Barbara teaches them how...Ruthless People is a sassy R-rated comedy with attitude and the dialog and situation comedy is zesty, rich and bursting with constant laugh-out loud moments. Everybody in film is appealing despite being evil, weak- minded, dumb or a monster and that's why it has aged extremely well. It feels more like a 2014 film than a 1986 film because our society seemingly is like the one featured in Ruthless Peopl.DeVito, Slater and Reinhold deliver terrific performances but the film is owned by Midler. The Divine Miss M dominates the film playing a profanity-spewing, gaudy, frumpy and angry shrew who changes into a sassy, beautiful and fit woman in captivity but still hasn't lost her talent for down and dirty ruthlessness.Still a wonderful film 28 years later. I wish the Zuckers and Abrahams made more R-rated fare; this is one of the best comedies of the MPAA era. See it! "},{"Title":"Laughing in the Eighties","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bel-Air clothing tycoon Danny DeVito (as Sam Stone) pops his cork when he discovers loud-mouthed wife Bette Midler (as Barbara) has been kidnapped. The ruthless Mr. DeVito was planning to murder her, anyway &#x96; now, he can simply let abductors kill filthy-rich Ms. Midler, then collect her side of the family fortune. This forces kidnappers Judge Reinhold and Helen Slater (as Ken and Sandy Kessler) to change their plans. They picked the millionaire couple because DeVito's business stole Ms. Slater's idea to manufacture spandex mini-skirts. Meanwhile, DeVito's sexy mistress Anita Morris (as Carol Dodsworth) and her handsome but dumb lover Bill Pullman (as Earl Mott) plan to blackmail DeVito for murdering Ms. Midler, unaware she has been kidnapped...Ruthless People is generally successful at creating vulgar fun with the plot, nicely developed by Dale Launer. It is sourced to an O. Henry story, but is reminiscent of both Too Many Crooks (1959) and The Happening (1967). Like the earlier films, Ruthless People has a strong added value in that it accurately captures something &#x96; perhaps unintentionally &#x96; about the decade in which it was released. For many, this was the 1980s. A film with three credited directors, it nevertheless runs smoothly. However, nobody noticed Midler's bagged stunt-person was not overweight. Also, how many time does anyone, however stupid, send a VHS tape without watching it &#x96; if only to see if it recorded successfully? Everything wraps up cleverly on the Santa Monica Pier.******* Ruthless People (6/27/86) Zucker-Abrahams ~ Danny DeVito, Bette Midler, Judge Reinhold, Helen Slater "},{"Title":"Judge is great in this","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ruthless People is a genuinely original farce that kept me laughing to the point of exhaustion. It's masterful how all these characters interweave, creating more and more hilarious subplots. The cast is a tour de force. Danny DeVito gives quite possibly the best comic performance of his career! Bette Midler is also great as his whiny, obnoxious wife. It's good to see Judge Reinhold, who practically disappeared after finishing the Beverly Hills Cop flicks. An early performance by Bill Pullman is also worth checking out. I think he's a real cool actor, but he usually plays the same yuppie roles. Here, he plays a dim-witted, trailer-trash airhead and is a delight to watch. There are so many funny moments that will stick in my mind forever, like when the serial killer invades the house. You look like my mother, I hate my mother. And the confusion that was created with the sex video was absolutely classic. I haven't seen a good comedy in a while, nor have laughed this hard in a while. That's why I was glad to catch this movie on the Starz Network, because it is one of the funniest comedies I've ever seen and nowadays, you ain't gonna see too many good comedies, nor great ones like this. A MUST-SEE!!! My score 9 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Must See Comedy","Date":"22 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ruthless People is, without question, the funniest movie that most people have never seen. Released in the mid-1980s, I do not recall this flick getting a lot of exposure or box office hype. Still, it is one of my favorites of all time and a must see comedy for everyone. A man and his wife kidnap the wife (Midler) of a fashion executive (Devito) to get payback for him stealing the wife's fashion designs. What they don't know is that he had plans to kill her the very day they kidnapped her. They demand money, unfortunately he doesn't want her back. What follows is an absolute comedy of errors. Devito's girlfriend has plans to get rid of him so she can profit. Her boyfriend (Pullman) is one of the dumbest (and funniest!) people you will ever meet. There is a detective who gets pulled into the mess via a video of himself with a hooker, a serial killer, and more to keep the laughs rolling. All of the characters are amazing. This is one comedy that will keep you laughing and that you will not regret watching. If you enjoy this, check out Quick Change with Bill Murray as well. "},{"Title":"It's good. But it is more of an interesting crime solver than it is a hilarious comedy.","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Being a fan of Danny De Vito and the ZAZ team's work (Zucker Abrahams, and Zucker) I rented this from Netflix hoping for it to be absolutely hysterical. While I felt this was a very dark film and I did not laugh very much with the exception of a few scenes I did find it to be an enjoyable crime solving type of a movie. In other words there is a ransom involved and trying to figure out whether or not Bette Midler would be rescued from kidnappers Judge Reinhold and Helen Slater(Reinhold is actually very funny here). I was expecting De Vito's performance in this film to be absolutely hysterical but he did it with such a dark tone that I thought he had more of a serious rather than comedic performance. He was enjoyable as always though. The music score including opening song by Mick Jagger I think may be the best part about the film along with the scene when the people who are angry at De Vito supposedly film De Vito and Midler having sex. That as well as Jagger's song and the main opening titles are terrific to say the least. Screenwriter Dale Launer wrote a better script with the Joe Pesci vehicle My Cousin Vinny six years after Ruthless People was made, but he is a very good writer and his characters in this film are written very well as they also were in My Cousin Vinny. He obviously knows how to write a good movie and RP and MCV are very good examples. The ending with Midler pushing De Vito into the bay and leaving him after she finds out about the kidnapping plot I felt was far too abrupt and I wanted the movie to go on for about 10-15 more minutes. However Rutless People is a good movie. Just do not rent and expect anything like the Zucker, Abrahams, Zucker team's Airplane! and Naked Gun series and I guarantee that you will not be disappointed by this movie at all. "},{"Title":"Outrageous fun","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is really a thing to see, mainly for the genius Bette Midler role. The role is like a cross between the standard arrogant rich woman and Satan. She's crazy, Evil Dead-crazy, they really messed with the wrong person. I love all of her scenes, but the movie doesn't stop there. All these characters are great. A desperate Danny DeVito wondering what to do to make the softie kidnappers kill his wife is incredibly amusing as well. Even negotiating about the ransom doesn't work, how far will he have to go? The subplot about the mistress throws some Shakespearean misunderstandings to the mix, and even though I hate those, they really fit right into this movie. That's actually pretty much the general feel this movie will give you, it clicks very nicely. Some thinking went into this plot, and the jokes work well too. I love this movie. "},{"Title":"Funny People","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Before a fortune seeker can carry out his plot to murder his wife, she is kidnapped, leading to hilarious complications. The cast is terrific Reinhold and Slater as the likable kidnappers, DeVito as the scoundrel of a husband refusing to pay the ransom, Morris as DeVito's double-crossing mistress, and Pullman as the latter's dim-witted boyfriend, the stupidest person on the face of the earth. However, Midler steals the film as the obnoxious kidnap victim. The Airplane! team of Abrahams and Zuckers is in peak form, working with a more clever script than for that earlier hit. It's a breezy mixture of verbal and physical comedy. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable 80s Comedy w/ Midler especially good","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ruthless People is one of my more likable 80s comedies. Like some 80s movies it's age shows, particularly with technology scenes. But the humor is well intact thankfully. It's slapstick and sometimes vulgar, but with a decent frame-worked story to go along with it. It has some good chuckles and a couple laugher scenes. The 4 leads are very well cast and especially Midler and Reinhold are good. (spoiler) In before becoming more mainstream is Bill Pullman playing male bimbo/boyfriend in probably the best scene in the movie - the swat team/ransom scene. Other great scenes involve Midler and her captors earlier on and the antics her character pulls. You can generally tell all involved are enjoying themselves and it shows. If you like slapstick with a bit of vulgar (not nearly to today's standards of vulgar btw), you should at least be entertained by this comedy. "},{"Title":"You cannot beat the KMart price, even if it's the Random amount!","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I rented this movie because I'm a fan of Danny de Vito, ever since I saw him in One flew over the cuckoo's nest; but I never knew what big surprises waited for me there.It's a crazy movie that involves a rich textile merchant, Sam Stone (who apparently does business with mafia, if we can believe his wife's words), and who wants to kill his wife (whom he married for the sake of his father-in-law's wealth) to get rid of her and marry his mistress, who has other plans. Then there is this loser couple, whose creative idea was stolen by our merchant, and who wants to avenge it by kidnapping Stone's wife! Sadly, though our kidnapper guy claims to be ruthless and desperate people, he is most unfit to be a kidnapper; he can neither sell speakers to customers in his job place, nor can he kill a spider without remorse. And then there is his wife, who could never stop either feeling guilty over the kidnapping, or making Mrs. Stone feel at home!But this is not all. Stone's mistress, Carol, has a boyfriend, whom the police wants to shoot because he's probably the stupidest man in the world and who can not differentiate a murder from an act of love-making, and thus video-records the rendezvous of the police chief with a hooker.Danny de Vito, as usual, is natural in his role. Others, such as Judge Reinhold, Helen Slater and Anita Morris also do well. But the star of the movie is Bette Midler,who steals the show. Before watching this movie,I never knew that she acts so well. I especially loved the part, where she describes to her kidnappers how treating her well (thereby bringing her the stuff that they could not afford) would lead to her telling the prosecutors that they treated her humanely, and this would save them from going to the electric chair, or the firing squad. Another nice scene is her being emotionally charged to have been told that she might have lost at least 20 pounds, and her frustration to know that the kidnappers had to keep lowering their price as Sam Stone was not ready to pay either $500,000 or even $50,000. This led to the most famous punchline of the movie, Am I kidnapped by KMart?This is a crazily hilarious movie, and it will make you laugh a lot. It has plenty of insane dialogs.If one is looking for 90 minutes of good laugh, this is a movie to watch.  "},{"Title":"Really really funny","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Call me simple minded, but I thought this movie was hilarious.  The casting was perfect.  Full of quotes that will make you chuckle even after the movie has ended.  Bill Pulman should have stuck with the dim witted parts. Danny Devito was great, especially with Muffy.  Bette Midler, well Ghandi really would have strangled her.  I give this movie a 9 out of 10.  Worth a rental.-- What are you doing in here?  Mining the carpet with little poodle bombs? "}{"Title":"Take my wife.  Please!","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Barbara Stone (Bette Midler) has been kidnapped, but her husband not only does not care, he violates deadline after deadline in the hopes the hapless kidnappers will kill her for him. But Barbara just is not the lay down and die type.Bette Midler has generated a nice line of comedies containing the revenge element. She gets you back, but manages to make it fun for those of us who are watching.This movie is among the very best of that line. It is cutely witty, heart-warmingly entertaining.I highly recommend this lovely dark comedy.It rates an 8.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"True Midler classic","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My friend advised me to get this movie, and he was not wrong when he said it was hilarious, the one liners were brilliant, and one thing i would like to know is did Bette Midler really lose all that weight in the film, or was it just padding, if it was it was so real looking, Bette went on to be one of the greatest, musical and comedy actresses of our time. This is one of her classics. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Film","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My mom used to always talk about this film, saying how good itwas and she wasn't lying. This is an absolute gem of a film. DannyDeVito and Bette Midler deliver two of the best performances intheir career (They would later re-team for the equally brilliant'Drowning Mona') and the supporting cast is an excellent mix.Danny DeVito plays Sam Stone, the spandex mini-skirt king,whose idea he stole off Ken and Sandy Kessler (Judge Reinholdand Helen Slater) but they want payback and kidnap his wifeBarbara (Bette Midler) but Sam is actually pleased that the womanwho has made his life a misery is out of the way and doesn't paythe ransom which leaves the kind hearted kidnappers in a bit of arut... and the viewer in a constant hoot of laughter. From theanimated opening and Danny's hilarious impressions of his wifeto the feel good ending, not a bit of film has been wasted. It's trulya great film with ZAZ directing (fans will know what I mean) and agreat script Dale Launer that features some of the mostmemorable characters in recent films. Anita Morris plays thewoman that Sam is having an affair with and Bill Pullman plays heridiotic boyfriend (He is, no doubt about it, the funniest character inthe movie). So sit back and enjoy the laugh fest that is 'RuthlessPeople'! "},{"Title":"One of my favorite comedies","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A very funny and entertaining motion picture.  A rare gem of a comedy that has an intricate plotline supported by sharp jokes (SPOILER ALERT!-the best of which is Devito's classic wrong number gag, which comes out of nowhere).  The casting is superb, esp. Devito and Midler who dominate every scene.  That little side plot with the enthralled cop who makes himself at home is funny too.  This film was very popular when it was released and I don't know why it has faded.  It has just as much classic potential as Airplane.  Who knows?  "},{"Title":"A precursor to Seinfeld?","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was one of the best comedies of the 80's and perhaps all time...if you don't believe me, just give it another look. The plot twists are like something out of a Seinfeld episode (and this pre-dated that by at least 3 years) with twists and turns and laughs aplenty. If you are a comedy screenwriter looking for a good start on how to write a well balanced comedy, you could do a lot worse than to start here...  "},{"Title":"One of my Favorite Comedies","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jim  Abrams and Jerry and David Zucker removed any doubts about their ability to create a successful comedy that did not rely on puns, wild sight gags and the other zany mischief of the `Airplane' and `Naked Gun' films, when they came out with `Ruthless People' in 1986.Although the film DOES have a bit of an &#145;80's feel to it, it has certainly aged well. Moving from parody and slapstick, into mainstream comedy, Abrams and Zucker are able to create as many laughs as ever. While `sophisticated comedy' might be pushing it a tad, this was probably among the 1980's top 10 comedies and remains an extremely watchable movie.Danny DeVito turns in one of the better performances of his career as Sam Stone, women's sportswear mogul and total horse's rear. Of course, DeVito has made a career playing this type of character; as Stone, though, he is truly delightful. Sure, he may be one or two-dimensional, but when he practices crying in the mirror after his wife's kidnapping, then starts laughing or when he covers his face in tears in front of the police, then sneaks a peak between his fingers to see if they are still watching, one can't help being charmed.The plot is simple, yet complex &#150; or simple, made complex by miscommunication. Judge Reinhold and Helen Slater are Kenny and Sandy Kessler, a gentle young couple, whom Sam cheated out of their live savings and Sandy's idea that made Sam a millionaire. In desperation, they are forced to become kidnappers. The victim is Stone's overweight, bratty wife, Barbara (Bette Midler) and the results are hilarious. Kenny, a stereo salesman, constantly lectures Sandy that they must be `ruthless' and tough. In reality, he finally confesses `I can't even sell retail &#150; and THAT'S legal!' Both turn in charming performances.Midler may give her best performance, too, as the obnoxious Barbara Stone, whose personality gradually changes as her waistline reduces, during her captivity. Her face is wonderfully expressive throughout. After she is informed that Sam has refused to pay and that her ransom has twice been lowered, she gasps `Let me get this right &#150; I've been MARKED DOWN?' then tearfully wails the signature line of the movie `I've been kidnapped by K-MART!'Sam Stone, though, has a secret mistress, Carol (Anita Morris) and is planning on killing Barbara. The kidnapping saves him the trouble. He immediately does just the opposite of the Kesslers' instructions and is quite perturbed to keep getting second and third chances at getting his wife back. Carol isn't on the level, either, having an airhead boyfriend (Bill Pullman), whom she gets to film the murder. The boyfriend is too wimpy to watch  and doesn't realize he is filming the police chief with a hooker. When Carol anonymously sends a copy to Sam & to the chief, confusion reigns.The cast is good throughout, including veteran Art Evans in his usual role as a distinguished black cop (like in `Fright Night,' `Mom' and several others). William G. Schilling is great as the befuddled police chief who thinks he is being blackmailed.This is good, reasonably clean (despite DeVito's mouth) fun and a well-made little movie. The soundtrack is awesome and the Zucker/Abrams team shows it doesn't need anyone to be called `surely' to evoke a laugh. While it's no all-time classic, this is a fine film.  "},{"Title":"A comedy classic","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  RUTHLESS PEOPLE is a work of demented genius. The script is amazing, always hilarious and the cast does a wonderful job bringing the story to life,especially J.E. Freeman,who creates a geniunely frightening character in just a few minutes of screentime. Wild and unpredictable, RUTHLESS PEOPLE remains a genuinely funny film. I love wrong numbers! "},{"Title":"Comedy with a great story line!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Intricate plot (very unusual for comedy) is brilliant and hilarious. Enough twists and turns to satisfy a discerning mystery fan, assuming that the fan can stop laughing long enough to follow the plot. Danny DeVito is great here! The movie is perfectly cast in every character. I love the Judge Reinhold/Helen Slater combo as the kidnappers! Bette Middler shines as well.  "},{"Title":"Great FUN!!!","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie wasn't a masterpiece or anything.  However, it was just simply great fun!  Danny DeVito with all his comedic talent really carried this film.  Also, all the other cast members contributed well by playing their roles all fittingly.  If you need a laugh, definitely pick up this movie! "},{"Title":"A 10 All The Way","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was one of the biggest films of 1986 and now I can see why.  This was one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  It contains good strong humor. Not stupid crap.  Bette Midler is hilarious in this role, as well as Danny Devito.  I strongly suggest you go rent this movie! "}{"Title":"Reinhold, Slater,DeVito, Midler.....are entertaining. Bill Pullman......a gem !!","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  We went to see this movie because of Judge Reinhold and discovered a talented actor......Bill Pullman. This man is not only handsome, he has the quiet comedic skills of the old silent movie comedians....Keaton, Laurel, et al, and the charm of Jimmy Stewart.  His timing is marvelous, his maturity is appreciated.  Hollywood......take notice!!!!  "},{"Title":"A gem!","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ruthless is a hilarious movie. Not only is it hilarious, but it also has tons of twists. A very well-written plot. Danny DeVito plays a great bad guy. Everything this movie does just works great. Bette Midler is very funny. Every character is funny in this movie. Overall a hilarious movie full of twists and hilarious characters. ***1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Laugh out loud hysterical","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The humor in this movie is brutal and brilliant. It's got so much to it that is quotable that it immediately became a hit when it came out. Danny DeVito redefined obnoxious behaviour with his foul mouthed opportunist millionaire. My God, this is great fun.The ending is perhaps too neat and tidy, but still good, so it doesn't quite get the highest marks, and Helen Slater is still annoying. But overall, a great film. "},{"Title":"I've been kidnapped by K-Mart!!!","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Besides The Wedding Singer, Ruthless People is the most well written comedy I've ever seen.  Each scene leads perfectly into the other. Danny DeVito, Bette Midler, Judge Reinhold and Helen Slater shine.  Even supporting characters, Anita Morris, as DeVito's adulterous girlfriend, and Bill Pullman, Anita's nitwit, Don Johnson wannabe boyfriend, are brilliant. Belly laughs from beginning to end!  And be sure to watch the extras. There are few scenes with blatant gags in the background (watch where the policemen are so bored at DeVito's house, they are playing a game of tennis!) You must buy this one for your video collection! "},{"Title":"Outstanding writing, acting, and direction","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ruthless People stands out in the realm of comedy as a stylish, witty romp that maintains its pace and its plot while delivering laughs in almost every scene.  You will be able to remember highlights for years later, likeJudge Reinhold's stomach flu -- Danny DeVito's wrong number routine -- Anita Morris and Bill Pullman in the video store -- This may be the stupidest man on earth -- Tofu burgers -- Big speakers and small equipment -- That's my husband!There are only a couple of sour notes; Art Evans is terrible as Lt. Bender (he was terrible in Die Hard 2, also) and the police chief was only passable.  These are MINOR.  You'll love the film and be surprised how everything fits together at the end.  One of those rare comedies where the writing, direction, and acting are uniformly excellent!9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Perfect comedy","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  That's a tall order, granted.  But this film really delivers.  It's the first conventional comedy from the creators of Airplane, Top Secret!, and the Naked Gun series.  And what they do in those excellent farcical works, they do even more so here. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If funny characters, hilarious situations and side-splitting dialogue is just what you're looking for in a comedy, then this film has all that. But where most comedies are merely a bunch of gags loosely tied together, this one really stands out in the crowd by also having a very well-written script, where every scene is vital to and advances the plot.Add to that a probably perfect cast, including Danny DeVito, Bette Midler et al, and you have got what is in my opinion one of the best comedies ever.  "},{"Title":"A favorite The pieces fit together so neatly...","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One of my favorite comedies. The story elements fit together like a wooden puzzle ball. Take for instance the video of the murder and the phone call to the police chief ^)See this flick! "},{"Title":"One of my favourites.....","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love this film.The storyline is wacky, and the soundtrack is great too. It may not be to everyones tastes, but I personally have watched it too many times to mention, and it doesn't get boring. It's one of THOSE films, if you get my drift.Danny DeVito and Bette Midler are hilarious, same goes for Judge Rhinehold and Helen Slater.The way the kidnapping works out for everyone involved is just classic, and I recommend this film for anyone to try out, at least once...or twice....or three times ) "},{"Title":"They pulled the plug on him.....","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When businessman Sam Stone returns home to find his wife Barbara missing, with a ransom demand following not long after, he is surprisingly happy, he was planning to kill her himself. Now that she's been kidnapped, all he has to do is put off paying the ransom for as long as it take for the kidnappers to lose patience and kill her. But the kidnappers are sweet-natured, and not prepared for Barbara's volatile nature. Sam must juggle the police, who are growing increasingly suspicious of Sam, and his own mistress, who has her own plans to get her hands on Sam's fortune. And then there's Barbara herself.......You'd be forgiven that you'd be walking into a spoof of thrillers due to the directors being the kings of spoof and there huge success with that sub-genre, but this is a lovely nasty little comedy, that has the blackest streak in the middle of the whole thing.Devito and Midler are brilliant as the centre of the narrative, and no one can hold a candle to them whenever they are on screen.Reinhold and Slater are okay, but its easy to see why their careers never took off as Hollywood intended.The script is full of really funny, vicious humour, and one thinks that some bitter person had written this film in one hate filled afternoon.It's pretty easy to see why this has gained a cult following, as Hollywood probably wouldn't have the guts to make something like this again. "}{"Title":"God, I miss the 1980s!","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I love the 1980s. It was a great decade. This movie is clearly a great comedy with an all star cast featuring Divine Bette Midler as the kidnapped heiress Barbara Stone who we hate at first because she is one of the nastiest people alive at first down in the basement. She thinks her husband played by the multi-talented Danny DeVito, Sam Stone, has no interest in getting his wife back. In fact, the kidnapping was a big relief at first since he wanted to kill her. His mistress is played beautifully by Anita Morris. The kidnappers are a nice couple played by Judge Reinhold and Helen Slater. When you feel sorry for the kidnapper over the victim, then you have a hit comedy? IT's filmed in Los Angeles. Ken Kessler is a guy who can't sell retail stereo equipment like most successful sellers. He doesn't have the conscience to sell overpriced equipment to a young struggling couple. He is one of the salesman that you would like-honest and reasonable. His partner SAndy Kessler is an aspiring fashion designer whose idea was stolen by Sam Stone who makes a fortune by robbing the designer. Anyway, it's a great comedy. "},{"Title":"One of the best/hilarious kid-napping movies ever!","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've seen movies where people get kid-napped, and there were pretty good, but this one has got to be the most hilarious kid-napping movie ever. Judge Reinhold and Helen Slater play husband and wife who kidnap Bette Midler who's married to billionaire Sam Stone (Danny Devito). You'd think that Sam would be heartbroken, but no, he's so happy he celebrates with a bottle of champagne. So, he's happy, meanwhile his mistress Carol is dating Bill Pullman. Wow, talk about big stars, you got Danny DeVito, Bette Midler, Judge Reinhold and Bill Pullman. This is one of Bill Pullman's first movies, but I got to tell you, even though he's been in tons of comedies, this one has got to be his best! Danny and Bette have a lot of great moments to in this movie. Actually, I think all the actors/actresses have tons of great moments, that's because, it is a great movie. I love this movie, the problem was, it didn't get a lot of publicity, I remember the first time I watched the movie I had tears of laughter, and I'm not talking about just a single tear on my cheek, I could barely watch the movie cause I was dying of laughter. That's probably cause it was directed by Jim Abrahams, David & Jerry Zucker, the same guys who did the Airplane movies. The one thing I love about Zucker, Abrahams, and Zucker's movies is the credits. They have all sorts of little tidbits and things like that. Anyways, watch the movie, it's hilarious. I'm giving it a 10, I wish I could give it 10+ because this really is the best movie I have ever seen, and I've seen tons of them. So go ahead and rent/watch the best hilarious/kid-napping movies ever! "},{"Title":"Danny DeVito is funny as always.","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Gotta love that guy, whether he plays the good guy or the bad guy, you just can't stop laughing. Judge Reinhold of The Santa Clause and Beverly Hills Cop is also funny as the kidnapper, where they demand an amount of money, then lower it whenever he doesn't come around, the funniest is when Danny asked why isn't she dead. A classic moment. And let's not forget Bill Pullman, he does great as the idiot of the show, I like the part especially when he tries to mug Judge, when the police surround him, another classic moment. But I also like Bette Midler's lines as well when she makes fun of Ken, who is having bad luck, cause Sam isn't responding, she says stuff about San Quentin, saying, they'll look at his ass all day. And not to mention, when she says many times, Sam's testicles! Get his testicles. WAA, that was funny. And her comment about the wanted man, you see, if we had a baby, you and me, he would look like this. Recommended to all Danny DeVito fans out there, this just too funny. Watch it. "},{"Title":"Kidnap-Victim Joins Forces with her Captors","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bette Midler in yet another one of her pain-in-the-neck roles. The wife of a wealthy man (played by Danny DeVito) is kidnapped for ransome by a desperate young couple (definite novices to the kidnapping racket), only to learn that DeVito has no intention of paying up, as he had long been tired of his nagging wife. DeVito plays up the heart-broken husband to police, while Midler and her captors are devising a plan to get even with the s.o.b.There are many hilarious scenes, and even some moving moments of emotional sweetness, but soon past the half-way mark the engines lose steam. By the time everyone reaches the finish-line, the hot-cake has definitely cooled off. Still an enjoyable piece of light-hearted comedy, slap-stick, non-sense and all. "},{"Title":"Ruthlessly Funny","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What a great movie -- it just keeps getting better every time I see it.  I can pretty much only reiterate what has already been noted by other posters before me  the script is just bodacious, way above the standard Abrahams / Zucker / Abrahams fare (which is usually funny enough to get plenty of gut chuckles, but is exceptionally sophisticated this time), great acting (Danny DeVito and Bette Middler have their defining roles here, Judge Reinhold and especially Helen Slater -- two actors who had their heyday in the 80ies and have since, unfortunately, faded into obscurity or early retirement -- are perfect as the highschool-sweetheart couple turned amateur hijack heavies, and Anita Morris and Bill Pullman are just outstanding as the Ersatz-femme fatale and her himbo boyfriend (check out Pullman's groundbreaking grown-out peroxide hair job!)).  And the direction is of course masterly.Overall, the movie is just too excellent to put into words -- an overlooked gem, they don't make them like that anymore -- so I'll have to leave it there.  One final thought though  poor Anita Morris died ten years ago (2 March 1994 exactly) of ovarian cancer, a disease she had already been fighting for several years when she made this movie.  What a brave woman -- Anita, wherever you are now, you were the other woman to end all other women -- thanks for all the fun. "},{"Title":"a question for everyone","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have already commented on this movie, but I have a question about it. If you have any insight as to the answer, please send me a private message (click on the link that says ajdagreat and there should be a link at the top to send me a private message).Whenever I tell people this is my favorite movie, they all give me a funny look. If they have even heard of this movie, they definitely don't like it as much as I do. I was very surprised to see that it was not even nominated for the AFI's 100 funniest movies list. This is a really great movie!Come on, why hasn't anyone heard of it? It has a 6.8 rating on IMDB, with no bad comments so far. Ebert gave it 3 1/2 stars. It actually was one of the big moneymakers of 1986. Everyone's just playing a joke on me, right? Everyone likes this creative, twisted plot line as much as I do, and everyone is entertained by the devious acting as much as I am, and everyone loves all the jokes as much as I do. Right? Huh???This movie is so very underrated. Everyone who liked it, tell all your friends to see it! "},{"Title":"Extremely Funny","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One of the best comedies of the 1980s, Ruthless People(1986) is a enjoyable jigsaw puzzle that is wonderfully pieced together at the end of the film.  Danny Devito and Bette Midler give terrific performances as the husband who wants to get rid of his wife and as the wife who makes her kidnappers suffer with her personality.  The movie is filled with plenty of ironic twists and turns.  This movie along with Romancing The Stone(1984), and Wise Guys(1985) were some of the best comedies that Devito has appeared in.  Ruthless People(1986) is the film that Wild Things (1998) should have been.  One of the best scenes of the film involves the reaction of the husband after he finds out that the wife has been kidnapped.  Ruthless People(1986) is a movie that knows how to make people laugh while comedies today know how to annoy people in the audiences who can enjoy watching a funny movie. "},{"Title":"A smart comedy","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is funny and smart and is not stupid at all.  This in itself is an accomplishment.  The cast all is hysterical, especially Bill Pullman, who I saw for the first time here, and Bette Midler, who took a supporting part to revive her career.  All in all, let me say I watch this movie a lot and its always funny.  "},{"Title":"Ruthless People","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Funny Rodeo Drive rendition of the O'Henry story The Ransom of Red Chief, with DeVito playing a spandex mogul whose wife (Midler) is kidnapped...but he's happy not to pay the ransom or get her back.   "},{"Title":"Almost a spoof, what a crazy flick.","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ruthless People is brought to you by the Zucker brothers and Jim Abrahams, the same creative team behind the Airplane movies and Top Secret. The film is very funny, but not as funny as their spoofs tend to be. I thought Danny De Vito is very funny as well as Bette Midler. Very entertaining and worth a look.  "}{"Title":"Ruthless People","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When Ken (Reinhold) and Sandy Kessler (Slater) find themselves in an untenable financial position, they hatch a desperate scheme to get rich by kidnapping Barbara Stone (Midler), the overweight loud-mouthed wife of ruthless businessman Sam Stone (DeVito). This scheme is motivated in no small part by the fact that Sam has stolen successful fashion designs from the couple and is thus largely responsible for their woes. They plan to demand a large ransom from Stone.Things go astray, however, when it becomes obvious that Sam is not only sick of his wife, but is actually overjoyed to find that he doesn't have to go through the trouble of murdering her - all he needs to do is not pay the ransom, and the kidnappers will do his dirty work for him. Unfortunately for him, the Kesslers, while desperate, are not about to murder anyone.Sandy and Ken discover that Barbara is not keen to return to Sam, either, and the three hatch a plot to get back at him. "},{"Title":"The credits","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Great movie, just watched it again on FLIX. Too funny for words, big fan of Bette Midler. But I think the humor carried over to the credits after Best Boy they listed Best Pitcher Dwight Gooden, after utility electrician they listed Utility Infielder Felix Mantilla (longtime utility infielder in the early 60s). After color coordinators they listed Greens and then Fairways I always watch the credits and saw this the first time I saw the movie in the theater when it was released. When I told my girlfriend why I was laughing she thought I was making it up as it had scrolled already. Great sense of humor from start to finish in this film. "},{"Title":"Great comedy!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A cheesy action film may have been what  was intended with this film, but it turned  into a cool cult film that contemporary film  buffs like myself can sit back and say  `What a piece of crap, but I like it!' I label  this film under my personal rating of `brilliant  stupidity' which is difficult to achieve under  my standards (it joins Repo Man, Buckaroo  Banzai, Jack Frost 2, Flesh Gordon and  Jason X), which basically means it is so  darn silly you can't help liking it. The  make-up, the costumes, the often times  cheesy action and the cohesion of the  characters really makes this an interesting  film to watch. I especially loved how all of  the gangs had different themes and costumes.  Kudos to the costume department. Hopefully,  this will remain one of those cool cult films. "},{"Title":"not a classic and not as funny as i remember but devito as always is great","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" So I revisited 1986's Ruthless People, well was it good I have to ehhh. I remember this movie being funny when I was a kid and when it was on the other day, I started watching it and just kept going until the end. This movie had two things going for it the almost always awesome Danny Devito and the very underrated Judge Reinhold (I wish his career would have lasted). It was directed by Jim Abrahams and David Zucker who gave us the comedy classic Airplane. This movie is no classic though. It has its moments but overall is forgettable, unless you want to see the cheesiest aspects of 1980's culture similar to the 1970's culture you would see in the recently reviewed Saturday Night Fever, you can probably skip this one and download Airplane instead. if you like concise reviews of interesting films please read my other reviews at http//raouldukeatthemovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Abrasive comedy struck some audiences as riotous...","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Danny DeVito in the kind of role he does best a lying, cheating, stealing scoundrel trying to bump off his shrewish wife...and devilishly delighted when a naive couple whom he's victimized kidnap her for ransom he never intends to pay. Loose rendering of O. Henry's story The Ransom of Red Chief by screenwriter Dale Launer is all set-up, no pay-off. The talented trio of directors (Jim Abrahams, David Zucker, and Jerry Zucker) give Bette Midler a great deal of elbow-room to comically cuss and fuss, but no one behind the scenes was apparently able to come up with a satisfactory conclusion. Ruthless People is all over the place screwball nonsense, black comedy, slapstick, warmhearted sentiment. It treats the audience like juveniles who need to be buzzed every few minutes to keep their attention. The cast is bright, and a few of the one-liners are memorable, yet overall the film is pretty thin. ** from **** "}]