[{"Title":"Who made Who?","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"59 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" For those of us who like Maximum Overdrive, we are apparently in the minority. I view it as a funny and entertaining, B-grade action/sci-fi flick. There's mass destruction and tons of carnage as everything on-screen is blown to bits...plus it's got Emilio Estevez. What's better than that? The movie does require major suspension of disbelief as some of the story elements don't work (for example the honeymooner's car works just fine, but every other machine on earth, from lawn-mowers, electric knives, trucks, and even steam-rollers, go haywire). But then again, this movie is all about fun. The best part of the movie (besides Emilio) is that no one is shown any sympathy...not even kids; in one stand-out scene, a steam-roller comes out of nowhere and completely squashes this innocent kid. Maximum Overdrive is a cool and outrageous cult classic that Stephen King should be proud of. Sadly, I feel that King will never direct again.Note for genre buffs C.H.U.D. alumni Frankie Faison and J.C. Quinn star in the movie. King himself also cameos as the ATM guy. "},{"Title":"just for fun","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"46 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Yes its stupid, yes its dumb, yes its whatever negative word you might wanna say, but if you want silly action, this is for you.  After a comet passes over earth it leaves some of its demonic haze surrounding the planet. This particular haze takes control of machines, making them deadly killers (for whatever reason).  A group of people trying to stay alive hold up at the Dixie Boy truck stop.  Some dumb enough to stray from the inside get knocked off, others devise a plan to escape someplace where they can wait out the possession of the comet.  Its not the most complex of plots of course, but if you like watching stuff get blown up or people hit by cars or trucks, or watching little leaguers getting neatly pressed by steamrollers, this delivers. (Yes, really, a steamroller). "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"46 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Oh, how I wished I hated this movie.  However, I don't...I actually enjoy this movie a lot.  All the critics hate it, most people I talk to hate it, but I like it.  Maybe it is the cool AC/DC soundtrack...I don't know.  The action is pretty good and there are some pretty good kills in this one, though it isn't anything that is very scary at all.  A couple of the scenes are annoying, but for the most part I enjoy this take on the King short story Trucks.  This one has the machines of the world suddenly turning on humans, though in the end it is mainly trucks that are featured.  Survivors at a gas station are stranded there as the trucks circle the facility.  They have to find a way out or else.  This isn't a movie that is worthy of awards or something, but I think it is a fun movie to watch. "},{"Title":"HOORAH, STEAM ROLLER!!!!","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"36 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Get sick of movies with intricate plots, outstanding acting, and multiple Academy Award nominations?  Then go grab Maximum Overdrive!  90 minutes of mindless truck attacks, rocket launchers and A STEAM ROLLER RUNNING OVER A LITTLE LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYER!!!  Now, most readers are probably thinking that this is a pretty sick review, but keep in mind that this is A MOVIE.  Not real life. Even with all of this in mind, I think it is fair to say that Stephen King did a fair job with the directing.  It's by no means fantastic, but it is far better done than most Cult Classic, B-flicks.  Happy watching! "},{"Title":"An all-time underrated comedy...","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"41 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Hey, can't Big Steve have a little fun, too? I don't think this was a so bad it's funny movie - it's too well done to have been constructed as anything but a real comedy. Viewing this in the context of a traditional horror/slasher movie doesn't do it justice, and with deference to previous reviewers, trying to analyze the technical feasibility of the antics of the machines is a lot like making a big deal about pointing out the historical inaccuracies in Monty Python and the Holy Grail - why? It's a MOVIE, folks, and the liberties Our Most Televised Red Sox Fan takes with the things machines can do make it a damned funny one at that. The scenes, characters, and quotes are a notch below the aforementioned Grail, Spinal Tap, or Clerks, but still classic. (I've been caught by more than one co-worker standing at my desk screaming WE MADE YOU! at my laptop, but hey, to each his own.) Five out of five stars, as long as you come in with the right perspective! "},{"Title":"Just the soundtrack makes it worth watching !","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"25 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I really cannot understand why this movie has such a bad overall rating. According to me a movie doesn't have to have a great plot or so to be appealing. First of all I like the movie for the soundtrack by AC/DC. Actually, I learned to know the music of them by watching this movie. The 'Who made Who' theme song conducts the beginning of the movie excellent when a traffic bridge is starting to open beyond human control. The same goes for the other songs in the movie - they really add. Secondly I like the movie for the humor in it. It's not a comedy but some scenes made me laugh - like the bible sales man who gets mad when his car is hit by a truck and he runs outside the roadhouse - cursing like hell; the truck hits him into a sewer and his shoes stay behind. Or the beginning of the movie in which you see a guy withdrawing money from an ATM and on the screen the message appears 'you're an *sshole'. 'Sugar buns, this thing is calling me an *sshole !' If you watch closely you might also notice just before this scene a digital clock on the building on which the time changes into F*CK YOU. Maybe I'm just simple but I like the movie. Better than some not understandable romantic drama if you'd ask me. "},{"Title":"Extremely stupid but entertaining junk movie.","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"29 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" When an invisible force of Aliens takes over the world in over a week. The force uses the machines to attack on the whole population of the world. The force uses all kinds of things, especially-Trucks. When Citizens and Co-Workers of the Dixie Boy Truck Stop, the people ended up fighting for their lives.Written & Directed by Stephen King (Screen-writer of Cat's Eye, Silver Bullet, Sleepwalkers) made a dumb but entertaining film. The film's starsEmilio Estevez, Pat Hingle, Laura Harrington and Yeardley Smith (Who voiced Lisa Simpson in the animated hit show The Simpsons). This was a box office flop on it's release. This is still today, extremely underrated but it's not the worst-Stephen King film yet.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an digitally remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. The Laserdisc Edition has an commentary track by King. Too bad, the Anchor Bay DVD doesn't have his commentary. DVD extras are Stephen King Bio and an excellent funny trailer. The Canadian DVD from Vivendi (Universal) has an good anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an fine Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. The campy trailer is included as well. It's worth seeing for Stephen King fans and Curious Viewers. King had to cut 11 seconds to not get an X-Rating. Great rock score by AC/DC. Joe Dunton Camera Widescreen. (J-D-C Scope). (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Not too shabby","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I grew up with this movie and always have found it quite entertaining. NO, it's not an Oscar contender, but it's funny as hell. The earth gets caught in the tail of some crazy comet and machines start going wack. You have everything from trucks going AWOL and attacking innocent people to an ARMY machine gunner thing that starts tearing people to pieces. It's AWESOME!!! The scene with vending machines alone is worth the price of admission. These crazy vending machines start attacking these kids by shooting out cans at mach speed. It's hilarious. I also loved the soundtrack. I mean AC/DC...Are you kidding me? The whole movie is like an AC/DC concert and as those of us who have been to an AC/DC concert can verify, this is certainly a treat. "},{"Title":"highway to hell","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A classic, I know the acting wasn't all that great, you had to love the AC/DC soundtrack. When you mention Maxiumum Overdrive you think of AC/DC, trucks and machines killing and injuring anyone in their way. I liked this movie and really had nothing bad to say about it, I thought it was a good idea for a horror film and maybe not executed out like it could have been, but still very good and entertaining. "},{"Title":"Silly, Campy, Funny and Highly Entertaining Movie with a Great Soundtrack","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" When Earth passes through the tail of Rea-M rogue comet, the machines come to life and threaten and kill the mankind. A group of survivors is under siege of fierce trucks in the Dixie Boy truck stop in a gas station and they have to fight to survive.Maximum Overdrive is a silly, campy, funny and highly entertaining movie by Stephen King with a great soundtrack by AC/DC. Despite the awful story, acting and direction, I saw this cult movie again yesterday afternoon and it makes laugh so stupid it is. Fortunately Stephen King has given up directing movies. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Comboio do Terror (Convoy of Terror) "}{"Title":"AC/DC Songs Save The Movie","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is only decent if you are an AC/DC fan. This movie seems more like a 1 1/2 hour AC/DC music video than a movie.I give the movie a 7 out of 10. One for the movie and 6 for AC/DC.If they do a sequel, maybe they have all Blue Oyster Cult music. "},{"Title":"Maximum Stupidity","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I had never heard of this movie before I just saw it on the shelf. I picked it out because it had Stephen King's name on the cover. After viewing, it is very obvious why I'd never heard of it; it is just pure stupidity. If it was meant to be scary, it failed miserably. If it was meant to be funny, it failed miserably. Whatever genre it was meant to be, I assume it was meant to be entertaining, and therefore, it fails miserably. The story could have been somewhat scary, but any scare factor was overridden by poor effects and just plain uninteresting progression. As with any scary movie there is a great deal of blood and stupid decisions by people to set themselves up for catastrophe.I never expected any real scientific explanation for why or how the machines came to life. No explanation is needed for a scary movie if it is interesting enough to hold the viewer's attention. This movie is not interesting. I don't think even die-hard bloodshed fanatics or Stephen King worshippers could find enough in this movie to hold their attention. "},{"Title":"Not what I expected, but it's OK.","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I've seen better movies based on the work of Stephen king, but in all fairness, I possibly have not seen one he has directed. Maybe I was taking off by how campy the movie is, A true celebration of the B-movie.The concept was cool. An alien ship flying inside a strange cloud causes the machines on the planet to go haywire and the story focus on a small band of misfits trying to survive.Heading up this band is Emilio Estevez who at the time was a bigger star than his little brother Charlie Sheen. the movie is perfect for him as it's similar to other B-movies he toke the lead on during his hey day like Repo man and Men at Work, which he did with his brother. This seems to be Emilio's thing and he shines as a bad boy force to do the right thing.I'm use to being more frighten by a Stephen king story but I really was not. I don't really think it was the campy, just might not have stood the test of time in this factor.What did stand out was the development of the characters. it's on the level of a good Zombie movie where everyone tries to figure out a way to keep alive while dealing with an unstoppable horror. It also reminded me of Tremors as the people were trapped in a gas station by the machines Slightly different from what I was expecting from King's work from the 80's, but that might be the point. If you've seen all the other Stephen King movies than watch this one. "},{"Title":"Based on Stephen King's Trucks, its an inept, unconvincing, juvenile thriller.....but as fun as hells' bells!!!","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" There are several reasons why I put it upon myself to award this film the 6 out of 10 average rating. For one, its' total ineptitude has an effect of unintentional laughter, and lets face it, thats entertainment. Another reason is that this, 'Salem's Lot' and 'Creepshow' are a few of the first horror films that I have ever seen. (at the tender age of 10 years old.) So I must admit, Stephen King has been with me for quite a long time. If you have seen every King film, or read every King novel, then you are like one of the heroic characters portrayed within them. You have survived! Now with all the banter aside, heres the facts. This movie is a perfect example of a complete ludicrous effort by an outstanding author being talked into directing a film. (and rushed into it as well) There are no words to explain how many plot holes are in this thing. The premise is A rogue comet passes over earth causing machines (except cars???) to turn against mankind. A group of people are stranded in a truck stop by an army of trucks that circle the gas station continuously. The audience is bombarded with some of the most ridiculous sequences imaginable. Lawnmowers drive themselves, electric knives move about by themselves, a rear axle literally spins off of a truck!!!?, people are strangled to death by Walkmans, people are mowed down by giant tractor trailers without seeing them coming!!??, and so on and so forth. Not an ounce of logic or reasoning is attempted during the whole 98 minutes of this film.Now for the good stuff. King purposely designed this to be excessive and vulgar, and that he did! Fans of senseless violence will approve, and it seems like its all done for laughs. Emilio Estevez makes for a good hero type. Vulnerable when he should be, a man of action when its needed. Unsavory and annoying characters get their just desserts. (a mobile military firearm extinguishes half the cast in one scene!), and the AC/DC full soundtrack makes it worthwhile. This is definitely a favorite film among adolescents. A true juvenile delinquent's fantasy. So who cares how bad it really is. Besides, Stephen King himself realizes it, since this is the first and last film he will ever direct!! No apologies needed Steve, You're still the man! "},{"Title":"As Far as Cheese is Concerned Maximum Overdose!","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" When Stephen King first set out to make this movie, he was up front about wanting to make a schlock film. Boy did he succeed. I was on the fence about whether or not to give this a great rating or a terrible one because this has got to be right up there with Plan 9 From Outer Space as one of the worst films ever made. But my god is it a good time, as long as you don't take it too seriously. I mean, in the world of Overdrive people's bodies seem to pop like grapes when trucks hit them, so how seriously can you take that? And there are some other great moments of cheesy stupidity that will have viewers barking with appalled laughter. Unfortunately the elements of the film that are simply, and unpleasantly bad overpower the film and weigh down what laughs there are, which is why I settled on a poorer-than-poor rating. The bride character played by Yeardley Smith is one of the shrillest, most grating of characters that I have ever had the misfortune to see. The acting is so campy they may as well be singing Kumbaya. This is funny most of the time, but as in the case of Smith, and a truly disgusting Bible salesman, watching this film feels like a waste of heartbeats.However, upon seeing this film a second time, this seems like a good movie for drinking games, so there can be some use made of this. As for whether or not King should be put to death for this film's existence, I think I'll let him speak for himself *on writing a stinker*...it happens; as the author of Maximum Overdrive, I'm qualified to say so. (On Writing, p.216). "},{"Title":"I ain't never seen a hero with his ass in the air like that.","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King wrote and directed this much-maligned film adaptation of his short story Trucks. The plot has Earth passing through the tail of a comet, which somehow causes all the machines on Earth to come to life with murderous intentions. A group of people find themselves trapped in a truck stop surrounded by semi-trucks and other vehicles. The trucks, led by one with a huge Green Goblin face on the front, wait for the humans to leave the truck stop so they can kill them one by one.This is one of my favorite guilty pleasures from the '80s. It's a ludicrous popcorn movie with an awesome soundtrack by AC/DC and a cast that includes Emilio Estevez, Pat Hingle, Frankie Faison, Laura Harrington, and Yeardley Smith. Stephen King appears in a funny cameo at the beginning. This movie was HATED at the time and remains hated today, at least by stuffy film snob types. It's a fun movie! Not everything has to be high art. For people who are fans of silly and cheesy movies, this is right up your alley. Auto nuts might also like it for all the different old vehicles on display. Ignore the critics and give it a shot. "},{"Title":"Serves as a Guilty Pleasure and Nothing More","Date":"11 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King has had more books receive film adaptations than any other author. While several of these film adaptations were very good, Stephen King is a fan of very few of them. So to determine whether or not he should never allow another film adaptation, he decided to direct a film based on one of his own stories. Maximum Overdrive is based on a short story titled Trucks, featured in his short story collection, Night Shift. In the trailer, he said that he wanted to see someone do Stephen King right. Several years later, he confessed that it was a moron film. Should Stephen King be that ashamed of directing this movie? Not necessary. Sure, it's complicated, it's twisted, and none of these supernatural trucks are explained very well. And sure, Stephen King probably has more to hate about this film than having to play the guy who gets called an a-hole by an ATM machine. Yet, with its intriguing characters, oddly interesting activity from the trucks, and electrifying soundtrack, Maximum Overdrive serves as dumb, over-the-top fun if you choose not to take it too seriously.Score 47/100Recommendation Fans of Stephen King and the movie's soundtrack composer AC/DC "},{"Title":"Stephen King B-movie","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The earth passes through a comet's tail for over 8 days. Machines get angry and start acting up. Outside of Wilmington, North Carolina, a group of strangers get stranded at a gas station diner by marauding driverless trucks. Bill Robinson (Emilio Estevez) is the short-order cook and Bubba Hendershot (Pat Hingle) is the boss.Stephen King directs his own movie. He's just not that good at it. It's competent at times but at other times, I wonder if he was trying to shot this like an old 3D movie. It is more on the campy B-movie side. This may make for a fair drive-in movie. It's a lot of random stunts. However don't look for any good acting or compelling dialog. Yeardley Smith is somewhat funny as the complaining wife. The best thing King does is to use AD/DC as his musical muse. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi, B-Movie Fun by the King Himself","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" What story features a green comet, every machine in the world coming alive to attack humans, and a group of truckers thrown together at a truck stop? Why, one done by Stephen King himself of course! 1986's Maximum Overdrive was the first and only directing job by Stephen King. Adapted from King's short story Trucks, it presents the tale of machines of all types coming alive all of a sudden to wreck havoc on the human race and in particular, an assorted group of truckers, newlyweds, cooks, and grease monkeys at a roadside truck stop. At the same time, there's a strange, green comet in earth's atmosphere that seems to be the cause of all the chaos and if our heroes at the truck stop can hold out for just a few days until the comet passes, they may stand a chance. Problem is, can they survive everything man-made thrown at them?The film features plenty of gore, death and destruction, and some good performances for a film of this type. Starring in the lead role is Emilio Estevez as ex-con and parolee Bill Robinson in a worthy and street smarts performance, who's forced to work for shyster and all around shady truck stop owner Bubba Hendershot (Pat Hingle in an excellently done slimy performance) as per condition of his parole when the world goes to hell. Joining them is a couple on newlyweds (Played by John Short and Yeardley Smith in a comedic and kind of cute performance), a young, pretty hitchhiker with a switchblade named Brett (Laura Harrington) and a wide assortment of redneck truckers and all around zany characters. Stalking them is anything from big, semi-trucks to lawnmowers, from bulldozers to army jeeps with machine guns. Just about any machine you can imagine turns into a bloodthirsty killer. Hell, even a soda machine turns deadly! But the machine you are probably going to remember the most after the credits roll is the Happy Toys truck, a big semi with the hilarious looking face of the green goblin as its front grill! Helping set the mood to all this is a score and soundtrack by the legendary rock band ACDC, including the song Who Made Who. To be sure, Maximum Overdrive won't win any academy awards or praise from the critics anytime soon! But at the same time, I don't think the film warrants the level of criticism it's gotten either. The film is an outrageous, zany B-movie that's not meant to be taken seriously. It's the type of film you'd see on Cinemax or the old USA Network back in the day. Some parts are you can't help but laugh at (such as when the one hysteric waitress at the diner suddenly bolts out door and yells the famous line, WEEE Made YOOOUUU!), others nasty or bizarre. Either way, the film entertains. Sadly, though, the overall experience of making the film and the reaction it received has pretty much guaranteed that Stephen King will never direct another film again (King admits he was coked out of his mind while directing and based on his appearance in the trailer they made, I believe him!). Still, if you're in the mood for a ridiculous, B-movie adventure, Maximum Overdrive is one film where you can't go wrong. And last but not least, never forget the eternal question Who made who? "},{"Title":"Those Trucks have Gone Crazy","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Based on a Steven King short story,a rouge comet deposits evil spirit on the machinery on earth. A bunch of machinery,mainly trucks, torture the people at the Dixie Boy truck stop.This amuzing film,despite popular belief,is not a trucker movie. The evil spirits inhabit most machine,such as electric knives and pop machines. Not a bad result for first time director Steven King. its an interesting idea for a trucker horror movie.Laura Harrington,Yeardly Smith, and Ellen McElduff are hot.---One Truck Drivers Opinion---erldwgstruckermovies.com "}{"Title":"An Oil-Stained Thrill Ride!","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE, hated by critics and Stephen King himself. But watching the movie, all I find myself asking is why? From start to finish, it's a pretty decent (and admittedly terrifying) movie. Who hasn't driven next to a big 18-wheeler, and had a flicker of fear wondering if the truck suddenly lost control?! Every year, you see it happen on the news. So, is the movie so far from reality? Granted, the movie is flawed. I felt the newlywed bride screams way too much. And how can certain characters not hear an 18-wheeler bearing down on them? Plus, since all motor vehicles and electronic devices are affected, how come there are no murderous cars or helicopters? But apart from that, King's view of an apocalypse ruled by machines is just as convincing as the other 80s movie about terminating machines. Emilio Estevez is in top form as the young punk hero and Pat Hingle is in full swing as (of course) a corrupt Southerner. If that weren't enough, there's just one more reason to watch AC/DC!!! Ignore the boring 90s remake called TRUCKS and watch this for vintage 80s terror! "},{"Title":"So bad its good.","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Firstly everyone should stop bagging SK, he wrote the story and directed it, that's it! The story by itself is great,what fails is the screenplay and the acting.It may not be brilliant but it is strangely addictive.Most of the special effects are very bad, even for the 80's, some of the make-up however is pretty good.I couldn't stand the acting because for the most part it was even below par for a B grade movie.There is some good part's i enjoyed some of the shots of vehicles moving with nobody at controls,especially the airplane.The coke machine,steam roller and video game kill scenes are very good.I do also love the fact that the sleazy truck stop owner just happens to have a massive weapons cache,what B grade horror flick would be complete without one?Overall it is so-bad-its-good and is worth a watch,i think its average rating on this site is about what its good for.It will live on as a B grade classic for ever. "},{"Title":"So bad it's great","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is one of my favourite films - it has a horrendous plot, cheesy lines and some terrible acting... but it is so funny and the soundtrack rules. Some great lines, including Honey, this machine just called me an arse hole. Some inventive ways of killing people - toy car suffocates dog, girl strangled by hairdryer and a demonic load of trucks that go round and round and round and round... Totally un-scary (though ALWAYS jump when the bible salesman is lying in that ditch) but it's worth watching just for the 80s computer games shown in the arcade at the start - Pacman sorely lacking however. I love it, sister truly hates it but you've got to watch it and make up your own mind. "},{"Title":"I can't say I didn't enjoy it","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Maximum Overdrive. Where do I start? This unholy mess of movie-making, also the directing debut and to no surprise, finale of author Stephen King, makes for a fun, cult classic.We open in Wilmington, North Carolina, where some space probe that's never really brought up into discussion, has gone awry and now for some reason all machines are turning on man. The soda machines are popping out cans everywhere, the bridge is malfunctioning, the steamrollers are rolling people, and the trucks? The trucks are mad as hell, and they're not going to take it anymore! The story revolves around a group of people held up at a truck stop, where they fight for their lives and their sanity as the trucks turn on them.So the story is cheese, the acting over the top, the script bad, and every 'serious' scene is actually a laugh out loud comedic moment. So WHY on Earth did I give it a 6? Well, to put it best, I don't really know. There's just an overall fun feel, from the AC/DC score to the feeling of never being bored. The trucks are fun to watch as they go crazy, crashing every which way, and the film is made in a way that let's you know we're not expected to take it seriously. So bad its good really.So if you're looking for some intellectual film, look further. If you're looking for a scary horror flick from the Master of Horror, look further. But if you're looking for a fun and entertaining way to kill a Saturday evening, B movie style, look no further than Maximum Overdrive. "},{"Title":"They had a mind of their own.","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King directs and adapts his short story Trucks for the screen. Not exactly the best thing King has been involved in; but given a chance this juvenile driven story is not all that bad. A meteor storm with radiation somehow animates various size machines...lawn mowers, soft drink machines to semi trucks...turn on those that possess or use them. Emilio Estevez leads a group of survivors held captive in a roadside diner by some angered semis. Talk about an unwelcome roundup.The group held captive by the circling trucks, are terror stricken as they watch themselves get bumped off one by one. As expected, some scenes are very graphic. There is more fear than scare in this tale of terrifying trucks. Also in the cast Pat Hingle, Yeardley Smith, John Short, Laura Harrington, Holter Graham and a cameo by King. "},{"Title":"Strange, bizarre, and a lot of fun","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Come on, really, anyone that takes their time to actually critique whats wrong with this movie doesn't have much else to do in life.  Suspend your belief, sit back, and find this movie absolutely ridiculous and hilarious at the same time.And have any of you heard of the outtakes?  This movie got an X rating back in the day before King had to take some of the gore out to get it down to an R.  Apparently, when the steam roller flatten the little leaguer, the blood pack that was suppose to go squish flew off and it looked like the kid's head popped off.  King loved the shot, and was p***ed he had to take it out...gotta love that... "},{"Title":"Clever Story Brought to the Big Screen","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Yes, it was made in the 80's and yes, there's not much in the way of acting, but there's really a clever tale to be told if you can get past all of the other stuff.  Paraphrased Imagine if you were a race of Aliens, looking for somewhere to live.  Just like anybody, you've got to clean your new house before you move in...that's what they're doing. They've sent their intergallatic broom to turn our own machines against us and sweep us all away.With AC/DC's hard driving tunes to keep you going, you will be able to watch this movie and forgive the half-efforted acting. I believe Stephen King's work at directing was totally worth it, despite varying opinions.  He brought his vision of how very terrifing it would be to have our own machines turn against us, to life.  I remember seeing this movie when it came out, so I was about the same age as Deke.  Something to note about Stephen King's young characters is that he almost always has one, and the one is usually sharp! The same was true for Deke. Although he obviously came from a not-so-brilliant family or location, he could hold his own with no problem.If you love the 80's and your into horror flicks, check this one out! By the way, the annoying Connie (Yeardley Smith) is also the voice-actress for Lisa Simpson! "},{"Title":"It ain't  -Citizen Kane- . . .","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" . . . but it's fun. I'm kind of shocked at all of the bad reviews I've seen here, what'd they expect?No-one is going to confuse Stephen King with Stanley Kubrick, but I give King credit that he targeted a nice, easily-digestible short story as the basis for a movie (versus the more 'standard' 600-plus-page King epic that most other directors go for). The end result is just a fun movie for a rainy Saturday afternoon.  "},{"Title":"Maximum B-Movie","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This was one of the stupidest movies I have ever seen, but I enjoyed watching it.  I read the short story before I saw the movie, and the short story seemed to be written, to be taken seriously.  The movie on the other hand was written for a campy affect, and that is how it comes off.  People getting soda cans embedded into there skulls, by the soda machines, is a great new way to off a character.  I could almost guarantee that had never been done before.  The soundtrack by AC/DC compements the movie well.  One of the greatest metal bands, writing the soundtrack for a great metal movie.  Some have said this movie was a waste of time.  Well it's probably not the most prudent way to spend an hour and a half, but then again how many movies really are?  One commenter mentioned that it didn't follow the short story, then went on to say that the Shawshank Redemption loosely followed King's short story of the same name.  I have one question for this guy.  Have you ever read these two stories?  Especially Shawshank, because Shawshank was one of the few movies I have seen that followed the original story almost exactly.  Please don't make comments about things that you have no idea what you're talking about.  Thank you.  If you like campy B-movies based on King's work check this out.  If you only like serious movies based on King's work, go watch The Green Mile, it's one of his best.  For a fun no brainer movie I would give this 8 out of 10.  For a serious thoughtful movie, I'd give it a 1 out of 10.  Don't watch it expecting a revelation. "},{"Title":"B-horror/sci-fans should love it","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Yes, the acting isn't great, the story doesn't flow perfectly, and some of the things the machines do can't be rationalized.  But, Hey!, it's a sci-fi flick about machines coming to life! Get over it.  For you fans of B-horror and sci-fi, this is a great flick. "}{"Title":"See it on Monstervision","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  In order to fully appreciate this movie, you have to catch it next time it is shown on TNT's Monstervision.  Joe Bob Riggs' comments make the movie hilarious.  Anyway, this movie is a great way to waste time.  I must admit, even though the acting is terrible, this is one of the few films I could watch every single day and not get tired of.  The best scene is near the end when Emilio Estevez and crew are at the boat dock.  One of the guys sees a dead woman in her truck, and she's wearing a wedding ring.  So, the guy completely forgets that the trucks are in close pursuit, walks over to the woman, and takes her ring.  As he's walking slowly back over to the boat, eyes focused entirely on the ring he's just scored, one of the trucks comes out and rams him.  Emilio Estevez then uses a missile launcher to destroy the truck.  The funny part is that everyone starts throwing their hands up in victory and cheering while a very upbeat AC/DC song starts playing.  If you tuned in just as the song started, you would never know that one of their friends had just been killed.  When I saw this scene, I started convulsing with laughter.  I mean, this movie was so wacked out and shallow, that it was I actually enjoying it.  Do not buy it, and do not rent it. Tape it next time it's on TNT's Monstervision.  Joe Bob's commentary is half the experience.  Even though it will have been edited for T.V., the Monstervision experience is one that cannot be beaten. "},{"Title":"I love it!!!","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  One of my favorite movies of all time.  It's only one of the few movies that I can watch over and over.  A meteor passes over the earth causing all the man made machinery to go ballistic.  and the story centers upon a group of people stranded in a truck stop in North Carolina.  What i loved about the movie is the whole world is messed up, in the basement of the truck stop they have an arson full of weapons.  So imagine if that happens right now.. You have so many weapons and explosives and the whole world gone mad. I would have a lot of fun!!  Not to mention this was Stephen King's first directing effort, and not a bad attempt.  i give it a B "},{"Title":"We made you!","Date":"10 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This film deserves at least six Oscars. I remember as a kid watching that vending machine get the red mist and lay waste to a baseball team, followed up by a steamroller rolling over a child's head. That's just horror movie gold right there. Sure, the film is dumb as hell, but it's very far from boring, and has the right amount of daftness, gore and action that I need from a film.Also worth noting is the amazing We made you! speech given by that waitress in the film, which is just devastating in it's delivery. If you aren't laughing at that point, then Maximum Overdrive is not for you. My wife was asking questions like How does the truck see with it's wing mirrors? and How did that guy get a rocket launcher? and such like, but I said that this is the kind of film where you just let such things go, or else you'll end up feeling like that guy after the steamroller went over his head. The plot is as simple as an ACDC drumbeat - just sit back and left the daftness roll over you. "},{"Title":"Exactly as everyone describes...I had hoped for more from the world's most brilliant writer","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I love Stephen King. I adore his books, I think he is one of the most brilliant writers in the history of mankind and I have loved most of his films especially the ones that truly capture the King vibe. Maximum Overdrive does not fit this bill. Ironically enough it is THE ONLY Stephen King film written and directed by Stephen King himself as he touted that the best way to have King directed was to direct it himself. While I admit the film does have some King flare to it...the isolation, the small rag tag group hidden away from some monstrosity fighting against each other and the supernatural but the film itself is campy, and kind of stupid, and despite it's huge special effects and slightly disturbing plot line it just doesn't really fit the scare tactic. It's more corny and laughable than anything. All that being said Maximum Overdrive is not a complete wash. First of all the cast is fairly decent, they seem to fit into the King vibe fairly well and it's action is enough to keep you interested complete with laughs and some chills and some really gory kills. On top of that Maximum Overdrive has to the winner for most gratuitous use of GOD LORD etc and every various way you can use the Lord's name. It stands out like they did it on purpose. Definitely an R Rated film.Eighties super-kid Emilio Estevez takes the lead as the rough and tough bad boy hero. His character is very stereotypical and yet he is watchable in the role and adds enough to the film to keep it interesting. It's just no great acting feat for him and he can act. Pat Hingle is terrific as the snarly, egotistical diner owner who immediately butts heads with Estevez. Hingle's cowboy type villain is one of the best characters in the film. Laura Harrington is the typical eighties eye candy gal but she does get a little more substance. She's rough around the edges, independent and very tom boyish right down to her name but seduces Estevez into bed...well a cot in the back of the diner/gas station. She is a little more active than just eye candy actually putting forth a hero type effort and her and Estevez are not bad together. Not a force of nature or anything. Yeardley Smith (now best known as Lisa Simpson) plays torturingly annoying Connie who is supposed to be that way and man is she ever. She is one half of the Newlywed team stuck in the station and her voice is like nails on a chalk board. She's the damsel in distress type and Smith does play the role I think it was supposed to be so kudos to her I suppose. John Short is her new husband, Curtis. I would have liked to have seen more from his character as he does turn out a rather heroic performance and he's kind of underused compared to the other characters and I think he has a really good character and could have pulled off more to it.Most horror fans really do appreciate a good campy flick and that is exactly what Maximum Overdrive is. I mean you can't help but laugh in horror as all these electrical appliances start murdering people everywhere and these massive transport trucks stage a revolution against this tiny gas bar with these people inside. The kills are plenty gruesome and you almost start to see personality in the various trucks especially the Goblin truck which appears to be the leader of this crew. Somehow the story really does make you feel like these things have individual personalities and you start to feel the claustrophobia that comes from a Stephen King story but it won't ever freak you out because the film is completely laughable and darkly comic but you know I would watch it again because it doesn't try to be anything but. King really didn't do anything spectacular with this one and only directing debut. I mean you can see a little of his style but I think Mick Garris has captured more King style than this film does. I still would love to King come back to the helm for something he is passionate about but until then we can enjoy and laugh off this eighties cult classic. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Will always be a classic to me","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I liked this movie from the start. This movie is pretty much what I feared as a child, electronics coming alive and attacking people. And ever since I saw this movie, I've been nervous when walking in front of a parked semi-truck. This movie was very flawed, but that did not stop me from enjoying every minute of it. I loved the storyline. The music was great too (AC/DC = awesome). There were a lot of very interesting scenes in this movie. There were some that were a little disturbing, but it helped with the tone of the movie. This movie was meant to have a feel like The world was normal and suddenly its not. Yeah, doesn't make sense...you get the basic idea though. Overall this is a great movie despite its many flaws, you should watch this regardless of the 4.4 IMDb rating it has, its actually very good. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Stephen King fans should love it!","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I personally thought that this film was great, it is original, it has lots of action and it is quite funny in places. The biggest let down of the film, I thought was Yeardley Smith who for some reason was required to scream every few minutes! I think that she should stick to Lisa from The Simpsons! Anyway, back to the film, it is an imaginative horror film that is comical in places, but intentionally so. The special effects are almost non-existent, but it was the 80's so we can let Stephen King escape on that one! Overall, as King's one and only film as a director, I think it is great. "},{"Title":"Twisted and great, another Stephen King Thriller","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I noticed this has a rating of 3.9 (at the time I added my two cents) but I must say that this movie is Hilarious!!! And the action is pretty cool too.  Trucks coming to life? Scary thought!!  Great soundtrack AC/DC ROCKS!!!! "},{"Title":"A very underrated horror movie.","Date":"6 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" True this movie is stupid. True it is dumb. But I found it to be a guilty pleasure and a lot of fun. I don't understand why this movie is so underrated and why it gets all the negativity it gets.The plot is excellent. I thought the idea of motor vehicles and other types of machinery being possessed was amazing. There are a lot of scenes of people getting killed by vehicles and other kinds of machinery. If you like that kind of stuff, you will like this movie.The acting in this movie is so bad it's good. I have met some people that told me the people who acted in this movie did a bad job. When I saw the movie, I just laughed at how bad it was. Like I said, so bad it's good. There is also another category for the acting, so stupid it's funny.I thought this movie did a very decent job with the pacing (unlike the sixth sense which I thought was very slow paced). There is lots of action, lots of explosions and it does not lag. But before I saw this movie, I was expecting it to be so terrible. But I am glad I saw it. I think anybody who sees this film could enjoy it if it is not taken seriously.This movie falls into two categories So stupid it's funny and so bad it's good. If you like those kind of films, you will like Maximum Overdrive. But if you want to see something more serious, I would recommend 8MM or American History X. This movie is a must see for anybody who can enjoy a movie with silly acting and silly dialogue. "},{"Title":"Good entertainment, solid plot line, and excellent sound track!","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I think this movie is one of the best in it's category. Yes, it's a little pretentious, but are not all movies anyway? The plot line is simple and to the point. It may not have all of the gore of some of the horror movies out there, but it is entertaining and fun to watch. The other thing I liked about this movie is it's sound track. Having AC/DC do the whole thing I believe was a stroke of genius. Don't mind me, as I'm a big fan of the group, and that may have influenced me more than a little bit, but the music really fit the plot well... almost as if it was written with this movie (and it's social comment) in mind, or was it the other way around? Anyway, I really do like the movie and never hesitate to watch it when it's on TV, or as I do, go to my favorite rental place, take a copy out to watch. Maybe I should just buy a copy... "},{"Title":"A great B movie","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film is a B-movie, and you have to keep that in mind when you watch it. Also, it is one of the best B-movies. With Stephen King's popularity and financial situation, this film could have had an almost unlimited budget. Also, anyone could have directed this, but he chose to do it--on purpose. What you see is the way he intended the film to look like cheesy, more funny than actually scary, lots of fake looking blood. It's destined to be a cult classic. It was intended to be that way. The only thing I was disappointed with was that the DVD did not have more special features. "}{"Title":"adios mother f*****","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  this has been the best movie iv seen all summer. it has death and gore and al other things a movie should have.  this is accutly the first movie ive seen where a kid gets run over by a steam roller.  peolpe get crushed by trucks and shot up by an army vehicle, electricuted, cut up, and smashed in the face with pop cans.  so overall this is a good movie that could be a bit more violent and its better than trucks (so ive heard) "},{"Title":"hilariously funny and a good vehicular horror","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  IF YOU'VE EVER BEEN NASTY TO THEM...THEY'RE AFTER YOU!This film is a kick ass movie, especially for anyone who likes vehicles. there is lots of blood and gore, explosions, hundreds of Rigs, and now they are in control!The characters in this truck stop never knew what hit them before it was too late...The Trucks Are In Charge...this film will probablly make you think twice before you bad mouth a Big Rig again...or just maybe it'll come after you...and kill you.i give this film a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Refreshes memories)","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I'm one of those post_USSR kids who started to enjoy all pleasures of VHS in mid 80's. The first ever movie I saw from another side was Arnie's Predator. This movie comes soon after and is one of the first 10 I ever see. This is why it will always have special place in my heart. And music by one of the best ever bands just makes it stronger.If I look at the movie from today's perspective. No doubt it misses most of things modern move worm expects to see, but still it is a good fun. If you like to spend some hour+ watching well shot and acted movie with plot which is absolute nonsense, but all together provides absolute fun, this is the right one. "},{"Title":"One of The Most Enjoyable Movies Ever Made","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie, without a doubt, is a ten out of ten!  That is, if you like B movies and the  idea of machines coming alive to reap destruction upon the human race.  And Emilio  Estevez, and a soundtrack by AC/DC!!!  There are so many good sequences, from the  introduction of Emilio  I got eggs on!  To the Bible salesman getting run over (runs  into non moving truck, King shakes camera to make it look like the truck hit him.)  The  cast of characters is awesome, and just the way that the action unfolds in the first half  of the film is amazing.  Stephen King PLEASE DIRECT ANOTHER MOVIE!  You arewonderfully inept!   "},{"Title":"Compelling.","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Excellent Thriller!! Although there is some shaky, hesitant and stiff acting in this production, it still stands as one of the best adaptations of Stephen King's literary works.While it does stray a bit from the original work, it has earned its place in the genre of horror as a Classic. To the accompanying heavy metal of AC/DC blasting in the background, killer trucks and other machines take over a small town truck stop, terrorizing those within, and killing any/every one without.While some of the performances were amateurish, this movie SOARS above the recent remake of the same original work, entitled, Trucks. Written, rewritten and directed by King, this movie is a surprisingly wonderful adaptation of his work. To date, his adaptations have been rather puerile and mellow compared to his original literary publications. This will be a very pleasant surprise following the absolutely horrid Made For TV Version of The Shining, (1997).While Emilio Estevez is not among my favorite top 500 actors, he carries this film rather well, but it's Yeardley Smith who makes the movie. Her wonderfully comedic little voice screaming out, Curtis!! Are you DAY-YED??!! She is what makes Maximum Overdrive fun. AC/DC and killer trucks take a back seat to her performance. Loved it. Own it.It gets a solid 8/10 on the B scale.That's a 6.6/10 on the A scale, from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Good Cheesy Fun","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Ok concept, Lots of fun, Kick ass soundtrack by AC/DC.  Lags in some spots but still decent.  Definitely not a masterpiece by any stretch, but worth at least 1 viewing.  6/10 for  tractor-trailer with a giant goblin head !! "},{"Title":"Best B movie ever","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" man what a great movie Emilio shows hes got just what it takes. i was 12 when this came out i cant think of anything that scared the crap out of ya and entertained as well. now its twenty years later and i have a younger thats just about 12 so we rented it and I'm going to let him tell what he thinks because i cant fill ten lines of excellence like he can. HERE IS HIS SIDE OF THE STORY.Okay so i think for an 80's movie its really good.i mean the blood and how they die i mean it surprised me but i knew it was coming because Stephen King made it and the music sound a little bit like Psyhco i hoped i spelled it right.It was so crazy and i may have screamed a little. "},{"Title":"There's potential, but it goes unfulfilled.","Date":"3 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Opinion seems to be divided on Maximum Overdrive, and I guess you can lump me in with the naysayers on this one. For a movie directed by Stephen King, it's not very scary. Or funny, especially since this is about machines waking up and going on a killing spree. Granted, there was some promise in the beginning. I was intrigued by the vending machine taking people out with soda cans; play your cards right and you could end up with either some dark humor. Hell, even dumb humor, veer off into some nut-shot wackiness. C'mon, there's a Green Goblin big rig! But the movie puts on the brakes and settles into its cast of cardboard characters (and Lisa Simpson) trapped in a truck stop by circling semis. It's stilted.I'm not out to bag on the movie; it's more than likely I'll return to this thing with a completely different appraisal in the future.Tends to happen like that. "},{"Title":"Campy fun from King.","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Maximum Overdrive, bestselling novelist Stephen King's one and only foray into directing (thus far), is far from a classic of either the sci-fi or horror genre, but it is good fun, a typically dumb piece of '80s B-movie nonsense that makes very little sense when dissected, but which still proves enjoyable thanks to a light-hearted, knowingly daft approach, comical characters, plenty of silly deaths and mucho vehicular carnage.Based on King's short story Trucks, the film sees the world's machinery turning on the human race after Earth passes through the tail of a comet. Lawnmowers, electric carving knives, ice cream vans, steamrollers, arcade machines, vending machines all pose a threat to mankind. At the Dixie Boy Truck Stop, a group of people become trapped by malevolent trucks intent on the eradication of all human life&#x97;but only after they've been topped up with fuel!'80s brat-pack heartthrob Emilio Estevez stars as short order cook Bill Robinson, and there are solid performances from sexy babe Laura Harrington as Bill's love interest Brett (hey, that's a bloke's name!), Pat Hingle as the truck stop's grouchy owner, and Yeardley 'Lisa Simpson' Smith and John Short as newly married couple Curt and Connie, all of whom pitch their performances perfectly with tongues firmly in cheek. The film also benefits from a rocking soundtrack courtesy of AC/DC, a fun cameo from King himself (who establishes the film's goofy style in his opening scene), numerous ridiculous and reasonably bloody kills, and a really cool truck with the face of the Green Goblin on the front.6.5 out of 10, rounded up to 7 for the having the guts to run over a kid with a steamroller. "},{"Title":"True Vehicular Madness!!! &#x97; Anyone fond of cheesy horror will love it!","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" You'll ever like it or you'll hate it, simple.Whilst lacking any real plot structure, containing acting so terrible It's hilarious and just generally being badly made, this movie is still worth watching at least once. &#x97; It may have been a flop when it was released, but far worse films have been released in the intervening 28 years...What once was called a horror movie should now be a horror comedy! &#x97; How many movies can you see a little league team attacked by a soda machine, only to have a rampaging steamroller finish off the job?! &#x97; And that horrid, jarring suspense music whenever something happens... Classic! "}{"Title":"Gentlemen, STOP your Engines.  Please.","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" In a simple word...bad. Quite bad really. Stephen King shows he has virtually no skill behind the camera as he directs this tale of a comet passing Earth and the planet being caught in its tail. Because of this, machines begin to act violently and want nothing more than to kill, maim, destroy, eliminate, and eradicate those that made them. The movie never tries to take itself seriously, but my problem is that humor is not something you can just snap your fingers and manufacture. This is just not very funny. It was also quite boring. The worst part was the first fifteen minutes or so where we get exposition as to what is happening, meet all our unlikable, thinly-layered characters, and see King in a stupid cameo at an ATM. Really? At any rate I could go on and on about what is wrong with this picture. Look at the other reviews if you want to explore all that. It is mountainous! One major problem is that King, a writer who should have known better, tries to stretch a short story beyond its stretching point. This is just not substantial material for a feature-length film. Secondly, the whole film seems to lack and desperately need a sense of direction. I felt bad for some of the actors. Some are decent like Pat Hingle, yet he was chewing up scenery with an ALIEN-like mouth. It was too much. Most of the other actors are not very seasoned or good. Thank God for Yeardley Smith(the voice of Lisa Simpson herself). Without her I cannot imagine what watching this would have been like. She is about all the only real humor in the entire film. Then let's take a look at that AC/DC score. I tired of it quickly. It was like someone put me in a loud amusement park and never allowed me to leave. Some of the music is really good but sometimes enough is just enough. Unfortunately, this is one of those times for me when the film lived up to the hype. Maximum Overdrive is considered universally to be a very bad film. I try to never let that interfere with my viewing for the first time. I did not, but make no mistake it surely lives up to its legacy. "},{"Title":"Not Bad!","Date":"15 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Emilio Estevez, Pat Hingle, Laura Harrington and Yeardley Smith star in Stephen King's 1986 sci-fi/horror film based on his short story, Trucks. This takes place in Wilmington, North Carolina where a group of people try to survive against machines that become homicidal. The cause is a comet, Rhea-M that passes Earth in the course of 8 days. Estevez (The Breakfast Club) plays Bill, a short order cook who is out on parole from prison, Hingle (Batman) plays his boss, Bubba, Harrington (The Devil's Advocate) plays Brett, a hitchhiker who gets close with Bill, Smith (The Simpsons) plays newlywed, Connie and King also makes a cameo. This isn't bad and features music from legendary rock group, AC/DC. "},{"Title":"Stephen Kings directorial debut Maximum Overdrive","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is an amazing movie plain and simple. Aliens take over 18 wheelers and try to kill people. Emilio Estevez is in it and the acting is top notch. I heard it even won the Oscar for best original film that year. The fear and emotion displayed by the survivors is some breathtaking work. The plot is cohesive and the dialogue is well written. A lot of the interactions by the cast are believable and plausible. Not a single scene is wasted. The soundtrack is scored by the legendary rock band AC/DC. Yes that's right the entire soundtrack. Family fun all around. Maximum Overdrive is quite simply one of the most terrifying horror films ever made and sets a precedent for any alien/freight truck movies in the future. Would recommend this over any movie. "},{"Title":"If Only More ATMs Told The Truth","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is a horror movie so it's not going to be a great film, and it doesn't try to be. It's not a comedy, but there are some great little scenes that should make you laugh out loud.The action focuses on a group of people stuck at a truck stop, hemmed in by a collection of articulated lorries/trucks that have come to life. Can they survive the onslaught of the machines, or will they be picked off one by one? You know the answer already; some live, some die.Nearly all the action takes place in a Truck Stop, which is large enough to give the trucks room to manoeuvre, but still locks the humans into a small, claustrophobic building. And for me, the fact that a lot of the action takes place during daylight is a great plus. There's none of the constant jump shots that modern horror films rely on to scare the audience. Instead, this film says, this is happening, what would you do, and then gives you time and space to imagine your own machines turning against you. If that doesn't give you pause for thought and make you a bit edgy, then you've not thought hard enough about the damage all the machines near you could do to your fragile body.Whilst there's deaths aplenty, few of them involve on-screen guts and gore, it's more a case of discovering bloody bodies than splattering the camera. Most of the deaths that do happen on screen are at a medium distance, or have no blood visible at the moment of death. By the standards of the 21st Century the violence, language nudity etc. is very tame - to the point that I'd let any teenager watch this.Of course, there's no explanation of how the machines can sense anything, how they can communicate in Morse code, how they can coordinate their actions, what's controlling the machines, but that helps with the whole claustrophobic feeling and confusion felt by the humans.However, it's the humour in the film that lifts it above the average horror film and makes the film watchable. From the opening scene with the A**hole ATM, through the boy crushed under a steamroller, the freaky Green Goblin toy truck, death by melons and the squashed shoe, there are lots of little moments to cherish.And then there's the soundtrack from AC/DC - perfection.Yes, the film could be better. Some of the actors are unable to bring their characters to life, but there are enough people on form to make the movie work. Given how good Stephen King is at creating a character in 100 words or less, it's a shame that he couldn't bring all of the characters to life as the director of this film.So it's not a great film, but it is very entertaining. Teenage boys everywhere should be made to watch this film - big machines, death, destruction and great rock and roll. What's not to like. "},{"Title":"Maximum Fun","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie was really stupid. I won't lie. It is incredibly dumb. It is about a mysterious meteorite or asteroid (I'm actually not 100% sure which or how) that passed close to earth and then somehow infects or takes over every electrical appliance and machine on the planet.Suddenly, blenders and toasters start attacking people. Pop machines start shooting cans out of their slots like machine guns, mowing people down. Worst of all, all the world's cars and trucks start circling human survivors like sharks, just waiting for their chance to attack and finish them off.Sound stupid enough? The thing is, sometimes the stupidest movies are the most fun, and this movie is definitely fun. The pop machine scene I was describing made everyone in the room laugh so hard that we had to stop the movie and back it up. And when this kind of ridiculousness is intentional (in this case I am certain that it is) it deserves some credit.Emilio Estevez stars, it's one of the campiest and most fun things Steven King has ever written, and the soundtrack by AC/DC featuring Who Made Who is awesome. Well, as long as you like AC/DC, which we certainly did.Check it out if you like horror comedy. It's a lot of fun with some cool and hilarious deaths. "},{"Title":"Great Fun!! Not to take seriously!","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Maximum Overdrive is written and directed by Stephen King! He make's a small cameo in the beginning and all hell breaks loose accompanied with AC/DC scoring the whole soundtrack! Emilio Estevez is our hero! It's nice to see him in a different environment (brat pack or coaching hockey!) Apparently there is a comet that is turning machines into rampaging killers. That's it! that's the plot. Now they must endure and fight to live! Please don't take this film seriously! You have to have the right mindset before watching it. If your into senseless violence, blood, cursing, explosions, Yeardley Smith (AKA Lisa Simpson) trying to act! all with AC/DC rocking' throughout the film, then this flick is for you! "},{"Title":"Wow (Spoiler Alert)","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I gave this movie a 3 out of 10 rating (I was being generous). Granted this movie was made in the 80's so that's where the 3 came into play. I didn't care for the movie at all. The whole cast of this movie was dumb, Emilio Estevez was the only sensible person in this movie, easy on the eyes, with bad acting. The movie is more comedy than horror and the plot is dumb. The idea of 18 wheeler trucks coming to life, trapping the whole cast in a gas station, as the trucks circle around waiting for someone to leave the gas station so they can have at the innocent victims is atrocious and down right dumb. The soundtrack to the movie is limited to just AC/DC and nothing more, that was the highlight of my movie watching. I'm assuming the music was used to intensify the experience in watching such a bad film but to each there own, I still feel everyone should watch this at least once. "},{"Title":"I never did like trucks!","Date":"24 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King's self-described moron movie is a ton of fun; if the prospective viewer is anything like me, they will enjoy it for its wholesale slaughter and destruction and unceasing laughs. Where else will you see a tyke mowed down by a steamroller? Or see soda cans become lethal weapons? Scripted by the author himself, based on his short story Trucks, it explains its premise of Machine vs. Man by having planet Earth drift into the tail of a comet, which causes most machinery to declare war on humankind. Some of the characters are broadly played and hysterically funny. Most of the actors play it straight faced, especially Emilio Estevez as young hero Bill, but old pro Pat Hingle camps it up something fierce - and is a total hoot - as white trash human antagonist Mr. Hendershot. Christopher Murney as horny Bible salesman Camp Loman and Ellen McElduff as waitress Wanda June have their hammy moments as well. King never, ever shies away from the red stuff, and puts as many gags into this thing as he can - a person killed by a walkman (remember those?), a dog killed by a toy car, etc. He doesn't bother with it making too much sense (such as the honeymooning couple whose car never turns on them), and just encourages us to go with the macabre fun of this endearingly ridiculous enterprise. Other worthy elements include legendary rock band AC/DC's only attempt to date at film scoring, providing some of their big hits and some new tunes and incidental music to the soundtrack. Other inspired musical choices are the uses of Roger Miller's King of the Road and Wagner's Ride of the Valkyries. In addition to the aforementioned actors, we get Laura Harrington as tough sexy hitchhiker Brett, Yeardley Smith - Lisa Simpson herself! - as amusingly annoying, screechy newlywed Connie, a couple of solid character players like J.C. Quinn, Frankie Faison, Leon Rippy, and Giancarlo Esposito, plus none other than Marla Maples as one of the unlucky motorists in the grand opening bridge catastrophe. There's also the appeal of seeing our principal semi identifiable by having the face of Spider-Man's nemesis The Green Goblin out in front. Absolutely priceless lines of dialogue include Don't make me a widow on my wedding day, Curtis!, Yew want a war? Yew got one!, and Yew can't do this! WE MADE YEWWWW!!!! Now, if one can't appreciate the entertainment value of something so unabashedly dumb and raucous, then fine. But those of us who do love Maximum Overdrive love the Hell out of it, as it opens and ends with a bang. King himself makes a cameo appearance as the man at the ATM. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Im appalled this has such a low rating!","Date":"13 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I cannot believe this movie only has a 4.5 / 10. This is a cult classic as many have stated! This movie is no worse than Repo Man with Emilio Estevez that's considered a cult classic and has a much higher status. Regardless, I know what people think. Even my father and older brother laugh at me when I watch this movie, not because it's bad but because they say I burned them out on it when I was about 7 and they knew it line for line. Im 26 now, and this movie is still just as good! People tend to get too hung up or in-depth as to reasons why the machines become homicidal. Instead - just go with the flow and enjoy. Even though a reason is offered the first 20 seconds of the movie, people still want a logical explanation. King should be proud so many people love this movie and have such fond memories of it. Have you ever seen a lot of directorial debut efforts? Most come from director's that are fresh out of film school. Considering King jumped from author to director, he didn't do too bad at all - cocaine fueled duration or not.A group of people are stuck at a desolate truck stop, being held hostage by a mob of homicidal 18 wheelers that operate themselves and are thirsty for human blood. How can you not like the Green Goblin truck who is obviously the leader? It's not often you get to see semi's with trailers running over people at high speeds, steam rollers crushing kids, bulldozers, vending machines, electric knives, and more operating themselves in such a fun manner.Granted this isn't King's typical character driven, suspenseful plot - it's just plain fun. The cast is great. Emilio Estevez (after The Outsiders & Repo Man, before Wisdom), Pat Hingle (the asshole boss we all want to die with tons of one liners), & Yeardley Smith aka Lisa Simpson herself. The cast has a lot of inner turmoil, but in my opinion take a backseat to the machines who are the real stars.Regardless, this has been beaten to death in reviews and argued about, it all boils down to opinion, most say it's a guilty pleasure - I say it's a childhood gem that still holds up to this day! "},{"Title":"100% pure B movie gold","Date":"3 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Loosely based on Stephen King's short story 'Trucks' a comet hot rods around the earth causing machines and mostly trucks to have murderous minds and take over the highways hating humans. Non-stop explosive and twisted metal action, non-stop road kill topped with the roaring soundtrack by AC/DC and the movies theme song 'who made who'. This is pure B movie gold along with the movies iconic goblin truck. The campy humor is a bit laughable, its a fact that we are exploring King's funny side rather than just horror. The acting isn't Oscar worthy but thats how I like these movies to be. A movie to watch with your mates on a hot summer afternoon. Get ready to put your seat belts on your lounges, because you are about to take a trip on a highway to hell. My rating 7 1/2.10 "}{"Title":"Ineffective use of weaponry, among other things","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I decided to watch this movie largely because I'd always liked the AC/DC intro track, and never quite new what it was about before. I came in knowing the movie wasn't all that serious.Campy or not, of all the vehicles picked to terrorize a truck stop, trucks were actually the worst choice, with their poor maneuverability and slow acceleration. After the people got a clue what was going on, they should have had many openings to dodge among the circling rigs and run for cover. Those who succumbed seem to have no hearing or peripheral vision, and they kicked out a lot of blood for low speed crashes!Pickup trucks or agile cars might have actually been something to fear, but that leads to another flaw; if you have a whole cache of weapons in the basement, the first logical thing is to shoot out all the tires and/or fuel tanks. And, if among those weapons is a rocket launcher, and you've already killed several trucks with it, why not just blow them ALL up? The piecemeal actions didn't make much sense.I mainly kept watching because a couple of the girls were shapely, and because I generally like Stephen King's stuff. I think the best Stephen King movie (not directed by him) was The Mist (2007). It was one of those rare films that matched the suspense of the story it came from, though the ending could have been less depressing. If Maximum Overdrive had been made with that level of quality it could have been decent, but I guess it was planned as a campy mess from the start. "},{"Title":"What Were You Expecting?","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" You read the box; knew what the premise of the movie was. Why the petulance? This movie is a classic cheese fest with good performances throughout.Pros Good acting, hilarious plot, unforgettable neighborhood sequence, awesome soundtrack, great pacing, awesome atmosphere, uproarious ending.Cons The suspension of disbelief can be hard to swallow at times, but try and you will reap rewards.Whatever, this movie is awesome. I recommend it with friends, but, hey, its entertaining on its own. Good MST3000 material. "},{"Title":"Looks like a remake, feels like a remake, smells like a..","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" If you've seen Dawn of the Dead, you will notice that this is only a smoothed down version of the original film.An widespread threat appears suddenly (machines/zombies), main characters escape into building (fuel station/mall). A person is close but still isolated from the main set of characters (bible salesman/gun salesman) and becomes an momentary threat when main characters make their escape through (tunnel/drain/sewer). Main characters run for harbor, confront their enemy one last time and escape with a sailboat.Soundtrack is great, but the music stings out from the film like a sore thumb - AC/DC's music is way much stronger and better than the movie itself, that somehow the music catches my attention better than the plot. "},{"Title":"Serious spoof","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Yes, this film has always been dumped by critics and movie-goers alike!! I love this movie because apart from the AC/DC soundtrack NOT forgotten by most, it is quite eerie! It must be the atmosphere of the overall scenes. I believe the secret that has to be grasped in order to appreciate the film lies within the giant mask!!!! It's all there, but all the critics of this superb film didn't see it. I can't say more about this aspect because it is quite difficult to explain with simple words. Max Overdrive can easily be compared to other better (?) rated films like Romero's, especially his first masterpiece!! Some consider Max Overdrive as being a B-movie, but history repeating, this kind of movie later becomes a cult-flick! In conclusion, this film has been hated just like The Illustrated Man starring Rod Steiger perhaps for the same reasons (critics don't like adaptations enough to give an impartial view). Who knows??! "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's Stephen King, jack of all trades","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Maximum Overdrive (1986) was Stephen King's first and only attempt to make a movie. He wanted to create a film that was intentionally bad, cheesy and entertaining. Mr. King somewhat produced a film like the one he envisioned. Too bad the end results don't click together like they did on paper. Taking a short story that he written during the seventies called Trucks, Mr. King took the bare basics of that story and made it into a major motion picture, bank rolled by his friends at De Laurentis Productions (who seemed to be putting out a movie based on Stephen King's works every other month) it had all the makings of a block buster smash. It did not.The movie takes place during a few days of an amazing cosmic event. A comet sweeps by Earth covering the planet with space dust. When the dust settles, the machines have come to life and revolt against man. Humans are running for their lives as the machines have seemingly taken over. Only a few survives have managed to make it to a truck stop diner. But when they've arrived, the diner is surrounded by hundreds of diesel big rigs. After plotting strategies for a few days, the survivors , make a run for the local docks and head towards a nearby island to wait out the rampaging machines. Lo and behold, after a few days a Soviey Spy Satellite discovers a low flying alien spaceship and destroy it ending the several days of terror.Why did I give away the movie? Because so many people have trashed it. Stephen King wanted to create a comic book style movie filled with science fiction and horror elements. He succeeded for the most part. But there's something missing from the final product. The acting is pretty weak and the censors cut out a lot of blood and gore from the film. Too bad it wasn't released like that because it could have been something real cool. The music by A.C./D.C. was appropriate for a film like this. Stephen King should have made a few more films. He wasn't that bad of a film maker. Believe me I have seen a whole lot worse. Many of them still make movies today.For cheesy horror fans and Stephen King connoisseurs "},{"Title":"Be crushed by a semi while rockin out to AC/DC, so tragic...","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie fvcking rocks.... no pun intended as it has AC/DC doing the soundtrack.... which comes and goes in quality, which isn't easy to say as I'm an AC/DC fan. This is one of those classic 80's movies revolving all around automobiles. You know, like The Wraith. or Back to the Future or Phantasm or Christine... saaaaaaaaayyyyy, that's another Stephen King film.... This is proof cheesy movies are always the most entertaining. Wait, cheesy horror films are always the most entertaining. Especially the ones from the 70's and 80's. Cheesy horror films of the 90's usually just suck so bad that they can't even be enjoyed on an unintentionally comical level. Like I Know What You Did Last Summer. What a piece of crap. This movie rocks.  "},{"Title":"Best movie within its theme","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  No other horror movie, where machines take over compares to Stephen Kings classic Maximum Overdrive. The soundtrack itself consists only of AC/DC songs, and some of which are unique to the movie itself. AC/DC fans should not miss out on this film. The main plot is that of an alien force from a comet turns all machines on the planet on a killing spree. This includes mainly trucks, lawnmowers, airplanes, some cars, but not any boats. The setting for the film is the Dixie Boy Truck Stop in the South U.S. where trucks hold a group of people prisoner at the location. There are other scenes as well from other people around the area, and how they escape only to meet up at the Truck Stop as well. Other movies such as Stephen Kings Trucks!, Wheels of Terror, The Duel, The Car, and others simply don't come close to Maximum Overdrive. I suggest you go the movie store now and rent this!  "},{"Title":"A very guilty pleasure","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I make it a point to see this movie at least once a year.  The other positive posts on this board tell my story.  Perhaps King is a better director than he is given credit for, and in some phildickian way, it is the pompous self-important mainstream directors who maim the art of film.  After suffering through tortured postmodern films like The Cooler or The Life of David Gale, I like to cleanse the palate with a masterpiece of horror and comedy which is this film.You get Estevez at his funniest, AC/DC at their creepiest, and a humorous tone that will keep you coming back.  Just do what I do hide it under Cassavetes Opening Night when you take it up to the rental counter. "},{"Title":"This was horrible...","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I've seen this movie yesterday since I decided to pop in a never-viewed-before DVD into my player. I only watched the end of the movie out of respect for King and I haven't read the short story yet but it cannot be as bad as this piece of work.The film absolutely excels in 'Huh?' moments. Moments where completely illogical things happen and people accept them without as much as a surprised look on their facesA boy cycling through an entire village of dead bodies only casually looking at them without going into complete mental breakdown? A married couple in a car which they can control obviously, although anything from lawnmowers upto trucks is out of control? A truck-stop owner with a basement full of heavy-duty military equipment such as bazooka's and heavy machine guns? A small cart with no other features but a rotatable large caliber machine-gun on a pole?This movie gave me WTF? moments throughout its entire length, with the ending scene being the most hilarious of them allA Russian 'weather satellite' with laser beams and nuclear warheads... Sure, even in the days of cold war my little niece wouldn't buy that.2/10 "},{"Title":"One of the worst interpretations of a Stephen King story...","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Even Stephen King can't make a movie out of one of his horror stories, if this movie is anything to go by. The short story it's based on is not a classic Stephen King tale but it's certainly no where near as bad as the movie. If you want to see a good movie based on a Stephen King story the general rule is avoid the horror's. Shawshank Redemption, Stand by Me, The Green Mile etc.. are classic movies all based on Mr Kings stories, so why can't anyone film a classic horror story based on one of his books? Not even the great man himself. There have been one or two that are watchable (The Dark Half, Carrie), but still not classic movies.  "}{"Title":"Extraordinarily bad.","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  For some unfathomable reason I always thought I'd enjoy seeing this movie.  And I wasn't disappointed... at least not for the first, oh, 20 seconds or so.  Sadly, it all went downhill from there.  Stephen King's flair as a writer makes up for his lack of filmmaking talent.  The terrible acting, amateurish directing, cheesy 70s-style zooms and godawful dialogue in this movie almost made me feel physically ill.  The only redeeming feature to Maximum Overdrive is that it made for a good short story.  Don't bother seeing this turkey. "},{"Title":"God, I love this movie.....","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Where do I start? How can I explain my love of this movie? *spoiler alert* Maybe I just enjoy watching rednecks get run over by alien-controlled semi-trucks.  Maybe I just love the slow motion shot of a watermelon crashing through a window.  Maybe I just love watching rednecks get shot down by an alien-controlled jeep.  Maybe it's the dialog.  Dat's da depot dujour!!, Thay cain't! Wee Mayyde Them!!, I never did like f*#kin' trucks anyway!, and of course Pretty crispy, Mr. Hendershot, WHAT happened?!? I could go on, but I wouldn't want to rob anyone of the experience.  This film works on so many levels.  Fine acting all-around, especially Giancarlo Esposito.  I really believed he was hypnotized by that dastardly Star Castles arcade game. But my absolute favorite moments remain the scenes where the aliens cause the ATM and the time/temperature sign to curse at us. As though, the aliens would have to insult us before they took over the world.  Sheer Genius!! A+ **** out of **** "},{"Title":"Spoiler (perhaps)","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film is okay right up  to the end. I really don't know how anything I say would spoil the  ending. It is likey the worst ending to any film I ever saw. Very lame and unsatisfying. I understand  that Mr. King did not like the first version of Trucks, so he did this one himself.... Not worth the effort. "},{"Title":"Very Watchable","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Granted we are not looking at Citizen Cane here.  What we have is a cheesy action flick that you want to watch to the end to see what happens.  That is more than a lot of movies can say.  The line by 'Lisa Simpson' CURTIS! DON'T MAKE ME A WIDOW ON MY WEDDING DAY! still cracks me up.  "},{"Title":"I hated this movie!!!!!!!!","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was horrible it had such a bad backround and I hated when the guy got hit by the truck with a mask on it I mean come on a truck that runs people over that is so old this movie was a JOKE!!!!    "},{"Title":"Real good","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  My favorite movie ever and I don't like AD/DC! This movie gets such a bad rap cause we expect so much more from King! He actually had fun making this moron movie, about as much fun as I had watching this movie. I am a major fan of B movies & this is the best one. "},{"Title":"Tsk, tsk, Stephen...","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  If I had any advice for Stephen King, it would be, just stick to suspense and horror and leave comedy to your good friend, Dave Barry. This thing seems unsure of which it wants to be and misses both by a huge margin.The caricatures passing as characters have all the spine-tingling realism as Leslie Nielsen in Airplane. Characters with southern accents are, of course, backwoods hicks with single-digit IQs. And - I don't think this qualifies as a spoiler, but I'll be safe and call it so, as if this thing could ever be spoiled more than it already is - the moment you see the truck with the absurd plastic ornament on the front and the evil-looking clown on the back, you know four things 1) It's the ringleader of the Monster Machines. 2) Eventually it's gonna get blown to molecules. 3) Everything else is gonna be blown to molecules first, and, 4) Once it is blown to molecules, everything's gonna be all right.OK; if you can't say anything nice, say nothing at all, right? OK, here it is Maximum Overdrive did give gainful employment to quite a few pyrotechnicians for a while.  "},{"Title":"An important commentary on the industrial age.","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  God bless you Steven, for all the wonderful films and books you've given us. This review however, is in retribution for the $5 I spent to see this movie in the theatre back in 1986.I haven't seen it since but it still leaves a bad taste in my mouth. Actually somebody mentioned it in conversation and those of us who remembered it got a big laugh. The lethal soda pop machine? How's that for product placement. Anyway, I'm sure you were playing off of our fears of commercial technology, but this tale is probably better suited for its original format, the short story.I'll write something nice about the Shawshank Redemption.  "},{"Title":"Ages well...","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie years ago when it first came out at the theater and I have to say, at the time I was very unimpressed with it. But the strange thing is that the more time passes, the more I have come to appreciate and enjoy it. It's simply a fun movie, not intended to be taken too seriously--let's face it, it was directed by Stephen King himself, how serious an undertaking could it have been in the first place? The movie is based on his short story titled Trucks, which was more recently turned into a made-for-USA-Network movie that was TRULY a bad piece of work. Compared to this, Maximum Overdrive is a cinematic masterpiece. "},{"Title":"See what happens in an Apocalyptic world of trucks gone bad","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie thoroughly when i first saw it on television.  Just try not to take this movie seriously and you'll find at least one redeeming quality of this movie, the ice cream truck of death.  The movie is pretty amusing, if you were disappointed when you first saw it, see it again and laugh. "}{"Title":"Was it that bad, or were expectations too high?","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, this movie was a disappointment, but I  wonder whether everyone would have hated it so  much if it hadn't been the long-awaited and  highly-publicized directorial debut of Stephen King.   Granted, it had problems.  For example, that  rebellious toll bridge sequence went on much  too long.  But I still thought it was an okay  B-movie.  Unfortunately, coming from Stephen King,  an okay B-movie was definitely not okay.      "},{"Title":"A goofy 80's action horror film from Stephen King himself","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Stephen King wrote, directed and makes a cameo appearance in this 80's action horror flick. It's not the forefront for action horror films and it's acting is kind of bad. This film is for someone who has nothing better to do and the video store ran out of all the good action horror flicks (Alien, Total Recall, Jaws). It's easy to forget but in it's own way this film is extremely goofy with buckets of blood and lots of explosions. For 3 days the earth passed through the trail of a comet, causing all machine to become tools of death and destruction and start stalking humans. Emilio Estevez stars and is a member of a group that are at a truck stop and are being held hostage by large trucks and any machine around. This film is very forgettable. The acting is non-existent, the plot is full of holes and the action is corny 80's fun. There's nothing revolutionary in this film. It's not even scary. The only reason I like this film is the corny, goofy funny and it can be watched over and over. This is an action horror film with loud music and lots of blood. The soundtrack is hard rock provided by AC/DC. For a great 80's classic this isn't. For a good horror film this isn't that. If you have nothing better to do rent Maximum Overdrive for some very campy action and a lot of blood.         "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"    I think Stephen King realized he couldn't make his  creepy short story Trucks into a serious movie, so for the film adaption he turned it into a humorous comedy-horror, and he did good on that level.  In this movie, the Earth is in tail of a passing comet for several days, and this causes all machines to come alive and act homicidal towards humans.  It starts when a mouthy ATM machine begins to swear at customers (a hilarious opening scene) and then eventually all machines go crazy.  Specifically tractor trailers.  The movie centers around a group of people trapped in a truck stop by the machines, and they fight to survive.  This movie has many funny moments, and it follows the short story closely in certain parts.  (Only certain parts)  My one complaint about this film is the steamroller scene.  You'll see.  Other than that, an entertaining movie that provides some laughs and has a good soundtrack by AC DC, which really helps with the mood. "},{"Title":"Could have been good, but wasn't.","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was just plain horrible.  The acting was bad almost to the point of hilarity, but that was mainly because of King's direction.  Stephen King can write a scary story, but can direct his way out of a paper bag.  Stay away from this one, unless it's on Monster Vision, where you get all of Joe Bob's jokes about how horrible it is. "},{"Title":"A quirky horror movie not without its humorous moments","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The plot is so silly that it makes it actually kinda funny, although the premise, that of machines coming to life and killing humans, is scary in and of itself. Mack trucks that mow down humans, coke machines that shoot cans, electric knives that leap at people. This movie has it all. It's not the strongest horror movie out there, but it's pretty cool.  "},{"Title":"Thrilling flick","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film is without doubt one of the best thriller/horror/science fiction movies. Because the plot is so outlandish (trucks and machinery developing into evil killers) it's so intriguing. Most people think its awful and the acting is not great but the suspense and a certain degree of black humour make it well worth the watch, especially a bit when a little innocent looking army jeep approaches the petrol station, apprears to be there for posterity and proceeds to machine gun the entire station, killing many in a bloody orgy and forcing the attendants to feed him and his truck buddies their precious fuel! Stephen King has come up with a watchable and intense film that plays on human paranoia of our own electrical machinery. Get it now!!! "},{"Title":"yes it was bad, but...","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  OK, so this movie was bad. The special effects were far from special and the characters were thin. On the other hand, as a time killing, mind numbing, waste-an-hour-and-a-half, fluff film, it excels. Rent it only if you have a freebie from the video store.  "},{"Title":"It's not that bad.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Though I wouldn't recommend Stephen King to quit his day job, this is a fun movie with some actual scares. If you want a fun, campy movie that doesn't take itself too seriously, then rent it. "},{"Title":"One of King's better movies","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" After a comet passes by Earth, several survivors become stuck inside a rural truck-stop by crazed, murderous big-rig trucks and other vehicles by the comet's radiation and try to find a way out to stop the murderous machines.On the whole this one was better than expected and had a lot of good parts about it. Among the better qualities to this one here is the opening set-up to show the basic idea of the dangerous machines around them. The bridge raising, the scene at the baseball game in the park and the aftermath witnessed in the suburban neighborhood all come together to give this one a pretty dark opening that sets up the peculiar nature of their behavior here very nicely. That leads into the best aspect of this one, which is the action found within this one as there's a lot of exciting scenes that really have a lot of action here. The truck chase from the abandoned rest-stop along through the highway is great fun, the attempt to pierce their ranks and get inside the compound and the numerous rescue attempts to get around their imprisonment make for some wholly good times here as there's so much going on that the film features a great pace as a result. There's also a lot of great fun in the finale race to the island as there's a lot of action, plenty of explosions and chasing as well as some cool deaths thrown into the mix that really makes this one end on a high note that gives it more than enough to overcome the few flaws in here. The most obvious one is the sheer inability to believe that there's a week of time that transpires in here for the trucks would've had an easy time of it smashing into the facility to get at them. That they go to sleep is the most obvious time to attack, yet all they do is circle the compound and utilize their stupidity to get them, which is another problem here with this one. Likewise, the fact that this one is unclear about why the married couples' car was unaffected, despite everyone else's car being possessed and controlled does come up yet is never really answered. Lastly, the fact that this one does slow-down slightly in the middle when they become trapped there does show-up as the pacing suffers when it's like that. Otherwise, this one was a pretty underrated and enjoyable effort.Rated R Graphic Violence and some Language. "},{"Title":"Are you subject to nostalgia from the '70s and '80s?","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This was a great movie--nuts to the people who didn't like it. Really Sci-Fi instead of horror though, which I much prefer anyhow. I grew up in the 60s, 70s & 80s (a bit slow to mature, I know) and this was just a great nostalgia hit. It was not at all a movie so bad, it's good. It really is good, dumb, fun. Being a car guy, I especially loved seeing the cars from my youth (they were actually lame, strangled, cars performance-wise, but they had character, unlike almost all of our current mechanically near-perfect transportation blobs). This film also confirms my feeling that in general people themselves really were better back in my youth (at least one study indicated that Americans reached peak niceness around this time or maybe a bit earlier)--it's just reflected in the characters and overall tone of the movie. I often wonder if today's kids are ever going to be feeling any real nostalgia when they get older, given all their bizarre over-scheduling and over-stimulation in our accelerated, explicit, hyper-competitive, hyper-aggressive, immediate-gratification society (hang on a second--the latest mass killing on the TV is distracting me, and, Hey you kids, get off my lawn!)-- I just don't see much innocence in my friends' kids nowadays. Back on track, I also loved the AC/DC soundtrack--I didn't know those songs came from this movie and now the lyrics make perfect sense. If you are around my age, I think there's a decent chance you'll like this movie for the same reasons I did--just a fun nostalgia ride with a workable plot and acceptable acting. For me, tonight at least, it's a ten. "}{"Title":"Crazy 80's Stephen King Horror!","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" In 1986 famed horror writer Stephen King stepped behind the camera to personally direct his one and only movie. Maximum Overdrive is based on his short story called Trucks and stars Emilio Estevez as Bill Robinson, a short order cook at a truck stop who must save the day from a bunch of evil self driving big rigs.A comet passing by Earth triggers machines to start going haywire. Pop machines shooting lethal cans of pop, Lawn mowers running amok and big trucks out to kill. Yes it's just as ridiculous as it sounds. All played to several songs by AC/DC. The comet is said to remain in the Earths atmosphere for eight days, but will humanity survive? The never ending battle between man and machine is resumed. To quote the waitress We made you, we made you! This is an appalling stupid movie but works as a sort of trashy fun entertainment. The events take place at the Dixie Boy Truck stop in Willmington, North Carolina, and has its share of stereo typical southern characters. The cigar chomping owner who calls everyone Bubba. The slightly retarded grease monkey attendant. There is also the story of an annoying just married couple and a twelve year old little leaguer. There are several characters that I assume came from the short story, but on film they seem quite one dimensional. Estevez does his best with the material but its quite the step down from the previous year of 1985 when he broke out with The Breakfast Club and St. Elmo's Fire. I'm sure he got paid and I don't blame him for cashing in on his new found celebrity.With the Stephen King name this movie gets instant recognition but viewer beware. Surprisingly it's unavailable from Netflix as the DVD is out of print. Although if you still really want to see it go over to Amazon On Demand. "},{"Title":"poor effort","Date":"12 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Despite my nostalgia for movies from the 80's and my love of most things Stephen King, this does not measure up. It is living proof that King should not direct. The soundtrack is easily the best thing about the movie. It is bereft of any sort of narrative or character development. Watch the Duel or Runaway instead.Evidently IMDb doesn't believe in concise reviews so I'm being prompted to add more. If you're looking for better Emilio titles, give Repo Man a try. It was passingly amusing to see Commissioner Gordon play a complete jerk. Boy was the bible salesman rapey. "},{"Title":"Cheesy film, trashy to the max","Date":"17 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Love it or hate it, Maximum Overdrive is trashy brilliance, and is one of the more gory Stephen King to novel films, a trashy script to boot too. With the passing of Hailey's Comet in the good ole year of 1986, something has causes all kinds of machinery to go haywire and become machines of death. Drawbridges open of their own accord, drink vendors start spewing cans out continuously, lawn mowers start running down kids. Even ATM's are offending open mouthed customers with some blasphemy. As in these situation movies, we end up at a permanent place of location, where a score of people hold out in this servo, manned by a lot of ex parolee cons, and owned by a fat old heartless and ill mannered pig of a guy, who's cheating the ex cons, by adding more hours to their work schedule, where they're really in no position to fight this guy, on the count of ending back in the clink. MO is trashy great fun, but in no way a good film. The film does have a lot of good performances, Ellen Mcduff, Pat Hingle, Harrington too, as the tomboy pickup chick, who a dirty old reverend, tries to have his way with. Lead Estevez, (Razzie nominee here) as one of the cons, who really sticks it to Hingle near the end with an awesome line of dialogue, seems out of his element. I've seen better work from him. This flick is just something to watch, sit back, kick your feet up. It's just such trashy fun. Trucks that circle the station, have never been scarier, and the film does successfully maintain a terror, and scary ambiance of nastiness from it's machines. In some ways, especially the end, where it draws an all too similar parallel, it's very much like the Dawn Of The Dead remake. And like that too, we have heroes, nice people, and a..holes. One of the most trashiest flicks of 86, that can only be remembered for that, where it's bloody guilty fun too. "},{"Title":"Maximum Overblown","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Let me open up with Stephen King has written some really great stuff. He criticized other directors for not doing a competent job in executing his stories. He made this movie to prove he could do a better job than the directors he trashed. To make matters worse he wouldn't take responsibility for this disaster of a movie. He even went as far to claim that he set out to make a bad movie. Take what you want from all that. The problem with this movie to begin with is none of the characters are very likable so you have a hard time rooting for any of the human beings. Also this movie can't play by it's own rules. Trucks and Machines running a muck but somehow the newlyweds can still manage to control their own car as well as a few of the other characters. Some of Stephen Kings stories can be a recipe for a good movie this one isn't one of them. A movie called Trucks came out in the 90's based on this same story isn't much better. Saving grace is AC/DC does the soundtrack which gives this a boost. And because this movie blew up in Stephen King's face we don't have to be subjected to him making any more movies like this or hear him trash reputable directors like Stanley Kubrick. "},{"Title":"The true Stephen King movie","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" It's great to see when a famous author steps into a director's chair, especially when it is critically-acclaimed author Stephen King. So what do you get when you take someone who writes a lot of horror stories and give him a cast, script, and budget? Maximum Overdrive, a cult hit from the 80's starring Emilio Estevez. Saying this is a Stephen King movie, you would probably be expecting a macabre movie, but nope, instead you get a lot of trucks, after all it's loosely based on his short story Trucks!, and electronics that just want to kill and a really hilarious and enjoyable movie. The explosions look real nice and some of the kills, the steamroller and the kid as a great example, are just great to look at. For lack of better words there's basically no intricate plot, the characters are a little weak, but it still entertains. It's trash, but trash that is great to see and look and sometimes laugh at, but if you want something more like he would do I recommend Creepshow, which he was the screenwriter and actually played the main character in a segment. "},{"Title":"So Bad It's Worth Watching","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Maximum Overdrive (1985) ** (out of 4) Stephen King made his directorial debut here and he hasn't yet gone back to the chair, which is a real shame. Not because he's got tremendous talent behind the camera but instead because he could have delivered so many more, campy, non-sense movies. MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE is as bad as it's reputation would have you believe but at the same time it enters the so bad it's good range because of how silly it all is. Based on King's short story 'Trucks,' what basically happens is a group of people are stranded inside a truck stop as the trucks outside start to take over the world and go on a killing rampage. This is the type of bad film that everyone should really check out because it's amazing to see how poorly the final product turned out to be. In recent years King has admitted that he didn't know what he was doing and that he was snorting cocaine at the time and perhaps this is why everything here doesn't make since. I think the original story has some major logic flaws but perhaps King just didn't explain them well enough here. I still think there are some very campy and outrageous moments that make this worth viewing and most of them happen early on as the machines start to come to life. There's a coke machine death sequence, which is just priceless and campy. Then we have a steam roller death, which I'm sure looked wonderful before the MPAA got a hold of it. While watching the film I kept wondering if there was any sort of point to any of this. The movie has a very bad pace and it really just seems to go on and on without anyone knowing where to stop it. I think taking out ten or so minutes probably would have also helped it. Seeing people like Emilio Estevez and Pat Hingle adds some charm but the majority of the characters are just annoying. "},{"Title":"Kick it into high gear!","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King is really not known for too much writing. We know he wrote the TV remake for The Shining because he was not pleased with the result of Kubrick's version. Even though Kubrick's adaptation of his book has now been considered one of the all time greatest horror films. King's writing was honestly the least of my concerns when it came to Maximum Overdrive. The visuals, cheesy idea, and characters cover up the writing.The plot Earth has now come in contact with a comet that causes machines like lawn mowers, electric knives, and even automobiles to start acting on their own taking revenge on humans. A majority of the film takes place in Wilmington, NC at The Dixie Boy truck stop. Bill (Estevez) works as a cook at the truck stop who tries to keep his customers and friends close as this all happens.The film reminds me of Tremors for many reasons; it's set in a sleepy town in a desert like area, the things attacked are just out of this world, and the townspeople are similar to those in Tremors. Thats all good with me. Tremors is one of my favorite films.Maximum Overdrive is now considered comedy-horror instead of straight up horror. I disagree. I did find some moments of Max. O genuinely creepy. Despite all the hate it's getting online, it's a great popcorn flick. Doesn't live up to King masterpiece films like Christine or Stand By Me, but it's up there.Starring Emilio Estevez, Pat Hingle, Laura Harrington, and Yeardley Smith. Directed by Stephen King. "},{"Title":"Should had been a comedy.","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The only way I could see this movie to work out is if it had been made as an amusing comedy, not to be taken as seriously. At times it also seems like this movie was more going with approach but at others it was just being plain lame and silly, when the movie was trying to more like a typical- and serious genre attempt.They should had known better really. I mean, when was the first or last time you ever saw a good enough genre movie like this one. It's basically being one of those old fashioned B-horrors in which giant creatures turn against humans, with as an only difference that the creatures in this movie are being replaced by large trucks and some other smaller and far more insignificant machinery.The story really doesn't ever make that much sense and it just gets used as a poor excuse to have some big trucks driving around, scaring and killing some people. This might actually still sound kind of cool to some people but believe me, this movie just isn't so at all. And the main problem of this movie perhaps isn't being the fact that it just has a weak story, in which nothing gets explained believable enough but more with the fact that the movie is such an incredible ineffective one.There is just never really any sense of danger within this movie. It never seems likely or scary that they can't escape these trucks. I mean, these trucks are incredibly large (American style), which also means that they aren't exactly very nimble and you can literally hear and see them coming from miles away. why not bring more machinery to live in this movie, who have a go at our 'heroes'. The things that come to live within this movie seem all very random and it seems even more random that they turn against humans and try to kill them in every way possible. Why not exploit your own concept to the fullest. Just seems to me that most people who were involved had no idea what to do with this movie, including its cast members as well.The deaths are also being the worst. First of all, the movie is using some horrendous slow-motion at times, which actually only helps to make it more obvious how lame and cheap this movie is looking. And secondly, most killings aren't even shown. Lots of dead people are lying around and it's just highly improbably that all of them got killed because some type of machinery went berserk. All of the 'dangers' shown in this movie seem to be something you can easily run away from, or at times even take one step to the side to avoid getting killed or even hurt, so how is it possible that so many people got killed all of the sudden, at almost exactly the same time. But thirdly, it's also definitely true that some characters within this movie really do their best to get killed. They literally walk into a truck themselves, or they try to challenge some of the machines in an extremely dumb way.And yes, large blame for all of this can go to Stephen King, who beside writing the story, also attempted to have a go at directing a movie all by himself this time. It was the first and as of yet also the only time he ever did this, which should tell you enough already. It's a really sloppy made and directed movie, which isn't just due to its silly and simplistic story. The story flow is really lacking at times and so is any of the character development, or the directing of the actors. I still have no idea why the movie decided on following these persons, considering that the 'catostrofy' was happening to everybody on Earth, at the same time. Surely there could had been far more interesting places with far more interesting characters for this movie to take place.A typical genre-flick, that got poorly done and is one that you can easily do without.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Sit back and get ready for some fun","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" What is the clown-faced truck? Is it fun to crawl in a drainage ditch? Is that a twenty or thirty caliber machine-gun that jeep is shooting at me? She may be cute, but why is she so hyper? What green cloud?Yes, it's all in this movie, and yes there is blood, blood, and more blood. Lot of tongue in cheek stuff, and once you get past some of the stuff, the rest is kinda fun to watch.Yes, if you want to just waste some time and get lost in a kinda funny movie - then this is it!I do have to admit though, the actors did a a good job, as did the vehicles and machines) "},{"Title":"It Shook Me All Night Long- with scarinessness!","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is one of THE great films of the 80s, featuring some of the biggest stars in Hollywood. Emilio Sheen, Lisa Simpson, and Stevie-Nix-King head up the terrific cast in this brutal, haunting, and often sad story of man versus machine set in the future (about 2 weeks I think). Based on one of King's most famous works- Cujo, the film follows a weekend in the lives of a bunch of Hicks who are surrounded, tormented, and murdered by their favourite household appliances- microwaves, TVs, Big Blue Pleasure Devices, chair lifts, and of course staples. The main threat though comes from their cars, their motorbikes, their trucks, vans, and hover crafts. They all get stranded in a diner off Route 66, and in classic Night Of Lovely Dead style they argue and fight amongst themselves whilst trying to solve the main problem and escape the nightmare in one or three pieces.Emil Esteves is a loner, a truck driver who just happens to pull into the diner for a burger and a litre of coffee, and perhaps to make a deposit in the traps. He meets an assortment of locals, weirdos, and workers but soon after all Hades breaks loose. One customer is in trap 1, but when he tries to flush it gurgles speech at him. 'Honey, this la-vor-a-tory just called called me an ass hole!' he cries. It retaliates further by spewing forth what he had previously spewed forth in a glorious twist of irony. Soon people are being stabbed, crushed, decapitated, and victimised. This film has what idiots call the likability factor. In other words- you can like it. There isn't much of a story after the first 12 minutes as the final hour is just scenes of carnage accompanied by music by metal band ABBA. Occasionally Yardon Smith (From the Simpson Family programme) shrieks something unintelligibly which would usually make me want to cut out my eyes and replace them with some sort of larvae, but here it serves to increase the tension. With superb actings throughout, lots of killings, and plenty of naked action, this is one of the all time must sees.Best Scene When that weirdo looking freak (whoever he is he should never be allowed near another film again!) at the start trying to reason with a cash machine but it keeps calling him a twatbag! "}{"Title":"An entertaining little flick","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Wow this movie just takes off with no hesitation. It had just enough character development to keep you caring for the humans against the machines. I especially was rooting for the kid that knew the Morse code. Hoping that he would stay alive. When the kids get killed on the baseball team and the kid I like gets away I was hoping nothing would happen to him more than anyone else. When kids get killed in horror films you immediately have a cult classic and this movie didn't hold a lot back. I also liked that the machines didn't have much to say except for Give us gas and We're in charge. And for the horror fans there's just enough gore for ya. "},{"Title":"What a great classic action/sci-fi!","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I gave it 10 out of 10, gotta get that overall rating a lot higher! I can't believe the low ratings on here! I don't know a single person who hates this movie! I thought it was common knowledge that this was a great original movie!?It's one of those movies that you can really put yourself into it. This movie is a great 80's action/sci-fi/horror movie. The plot is simple, yet kind of silly. I mean back then most cars were carbureted or had primitive fuel injection with little to zero computers in them, so it doesn't make sense. However if they did a remake of this movie today, it would make much more sense, obviously 90% of things out there are computer assisted or controlled completely.But this is a good classic 80's action horror movie, it is cheesy at times. Certain things don't make any sense at all, but it has some good solid action and tons of explosions and guns. It's funny watching something like this, because when I was younger, this movie scared the daylight out of me, but now, it's just plain ol' hilarious! I mean how can you NOT out run a big-rig or just step out of the way at the last second as it's charging you!? Those things have the speed and agility of a house on wheels! It's just funny things like that, and all of the killing scenes just had me laughing out loud! It's kind of hard to take it serious, it's not done completely cheesy and fake, it could have been a thousand times worse if someone other than King directed it. But it's still funny to think these idiots can't get out of the way of a big rig coming from over 200 yards away! But the movie makes good effort to stay realistic with a lot of scenes. The acting of Emilio and the lead girl, along with a few other characters aren't that bad at all, but some of the acting done by everyone else was kind of goofy at times.But it's an original classic movie, no stupid over-paid actors or Oscars here! But that's what makes this movie great, plus ACDC has a million songs throughout this entire movie, and it really goes perfect with the flow of things ( a lot of 80's movies are known for doing this......)But it's got a good soundtrack, and good flow, a lot better than the crappy music they make today! If you can even call it music! "},{"Title":"A Fun Ride","Date":"25 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The poster tag ...masterpiece of terror directed by the master himself may be a little bit of an overstatement. In reality, Maximum Overdrive is one of the campiest, most fun horror flicks of the eighties. And, it's pretty easy to see that it was intentional when the first scene has an ATM calling Stephen King an asshole.The plot is pretty simple. The earth passes through the tail of a comet and, without warning, all of earth's machines take on a life of their own. Oh, and they are murderous. Can't forget that part. We never actually come into any realization as to why the machines are rebelling, I guess it's technically possible that there are invisible aliens that are driving the trucks around. The main story follows a group of people that are surrounded by circling semi-trucks inside a gas station. These include a pervy Bible salesman, newly wed couple, and a badass ex-con played by the Mighty Duckman himself, Emilio Estevez.Just look at the poster to get a sense of the overall awesomeness of the film. Yeah, I think it's a picture of a well-bearded Steve King breaking through a trailer holding strings attached to semi-trucks like he was the puppet master of so many marionettes. Then you've got Gordon Bombay holding an M16 like he's gone commando while standing next to the female lead.The characters are underdeveloped, the plot is so full of holes it's ridiculous, and the gore is fairly light, but dammit, this movie just works for me. It's such a ridiculous premise and the leads play it completely straight, ostensibly to give the terror some legitimacy. But the cheese that spews forth from Emilio playing a hard nosed ex-con taking on both shitty boss Pat Hingle (who is excellent by the way) and an onslaught of nefarious, sentient trucks is just amazing beyond words. If somebody pitched that movie to me, I would green light it faster than you can say Another Stakeout.At this point, let me go back and address the gore, and say that I have only seen the cut version - word is there is another print of the film that has all the kills in tact. I'm holding out hope that the infamous little kid run over by a steamroller kill gets even more awesome in the uncut version.I also want to discuss a little bit about, at least what I see as, the major plot holes. For instance, why are some machines controlled by the alien force, and some are not. Why does the force not just take over the newly weds car instead of trying to use a dump truck to squash them? It seems like it would be easier. We also know that the force is capable of taking over simpler machines, like guns (as is seen when the rolling machine gun acts as a sentry at the gas station), but in the final act all of our protagonists use guns in an attack against the truck menace. It boggles my mind! I'm assuming that someone of King's caliber recognized this and either didn't feel the need to address it, addressed it and it was cut, or just didn't give a damn.But, the fact of the matter is that none of these flaws make me like the film any less. In fact, I think they are kind of endearing. In reality, I should think that this movie is pretty shitty, and maybe it is, but I happen to think it's awesome. "},{"Title":"ermmm...where should i start??","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Well,i just don't believe it! People are giving higher stars for stupid sci-fi movies such as dark knight, matrix trilogy, blade runner and bla bla bla... Let's get straight to the point, is MO good or not?? In my opinion of course it is not the best,not a classic either, but it is a good movie to enjoy. What else do we want from a Stephen King movie?? I used to be a fan of Stephen King, so i really think that this movie should be given at least 6 stars or higher! MO has good elements in it, and KIng always create a story which is very very unique and out of mind. Machine@trucks ruling the world?? Whoever in this goddamn world would think of such an idea?? The acting is simply good with Pat Hingle and Emilio Estevez in this particular movie!Come on...why would u hate a movie like this?? It's simply enjoyable!10/10*** (Excellent) "},{"Title":"An awesome soundtrack","Date":"11 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" It's common to see a Stephen King movies based off his novels but its uncommon to see him direct, write (all from trucks one of his short stories), and even make an appearance in the beginning of the movie. The whole movies soundtrack is from AC/DC's album Who made Who except for a couple songs the whole album was used. Emilio Esteves stars in the movie if you liked him in the Breakfast club I'm not sure if your going to like him here.The story is a bit sketchy with having 2 reason's why the trucks go insane and start killing people but I'm not going to spoil any thing. Also I've notice some minor details like when they use the M72 anti tank missile launcher you don't reload it you throw it away. Over all Its a movie worth seeing I give it 5 stars for the musical aspect. So check it out. "},{"Title":"fun movie","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is Science Fiction, or perhaps Horror. Machines come alive due to a comet passing overhead (Okay, about as scientific as Day of the Triffids), and these machines start killing people.The machines have demonic intentions. It appears that whatever the comet possessed, be it energy or whatever, is more likely a supernatural being than a force of Nature. The chief causes of destruction are motor vehicles, and semis are extremely dangerous.What makes this interesting are the characters. Pat Hingle is the rottenest of them, but he always seems to find good movies to participate in.There are a lot of likable characters that we can relate to or identify, and we can genuinely care about what happens during the film. They are isolated, holed up in a diner, and try to survive.This is a fun movie, with lots of fun comments that can keep an audience interest level up. "},{"Title":"God awful but fun","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Well, Mr. King has demonstrated on several occasions why writers are normally not allowed to be anywhere near the filming of their own works. To his credit, he has shown improvement in this department...though the TV miniseries adaptation of The Stand is still something you couldn't consider good by any stretch of the imagination, it was a cut above this film.This is the sort of movie you loved as a kid because you are gullible enough to be scared by the premise and the violence. Classic and good for a few laughs, no doubt.Mr. King has written some wonderful novels, but still has yet to direct anything that comes up to that level. "},{"Title":"Well boys and girls put on your silly hats.","Date":"30 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The plot (Based off of a short story by Stephen King called Trucks) centers around a group of people trapt in a gas station by a group of big bad semi trucks, trying to survive because apparently some sort of a comet is passing by the earth and wouldn't you know it, it's bringing the machines alive to kill us. They are lead by a good hearted ex con(Emilio Estevez) and his spunky and newly acquired girl friend. Side dishes also include the boss/owner,(who has a stash of automatic rifles and rocket launchers in the basement no less) a newly wed couple with the most annoying bride you'll ever have the displeasure of meeting, and a waitress who is going off her rocker (WE MADE YOU!)Stephen King decided that after a slew of movie adapts of his novels that he didn't enjoy, that if he wanted it done right he would have to do it himself. In all respects I think he was right. It has all the dark humor and blood and guts of one of his books.(Not even the kids are spared in a hilarious attack by a disgruntled soda machine!) He also hand pick the band AcDc to provide the score and its a beyond perfect fit. If your looking for a movie that doesn't take itself or the viewer seriously, check this one out. I doubt you'll be disappointed. Who made who indeed. I give it 8 lawn-mower attacks out of 10 "},{"Title":"the movie","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" eh the movie is pretty odd its funny then it try to make you scared of some crazy trucks along with any thing electrical killing everyone.it has not been done a lot in movies because most people would just laugh it off and not even get it but come on when will you ever see a movie like this again you wont so you should just go rent it.the only bad things about this movie lets see budget you can tell very easily, and some of the actors are a bit lame.but but but you must see the trucks kill people and have a show down its so funny wow another movie i would say get is duel its a bit like this just minus the crazy electrical stuff and have a plot with just a man and a nother man chasing one in other so yeah if you could not tell i don't really try to be proper when i type i just type anything that pops in my head so sorry if your confused "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Everyone will want to see this movie. The AC/DC soundtrack is awesome! However, this movie is not really all that scary. The only part even remotely scary about it was when the kid that crashed the bike was crushed by a steamroller...I hate movies that involve slaughtering children... SEE THIS MOVIE! It contains some violence, but it's crappy... and, there are some mild problems that Stephen King did not think about---- 1. People do not stand in front of vehicles as they speed at them! Duh! Move it!2. The back blast from the bazookas would fry everyone behind the shooter!3. A few magnetic pulses from a comet will not cause vehicles to kill everyone! "}{"Title":"Not the best but entertaining","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I'm 17 now so obviously I wasn't around when the movie was released theatrically. I was introduced to the movie when my older sister rented it for her and her boyfriend when i was little (about 3-4). I was able to watch it with them because my sister is cool like that and man, i was blown away watching my first horror movie.Getting down to the actual movie. I used to be a fan of this movie when i was little. It's about Billy (Estevez) and a group of employees working at a gas station. One day the earth passes by a comet and causes machines to go into Maximum Overdrive. Soon we meet people in North Carolina that start stopping by the Gas Station called the Dixie Boy, where Billy and the gang works, like Brett and Curtis and his annoying wife. While at the gas station the crew are forced to stay inside while the machines surround them and would kill anyone who tries to escape.It's not the best horror movie ever but definitely not the worst. I give it 8 stars because it's a horror movie but it's also a comedy in some ways. I recommend the movie for people who are looking for a movie thats fresh. Definitely not for the serious horror fans but for someone looking for a thrilling time. "},{"Title":"The twisted mind of Stephen King, ya gotta love it.","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I remember the very first time I saw this movie, I was 9 years old, and my mother took my brother and I, in our old 52 Chevy pick up to the drive in movie theater. Back then, being 9 years old, I thought it was the scariest movie I had ever seen, whenever I'd see a diesel truck I'd feel intimidated, however now at 26 years old, those old feelings have passed. This is a movie that you either love or hate. I really don't see it as a horror movie now, but maybe just as a gory comedy. I can't help but to laugh at some scenes, especially with Curtis and Connie, but it's not a movie that puts any kind of fright into you. I sometimes wonder how it would have turned out, had John Carpenter directed it, since he did an excellent job with Stephen King's Christine, but I guess we'll never know. I haven't seen the T.V. version called Trucks, yet, but I hear it's pretty bad. If anyone knows where I can find a copy of it, or if anyone knows which book Mr. King had the short story in, please let me know. As far as the acting, Emilio did an alright job, however I think they could have found a better actress for the role of Brett, I've seen Laura Harrington in other movies I thought she did a great job in, but she just didn't fit this part. Yeardly Smith and John Short do make a cute couple, and her accent and nagging gives the movie that little something extra to make you laugh. Pat Hingle as Mr. Hendershot did an excellent job, although I think Mr. Hendershot should have been creamed by one of the trucks, I didn't care for him at all. All in all I have to say this movie is good for us twisted minded people, seeing people run down, blood splattering all over, what more can ya ask for? Hopefully in another 10 years they'll have a remake of it, and maybe include the seconds of scenes they had to delete from the original, but this time add whatever it is that's missing that will make this a true horror movie. The Fog has been remade, The Amityville Horror, and a few others have been done, who knows what they'll make over next! "},{"Title":"good fun","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Look, this isn't Tarantino, but I think this film is pretty cool. I'll acknowledge the fact that it suffers from a case of the stupids, but I had so much fun watching this. I easily can compare it to Dreamcatcher, which King had no direct involvement with- other than it being based on his novel; and think this is far superior. Dreamcatcher- the novel, is an incredibly over the top, hilarious book with some catchy one liners and an alien invasion launched out of somebody's a**S-hole! The film however, takes itself far to seriously, mutating something that could have been deliberately funny, into that dangerous area of being unintentionally funny... Maximum Overdrive, at no point- pretends to be anything other than it is and that's why I get a kick out of it.*Some spoilers herin* You know from the opening scene that this is not a horror film. King's cameo is hilarious and probably his best to date. And it has all of those wonderful King archetypes; the banding together of characters and story lines and your typical- suburban nightmare setting.There are some really fun and cool lines- such as Curtis, don't you make me a widow on my wedding day... And some cool scenes- like when the kid is riding on his bike and the sprinklers come to life behind him. He senses their presence and turns around, only for them to turn off.Camp, over the top, occasionally violent, off-your face action romp. Don't expect The Green Mile or Dolourous Claibourne, but its a popcorn film with just enough edge to get you through. "},{"Title":"Be Careful or be Roadkill","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The mistake of Maximum Overdrive is that it tries to make a 90 minute movie out of, essentially, a collection of punch lines and a clich ensemble. Granted, the opening of the movie is priceless, the first 20 minutes is hilarious, and then it slowly runs out of steam over the next half hour leaving the whole last half of the film with no fuel whatsoever - interesting note, this final half is the part of the film transcribed directly from its source material.Perhaps my problem lay in the fact that I really didn't care about the characters at all. Live, die, escape, or wind up with the short story's ending - I didn't care. Heck, I only tolerated these buffoons for the comedy aspect, but by the midpoint of the film that was tired and there's no way in hell I'm taking them seriously.Usually when a film is made from written material, I still find suspense in wondering how the filmmakers will execute the story. For Friedkin's version of the Exorcist, Scott's rendition of Black Hawk Down, and Coppola's take on the Godfather, sure I knew the ending going into it, but I still find myself leaning forward in my chair in anticipation of what came next. This also applies to every new viewing of these films that I've already seen. A film done correctly, never really loses that feeling. Sure, Bride of Frankenstein doesn't scare me, but I still find myself anxious to see the next moment of brilliance. As Maximum Overdrive starts to wind down, the readers of Night Shift know pretty much what will happen and how it will happen. With the comedic punch abandoning the empty ship, do I need to finish this paragraph and describe how I didn't care enough to want to see the rest? Not even a rewrite of the ending could renew my interest, not when my complaints are rooted as far back as the beginning of the film. Nothing could have renewed my interest, which leaves the great question of 'Why bother?' To which I break the laws of good English and answer, 'What the hell? Why not?' Whether or not Maximum Overdrive is a good movie isn't really a question worth pursuing despite some critics who make it a crusade to bash the film by taking it out of context in overly long reviews . . . as if you needed to take the movie out of context to bash it. The real question is 'How much of Maximum Overdrive can you tolerate before it gets old?' And for those film snobs who take cinema too seriously, don't bother with that question. Instead, I suggest reading John (Arrow in the Head) Fallon's review and take careful note of the all caps written specifically for you. "},{"Title":"Poor adaptation of Stephen King short story.","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is probably the worst film adaptation of a Stephen King story yet. The AC/DC music in the sound track is the only positive thing about this film, and the only reason I gave it a 3. The film is a commentary on greed and the evils of technology. In a sense, it is reminiscent of The Sorcerer's Apprentice, but badly done. The plot, script, and acting are uninspiring and lame. It's a mystery to me how good actors such as Emilio Estevez and Pat Hingle could become involved in this mess. The well-equipped armory in the truck stop basement was unbelievable enough, but how did the characters so quickly learn how to use the automatic weapons and rocket launchers? And why didn't the weapons, being machines themselves, turn on the characters as well? Final verdict 3rd rate drive-in fare. "},{"Title":"Not Stepehen King's best, but still good.","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie years ago, and when I was about 10 I thought this was the best movie I had ever seen, of course now my tastes have changed, but I still enjoy this movie. I think the soundtrack fits the film and it's easy to watch. There are a few questions I have like, 1) How does the electric knife turn it's self around? 2) Why only trucks come to life and not cars? 3)And this one I really can't figure out, how did the bridge controllers not hear that machine start up, and the big crank. i mean you would think they would recognize that sound. But all in all I still like this movie. "},{"Title":"hilariously funny and a good vehicular horror","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  IF YOU'VE EVER BEEN NASTY TO THEM...THEY'RE AFTER YOU!This film is a kick ass movie, especially for anyone who likes vehicles. there is lots of blood and gore, explosions, hundreds of Rigs, and now they are in control!The characters in this truck stop never knew what hit them before it was too late...The Trucks Are In Charge...this film will probablly make you think twice before you bad mouth a Big Rig again...or just maybe it'll come after you...and kill you.i give this film a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great Entertainment","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  If you like the special effects of films like Matrix,then you will be unhappy about this film.But apart from that it's really good.First of all I have to comment on the excellent soundtrack provided by AC/DC with great songs such as Hell's Bells and You Shook Me All Night Long.It's also amusing the way that the film treats death as a cause of laughter,eg. when a kid gets run over by a steamroller and when the coach gets killed by flying Cola cans!It's very satisfying when Hendershot uses the rocket launcher for the first time,hehe.This film is action from the start,balancing humour with seriousness.A must see. "},{"Title":"The best soundtrack","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I have seen this movie a number of times, and some people may call me crazy but this is one of my all time fav. movies. The acting is not all that great and some of it my not make any sense but it's a horror movie. If you don't get into the movie itself the Killer soundtrack will. If you are into gore see this movie!!!! "},{"Title":"I'm shocked!","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Of all the Stephen King books and short stories that have been made into films, I was completely taken aback by the number of negative reviews for this movie!  I remember seeing it when it first came out and having the s*** scared out of me!  As for those who claim that King could never direct a movie, has anyone seen The Stand?Tops to King for a great first experience in sci-fi/horror! "}{"Title":"Funny!","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is more funny than scary! I think thats the way it was supposed to be. It's about machines coming alive and wanting to kill people. *Spoiler Warning!* The steamroller part was very fake looking. You could see that the kid had a fake head and his shirt was full of socks to make it look like it was real. THat was funny! "},{"Title":"If you want Oscar Caliber Performances Check this one out!!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  My god where to begin this movie is Fantastic...I did only figure this out after seeing it about 189 times. Here is why this movie is Great..1. AC/DC did the soundtrack. What more could you ask for..2. The FINE acting skills of a Emilio Estevez.3. Machines running by themselves..Jesus! What a Concept.4. The 1st ever time you will see a Lawnmower Chasing someone to kill them and also a Coke Machine Killing someone. It doesnt get much better. Well unless you put Chris Elliott in it and called it Maximum Cabin Boy...  "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!!!","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  this has to be one of the classics. sub-par special effects and great music make this one of the greatest movies i have ever seen. as being king's first directiorial debut (as so i have heard) this movie is great from the YOU ARE AN AS***LE at the ATM machine to the adios Mother F****r at the end. 10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Worth it.","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Many people believe this is one of the cheesiest movies of all time. I love this movie, and am able to watch it over and over again. This is the classic tale of good versus evil, and everyone who is a little bad morally in this movie is giving their fair shake. It is a lot better than the other movie that was recently made, known as Trucks, just because Stephen King directed this one. I love almost every movie that Stephen King directs, and always will. "},{"Title":"I give 7/10","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I don't know if i'd chalk this with Horror movies, but it's definitely thrilling. It's got pretty good action, and it even has a pretty good story line that's always in motion. And Emilio Estevez did an excellent job with his character. It may not be King's greatest work, but when i see it on T.V., i stop to watch. "},{"Title":"Ranks up there with Evil Dead","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I first saw this film when It first came on video (probably 1987) I thought it was a good movie. I recently revisited because of my crush on Yeardely Smith. The movie is one of Stephen King's best, and has a few laugh out loud moments. A definite must for any horror fan. "},{"Title":"If You like low budget horror movies - see it.","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I saw Maximum Overdrive three times. And every time I saw it I really liked it, in spite of lack of originality, shortage of logic in the plot and love scene in it. Somehow the film can be compared with Steven Spielberg's Duel where a man resisted abstracted evil. In Maximum Overdrive this theme has an aim to make people laugh. On the other side humour in Maximum Overdrive is not so brightly outlined as in Tremors. Nevertheless it's a good movie and everyone who likes independent horror filmes will appreciate it. "},{"Title":"The Trucks Stop Here","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" According to the opening, planet Earth passes into the extraordinarily diffuse tail of Rhea-M, a rogue comet for several days. This causes machines on our world to come alive and get angry. Well, if Earth can pass through a comet (instead of the other way around), and comets can go rogue, then machines can become animated and lust for blood... By the film's end, a completely different explanation is offered. This bloody mess was written and directed by successful horror writer Stephen King, who appears in an apt cameo with a mouthy ATM machine, in an opening sequence. Mr. King should have left this story where it belonged, as part of a 1960s Lost in Space episode.*** Maximum Overdrive (7/25/86) Stephen King ~ Emilio Estevez, Holter Graham, Pat Hingle, Laura Harrington "},{"Title":"Hilarious...absolutely hilarious","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I don't know what it is about this movie, maybe it's the Stephen King fanboy in me, or maybe even the huge fan of 1980's horror in me, but I love this movie. Every rational, film appreciating bone in my body tells me I should feel otherwise, but I just can't help it....I love Maximum Overdrive, and I'm not afraid to admit it.The story is weak, and the acting (aside from that of Emilio Estevez and a select few others) is even weaker, but I can't help but like the simplicity of this movie. It hearkens back to a simpler time when horror movies were a dime a dozen (seemingly being churned out at a rate of two to three new offerings per week) but at the same time you wanted to see every single one of 'em. It's what makes the 1980's the greatest decade for the horror film genre. The offerings were, for the most part, pretty darn good.Stephen King's Maximum Overdrive is no different. Although King may have originally been aiming for something on a grander scale (and he may have succeeded in doing so had his alleged cocaine-induced haze not have incapacitated him so), what he ended up with is something that distinguishes itself from the competition. A somewhat original story idea (although I believe the stuff about earth passing through the tail of a comet may have been lifted from George Romero's Night of the Living Dead) that involves a simple plot and basic character development, but excels in visuals and all-around entertainment.It's a fun movie, and it is just as much fun in 2010 as it is when I first saw it back in 1987. If you haven't seen it, see it. If you have, then see it again! "},{"Title":"Seriously lame.","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" As many found this film funny I thought it was boring, for something coming from Stephen King this was seriously lame, the film never built up any kind of suspense nor did it have an interesting storyline, the acting itself was weak, one dimensional doesn't come close to describing the characters and the cast are all great actors but they truly suck in this film.Seriously though, despite the fact that the only Stephen King book I read was THE TOMMYKNOCKERS, this film is bad compared to the others, if you want someone to do Stephen King right, get David Cronenberg who directed THE DEAD ZONE which is possibly the best Stephen King adaptation ever and you don't have to take my word for it, just check out its IMDb web page. "}{"Title":"Maximum Overdrive","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The MORON MOVIE, if there ever was one, I have no right whatsoever defending it. It's a hunk of pure garbage, but I just couldn't stop laughing at it. I think this was completely made as a tongue-in-cheek comedy not as some sort of horror flick to be taken at all seriously. Most consider Stephen King, as director and writer, the equivalent of Ed Wood with this flick and it's insane premise about trucks and other various machinery running amok killing human beings once a mysterious comet surrounds the Earth. The film's main setting is a truck stop where a collection of workers, truckers, and other passersby are trapped inside the Dixie Boy while diesels circle awaiting some sort of command which later comes when a military jeep, equipped with a machine gun, makes it's way on the scene. The machine gun also serves as the jeep's eyes! Emilio Estevez is Bubba, an ex-con having to work overtime without getting paid extra thanks to Pat Hingle's sonofabitch boss at the Dixie Boy, Hendershot. Laura Harrington is a drifter heading to her family in Florida named Brett who falls for Bubba. Connie and Curtis(Yeardly Smith and John Short) are newlyweds who almost get crashed by a renegade diesel and find their way to the Dixie Boy. Ellen McElduff is waitress Wanda June, who never quite recovers her sanity with a mechanical knife attacks her. Holter Graham is the young kid, Deke whose dad was murdered by one of the trucks at Dixie Boy.The film is full of ridiculous gags such as a bible salesman who gets hit by a truck so hard, the camera pans back revealing his shoes..he was hit so hard the truck knocked him out of his shoes! You have a plane running on it's own as Ride of the Valkyries plays! You have a homicidal coke machine spitting out full cans which smash in the skull of the coach of a little league baseball team while other tykes get hammered as well. One poor kid, trying to escape on his bike, gets squashed by a steamroller, for crying out loud! The most memorable scene to me is when young Deke rodes his bike down a neighborhood where we witness the carnage of the machine attacks as bodies lay strewn all over the place with heads hanging out of windows, laying dead by their hammocks, legs sticking out of bushes, etc. Hell, there's even a dead dog with a toy mechanical car wedged in it's mouth! Somehow, Bubba will have to lead those capable enough to survive out of this difficult situation..perhaps a sewer tunnel system might be an option at their disposal.It's all played for shock value, nothing more or less. What's even more hilarious is when the trucks desire for the remaining survivors left to feed them gas! The damn jeep uses Morse code to communicate with them for petesake! Check your brains at the door for this one! Just see how King explains what might've actually caused the rampage..it's quite absurd really. "},{"Title":"Maximum Overdrive Review","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" PLEASE NOTE THAT THIS REVIEW CONTAINS A SPIOLER!!!In 1980 the Earth went through the tail of mysterious comet. For 3 days Earth's machines, Trucks, cars, electronics and planes become living things and tried to enslave Earth. A group of people were trapped at the Dixie Boy Truck Stop in West Virginia and battled their way to freedom. In my opinion this movie was the most amazing thing I have ever seen, and it should be because it came from the mind of Stephen King. The AC/DC soundtrack, the crazy trucks, the actors were all perfect.Sure the movie techincally sucked. Half the time you were looking right at the camera men and crews through the reflection of a truck bumper and the effects sucked and the acting was questionable. But if you are looking for an entertaining, exciting and suspenseful movie to enjoy this is your best bet. If you are looking for something to complain about please go away. Who in their right mind doesn't like trucks, car crashes and good suspense? "},{"Title":"This is usually where I would put some witty comment but I'll refrain...this time.","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Maximum Overdrive. Sure it has its share of flaws. Sure it may be silly at times. And sure, it may be a bad movie. BUT THAT'S THE POINT!!!!Maximum Overdrive is an intentionly campy movie like Army of Darkness. I mean come on. Do you think a film would have ATMs cussing people out and steamrollers squishing tots and try to be taken seriously?! Stephen King said it himself. This thing was meant to be a comedy and is now a cult classic. Now the remake Trucks is an entirely different story. Trucks is an appalling attempt at trying to make this loud black comedy into a moody end-of-the-world flick and failing miserbly. So if you're tired of seeing all the gloom of Misery and all the creepy un-nerving images in The Shining, see Maximum Overdrive, a welcome change of pace.P.S.- I wasn't saying anything bad about Misery and The Shining, which are think are phenomenal films, I was just using them as comparisons.  "},{"Title":"a big waste of time","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I just watched this movie last night. i figure that it be at least half decent. Because the great horror writer Stephen King directed it.  Boy i was wrong, dead wrong. It just takes to long to get to a point to this movie and when it does it feels like you just been robbed 1 1/2 hours of your time. I rather take a long nap then watch this flick.  "},{"Title":"So bad its . . . bad","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  There may be spoilers here, but it doesn't matter in a movie this asinine and predictable.  Machines start operating independently and killing people.  An Army jeep-like thing (with an M-60 mounted that it can fire!) knows Morse code (as does the de rigueur precocious kid).   And good thing, too, or the humans wouldn't know to pump gas for the machines and there goes half the move.   And why would a toy store put a scary face on their trucks?  To scare off customers?   Do people who like this kind of movie like thinking, Oh, he's about to die 'cause he's evil/stupid/greedy/whimpy/etc. and then watch it happen?  There's no reason, explanation (other than some text at the end about a Russian satellite or a UFO or something but by that time who the heck cares) about anything making sense.  This movie is beyond stupid.  There is nothing good about this movie, the writing, the acting, the direction, nothing.  Well, Laura Harrington's cute, though.  Or was 18 years ago. "},{"Title":"A waste of 97 minutes of your life!!!","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Maximum Overdrive is no doubt, THE WORST MOVIE I'VE EVER SEEN!! This movie is a not- see. Maximum Overdrive is a waste of 97 minutes of life. There are millions of movies that are twenty times better than this. It is one of the few movies that I absolutely hate! It has a horrible, stupid storyline. Emilio Esteves would be looking back on it, and crying. The climax is so pathetic that you could cry in pity. I would not recommend this movie to anyone, the only reason someone would watch this movie, is because they hadn't read any reviews about it, or watched it to get a laugh over idiocy. This is the worst movie in all eternity. "},{"Title":"This movie is as bad as it gets.","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have ever seen.  Stick to your day job Stephen King.  This is the type of movie that should be studied at film schools as how not to make a movie.  The acting, writing, directing, and special effects are so bad that I can't believe this movie was even released. "},{"Title":"Get Real!","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie is the dumbest thing I have ever seen in my life! Car killing people is the dumbest concept in all of humanity! It's just as dumb as killer tomatoes and Shark-nado. All of these type of reasons are proof that writers have no grip on common sense and it is just insulting to the world of reality. If I ever have to see this movie again I swear I'll go jump off a bridge because I never want to have to see pictures of this movie again! It's so bad that if you saw it for just a minute you'll most definitely want your money back. Now that I'm writing about it I just want to gag from my ruined childhood. This is something nobody should ever have to see, it's just torture in a shell. Overall it's a 0 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Head Scratcher and A Headbanger&#x85;Mostly It's Just Annoying","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King has done Everything but get On His Knees and Beg His Legion of Disciples for Forgiveness Concerning This His Only Directorial Effort. It Seems Like an After the Fact, Insincere, Cover Up for His Lack of Movie Making Talent. He Says He Set Out to Make a Moron Movie. Check. He Says that He was Coked Up Out of His Mind When Making it. Double Check. So What's the Problem?There are No Excuses Necessary. The Movie IS Moronic with its Crude Characters and Toilet House Humor. The Acting is Bad and Comes from Usually Bad Actors. The Best Director in the World is Not Going to Get Anything Different from Emilio Estevez who Looks and Sounds and Acts the Same in Every Movie He's Ever Made. Pat Hingle is Over the Top Even When He Tries to Dial it Back and there is No Such Thing Going On Here.It Doesn't Date Very Well, but the Movie has a Few Classic Horror Movie Creeps, Like when the Boy on the Bicycle Wheels Through the Suburbs. The First Half of the Movie is the Best with that and the Bridge Scene. But the Juvenile Jokes Wear Thin Quickly and the Characters Get More Annoying with Each Passing Minute and by the End it is just a Pile Up of the Same Schtick in Overdrive.Worth a Watch for Some Interesting Scenes with the Gory Ones the Best. Recommended for Bad Movie Fans, Stephen King Completists, and those that Enjoy Dirty and Crude, Off-Color Humor. The Movie's Ten Million Dollar Budget is the Biggest Mystery in this Flop that is Full of Such Wonders. It's a Mess Really, and AC/DC Fans Seem to be its Biggest Supporters and that's Not Surprising for Such a Headbanger of a Movie. "},{"Title":"Starts off fun, but the shine wears off.","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" A weird comet makes machines run by themselves, and come to life. The machines target a select group at Dixie Boy Truck Stop. Bill Robinson (Estevez) is forced to rally his crew, to fight back against the machines, or they might be next. I picked this up on DVD years ago, because it was cheap. To be perfectly honest, I've never really cared for this movie. It's never boring, but it's far too brainless to truly enjoy. Most of the time, I can put my brain aside, but I couldn't in this movie. You'd think that evil vehicles wreaking havoc would be fun, right? Not really. This movie doesn't make much sense! There is not enough info for my liking! I wanted to know much more than what they gave us. There are many plot holes as well. Why did the trucks take almost 90 minutes to attack the diner inside the truck stop? I get that the trucks wanted to toy with the characters, but it was a really silly plot hole. Quite frankly, the characters that survived had no business doing so. I did enjoy the mind games from the machines, but it got incredibly stale after a while. The first half is actually rather fun. It begins with a chaotic scene on the bridge, and it's awesome! It cons you into thinking that you may have a good time. It's near the second half when things start to truly unravel. It started to drag and run out of tricks, to the point where I no longer cared anymore. Even the ACDC filled soundtrack begins to get boring. There is plenty of gore! These machines have a mean streak. Kids are killed in bloody fashion (Ouch!) Soda cans destroy people. People are run over by trucks in grisly fashion, and more! That Happy Toys Truck didn't play around. I hated most of the characters in this movie, except for two! Emilio Estevez has that boyish charm in spades! He's one of the characters that I sympathized with. He was a lot of fun and you know what you're getting with him. Pat Hingle plays the prick well, but he goes overboard with it! I got sick and tired of his Hey, Bubba! routine. Laura Harrington plays a likable love interest and I dug her for the most part. She felt like a real human being. Yeardley Smith is fine, but annoyed the crap out of me as Connie. Her nagging made me wanna smack her. John Short is OK, but not much more. Holter Graham is actually non-annoying as the kid! It's great to see a kid character that is enjoyable to watch. Stephen King did an average job of directing. He later admitted that he was really high on coke while directing this movie. Stephen King films are always a mixed bag. I'm pretty positive this movie is a reason Stephen King hasn't directed much since. It has moments that are enjoyable, especially the first half! It just grows increasingly sillier as it goes along and the fun begins to dissipate. Add in a few beers and that will help, but it isn't as fun as it sounds. 5.3/10 "}{"Title":"Plumbing the Depths of Stephen King Cinema","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Disheartened by a score of sh!tty movies made from his catalogue of novels and short stories the coked up author cut a deal with Dino de Laurentis to direct Maximum Overdrive based on his short story Trucks. If you want something done right, you've got to do it yourself King promised fans then proceeded to make not only the worst adaption of his written work but truly one of the WORST movies to ever come out of Hollywood. When earth passes through the tail of a comet the machines come to life with trucks leading the charge to take over the world. Basically, it's Night of the Living Dead with trucks instead of zombies set to the tune of AC/DC (because things weren't bad enough). An embarrassment to everyone involved. "},{"Title":"Forget Zombies! This is Truck apocalypse!","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Wow!! I see this movie many times in life but each view is always same! After movie finish it feels like I have medical problem! My heart beat very quickly. My arm hair stand straight and I get skin of the chicken. I name this illness Maximum Overdrive fever because it always come after watching Maximum Overdrive! This movie about Emilio Estevez who play cool guy working with trucks. Suddenly aliens come and make machines come alive and revenge on humans! Vending machines, cars, lawn mowers and of course big trucks which are the boss. So Emilio Estevez and other survivors hide at truck stop and battle trucks! The leader of trucks is one with green goblin face at front. When humans fighting with machines you can hear cool AC/DC music which cause excitement to increase! Sometimes there is another music which sound like chomp-chomp-chomp-chomp which not AC/DC music. This song and AC/DC music always play very loud so you can not understand what actors say. But it give you feeling to stand up from chair and punch air or high five your friend if watch together! Actually this can be great movie to watch while having work out! I definitely recommend this movie for all people likes horror action movies and AC/DC music!8 of 10 ******** "},{"Title":"Maximum Overdrive - A Review by Brandon Krzysztof","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Unplug all your electronics because the machines are taking over.When a comet passes Earth, something happens to machines and electronics all over the planet and start to operate on their own. When all this starts going down, several people take refuge at the Dixie Boy Truck Stop and try to ride this attack out. Little do they know that a bunch of semi-trucks operating on their own are on their way to the Dixie Boy and guard the area and make sure none of the people inside leave. After a while, they decide to concoct a counter measure and escape. The plot seems a little lame and the script is atrocious, but this movie doesn't disappoint or impress. If anything this movie is average, maybe a little below but it works. It can be classified in a few genres action, thriller, comedy, and maybe horror. The film has some subtle comedy, but where it is really funny is how incredibly bad it is. I think Stephen King, who wrote and directed Maximum Overdrive, knew that his screenplay was silly and over the top. Granted, he didn't intentionally want it to be horrible, but at this some of his books and short stories were already made into films so the audience knows what they are going to get with a Stephen King movie.Emilio Estevez is really the only big name in this film. He plays the parole grill cook Bill Robinson. His performance was decent considering the script and he delivers most of the one liners. Pat Hingle plays the truck shop owner who is selfish and morally insensitive. His performance could be described just like Estevez's, but way more over the top and annoying. There is also a two minute scene featuring a young Giancarlo Esposito, who you may know as Breaking Bad's' Gus Fring. Other than that, this cast is easily forgettable and full of undeveloped characters. It wouldn't be wrong to say that there would be a character you'd feel sad for if they died. The pace of the film moves pretty quickly and was a few exciting, good scenes. When the machines attack and the opening credit's bridge scenes are among my favorites in the film. Also the ending is kind of lame, but I will not spoil it. I'll leave that up to you to determine. I do like the fact the Stephen King wrote the short story, wrote a screenplay based on the story, and directed the film. It was nice to see the film through the eyes of talent like Mr. King. He also makes a cameo as well, a very funny one I might add. Being known for having a very creative mind, he really just makes this film based on a pretty generic idea. Really, how many movies have you seen about machines becoming self aware and operating on their own. But personally, I still like this idea. He took his idea from Christine and added a bunch of action and traded in the muscle car for a semi. alternate text Look out for the Goblin truck, he'll get ya!!Overall this film is far away from a great film, but not the worst I've seen. If one statement can describe this film it would be so bad it's good. I do think it is worth a viewing. It is a cult classic and you will always find it on cable. But it's definitely better if you watch the uncensored version. This is a fun movie and it has its moments, both good and bad, but it works. I don't think anyone will say they wasted their time with it. It has some cool scenes filled with action and comedy. Like I said, its not a masterpiece but its not downright horrible. Maximum Overdrive is just another ordinary Stephen King story twisted, gory, and thrilling.5 out of 10. Watch once, if you like it... watch again.bkstareviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"My moron movie...","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" How well I remember the night I saw this one at the drive-in. My expectations were a bit high, I guess, so I was more than a little shocked when this one had run its course. How could it have been so bad? It didn't add up Stephen King had criticized most of the filmmakers who'd adapted his books, so it seemed logical to assume that HE would do better- that HE would show them Hollywood boys how to make a movie... MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE isn't the worst movie ever made- far from it- but now I understand why King referred to it as my moron movie. In the years since the film's release, he's admitted that he was coked out of my mind most of the time he was directing it. That explains a lot. More's the pity I think the man could've gone on to be a decent filmmaker. "},{"Title":"Sodas! I'm buying....","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" When the tail of a comet passes through Earth's atmosphere, machines develop minds of their own, turning on their creators in bloody rebellion. At the Dixie Boy truck stop, workers and patrons alike are coming to grips with the horror as a series of bizarre accidents occur, some injurious, and some fatal. The parked trucks led by one sporting a green goblin face, start up on their own, circling the truck stop and preventing anyone from getting in or out. Trapped by the trucks, a young ex-con takes it upon himself to lead the rescue of anyone in the immediate vicinity who's life is in danger, and to escape the truck stop and head to safety. But things become more complicated when a machine-gun-mounted mobile platform orders each of the humans to pump gasoline for the trucks....This was one of the first Stephen King movies that was the start of the downhill quality of his adaptations, and ironically, the man directed this also.But it's fun, in a really grimy, exploitation, almost Grindhouse sort of way, and this is why it works. If you take away the fact that this is a horror movie, and just see it as a parody of horror, it's really enjoyable.From vending machines killing people, to ATMs cursing others.Estevez is okay in his role, and is ably supported by Hingle, And Bart Simpson.It's bad, but in that really cool guilty pleasure sort of way.. "},{"Title":"Stephen King's directorial debut, silly but entertaining.","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Maximum Overdrive starts by explaining that on 19th June 1987 the Earth passed into the extraordinarily diffuse tail of a comet called Rhea-M, according to calculations the Earth would remain in the tail of the comet for the next eight days. On Earth itself strange things begin happening, machines & electrical equipment start to turn sentient, almost alive like someone or something is controlling them. At first cash machines insult customers & bridges open & close on their own but soon the machines turns against humanity with cars & trucks running people down, electric carving knives slicing open anyone who ventures too near, vending machines that kill, video game machines that electrocute their players & even lawnmowers that cut up their owners. The Dixie Boy truck stop & Diner is attacked by a convoy of huge trucks that refuse to let the terrified people inside leave, as news of the outside events filter int the Dixie Boy it seems that the trucks have plans for the remaining humans. The trucks need fuel to run & make the few survivors fill their tanks which gives them enough time to work out a plan to escape...Stephen King's name attached to any sort of film seems to be worth money in Hollywood, the amount of his stories or books that have been adapted to the silver screen is testament to that & films with his name attached are still being made, both original works & remakes so he's as popular & well known now as he ever was. Of course he is one of the worlds best horror writers & recognisable names in the genre so why not? Unfortunately you could say that the works of Stephen King have fared reasonably well on the big screen, there's been the odd disaster but most are watchable enough with the odd classic thrown in but most are average. Realising this King opted to adapt his short story 'Trucks' & direct himself with uneven yet entertaining results. Maximum Overdrive is undoubtedly a silly film, some of the decisions the character's make are mind boggling while the story lends itself to some silly imagery & moments but somehow it works on a camp level. To be blunt, I liked Maximum Overdrive for what it is. From the coke vending machine that sends cans flying out with such force that it kills one guy to the opening scene where the cash machine calls a man played by King himself in an uncredited cameo an a hole to the gloriously bad taste moment when a huge steam roller runs over a ten year old kid there are many scenes & moments in Maximum Overdrive that will stay with you, it makes no great sense why some machines are affected & other's aren't while I refuse to believe a huge truck could 'creep' up on someone without them noticing it but again I think there's a real camp entertainment vale to be had here, any fan of junky films will love this. The character's are thin, there's not much of a story to get into but there's a definite watchability to it. At just under 100 minutes it has a good pace & doesn't feel that long which is good, I am sure there are many out there who hate Maximum Overdrive & that's fair enough but I liked it. Some of the dialogue is really bad, the scene set inside the Dixie Boy toilet when Emilio Estevez has to talk to a fat guy on a toilet taking a wet flatulent crap is quite surreal.Maximum Overdrive lacks any great imagination on King's part & the whole film is a little flat lacking in tension or urgency. Considering how skillful King is writing horror books it's surprising to see such a lack of depth to the character's & the really bad dialogue. There's some good special effects work here though, from exploding trucks to some decent gore a lot of which was cut to get an 'R' rating. Apparently King has admitted that he was high on cocaine the entire time he made Maximum Overdrive so that might explain the silliness & almost random feel. An accident on set occurred when the radio controlled lawnmower went haywire & struck a block of wood sending splinters flying & injuring the director of photography Armando Nannuzzi who ended up losing his right eye & ended up suing King for $18 million in damages.With a supposed budget of about $10,000,000 Maximum Overdrive has good production values & looks nice enough, filmed in Wilmington in North Carolina. Australian rock band AC/DC composed the music. The acting is suitably hammy & no-one seems to taking it too seriously.Maximum Overdrive is a film that I enjoyed, whether you enjoy it will depend on personal taste. It's one of those films that only certain people with certain viewing mentalities will get. Apparently Stephen King was asked why he has not directed anything since Maximum Overdrive he replied 'Just watch Maximum Overdrive' which is a quality come back. Certainly not for everyone but I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Bad film, good soundtrack","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" *Potential Spoilers ahead* Frustrated by the lack of fidelity to his stories on the big screen, horror writer Stephen King decided to take matters into his own hands for Maximum Overdrive. King writes and directs the film, which he adapts from his own short story Trucks, and the results are extremely disastrous. And that's being generous. Purely on an entertainment level, this schlock-fest fails to deliver almost any memorable scenes amidst a cast of characters who are unlikable and occasionally outright stupid.The year is 1986, and the Earth is passing through the cosmic dust of a nearby asteroid. Suddenly, machines of all kinds, even ATM machines, are terrorizing humans everywhere. Steamrollers run over kids, lawnmowers eat up adults, and vending machines launch sodas into peoples' genitals and heads. Whilst this is taking place, a group of people becomes stranded at a desolate truck-stop in the middle of the desert, and the local semi-trucks aren't keen on letting them leave. It's do or die in this romp of, quite literally, man vs. machine, and it will be up to Bill Robinson (Emilio Estevez) to lead the group and blow the trucks to kingdom come.Maximum Overdrive stands as a testament on how NOT to make a movie. The premise is utterly laughable even for a science-fiction story. Unfortunately, King's story continually reminds us that while some writing works on paper, it doesn't necessarily work on celluloid. The characters, aside from Estevez, are inherently worthless and some of them bite the dust in such a way that we not only don't feel sorry for them, we cheer for their imminent death! A waitress even attempts to negotiate with a military cart with a mounted M-60 machine gun. I bet you can't guess what happens.The acting leaves so much to be desired. Stephen King himself is the first person to show up in the movie as a confused bystander operating an ATM machine just so it can call him an asshole. Perhaps King was self-aware when he made this drivel? Afterwards, idiot after idiot gets killed off, and none of them are endearing, funny, charming, or even remotely interesting. Estevez practically must hold the picture together by himself in a barren truck stop (thus making the film uninteresting to even look at, let alone seriously enjoy), and even some his line readings betray to us that he knows this film is a joke in of itself.The real crime this film commits though isn't its poor use of a great soundtrack by AC/DC. It is not the bad acting. It's not even the poorly written dialogue and situations. Through and through, Maximum Overdrive is boring to the core. Despite some impressive explosions and car crashes, it feels numbing and joyless rather than exhilarating and visceral. I continually kept looking at my watch to see when the film would finally end and I could go back to doing something worthwhile. When it finally ended, I wanted an hour and a half of my life back. Sad to say, that wont happen.Stephen King remains a viable storyteller as far as his novels go, but he should never be allowed to make another film or criticize a filmmaker for botching his stories. Needless to say, with searing irony, he has proved with Maximum Overdrive that he is far worse at adapting his own stories for the screen than directors like Kubrick, De Palma, or Cronenberg. And that is being generous. "},{"Title":"Why Stephen King Should Stick to Writing","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Maximum Overdrive isn't a dreadful movie, but neither can it be considered any kind of classic as some reviewers have anointed. At best (or worst), it's just a slightly below average flick by a first-time director. It's only real draw is that it's Stephen King's directorial debut and swansong (or ugly duckling, depending on your viewpoint).If you haven't guessed, King took his classic short story Trucks and fleshed it out into a full-length movie. He also took the directorial reins for the only time.The movie deals with the after-effects of a comet that passes Earth, bathing the planet in its tail radiation for three days. As a result, trucks and other mechanical items come to life with deadly results. A group of survivors gather in a roadside diner as semis besiege them.Some have described the movie as tongue-in-cheek and some of the performances might make you think so. But, the movie, overall, tries hard to be dramatic and kills the humorous side of it early on.The problems here in the movie come mainly from King himself. If you've ever read his stories, he puts so much detail into them that the reader can not only believe them, but imagine that they are part of the tale. Of course, words often work better than pictures because we have to imagine what we're reading.In Maximum Overdrive, King adds in a lot of inconsistencies. Trucks come to life, but not cars. An M-60 not only shoots more bullets than it carries but somehow manages to swivel around on its own. Yet, no other gun in the movie fires on its own.Somehow we are supposed to believe that an electric knife can come to life and chase a waitress. A hairdryer can somehow choke a woman to death with its cord. A Walkman can kill a man by sending...what, a weak battery surge into his ears? King lets us down with his lack of believability, surprising from a man who terrorized us with a demonic dry cleaning press (The Mangler short story).The cast is not awful, but not great. Emilio Estevez as the hero is, well, just okay. Not particularly believable but he gives it some gusto. Yeardley Smith as one half of a married couple is hilarious and it's fun to listen to her, if only to hear shades of Lisa Simpson and other characters she did on shows like Herman's Head, Brothers and Dharma & Greg. Laura Harrington as Brett is so bland she blends in with the woodwork. Oddly, she dresses like Emilio's fellow Brat Packers. Pat Hingle is over-the-top (as usual), but after about 30 minutes you just want to kick his a**. The only person more annoying is waitress Wanda June (Ellen McEldruff), who actually makes you want to see her killed (not a spoiler alert since you know she has to buy it).Fortunately, a few supporting cast members liven things up a little. J.C. Quinn and Frankie Faison as truckers aren't around enough. Look for Leon Rippy (Saving Grace, Eight-Legged Freaks), Giancarlo Esposito (Do the Right Thing, Homicide Life on the Streets), the ever reliable stuntman/actor Dean Mumford and even Marla Maples before she added Trump. King himself has a cameo as a not-too-bright man at an ATM.The trucks here look fairly menacing (when you're not accidentally seeing their stunt drivers), the one with the Green Goblin exterior is especially terrifying. Unfortunately, when the trucks actually attack, it's sort of lackluster because the survivors become rather stupid. So, it seems more like the victims were just idiots instead of the trucks being homicidal. King tries but can't make the trucks as terrifying as he can in his story. He probably could have had he followed his own words. For example, in the story, a man makes a run for the diner and escapes the main truck. He staggers for the door only to have a smaller, faster moving van come from the side and knock him out of his shoes. Such a scene in this movie could have gone a long way in making it scarier.The action scenes are also so-so. While most of us try to figure out why Pat Hingle has an arsenal in the basement of the diner, the survivors don't really put that arsenal to good use. And when they do, it's hard not to laugh. Whether it's Hingle reloading and firing a LAW rocket launcher (a single-shot weapon) or waitress Wanda firing the same launcher almost straight up and having the rocket shoot straight out, it looks as if King thought a few explosions would liven up his dull script.Try as he might, King is totally out of his element. For whatever reason, he cannot re-create the suspense and terror of his short story. He can't impart the sense of foreboding or doom. That said, King does include a killer soundtrack with AC/DC, so you can score him one for that.In the end, we have characters we really don't care about fighting trucks that are about as terrifying as Tonka toys.It's easy to see why King never directed another film. "},{"Title":"Cars & other multiple machinery coming to life, driven by an inexplicable, malevolent force. How can one not have fun with this?","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I've always had a soft spot for Maximum Overdrive, but that's probably because it's based on one of the first Stephen King short stories I ever read. I was still a kid back then, and I distinctively remember reading it in one take on a Sunday morning, before getting out of bed. A cool story, it was (and probably still is). Soon afterwards, I learned it was also turned into a movie, so I just had to see it. And yes, I liked it. Years later, I came on here to discover most people consider this a bad pretty bad movie. Quite possibly so, as an 11-year-old kid's mind isn't exactly the most criticizing one. Since, in the meantime, a remake got made in 1997, called Trucks (which for some reason I never bothered to watch), I just decided to re-watch the first film again, followed by the remake (to compare things). That was a few years ago, but here's what all comments I found saved on my double bill experience...I still think it's funny that Maximum Overdrive is actually the one film Stephen King himself considers his worst adaptation, since he was the one directing it. After this movie he never wanted to direct again, or so I heard along the years. I guess he just didn't like the experience (or perhaps he couldn't handle the criticism?). A shame, really, because you can see on several occasions that Mr. King does have some directing skills. There are quite a few impressive shots and camera-angles to behold, and the cast never overacts. Seriously, people, Maximum Overdrive isn't really that bad. It's just a fun flick with a crazy premise (that everybody already knows by now, so I won't bother). It hums along nicely and provides entertainment, and there are far more 'bad' films out there that do worse than this. Now that I've re-watched it, I think it's funny how the ending shows a lot of similarities with the recent Dawn of the Dead re-make from 2004 (only that one didn't end as, uhm, happy as this one).Featuring a young Emilio Estevez looking dirty & cool. And some other faces you might recognize from 80's genre films. Lots of machinery going berserk and one very memorable roadkill sequence at the gas station. I honestly think you shouldn't mind all those complaining about this film. Read the short-story and then watch the movie. Don't take it all too serious (the ATM machine gag at the beginning of the film should already be an indication not to do so) and you're bound to have some fun with it. The AC/DC songs were a nice touch too (though a bit over-used).To be continued in Trucks (1997)... "},{"Title":"Minimum Enjoyment","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is one of those films I loved when I was a kid. It had two really great things going for it an extremely cool hard rock AC/DC soundtrack and a great idea for a story. I was then, and am still to some extent, thrilled with the idea and possibilities of machines coming to life. I watched this movie more times than I care to remember in my youth and always had great memories of it. In hindsight I believe there were two principle reasons 1. I was listening to the soundtrack and ignoring the movie, 2. I was a kid and I knew cr@p about good movies! *LOL* Looking back on 'Maximum Overdrive' today, it doesn't hold up very well at all. Among Stephen King films that have been adapted to the silver screen, this one is in the bottom third -- although it is vastly superior to garbage like 'Dreamcatcher.' It seems very heavily influenced by Richard Matheson's 'Duel' -- not necessarily a bad thing but also not offering much new to the 'man versus machine' theme. It's strength for me is nostalgia but there are plenty of reasons not to like this movie. Here are a few 1. Yeardley Smith. She's dreadful here in what is easily the worst performance of her entire career. Picture an extremely aggravating Lisa Simpson screaming non-stop for 45 minutes. If you haven't plucked out your eyes and run screaming to drown yourself in the nearest lake, congratulations. And my condolences. She manages to be so aggravating that every scene she appears in severely damages the film. If you haven't watched 'Maximum Overdrive' yet then proceed by all means. Do yourself a serious favour though and put the TV on mute every time you see her on screen.2. The scares. In this film, King is generally successful when characters are trying to move from Point A to Point B without being wiped out by big trucks. The way he develops tension there is actually fairly competent. Why then he badly cuts his own tension to shreds by 'augmenting' any potential 'scary' scene with an electronica Bernard Herrmann 'Psycho shower scene' score is beyond me. It makes scenes absolutely comical. They were cool when I was a child. Now they're laughable, cheap and derivative.3. The Direction and Writing. I'm a big fan of Stephen King's early work but this just doesn't seem to work. The characters seem like caricatures hypocritical bible salesman, grill cook who's a repentant ex-con, Snidely Whiplash styled restaurant owner, tough chick who hitchhikes but can take care of herself, aggravatingly saccharine newly-wed couple, kid who is smarter than all of the adults, and on and on and on. If given the choice between being punched repeatedly in the groin or meeting several of the characters from 'Maximum Overdrive,' I can quite cheerfully choose the groin punches. Please and thank you. That so many of the performances seem adrift makes me wonder how much guidance King was able to give them. A failure to reign in Yeardley Smith et al and to help some of the other characters and performances develop makes it feel like nobody was in charge. In fairness to Stephen King this WAS his first film. That doesn't mean it was good. Or likable. Or enjoyable.Even with my criticisms and misgivings though, 'Maximum Overdrive' is a film that I'll find myself returning to from time to time. The soundtrack is perfect for the movie and is one of my favorite's. AC/DC do a great job. King has left the directing of his movie adaptations to others and that was probably a wise decision to make. Bad though this is, I stand by my original point that the ideas are really good. I wonder how it would do with remake treatment? "}{"Title":"Reasons to hate or rent  this movie","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Reasons why it is a b-movie. It tries to add SciFi but fails it has a bad storyline The date is June 19th, 1987. The Earth has passed into the diffuse tail of Rhea-M, a rogue comet, where the planet will stay for the next eight days. Strange occurrences begin to take place shortly after the Earth enters the diffuse tail and causes the Auroa Borealis to show up over central America and all electronics and machines to turn on mysteriously which wouldn't really happen in real life because electronics are supposed to be tamper proof. So why would Stephen King make such a movie he only knows how to write plots and thats it; it shows because most of the movies based on his books a b-movies like this one. So when these vehicles and electronics start going against there makers meaning the people the only ones left are truck stop employees, two honeymooners and a boy. So all the trucks start swarming the stop including a HAPPY TOYZ TRUCK truck with a giant clown's head at the front of the cab. So all the trucks swarm the stop while the employees try to make an plan to escape. Then more trucks start to join the swarm and are hungry for fuel. So the trucks start talking in Morse code to the employees to fill them up. Yawn I am getting bored. Where were we oh yes, the employees agree to fill the trucks up but one of the men throws a grenade in one of the trucks and runs back. Once some of the have run out of fuel the employees make their escape. The head to a dock and are spotted by a automatic restaurant drive-thru but they blow it up plus a ice cream truck which tries to stop them. They make it to the dock just to see one the employees's wife killed and so the husband tries to get the ring and get killed by the clown truck. So another employee get out a rocket launcher swear at the truck and kills it. So why rent it? Well if you like trucks and are into movies where people get killed by trucks and people getting killed by vending machines which is fun fine by me rent it. Fine by me a 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Not a Horror Movie A Deep, Profound work of Fiction","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Maximum Overdrive was a film my old man showed me at a very young age. I've since had a love/hate bond with the film. Up until about 5 years ago I hated the movie until I watched it with an unbiased mind. I discovered a truly unique Sci Fi film with horror overtones. I am a huge fan of King but his direction is a bit awkward and less than sure-handed but he does make up for himself with a superb and imaginatively original screenplay. The film should be taken with a grain of salt but also should be studied in film classes and talked amongst film buffs for years to come. I adore this work of writer's art. Stephen stepped behind a camera instead of a typewriter to deliver yet another masterpiece. Highly Recommended. Even if you already saw it and hated it. "},{"Title":"maximum enjoyment, Maximum terror, Maximum garbage...","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" People say that Maximum overdrive is complete rubbish, but it is fun to watch! Yes, the acting is rather mediocre and the story line is full of holes and yes, it makes no sense and is completely unrealistic but... it is great fun to watch! 1 hour and 40 minutes of complete carnage, it's like no other movie! It has action from the first minute to the last second! The beginning sequence with the draw bride is quite excellent, the scene when the can machine goes insane and kills the little children is hilarious, until the little 10 year old gets run over by a steam roller, which is quite shocking. This film has no boring chit-chat at the beginning like the remake  Trucks , It simply cuts to the chase and we start to see humans faces exploding and hair driers strangling women with their own electrical chord. The ending was rather annoying mind you, The Truck that looks like the boss gets blown up with a rocket launcher, and the survivors of the Dixie boy truck stop (Blown up near the end) Get on a boat without a motor and sail away to an island that is said to have no motors on it, what so ever. Fun, funny but some bits make you gasp, classic Steven king. who was the director. Just thought you ought to know... "},{"Title":"So bad it that it ain't","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" When I was 12 or so, many moons ago, I went to a video store to buy The Breakfast Club. They didn't have it in stock and I bought this instead (How the video tape worn over the last 15 years!).I knew it was an instant classic from the opening scene when a flashing sign outside a bank says F&%^ You! Have a nice day! In a nutshell, machines take over the world and a bunch of people are stuck in a gas station with trucks circulating and demanding fuel. The best truck is a toy truck with a giant green, menacing face on the front. Highlights include an electric knife cutting a waitress' arm, a coke machine shooting cans at people's heads, a kid getting steam rolled and a truly eerie (no joke) ice-cream van just driving around by itself with its gentle music.Best lines? The waitress screaming You can't - WE MADE YOU! before being riddled with bullets by some sort of gun on wheels. The best line of all goes to the awesome Pat Hingle when a 10 year old boy asks where he father is.Dunc got scrubbed by one of them big boys out there, tough break kid! Pat Hingle is the highlight for me. I also liked the support cast including Lisa Simpson's voice. Emilio and Laura are well cast as the leads. Good acting is not required in this kind of film but everyone hit the right note for me.This movie is so bad it's awesome. The soundtrack/score is great. To this When I'm driving on the freeway and trucks get too close, I hum the danger music Truck, Truck, Truck! (rent it and you'll know) and there's plenty of AC/DC to rock to including Hell's Bells and You Shook Me All Night Long. There's even a cameo of sorts. It's based on a Stephen King short story (Trucks) and was remade in the '90s though that movie is not nearly as great as this one.Remember, a lot of people would hate this because it's D grade but it's awesome D grade. "},{"Title":"Amusing!","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Murderous machines? Isn't this movie supposed to be in the future? Guess not! There's no time like the present. And Maximum Overdrive is rather a simple and amusing movie. Shot in the coastal town called Wilmington, North Carolina, this could be fun. Machines getting graphics, the ATM customer been called an (Bleep)hole. I would report this to customer service, however it would be safer buy person. Simply because everything electronic or battery-powered are taken life of their own! All because of a comet The Rhea-M! I liked this movie is because of one of my favorite hobbies Trucks! The trucks have caused more terror than anything else, the waitress just lost it after the electric knife attacked her, only to meet her end to a mad M-60 carrier. I would spend my time guessing the brand names of semis while everyone gets shook up by these renegade rigs. Rockets and machine guns were ready for these people, but the worst rig was the one with the ghastly goblin on the nose of the truck. That truck really ate the rocket! The funny part is when the coach of the baseball team got pelted by the soda can in the groin, but in reality it would be funny. But in the movie you can do whatever, laugh, gasp, or even scream. It's an enjoyable movie for all the horror fans. Rating 2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"sweet movie","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I love this movie, I don't know why you guys all make fun of it. Just because it has cheesy acting, and a weak plot? Big deal, it was Stephen King's first movie, give him a break. How can you not like a movie thats all about trucks and machines running people over and destroying stuff? And the killer soundtrack by the best rock group ever, AC/DC, adds to the coolness of the movie. Your obviously not a movie fan if you don't like this movie, i don't care how cheesy it is. If you don't like it, go watch the sound of music, or sesame street or sumthin. For those of you that see through the cheesiness, and see the cool, action-packed, thriller joy of this movie, good for you. For those of you who only complain about it, get a life. "},{"Title":"Maximum Overdrive- 5/10. Pretty bad, but had some neat action scenes.","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Maximum Overdrive (1986)This movie was way to far over the edge, but that's what you can expect from Stephen King. King's story falls short here though, and it doesn't seem to have his normal touch as all his other books & movies have before (Carrie, Pet Sematary). The story for this movie was a bit stupid, but it had some intense action sequences written in, like the opening sequence with the bridge. This movie was not scary, but it was a bit entertaining. This film will most likely be enjoyed by science fiction fans, or if you are a strong fan of Mr. King. This movie is written pretty poorly, but the action is pretty good. 5/10. "},{"Title":"bad bad movie","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This was one of the stupidest movies i have EVER seen in my life! its about a bunch of people stuck in a truck stop becuase machines start to come alive and try to kill them. Obviously, the characters escape...some people dying along the way though.Do not go see this movie...its horrible. "},{"Title":"this film goes 10 km/h","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Very slow, boring...This is an example of a movie too bad but you can't stop watching it. I don't know what Stephen King was thinking when he wrote the script. The plot is not even interesting for sci-fi!. The direction is not that bad, and the soundtrack is cool,  but these elements can't save this film from being dumped to the junk yard. "},{"Title":"Not great on special effects.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is not great on special effects, but it gets it's point across Technology will eventually become smarter than us and bite us in the ass.This movie is based on about 12 people trapped in a truck stop during an amazing astronomical event the earth passes through the tail of a comet.The comet's tail causes all the machines to come alive and terrorize these truckers.The movie is a bit boring in the first 45 minutes, but it does get better. It has a great sound track by the gods of rock AC/DC. I give it a 7.5/10.  "}{"Title":"4 Out Of 10? Are You On Crack?","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Shocked is an understatement when I read that you idiots had rated Maximum Overdrive a 4 out of 10. Now I really do believe the human race has absolutely no chance for survival. How can you not like it? The eeriness, the claustrophobia...what else could scare you? Jeepers Creepers? Jason X? Moulin Rouge? This had got to be one of the best scary movies ever made! I compare it with The Evil Dead, or Night Of The Living Dead (both the original and the remake). If you enjoy fecal material, go on your merry way, or if you want to join the camp of people who enjoy thinking on their own and not what Madison Avenue or Hollywood tells them, than watch this movie and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Writer doesn't equal director","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A film by an over-rated writer. Non-existent tension and some shallow philosophical ideas uttered by an infantile criminal. Abundant flaws of the plot when the two men and the child return from the sewers, they stink like pigs, yet everyone rushes to hug and kiss them, without noticing any change in the smell balance around; the just-married couple has a stupid or benevolent car; the machine-gun shooting by itself - where's the electricity in this device? why windows aren't breaking and hurting everyone then, why the tube won't press itself and crush the people inside? Outrageously childish approach to good and bad guys, ALL of the latter being killed in various ways. The soundtrack of the film is nothing but a hell-bell cacophony AC/DC are deservedly buried in oblivion. However, this kind of noise-music may be appropriate trash-plot, trash-effects and trash-everything in this film.I can only name several subjective positive observations some of the tragicomical situations (swears on the electronic message board, the killing coke machine - effective although barely realistic) and Brett, beautiful and full of sexual energy, albeit no sex scenes throughout the film.  "},{"Title":"Intentionally bad!?","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"       When I first saw this film, I realized what King was doing Its a parody of truck stop epics. All of the cliches of the genre(if one can actually call it a genre), are here in full force. Tough-talking waitress, hypocritical Bible salesman, local fascist businessman(played by Pat Hingle, of course), innocent, plucky kid, mysterious stranger, etc. The trucks' are a marauding biker gang, or a band of Indians pursuing a stagecoach.The whole film is an excuse for King to poke fun at redneck nation and  blow up a lot of trucks. If it had been done by an experienced and talented director, it would have been a great black surreal comedy like Repo Man or Tremors;as it is, its just a psychobilly Cadillac trying to be an eighteen wheeler. "},{"Title":"bad real bad","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Anything that is electric goes crazy and starts killing people because of a comet that is passing by; oh the humanity. Stephen King was sick and tired of people screwing up his books by making bad film adaptations. Stephen King decided to make a movie based on his recent book, the end result was one of the worst adaptations of a Stephen King novel. This movie is bad real bad, it could make it on Mystery Science Theater 3000. The man could not  make a decent film version of his own novel that's just too funny. The sequences when I was supposed to be scared I was either laughing or giggling. The film focuses on bunch of dumb characters being stuck in a Gas Station Caf. The film starts off entertainingly bad then it becomes more and more boring as it gets to conclusion. The music was done by AC/DC some of the score sounds like a corny rip-off of the Jaws score. The movie has the complete look and feel of an average bomb, horrible plot, bad acting, ugly women and laughable fright scenes. Its quite surprising that it was made by one of the greatest authors of this century.  "},{"Title":"Stephen, stay out of the Director's Chair!","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Of all movies based on Stephen King's Work, whether it's a novel or an original screenplay, in which King is originally involved, this must be one of the worst.I have seen some bad adaptations of a great story or book, but that's not (always) King's fault. But this work... when I picked it up, I expected that with King in the Big Chair I would be treated with a gem of tension and surprises. Well, the only surprise was that I felt sorry I paid the rent of the video.If this had been a small budget B-movie from some unknown moviemaker, it wouldn't have been so bad... and if you like B-movie, it can even be an agreeable experience. But from the Master of Horror himself, I would have expected something a little more refined. "},{"Title":"If you like special effects, don't see this one.","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Stephen King's Maximum Overdrive has been written and directed by Stephen King himself. But i think he could better stay off this movie. It is very boring, nothing is happening here, just some cars which are moving.  (3/10) "},{"Title":"Totally Awful.","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King adapted his own short story 'Trucks' in his directorial debut, as the Earth passes through the tail of a rogue comet, inexplicably causing the world's machines to come alive, and destroy(or enslave) humans. One determined bunch of survivors barricaded in a truck-stop diner try desperately to escape what will be an 8-day ordeal...Astonishingly inept, crude film is so unrelentingly stupid you get the feeling that Stephen King was trying to make a comedy...pity this isn't remotely funny, or involving at all. Overbearing rock & roll soundtrack makes things even worse. A total waste of celluloid. "},{"Title":"Weird, scary, and entertaining","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I recently watched this on TV. It's the edited version, so I can't really say how I feel about the whole movie. They cut out the ATM scene, and a lot of the death scenes in their entirety. My sister likes trucks, so she loved this film. I was amused by how stupid everyone was. Also, I am just hooked on the movie for some reason.The parts that concerned me and grossed me out were the steamroller scene, and the Suburb scene. The kid never freaked out, which isn't what would happen in real life. I was just grossed out to see a neighborhood with dead people, including a dog, a pizza delivery guy, a guy on his porch, and a girl who was strangled by her hair dryer. I would have passed out if I even saw one of those people dead. Curt and Connie were annoying, but Yeardley Smith is one of my favorite actresses (she appeared on Mama's Family in addition to being Lisa Simpson). Obviously this comet brainwashed these people, otherwise they wouldn't have stood in front of the trucks waiting to be hit.Like I said, if you freak out looking at dead bodies and blood, this movie is not for you. I want the DVD, but know there will be more graphic scenes on there. "},{"Title":"Pathetic movie,Awesome soundtrack","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  What a turkey this movie was.Some of the acting in it was so bad it was laughable.Its only saving grace was the wicked soundtrack by rock legends AC/DC.This is definitely a movie to avoid at all costs.Thank God this was Stephen Kings one and only attempt at directing a feature film.Stick to writing books mate. "},{"Title":"No suspense, no sympathetic characters, just awful","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Awful.Lots of gore, but no suspense.And, no sympathetic characters. Some are so annoying that you are actually glad when they meet their demise because they remind you of an alarm clock where you are frantically trying to his the snooze button.Just shut up. The character by Yeardley Smith (the voice of Lisa Simpson) is one of those. She's just so freakingly annoying that you don't mind when she gets whacked.the only one I felt sorry for was a little boy about 7 years old. He was cute and didn't seem like a horribly spoiled brat, so I didn't want to see him harmed. Otherwise, I couldn't find myself caring whether they lived or died.Stephen King got his chance to direct, but he is no Hitchcock.Not by a long shot. "}{"Title":"Most stupid movie ever seen,stopped DVD after 10 minutes","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Go for DUEL the best movie in it's genre, i remembered this one from my childhood, this one is more realistic about a truck driver that terrorises someone on the road. You see a glimp of him and wonders who this could be. Like his boots under the truck,... The victim goes eating somewhere, and sees the truck in front of the place. The driver had to be in here somewhere,and sees 3 guys with boots looking at him,he wonders who this maniac could be. Very good 70's movie. The second best is Trucks, less realistic (trucks drive without driver cause of a meteor that leaves an energy field which causes automobiles to start on their own). Maximum overdrive is a real stupid child movie that should never have been made. A waste of time and energy for everyone.  "},{"Title":"Great opening","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" But it's all downhill from there on. For about 20 minutes this movie promises to be cool and funny thru-out but quickly becomes boring and stupid. The characters just do not use simple logic and it is way hard to side with them. I really did want the trucks to run them over.Beware, there may be some spoilers here. Everyone at the truck stop knows that Mr. Hendershot has a truckload of weapons and rocket launchers in the basement. So why don't they just use them against the trucks? Duh?The dialogue sucks too. There is not one memorable line in the entire movie. And the acting is sporadically bad. The girl who becomes Emilio Estevez's girlfriend is very beautiful but she cannot act her way out of a linen closet. The pointless AC/DC soundtrack is totally worthless and contributes ZERO to the film.For Spiderman fans there is a bonus tho, as there is a huge face of the Green Goblin on the toy truck. But that's still no reason to watch this farce. The reason these trucks are coming to life is because the earth is caught in the tail of a comet (which we never see) and all machines are rebelling against mankind. We don't see many other machines other than the trucks but it turns out that it was all just a plot by aliens to sweep us off the planet. This is unseen also, we are simply told this from words on the screen at the end of the movie. COME ON!Stephen King should stick to writing as he has handled this film VERY badly and this is very strange as he should know how to transfer his book to film. There is another movie version called TRUCKS. Perhaps you should check that out instead as I cannot imagine anything being worse than this. I do think that if John Carpenter directed this film it could have been better, but let's just forget about it&#x85;quickly. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Absolutely horrible(as a movie, of course). The actors were just pathetic(what kid would say, This is for my Dad, you no good son-of-a-*****), and the death/action scenes just sucked. I honestly felt they just wanted certain elements, like a blood splat scene.First off, the people hardly seemed surprised that machines were taking over, I know that just Woah doesn't cut it.Only 2 other machine things harmed people(soda machine(THE SODA CANS KILLED ALL THE CHILDREN????) and meat cutter), the rest were ALL trucks. I, personally, would like to see a paper shredder devouer an infant or something much more creative than just trucks sloooowwwllyyyy driving into someone who just waits there and flails his arms like he's not in a giant open space. Seriously, those truck drivers and actors did NOT want to do stunts.Also, LAME ENDING!!! That king truck didn't even put up a fight!! Dude shoots a rocket launcher(oh, come ON, heck, the owner of the gas station had a whole freaking cellar full of guns!! But a rocket launcher? Where do you get that??)from half a mile away, and just that shot takes it down. WTF??? OK, short summary, do NOT watch this movie if you want a How will they get out of this situation??, or a Those are some great actors!! movie.Alpha~ "},{"Title":"Is this meant to be a joke?","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King said in the trailer to Maximum Overdrive that when you want something done right, you have to do it yourself. Over the long list of lousy adaptations King's work has attracted, this philosophy does make a little sense. However, the reality is that if you really want something done right on celluloid, you have to hire a director and/or screenwriter who can recognise the vision that the story deserves and put it on the screen. David Cronenberg proved that he could do this with The Dead Zone, whereas Maximum Overdrive shows that King himself might be able to write a great story, but making it work in a visual medium is another matter.The story, such as it is, concerns itself with the Earth passing through the tail of a comet. The effects of such an event are highly debatable, but one of King's strengths is that he can make the absurd or ridiculous seem like a matter of course. In Trucks, he focuses on making the characters' reactions sell the phenomenon. Here, visual effects, mostly of the simple trick photography variety, are employed. Incidents involving soft drink machines, steamrollers, video games, and a whole host of other devices are played out in literal detail. However, therein lies a bit of a problem with transferring the short story to the big screen.Trucks is just about entirely set at the truck stop, making the extraneous characters somewhat redundant. The fact that several characters drive to and from the truck stop is also a problem. One would logically assume that since the trucks are affected by the comet, so too would be sedans and any other passenger vehicle with an engine, would also be affected. The logic in the difference is never explained either in film or short story, but the short story has the luxury of never having raised the issue.In Trucks, the characters were a secondary consideration, and often little more than people to see the action through the eyes of. In the film version, they become the primary focus, and this is where the big problems start. Aside from a couple of sympathetic leads such as that played by Emilio Estevez, the cast of characters is more or less universally annoying. What's worse, after watching the film ten or a hundred times, one would be hard pressed to name four characters. Curtis only sticks out in the mind because of how annoyingly Yeardley Smith's character keeps yelling it.In the end, the film is shot down by the fact that it is not horrific or atmospheric enough to be a horror, but nor is it funny enough to be a comedy, in spite of some brave attempts. In the end, it is just mediocre, and that is something no film can be if it wants to be enjoyed. The only reason it has been remembered for this long, in spite of the distributor going out of business, is because of its association with one of the biggest-selling authors the printed press has ever known. If it did not have this selling point, it would probably have bankrupted the De Laurentiis group right then and there.In terms of a rating, the first reel is worth a ten. The massacre in the baseball park in particular is well-realised. When it gets to the truck stop, however, it is all downhill. Which is a terrible shame given the potential of its source material. "},{"Title":"1/4 star out of 4","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  One of the worst movies I have ever seen. It only gets 1/4 of a star for the cool looking clown face on the big rig. It really boggles my mind how Stephen King can get such high notariety for such obviously poorly written scripts. (The 2 exceptions being Dead Zone, and The Shining. The Shawshank Redemption which was loosely scripted on his short story, soars far and above any of his screen work.) This movie tops the list along with the Langoiliers, of poor Stephen King movies that somehow make it to the big screen, and millions of viewers. Save your time, and catch an old Star Trek episode on the Space Channel. "},{"Title":"Maximum Overdrive","Date":"17 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" As I sat down to watch this movie I was expecting it to be scary because that is what anyone would expect when they are about to watch a movie directed by The King of Horror, Stephen King. Maximum Overdrive was the first and last movie that King would direct to date. After watching the movie I now clearly understand why that has been the case. Maximum Overdrive is supposed to be taken as an action/horror movie but fails; in fact, it does a 180 and is basically considered a comedy by today's horror movie standards.Maximum Overdrive brings a lot to the table for better or for worse. From the beginning you see strange occurrences that are happening with different types of machinery acting up and taking on a life of their own due to Earth passing through the tail of a comet. Once alive, the machines begin to seek revenge on the human race for unexplained reasons. Emilio Estevez, playing the lead role, Bill Robinson, a cook at the local Dixie Boy truck stop. Emilio, best known for his part as the Jock in The Breakfast Club, sadly shows mediocre acting throughout this movie, especially in the lead role. Actually, just about all the acting in general was humorously horrible throughout the movie. The Dixie Boy truck stop is the main setting where the entire cast of characters end up meeting and decide to stay fortified from the murderous semi-truck posse circling the station where they are hiding out. This is when a lot of the movie starts to fall apart and not make any sense. For example a newly married couple's car is not affected by the comet tail and does not act violently towards the couple or any other living creature and can be driven with ease. In another scene the characters come across a vehicle that knows Morse code and is able to communicate with the characters in the truck stop. Mid-way through the movie, you almost want to start cheering the murderous machines on while they try to kill the characters inside the Dixie Boy. The characters are very obnoxious, annoying, and some are just down right predictable. Between the There are only a few thrilling moments throughout this movie when AC/DC comes in with some classic 80's instrumental background music. Also, when the characters fight back against the trucks that are trying to kill them with military grade weapons that have been stashed underneath the truck stop for who knows what reason.I do not recommend this movie if you plan on going into it with a serious mindset because it leaves you more confused at the end then it had you throughout the entire film. It skips all the details and just leaves you with the feeling of disappointment and complaint. But on the other hand, if you are going into this movie with humor in mind I definitely recommend it. Better yet, watching it with friends will add to the humor of making fun of this train wreck of a movie. Between the killer ice-cream trucks, video games, and demonic beverage machines, it's hard not to crack a few jokes. "},{"Title":"Don't take this at all seriously and you may have a good time","Date":"21 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" There are bad movies and then there are so bad they're good movies. You know you shouldn't like them, but for some reason you do. They can be fun to watch and good for a few laughs. What can make a bad movie good? It's hard to say really, but it's something that usually has to happen by accident. Few set out to deliberately make a bad film, but if they do they may not succeed in making it a guilty pleasure. Stephen King, one of the masters of Horror, made his directorial debut with this film based on one of his short stories and it's been said that he set out to make a silly movie and for the most part succeeded.Pros Cast is game. Great soundtrack and score by AC/DC. Moves at a good swift pace. Plenty of dopey, but amusing humor, some intentional some maybe not. A few really memorable sequences, my personal fave being the one on the bridge in the beginning. Some good death scenes. A few neat ideas.Cons Barely any plot to speak of. A pretty silly concept. Doesn't quite deliver as much as you may expect. Also runs out of steam a little and becomes somewhat uneventful in the middle. This is a Horror story, but don't expect to be scared.Final thoughts You could find better guilty pleasure material than this, but this is still pretty fun. Hard to believe this was written and directed by the same man who wrote books like 'It' and 'The Stand,' but there you have it. He set out to make a trash movie and mission accomplished.My rating 3/5 "},{"Title":"actually directed fairly well... it's the writing that's WTF as they say","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Ah, Stephen King, he made the right choice in not directing again. Perhaps it was just a fluke or a lark or one of those dares he took to see if he could make a movie as good (or perhaps as crappy) as some of the other mid-80s ilk that came out, some actually not bad like the Dead Zone and Pet Sematary, while some like Children of the Corn not quite so good really. So, he took one of his short stories and expanded it, unwisely, to a 98 minute length feature script and filmed it, in all its unwieldy glory... glory, I say, with that dose of sarcasm needed. Maximum Overdrive is total trash that's a blast to watch, and I almost would be more forgiving of it if it just wasn't so completely dumb-headed the whole way.The problem is not actually in the direction, oddly enough, but in the script itself, which is troubling for something that should be potentially *intentionally* awesome from King. It's like he cobbled together ideas from the likes of Chrstine and the Stand and the Mist and other works that we all know are just like this and added in trucks and rednecks to give it some flavor (perhaps it not set in Maine is is a saving grace I didn't really notice). He also peoples it with Emilio Estevez, Pat Hingle, Yeardley Smith, and a bunch of other actors you probably will NOT remember, or even care to, gives them some laughable (We MADE You!) and dead-pan-serious dialog that is not entirely laughable (really, did anyone laugh when Estevez made that Eat my shorts! line which was already dated when Bart Simpson said it?) And, finally, the trucks themselves, them like other random electrical devices directed by the rays of a wayward comet that will only be in the orbit, as we learn from the opening title card, for about 8 days, which have a logic that makes as much sense as a turtle solving a Rubik cube in two minutes. I wanted to get with what the trucks were all about in attacking as this random, evil force that comes only in King stories (well, not *only*, but most prominently in the last thirty years), but too long the trucks spend just circling around the diner at the gas station, like cowboys in a perpetual loop circling around a group of Indians, and by the time they crash through the diners me and my friends shouted in unison FINALLY! It goes without saying some of the stuff with said trucks, like the one with the Green Goblin on the front, was cool.But as with so much stuff in the picture, you only go with it for so long until you pretty much say alright, that's it, I give up. If it had been shorter, and this isn't just some 'it would work better as a 25 minute Twilight Zone episode' thing but it's close enough, like a Creepshow segment, it could be potentially amazing. But it takes too long to get where it's going, it retreads familiar ground, and only one or two moments actually POP with the kind of scariness that King himself promised in a direct-address to the audience where he proclaimed I'll scare the HELL out of you! Sad to say, he didn't. At the least though it wasn't boring and had a few good laughs. 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious.","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Plot Synopsis Earth passes through the tail of a comet, causing machines everywhere to come to life, killing people. At a truck stop in North Carolina, a small group of survivors must find a way to get past the driverless trucks that have them trapped.Stephen King is one of the major players in the literary horror genre, writing dozens of books. Some of his novels have been turned into films, with mixed results. With Maximum Overdrive, King has decided to do the adaptation himself. While King has vast imagination that he pours onto the written page, it is strange that his script is full of clichs (the tyrannical truck stop owner, the heroic ex-con, his drifter girlfriend & the morally suspect Bible salesman) & bad dialogue. The script has a lot of plot holes &#150; why is it that some machines come to life & others don't? Or why the truck stop owner has a major weapons arsenal in his basement? The machine attacks are poorly handled, with King somehow deciding to play them over-the-top (the drawbridge scene is a case in point). The attacks are also unintentionally hilarious. The only good thing (besides the laughs) is the soundtrack, with rockers ACDC doing a real good job. "},{"Title":"Demon possessed trucks scare a bunch of dumb bells","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" There was an ad for this movie that showed Stephen King standing on a highway in the middle of nowhere, pointing a finger at the audience and loudly proclaiming, I'm gonna scare the blank out of you!!! Well there's more campy laughs than scares in this; it's definitely not the horror writer's best outing.It looks like a cross between Duel and Night of the Living Dead. Trucks are animated by a rogue comet replacing the roaming zombie corpses in Living Dead which were re-animated the same way. The large 18-Wheelers roam the highways and truck stops looking for small cars and people to kill. Usually, both good and evil characters in King's stories are developed, sometimes even complex; here he lazily cranks out low-IQ stereotypes, many of which begin to grate on your nerves after a while. Some have Kill me! tattoos on their foreheads, and evoke no sympathy when it happens. Other movies like Tremors have worked the dumb victims approach better.The idea for the story wasn't bad, but the film is sloppy and weakly structured. Plot holes are numerous. Very little is done with the premise to be interesting. Wait'll you hear the cheap throw-away motive for the violent actions of the trucks. Somewhat entertaining, but only if you switch your brain functioning level into low gear. "}{"Title":"Nice Parody","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Maximum Overdrive (1986) is what you would get if you crossed Duel with Night of the Living Dead and significantly amped up the parody component of each film (there is a little Temors here as well). Not exactly highbrow, it is considerably more entertaining that its rating score would indicate; especially if you can connect with the parody element.Written and directed by Stephen King on a very modest special effects budget, the story shifts between idyll small-town and redneck truck stop somewhere in North Carolina. A UFO has somehow gained control over most machines (insert Metropolis here) which proceed to slaughter a considerable number of people. Neither the film nor King's original story seem to have anything profound to say about aliens, humans, or machines. That is probably for the best as deep philosophy would only get in the way of the entertainment value of this thing.Like the farm house in Night of the Living Dead, those who remain alive take refuge in a nearby truck stop. Pat Hingle gives an over-the-top performance as the greedy owner who just happens to have a small arsenal of weapons concealed on the premises. Yeardley Smith as a stressed-out newlywed provides additional comic relief. Emilio Estavez and Laura Harrington provide the story's romantic element. Music is by King's favorite band AC/DC. Although everything from lawnmowers to blow dryers get into the act, most of the focus is on the eighteen-wheelers which besiege the truck stop around the clock. Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"Viewer Requirements  Strong Stomach and Ability to Overlook Details.","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" While I believe Maximum Overdrive was designed with the intention of being a horror movie with a somewhat sci-fi premise (Not a comedy as some suggest), it inadvertently delivers more. This is in terms of the confusion it almost inevitably generates with anyone who watches it. I am talking specifically about how and which machines attack people.For example, you may find yourself asking how could that soda machine really do that? Or, why do some vehicles chase after people while others are still obedient to their operators? Not to mention several scenes where a victim could have easily avoided being killed even if only four out of their five senses were working properly.Unfortunately, these aren't the only details overlooked in the movie. The text before the closing credits explaining what events supposedly happen later create more questions, including rehashing the whole why does this machine attack but not this one question.But beyond the lack of explanation and logic, there are other goofs that don't take a very keen eye to see. One involves an old Mack truck chasing a car and driving off an embankment to do the whole car-off-a-cliff exploding thing. This is cheesy enough, but, in this case, the truck seems to start exploding a little prematurely, not to mention the fall doesn't seem particularly far.Another point worth making is that Maximum Overdrive is not so much the scary variety of horror movie as it is the gory variety. So keep this in mind as well as the fact that pets and children aren't spared from the onslaught of King's machines.As far as the acting goes, it varies significantly by character, bordering somewhere along bearable and believable. Some of the comic relief is actually good.More on the plus side, the idea of machines coming alive and destroying humanity is thought-provoking to say the least, especially when one considers everyday appliances and automobiles attacking as opposed to more militaristic creations such as those in the Terminator films. Given the considerable expansion of technology that has occurred in our lives since this film was made, a modern adaptation could be very promising as long as some sort of logic behind what types of machines can attack is developed.Also, the AC/DC soundtrack really fits this film quite well.In the end, if you can stand the gore (I personally recommend watching a television version which is bad enough) and overlook or laugh at the fairly obvious absence of logic, this movie is worth a look. I couldn't bring myself to give it anything above a 4 but, hey, I couldn't bring myself to give it anything less. "},{"Title":"Cool!","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King's directorial debut Maximum Overdrive is overall kind of a dumb movie, but it's also really cool! Portraying the earth passing through the tail of a comet, causing all technology to take revenge on humans, it basically has each character getting pumped up about how to fight the machines. Emilio Estevez is the nominal star, but there's lots of other people too, including Pat Hingle (Commissioner Gordon in the 1989-97 Batman movies) and Yeardley Smith (aka Lisa's voice on The Simpsons). A reminder don't watch this on TV, because you'll miss the two funniest parts at the beginning. The first one shows a blinking sign cursing everyone, and the second one is Stephen King's cameo he feeds his card into an ATM and it gives him a most unusual message! All in all, ridiculous, but quite enjoyable. "},{"Title":"So bad it's bad!","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I'm sure that this is the movie that Stephen King is ashamed of being involved into. I don't know if this flick should be considered to be part of the horror genre; it should be MST3000 material but the Stephen King name weights a lot and thanks to it this movie is forgotten. If it hadn't King's name then it would be constantly trashed by horror fans.There's nothing interesting about it and it quickly bores the audience.The good thing about Maximum Overdrive is that it's so bad, it's so terrible, that it gets your attention. But the worst thing is that you keep wondering what's going to happen, even if you're not morbid.The plot is ridiculous and FAR from being scary or interesting.Please avoid it it's very boring. I'd only recommend it if you have a horrible hang over and there's nothing else on t.v. Don't waste any money on this trash.4/10. "},{"Title":"And the worst Stephen King film is....","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Trucks come to life and trap Emilio Estevez and a typical cross-section of the movie-going public in an isolated truck stop.  Amongst fans of Stephen King's books the single most debated questions is  What is the worst movie based on one of his stories?  Well, this film answers that question once and for all.  And, quite ironically, this, the worst Stephen King film, was directed by Stephen King himself. There isn't a single convincing or realistic character in this whole film, which isn't surprising considering you have to suspend a great deal of disbelief simply to get into the premise of this tale.  This actually wasn't a bad story.  However, it becomes nothing short of goofy when presented in realistic terms on the big screen -- or the small screen for that matter.  Terrible. "},{"Title":"ABSOLUTE RUBBISH","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The plot for this movie is good with Earth passing through the tail of a comet and cars and trucks coming to life and killing their owners, but the rest of it is a Rambo-esque action film with a bunch of average people next door trying to fight for their survival.Even the soundtrack by AC/DC doesn't help the movie.  They probably regret even doing this movie now. "},{"Title":"Minimum underdrive is more like it!!!!","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This was quite a joke. Actually, it was quite funny........why? because it is so stupid!!!!!!!! the scene were the guy is hit by the big black truck and he explodesinto a pile of blood and guts was (unintentionally) funny. The music was horrible 80's rock that was so obnoxious, It almost drowned out the dialogue. Really bad (but entertaining) stuff. "},{"Title":"Stephen King's darkest hour","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Stephen King has not, in general, had the best track record in bringing his horror work to the screen.  There's a handful of exceptions (THE SHINING, SALEM'S LOT, CARRIE, THE DEAD ZONE, CREEPSHOW) but most of the big (and small) screen adaptations of his work have been anywhere from mediocre (CHRISTINE, THINNER, SILVER BULLET) to just plain bad (CHILDREN OF THE CORN, PET SEMATARY, IT).  You'd have thought a movie written AND directed by Stephen King would have been the best adaptation one could hope for.  Wrong.  Horribly wrong.  Based upon his short story Trucks, MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE is easily one of the worst movies to come out of Hollywood in the 80s.  And that's saying a lot.  Horrendous dialogue, performances, direction and a grating score by AC/DC (this was right around when studios thought horror movies were feature length music videos, e.g. LOST BOYS, TRICK OR TREAT) make this a stupendously awful movie-going experience.  And for those of you who thought DUMB AND DUMBER took potty humor to it's zenith, just check out the scene in which star Emilio Estevez has a conversation with a guy taking a dump--complete with every imaginable sound effect.  King had a better time in the 90's, with such non-horror movies as THE SHAWSHANK REDEMTION and THE GREEN MILE.  But MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE will forever be his darkest hour.  "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The motor vehicles of the world are killing everyone in sight. A small group of people holed up in a diner try to fend off the possessed vehicles arming themselves with nucler weapons and army like guns?!? Stephen King wrote and directed this and proves just how hard it is to adapt Stephen King works. This film is the pits. King once said that this was a modern day Ed Wood film, but at least those films were entertaining despite being awful. This is just boring and awful. Plenty of on screen killings, a brief appearance by Marla Maples, bad dialogue, lots of special effects, a rock sound track, and a terribly miscast cast can't even liven this effort up.Rated R; Extreme Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  *possible spoiler*Maximum Overdrive marks the infamous debut of horror novelist Stephen King. Thus far, it has been his only effort in the director's chair, and it is likely to remain that way. The film has been almost universally panned, not only by the critical community, but also by many horror fans. The central concept, of vehicles coming to life and rebelling against their owners, made for a fairly entertaining short story (Trucks), but on film it just looks ridiculous. It is fortunate that King realized this; had he taken it seriously, the results would have been genuinely unwatchable. The film plays with tongue firmly planted in cheek; in the end it's not nearly as bad as expected. Quite silly, yes, but it's actually kind of fun if watched in the proper frame of mind. As a junk movie, it makes for some good late-night viewing, especially if watched in conjunction with mind-altering substances. Highlights include firing missiles at the renegade trucks, the amusing opening scenes (especially one involving a pop machine), and a montage of characters being forced to fill tanks to the tune of an A/C song. There are also some goofy bits with a bible salesman, demonstrating that King at least tried to have fun here.The acting tends to be fairly weak, since King paid more attention to the trucks than the cast. He didn't seem to put much effort into working with his actors; as a result the film's entertainment value sinks a notch, in this reviewer's opinion. Emilio Estevez has some appeal, but he is rarely encouraged to fully display his charisma. Laura Harrington delivers an ineffectual performance, not good for one whose character is the hero's love interest. In fact, when she was offscreen I pretty much forgot about her. Yeardley Smith, best known as the voice of Lisa Simpson, is irritating and deserved to be repeatedly run over. On the other hand, Holter Graham generates some sympathy as a young boy trying to survive the deadly machine onslaught. Other performers acquit themselves reasonably well as various rednecks and hicks. Stephen King himself has an uncredited cameo as a man confounded by the inexplicably foul language of an ATM machine.For a first time director, King doesn't do too badly, given the silly script he wrote himself. His writing style tends to be very visual in nature, and he successfully translates this characteristic, at least, to the silver screen. Given his lack of experience, he does a good job with his screen compositions, including some nice pans and crane shots. However, his pacing tends to be a bit off, especially in the middle. At least he usually makes it watchable. In the end, he was wise to give up directing for good, since his only film is proof that not even writers are experts in cinematically interpreting their own work.** (out of ****)Released by De Laurentiis Entertainment "}{"Title":"The Maximum Turkey.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Totally stupid venture for first and currently only-time director Stephen King (yes, the novelist) as he makes a film based on his equally unappealing short story Trucks. Maximum Overdrive, what can I say? The film is just a pure mess as machines come to life on their own and try to kill a group of people in a small community. Pat Hingle and Emilio Estevez are the two most notable names from the under-achieving cast. Pure chaotic junk. Another in the seemingly endless list of cheap 1980s horror flicks. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"This movie is terrible","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  By God, this is bad.  I really don't know what Stephen King was thinking when he wrote this piece of trash.  The script is terrible, the acting is awful, the movie drags on for far too long, and it's just really boring.  It's a complete waste of time.   "},{"Title":"Thank God for AC/DC","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Written and directed by Stephen King, Maximum Over Drive is a science fiction story about machines trying to take over the world when an alien smog hits the Earth's atmosphere. An interesting idea made into a terrible film. Emilo Estervez and AC/DC are the only reasons worth watching. Besides that, its worth paying the two dollar video rental fee to see a cameo by Stephen King. "},{"Title":"Stephen King's Best Movie?","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Could this film be Stephen King's best movie? You would think no way with such great movies as The Shining, It and The Stand. And of course you'd have to ignore his prison movies (which blow away his horror films) like Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile... but given this caveats, Maximum Overdrive might be the best movie in Stephen King's repertoire.Just like the crappy remake Trucks, this film features mechanical objects coming to life and attacking human beings for no apparent reason. (Actually ,whe the reason is finally revealed in the end, it makes even less sense than when we didn't know.) We see the survivors of the Dixie Boy truck stop fight off semis, electric carving knives and machine guns.Some of the best death scenes in horror history are in this film. Where else can you see a soda machine go crazy on a field full of Little Leaguers? Or a steamroller make a man's head explode? You'll see these things here, oh yeah ,and you'll see them with Emilio Estevez, the superior Estevez-Sheen brother.And the AC/DC soundtrack. I'm no big fan (especially of such songs as She's Got the Jack) but these rock songs seem to fit the film so perfectly you'll find yourself bobbing your head along to Who Made Who and other hits. When you hear the opening notes of Shook Me All Night Long you know you're in a world of pain.My only complaint is that I was unclear what would and wouldn't come alive. Trucks needed petrol and other things needed electricity. Yet, machine guns turn on their turret by themselves and sprinkler systems - presumably not mechanical at all - turn on at will. But you know what? Leaving your brain on during this movie is your first mistake because this film is so ludicrous. While the gore is much greater than many other horror films, it's not scary. It's funny. So don't take the flaws of this film too seriously.Ope na can of Coors original and push play. You're in for some solid entertainment. Just be sure to get drunk fast, because the second half of the film doesn't live up to the first. Recommendd. "},{"Title":"Disastrous Stephen King movie","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Stephen King's debut as a movie director can be easily described in one word - disastrous! Based on his own brilliant shot story Trucks about empty cars, trucks and machines running amok and sieging a bunch of people in a lonely highway cafe, this short terror vision is not working as a full length feature movie at all.There's a ridiculous explanation about the cause of the trucks terrorizing their creators (something about a U.F.O. and cometh rays influencing life on earth...), and King's direction is just bad. There is King's favorite hard rock group AC/DC playing their dull hits like Highway to Hell and Hells Bells over and over, too many trucks driving around without a cause and much action and no real story at all. Even good actors like Emilio Esteves and Pat Hingle can't help to  rescue this bad horror movie.Only in the beginning when the machines start to terrorize people, like a milkman's delivery car killing all people in a David-Lynch-like urban middle-class surrounding, there are hints of the scary atmosphere of King's horror novels. Skip this movie or just watch it for a laugh with a few cans of beer or if you a big fan of AC/DC and American trucks. "},{"Title":"Moronic trash - go and watch Duel instead","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  In 1987 the earth passes into the tail of a comet where it will remain for at least 8 days.  However this causes all the machines in earth to begin to act of their own accord and turn on their masters.  In a truck stop in America a small group of survivors find themselves laid siege to by a increasing number of trucks.Stephen King's directorial debut was a version of his own trashy story that even he describes as a `wonderfully moronic movie'.  The plot could not be more basic, dealing with killer drinks machines, lawnmowers and trucks of all sizes.  It doesn't get more complicated than that.  The first half is focused on gory deaths then the second half is more about the group fighting back and trying to escape.  In terms of action it is quite straightforward and even manages to reduce the trucks to big tonka-trucks rather than real threats.Estevez is OK as the young tough guy but really the majority of the cast are fodder and not real people.  The baddies fail to have any presence, one truck is given the head of a demon with red eyes in an attempt to make it the central villain but even it fails to be interesting.Overall this is just about good enough to watch once.  However it is moronic trash so don't expect too much.  If you want to see a good movie then may I suggest Duel - Speilberg's first.  The most interesting thing about this is that it features a young Giancarlo Esposito before Spike Lee helped set him on the road with Do The Right Thing. "},{"Title":"A King-sized bomb","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  There a bad movies that are so bad that they are funny.  This movie was both bad and not funny - it was just bad.  What we have is a comet that makes machinery turn against man.  Now there's a concept! Kenworths and Peterbilts revolt against their drivers and anything else on the road.  Nothing new there either if you drive the interstates.  Was there a plot?  Not really.  Was there acting?  Not really.  Was it worth seeing?  Not!A pity that the trucks didn't destroy everything within the first ten minutes of this heroic flop including the set, actors, writers, film and film crew.  That would have been a great improvement.  But then again I doubt that this movie had a budget of not more than $359.This movie was on a late, late show on one of those grade D stations.  Even that was too good a spot for it.  Another case where a name does not guarantee a good movie or story.  "},{"Title":"Maxi-dumb","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Wow, this has got to be the worst Stephen King movie of all time.  The plot (not to imply that it has one) is incredibly boring.  And the plot holes are big enough to.. *ahem*.. drive a truck through.  I am really surprised this movie isn't on the imdb bottom 100 list.2 out of 10  "},{"Title":"This is a Movie??","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This appears to be a typical Steven King production; in other words, a movie that he produces and writes. King who grinds out books, as an organ-grinder does songs, lacks the ability to make a decent movie, and should stick to writing. Not that he has written anything of any consequence since he wrote the Stand.It is hard to believe that people could be as stupid, vacuous, and lacking of sense as the actors are in this film. It's no wonder machines are taking over. Calling them actors, is being kind to say the least. The vehicles are more believable.The best part of the film is the beginning with the AC-DC soundtrack. From there on it is a steady slide in to the incredulous, ridiculous, and boredom. Holter Graham is the only refreshing, and perhaps genuine, person in the whole film. "},{"Title":"Thanx Mr. King !","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Thanx Mr. King for directing this one ! Over the last 30 years nearly as many movies have been made from Mr. Kings novels. Less than 10 percent of them are good.Most are bad.MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE is the worst one ! Just plain simply the bottom of the barrel, junk in every way. Looks like a brain-dead 12 year old has directed this.Directed ? Well, this one was sunk before the first frame was shot.It is the story, which is stupid beyond words. With this story even Don Siegel or Bob Aldrich or whomever great action director could not have made an above average movie out of this junk ...So why - in God's name - do so many people (do they ??) consider Mr. Kings books worth reading, some even say they are good ??? They ain't.I read through 2 or 3 of them when I was an older teen and already then I thought that they are 300 to 800 pages junk. My opinion has not changed. MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE ends with these words The survivors of the Dixie Boy are still survivors. Do I need to say/write more ... ?!This movie proves something, that would not have needed another prove. "}{"Title":"A moron movie indeed","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Maximum Overdrive marked horror writer Stephen King's directorial debut. So far this is his only directorial effort, and hopefully it will stay that way. Maximum Overdrive is one of his worst films (he also did double duty by writing the moronic script). King said he set out to make a moron movie and in that department he most definitely succeeded. I didn't sense for one minute while watching this that he tried to make it a good movie. Maximum Overdrive does have an interesting premise. It's about a comet that passes close to Earth which causes all machines and machinery to turn on and operate by themselves. Now I really do believe that Maximum Overdrive could have been made into an entertaining film if King had made it with wit, logic, and fun. Instead he made it sloppy, obnoxious, and boring. There were only a few moderately exciting moments in this film, and that doesn't cut it. Three things about Maximum Overdrive that really annoyed me are 1) the graphic violence, which at times was unforgiveable; 2) the cast of actors who act totally obnoxious (Pat Hingle and Yeardley Smith take top honors for the film's worst performances); and 3) the blaringly loud music score by the popular rock group AC/DC. Now I'll grant you, AC/DC is a pretty good rock band. I find some of their songs to be pretty cool. But for King to make them compose the score to this film was a big mistake. The film score to Maximum Overdrive is one of the worst, most aggravating film scores I've ever heard. In conclusion, I didn't find much to like about Maximum Overdrive. Much better movies based on Stephen King material include Carrie, The Shining, Cujo, Christine, Cat's Eye, Creepshow, Misery, and the TV miniseries The Stand.* (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Who Made What? is a better question...","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" ...and the blame lies squarely at the feet of Stephen King, doing the screenplay and directing.  He claimed he intended to make a bad B movie intentionally, but since all his claims occurred after the audience reaction came in, that seems kinda unlikely (and what studio would pay for King to do this, or want him to??).  Incredibly bad acting, bad continuity, bad F/X, huge plotholes (why don't the _cars_ ever come to life?), and lots of gratuitous blood and gore.  It's just pointless. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film had a potentially very interesting concept (all the machines go on a homicidal rampage), but didn't exploit very well. Actually, it did for a while, in some quite inventive scenes (the violent soda machine provides the film's most memorable moment), but then falls into a repetitive pattern - trucks keep circling around the truck station, attacking intermittently, and the tension never builds. You'd expect to see a lot more cool and varied scenes like the early ones, but this film is actually very limited in scope. (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Stephen King is not only a bad writer but a bad director too","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King has admitted that his role in directing this stinker ruined any remote possibility that it might not be a shameful disgrace of a film. It is just awful. It is still somewhat entertaining but a very poor piece of cinema. Stephen King is not much of a writer and this is one of his worst short stories. The premise is just plain stupid and I wonder why anyone thought it could have any chance at a conversion to the screen. It could have been a comedy. Just imagine if they had destroyed the machines by sticking bananas in the tailpipes and sugar in their gas tanks. That would have had more camp value. This movie is just awful. Avoid it like yellow snow. "},{"Title":"Simply a waste of film.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The setting is Earth after it passes through the tail of a comet. For some reason that I have never understood, this causes all machines to come alive. Don't bother, you'll regret the waste of film and the waste of your time. "},{"Title":"Maximum Overload Would Have Been a Better Title.","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This unpleasant flick about a group of citizens who must fend for themselves when a comet causes vehicles and other machines to come to life is utterly disappointing, and you have to hand it to talented novelist Stephen King for all the dirt.  With him behind the camera, the movie all but falls apart, with no real story and performances that fall flat.  This movie would have had more plot had it been directed by someone else.  However, despite its sheer awfulness, one good thing came out of this film the cool music of AC/DC.  Otherwise, this film would have been a turkey.1 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A Ridiculous Movie","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE takes stupidity to new depths . How dumb is this movie ? On a scale of one to ten it gets A+  that`s how dumb it isThe central plot revolves around the idea that an alien influence is possessing machines in order to rid the world of humanity . Yeah so it`s not documentary material but there`s worse ideas for a movie , but where everything falls apart is the internal continuity of what constitutes a  machine  , weather satellites and motorised boats don`t count but all cars do . Well not all cars because some characters are seen to drive them while other people are being killed by them , don`t ask me why this should be , and please don`t ask me how the cars and trucks are able to  see  human beings because I don`t have a clue either But what really yanked my chain was the lack of logic involved . We see a contraption with a machine gun mounted on it . How could that have been built ? There obviously must of been some metal work involved so do oxy-acelytyne torches and vices count as  machines  or is there some seriously ill thought out writing involved ? I also couldn`t help noticing people lying dead after being attacked by remote controlled toy cars and lawn mowers . Even if they were taken over by some unimaginable alien power a toy car wouldn`t possess enough potential or kinetic energy to travel hard enough to kill someone . Likewise a homicidal lawn mower could run over your toes but to kill someone seems unlikely Strangely for a Stephen King story ( Which he wrote so he can`t blame anyone except himself )  MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE is devoid of characterisation , the characters aren`t characters at all they`re cyphers just there to spout lines . There`s no character interaction and I had a problem remembering most of their names , in fact while watching the movie I forgot most of the characters existed until they got killed , that`s how much impression they made on me There are a couple of clever bits amongst the choking stupidity . If you look closely you can see one of the cards at the clocking on machine reads  Gene Poole  ( Geddit ? ) while I there`s an in-joke of having a van with the letters AC/DC ( The band who did the music for the movie ) crash around on a bridge but this is one of the most stupid movies from the last 20 years that doesn`t even begin to make sense  "}]