[{"Title":"Where did Disney come up with this?!  It's (gasp) original!","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"68 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know the drill 12 year old David falls into a ravine in the woods and discovers when he wakes up that he's been missing for eight years.  He also discovers that he's hearing voices that seem to come from a mysterious craft housed in a NASA hangar.My two cents worth In a time when all the live action Disney movies seem to be a variant on I was normal but just discovered I am/have just been mistaken for royalty/merperson/rock star/leprechaun/etc., this movie from the 1980's is a real breath of fresh air.  The scenario, waking up and discovering that everything except you has changed, and knowing you'll be somebody's idea of a guinea pig for the rest of your life, is instantly relatable and creepy, whether you're a kid or an adult.  The kid fainting, the change in the two brother's relationship due to the age flop, parents trying to protect their son, government trying to exploit the kid's knowledge, everyone's reactions to the situation are all logical and believable.  And who hasn't wanted a chance to fly a saucer?  Having Max, the ship's pilot, be a robot was another stroke of brilliance.  So many movies have the aliens flying all the way here to come visit us face to face.  But if we send machines to other planets because it's cheaper than going ourselves, why wouldn't they?  And having him learn about Earth courtesy of a 12-year-old's TV polluted brain was hysterical.The movie seems a little dated today; but it's forgivable because, like Back to the Future, it's set so specifically in a certain frame of time (you expect it to look and sound like 1986 because, hey, they keep telling you that's when it is.)Recommendations Back to the Future and Big are the two I can think of that are most along these lines. "},{"Title":"One of the very best Sci-fi Family Movies of the 80's","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"53 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had seen this movie on VHS back in the 80's and I now have children and just watched this movie with them on DVD. The film still has presence and the special effects are still quite good even considering they are now near 20 years old. Very impressive and my children are now complete fans of the movie. If you have never seen this film, I would recommend it whole-heartedly for the entire family. If it has been sometime since you watched this film I would say check it out, well worth a return visit.One thing I have to mention is the joy I was receiving just watching my children (ages 4 through 8) experience this movie for the first time. Even after all of the Hi-tech movies they have seen in recent years this movie was still able to capture their attention, hold it and entertain just as well as anything in recent memory (such as Spiderman, Hulk or even Spy Kids).My children wanted to re-watch it immediately after it ended, it was that good in their (short attention span) minds.5 out of 5 stars from me and mine. **Although regarding the DVD transfer, it could have used some extra's, even a trailer from the original film, however there were none, simple menu access and set-up options only, enjoyable none-the-less.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"36 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is to blame for my over active imagination. Saw it on TV when i was at school and watched it over and over ever since! Though the quality of the film was not something i would have noticed when i was that age, i did notice the amazing special effects (for that era of cinematographic effects).The ship design (Steve Austin) is truly inspired (especially when in 'first class manouvre' mode!!) and stylistically has stood the test of time (it could quite easily pass off as futuristic in new films today. Maybe he should have done some more design work(?).And my favourite character ... 'Al', the big guy at the service station ('Rusty' Pouch), best bit of acting ever!The flight scenes and the concept of flying in a cool spaceship caught my young mind most of all. As i watched it time and time again, the many other factors proved to play a major part of the film. The music score for one is great and for me has become a critical part of the film (I love the 80's synth!)All in all, this piece of cinema was very very well thought out, constructed, produced, acted, all fitting together in a film that many films could never achieve.Go buy it on DVD!E)  "},{"Title":"Come along and ride on a fantastic voyage!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"32 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Flight of the Navigator is one of those terrific adventure films for kids, even after all these years. It also falls into a long line of fun 80s sci-fi/adventure family movies.Davey (Joey Cramer) goes into the woods looking for his little brother one evening in 1978. When he wakes up after a brief period of unconsciousness, he turns into a scientific marvel. Nothing is as Davey remembers it, but he can't figure out why because he only fell asleep for a brief period.Davey is told that his parents reported the young boy missing in 1978, the evening that he went searching in the woods for his younger brother, referring to the incident in the past tense because it is 1985. Only Davey is still exactly the same age and everything he was from 1978, while time has passed for everyone else. His little brother is now his big brother (Matt Adler). His parents are old. Everyone is confused and the scientific world find the situation fascinating.The scientists turn Davey into their personal guinea pig, running tests and probing him and all that junk. And soon they discover, that Davey was abducted. Davey, understandably a confused little kid, can't figure out what's going on and he sure doesn't want to be locked up in some lab where people prod at him all day long and tell him very little. So, he breaks lose, and hops aboard the spaceship that took him through time before. While it is an escape from the scientists and their security (briefly), it also holds the answers to what happened to him. It is also an opportunity for Davey to learn everything from this spaceship. And a kid's movie isn't complete without personifying inanimate objects. The spaceship is essentially controlled by Max, which is like it's CPU, a CPU with a cool sense of humor who likewise tries to learn about human emotions and condition from his passenger, Davey. Filmed around Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, it is still a cool movie for kids...teenagers...whatever, having a little bit of something for everyone. Great humor, cool special effects, and the like. "},{"Title":"More than meets the eye","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"32 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is an entertaining fantasy, but there's quite a bit more to it just beneath the surface. The protagonist is a 12-y/o kid raised, as most are in Western culture, to be incompetent, overly dependent on adults, and untrusting of his own judgment. When he finds himself aboard an alien spacecraft, he naturally first attempts to transfer that dependency to the robotic pilot Max, which, all-seeing eye and all, represents the omniscient grown-up. As time goes on, though, David begins to realize that 1) his own interests do not in fact always coincide with Max's, 2)that therefore he must advocate for himself to achieve a favorable outcome, and 3) that he's the one who has to decide just what outcome will best meet his needs. Much unlike most kid movies, this character shows real growth, and in the end confronts a real moral and personal dilemma. Whether you agree with his choice or not, you have to respect him for what he has become. "},{"Title":"A Delightful Sci-Fi From the 1980s","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In 1978, in Fort Lauderdale, the twelve years old David Freeman (Joey Cramer) goes through the grove to bring his younger brother back home. He slides, falls in a hole and faints. When he wakes up and goes home, eight years have passed and he has not aged. Meanwhile, NASA scientists find a spacecraft near to a fallen electric tower. David is brought to NASA to be studied and soon he realizes that he can communicate with the UFO. He finds out that he was sent to a distant planet in a very high speed and became the navigator of the spacecraft. In his life, he had lost 4.4 hours. On Earth, eight years have passed. This movie is a delightful entertainment, using good special effects and having a very reasonable story. It is a family entertainment, indicated for all ages. Sarah Jessica Parker, famous presently due to the show `From Sex and the City', has a minor participation as a trainee in NASA. My vote is seven. "},{"Title":"A classic family movie","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" For the fist time I saw Flight of The Navigator when I was a kid, nearly twenty years ago. I remember young soviet kids flocked into the theaters to see a strange American movie and somehow taped it but too many time has passed and all these years it was like a rather unclear distant memory for me, a distant memory of something pretty good and even beautiful. Since then I was unable to find it and watch it again and only recently I caught in on a cable TV channel. Despite being twenty seven years old now I still liked it a lot.Flight of The Navigator is a very good Sci-fi family movie despite (or some people could say thanks to) it is not as overloaded by the special effects as most of such modern movies. That left enough place not only for pure entertainment bit also for emotions and some pretty nice scenes with rather good dialogs. It the story of an eleven years old boy, who after a strange and quite inexplicable contact with something looked like an alien ship got moved through the time into future several years ago, which passed for him like a couple of hours. In this future he takes an adventure to find an explanation what really happened with him. Flight of The Navigator is a very enjoyable movie for whole family, which deserves much more appreciation than overwhelming majority of recent family movies.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Flight of the Navigator' might have been produced in the mid-Eighties but it certainly hasn't lost it's charm over the last twenty years and it does stand up well against more recent family film offerings.The story begins in 1978 with twelve-year-old David Freeman, a happy all-American kid who lives with his loving parents and typically bratty eight-year-old brother Jeff. One night he sets off into the woods to look for Jeff only to be knocked unconscious when he falls from a ravine. When David awakes in what seems like hours later to him, he discovers actually eight years have passed and it is now 1986. Although he is still twelve years old, the world has moved on and even his little brother is older than he is. NASA are very interested in David when his EEG scan reveal readings in the shape of a UFO they have discovered and other scans of the boy result in star charts of distant galaxies being spewed out from the computers. But our hero is determined to return to his family so he breaks free and hides aboard the UFO which holds the key to everything.Joey Cramer gives a likable performance as David, a boy who enjoys adventures but ultimately just wants to be with his family. I think anyone watching the film would empathise with his character's anger and sense of helplessness when David discovers NASA have no intention of letting him go home. Matt Adler as sixteen-year-old Jeff is another notable actor in the film in the way he depicts his character's uncertainty of dealing with his little big brother and his developing protectiveness towards David. Also, look out for a younger Sarah Jessica Parker.For those who watched 'Flight of the Navigator' as children in the Eighties, there is definitely a nostalgic feeling to it. However, I think children of present day would still enjoy the film as it has a little of everything and issues raised as still relevant and/or interesting today such as pre-teen crushes, annoying kid brothers, the thrill of following a hero on his 'quest', a fun mentor for the hero (even if it is metallic!) and arrogant scientist-types. It is important to remember that this is a children's film aimed very much at an eight- to twelve-year-old demography so it doesn't delve too deeply but the plot is quite unique, the characters are interesting and it is a film that is well put-together. Certainly one to enjoy with the whole family. "},{"Title":"My favourite childhood movie","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film stands out as my favourite childhood movie. I have searched my brain for the name of it for years, even as I remembered full scenes, extremely detailed. I just couldn't remember the name of the film. I started renting anything I recognized from when I was young - and ended up watching some great films (although most were slower than I remembered them to be). But, finally, I found this, my favourite film, and I have to say it is just as exciting and cool and exciting as I remembered (keep in mind, even as a young person, I had a keen eye for excellence in film ) ). I recommend this film completely.Enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Joey Cramer  was the cutest kid, it was a great family  show","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" My boys enjoyed this show, and we loved the ship and the happy ending. I was surprised he did not continue in show biz. I even saw another movie called Heartland Ghost and I was so excited because I just knew it was him but it was another actor names Gabrielle Olds that played Jeff in that show. I wish I could find a current picture or any picture of Joey Cramer after that movie. Some of his co-stars are still making great movies. I just hope he is well and happy with his life. I had three boys and they ran around the house saying Compliance. It was sooo cute. They even loved how the ships voice changed to pee wee's. After Joey was able to come back to the way things were with his little alien friend, they wondered how he was going to keep his little friend a secret from his parents. I am just glad I was able to raise my boys without having them get on the roof to shoot off fireworks. I wonder if Joey has any boys and if they have seen their fathers movies. Young people whose parents were actors have a very unique way to know what their parents were like as kids, beside the normal pictures and home movies. "}{"Title":"Good.","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" beautiful film. As to the usual one, the usual negative comments which talk about a classical film some years 80 which everyone does not like it to the nostalgic ones are met.Sure Heros that this film had to have a judgment in this site. In fact reviewers' good part has put a high vote to the previous episodes. Because this contrast? I know the reason. Since assumptive reviewers' good part favorably sees the past and as the past is better than the present they have given several credit to the preceding episodes being still the last episode more explosive and spectacular. At this point should reject also the old episodes but there are here two weights and two measure.In fact also cinema masterpieces have been criticized and denigrated. Good part some reviewers of this site belong to the very bad reviewers. Better think separately with its head. I was sure that the god fun old episode did not like it. Who has to be withdrawn is not george lucas but the last reviewer SAMPAT GO AWAY. "},{"Title":"This movie is 2 thumbs up and a ten on my IMDb rating!","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've been saving that DVD to watch for a rainy day or a day off in my case. I was way too young too remember this movie from 1986 as I was only three years old. Cool sci-fi movie that is in the same realm of coolness as ET. A young boy is asked by his mother to go get his younger brother from the neighbors. The kid named David, falls down this ravine and hits his head. He passes out and finds himself awake 8 years later and everything has changed including his family. I am not going to wreck the plot anymore you will have to watch this movie. My roommate is already mad at me for spoiling some of the plot because I thought this movie was awesome. And Sarah Jessica Parker is pretty hot as she is sooooooo young in this movie and it was way before her Sex In The City success in the nineties. Flight Of The Navigator is a movie I know I will watch again as I love movies from the eighties and movies filled with adventure and worlds we couldn't even imagine in our existence. "},{"Title":"The First Half is Great...","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK First up. I'm not the target audience for this movie and I didn't see it when I was a kid so I'm not looking at it with the warm glow of nostalgia. So I guess I'm going to p!ss some people off with this review.The first half of this movie is, not to mince words, great. Even to my middle-aged jaded eyes it is a great start. Nicely acted, nicely paced, and nicely directed ( I loved the opening shot and the 2 subsequent UFOs that weren't). David, the eldest son of a Standard Disney All American Family, slips and falls whilst in the woods one night. Returning home he finds eight years have passed. Simltaniously an alien Space ship has crashed into a power pylon; later the NASA scientists studying it discover that David has information in his head that directly links him with the alien space ship. They start to analyse the knowledge that has been placed in his brain...Up until this point the movie has been building up a nice eerie edge, The scenes where David is reunited with his family have an emotional punch. There is some real tension building up, tension which dissolves almost immediately Sarah Jessica Parker and her obvious plot device on wheels turns up and is only just being built up again when David enters the ship (via the obvious plot device on wheels) As soon as he steps onto the space ship the whole movie just falls flat on its arse.David just flies about a bit then has the star charts which were (for no apparent reason)pumped into his brain during the missing eight years read by the spaceship who managed to loose his copy while crashing into the power line...? What!? Oh come on! This is stupid. Even for a Disney kids movie, this is stupid stupid stupid film-making. The alien robot ship then turns into a cool talking dude, shows him the other 'samples' one of which eats David's hat then belches (a particularly thin and annoying 'joke' that seems to amuse American movie directors and no one else). David teaches the spaceship about music - a space-faring race that has examined dozens of other sentient species, can speak English, and has never heard of music?. Then they fly about for a bit unable to find Florida. When they do get there, via Japan, David decides that he wants to attempt to travel back in time to 1987. He travels back in time. He doesn't disintegrate. He is reunited with his family for the second time in the movie. Was it all a dream? No! He still has the cute little orphaned alien he picked up with him.OK, maybe I'm being harsh here. It's a kids film after all. But it started out so well. It showed great promise. Then it just copped out the second half of the film is just David flying the ship around. There is no threat, no mystery, no plot, no tension. It's boring. And Max the spaceship was for me,after about 3 minutes, a winner of the prestigious Ja-Ja Binks most Annoying Character in a SF Movie of the Year Award. "},{"Title":"Cool until Paul Reubens Shows up...","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a tough one. I saw this movie as a child, and it stuck with me as something I loved. But then I revisited it as an adult, and it didn't hold up that well. I wish I could give two ratings, one from me as a kid (probably an 8 or 9) and then one for me as an adult (probably a 3 or 4 at best). To make the compromise I did a 5.The story is fairly original, and the acting is fine. The spaceship effects hold up relatively well. I like the kid (what else did he do?? I feel like I didn't see him in much else). I don't think this is a spoiler, or hope not anyway, but if you're at all concerned with things like then then read no further. One place that really messes the movie up for me though, is when the alien ship AI personality makes a shift from this kind of cool mysterious robot voice, to the voice of Paul Reubens (AKA Pee-Wee Herman, doing his Pee-Wee Herman voice no less). I felt like as a kid this worked, it was kind of hip and cool and fun. But as an adult, it turns the alien ship into a really annoying character, and I feel a lot less sympathy for everyone involved. "},{"Title":"IMDb score too low... COMPLIANCE!","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have tried to ferret out from the IMDb database unique one-of-a-kind films that not only do their job (entertain) but also lack analogues, so that even if you want to compare them to something, you simply can't. This is one of my faves. It is astonishing that no one at Disney has tried to re-do it? Other reviewers here have ably covered the story. What they may have neglected to explain perhaps is how astonishing this tale is for the period (the 80s) and the audience (kids?). C'mon there are episodes of Star Trek that don't deal with as many issues of time travel, time paradox, time dilation (age differences) and ... for a kicker .. moral complexities. In a kid's film? G'mme a break. Astonishing little gem, great acting, and even the voice of the ship is well cast. My last word? COMPLIANCE! "},{"Title":"David and the compliant Phaleon.","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Flight of the Navigator is directed by Randal Kleiser and is adapted to screenplay by Michael Burton and Matt MacManus from a story by Mark H. Baker. It stars Joey Cramer, Veronica Cartwright, Cliff De Young, Sarah Jessica Parker, Howard Hesseman and the voice of Paul Reubens. Music is by Alan Silvestri and cinematography is by James Glennon and Eric McGraw.Young David Freeman (Cramer) is out in the woods near his home in Fort Lauderdale when he falls down a ravine and is knocked unconscious. Waking up he finds that the world around him has advanced by 8 years but he hasn't. After being reunited with his overjoyed parents, it becomes apparent that David has had an encounter with a extra terrestrial life form, which of course greatly interests the authorities...It's a family friendly sci-fi with a difference, in that it doesn't have to take us into space for its tale, yet this in no way detracts from how enjoyable Flight of the Navigator is. It is told from young David's perspective (with Cramer impressionable), thus it firmly engages the kids in the audience. The relationship between David and the Phaleon computer system (Reubens) engages with witty chatter and educational purpose, and the effects work should not be taken for granted either. If we are to be picky then the build up is a touch long before the pic goes extra terrestrial, and Cartwright and De Young are barely given time to impact as parents coming to terms with a family life turned upside down. But small complaints really and this is a lovely film, one that isn't just for 1980s nostalgists. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Instant Classic, and New Arrival..","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" After just finishing watching this movie, I'm quite happy I've watched it. Although, there are scenes that I really think are too common in Disney movies. But, I think I can just forgive that. If you are into Disney Family movies, and you are into characters meeting new friends but having to leave them for some reason, you will enjoy this movie. This movie could be the spiritual sequel to E.T. The Extra Terrestrial, along with many other movies that can be it's spiritual predecessor and successor in Disney movies.A 12 year old boy, David Freeman, was on his way to search for his little brother who would be returning from his friends house and would be going to the woods. David's mother thought that would be dangerous, so David should have to get him. David falls into a ditch, only to be awoken eight years later. David finds out that this is all because of some extra terrestrial plot, and he ends up going on a space ship with a robot. This video is fun for the whole family! What's even better, I'm pretty sure that this would be great to look at on a HDTV.What disgusted me, or what I should say I disliked because they weren't really disgusting, was the following scenes I would say. David eventually attempts to teach the robot laughter, music, and the robot eventually reads David's mind and starts talking like a child. This aggravated me and I found the robot to be a little annoying and not very serious. But, I also found this to be quite entertaining. Eventually, the robot will get back to his normal self in the end, but at the very end, the robot talks like a child again. I also hated that this featured annoying words such as, dork, geek, etc. But, you should remember that this was in the 1980s and this is a Disney movie.I recommend this movie for all. Well, not for all. There are a few cussing, but it's not common. So far, I remember hearing the SH word and probably even the D word that ends with mn, and I've also heard the word Hell. If you don't want to have to spend a few seconds or a minute explaining to your child what that is, don't bother letting that child watch this movie or just don't tell that child what it means. Those words are not common! I hope you enjoy the movie! "},{"Title":"A stone cold Disney CLASSIC!!","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I will tell you right from the start that this review will be incredibly biased because this has always been one of my favorite films since I was a little boy. I know it probably realistically pulls off a 8/10 MAX (no Pun intended) but for myself and for anyone who can let go of their reality and witness a terrific science fiction adventure as though you were 12 years old will not be disappointed. The Flight of The Navigator was dead center of the eighties film craze that saw brilliant sci-fi fantasy epics like Star Trek movies, Back To The Future, Short Circuit, E.T., Batteries Not Included, Gremlins...the eighties was a film genre of it's own. This film fits right into that genre perfect and delivers an experience unlike anything ever seen. This was before the days of CGI enhanced films and special effects that were computer generated and in a day and age where things had to be done by hand and puppets. Director Randal Kleiser did something amazing with the budget, effects, cast and story and created a mesmerizing adventure that I think is one of his more under rated works next to his hit cult classics Grease and The Blue Lagoon.Young star Joey Cramer does a brilliant job as David Freeman, the older brother and typical 'almost' teenager who is sent into a terrifying and yet amazing world where everyone around him has aged nearly ten years except him and he meets a friend that's out of this world. Cramer is in some ways the typical 'Disney' kid. But anyone can relate to him and his world and they do such an amazing job of capturing how this experience would feel finding yourself launched ten years into the future but having not aged a single day. You'll recognize regular character actors Veronica Cartwright and Cliff De Young as David's parents, both of them doing a great job with their smaller roles and carrying the incredible effect of having aged past their son. A young and very cute Sarah Jessica Parker plays the friendly Carolyn McAdams who befriends David at the NASA research facility, and Howard Hesseman is decent in his small role as the lead researcher at NASA who wants to study and protect David at once. Matt Adler is David's older brother but younger technically. Finally although credited at the end as 'Paul Mall' Trimaxion (or Max as he's known) is voiced by none other than Paul 'Pee Wee' Reubans who you can't miss as the voice. Nowadays the voice of Pee Wee Herman comes across as almost annoying and is more of a bad joke than anything but this film was released when Pee Wee Herman was all the rage and Reubans was a star to children. I almost found Max's voice annoying this time around but it never bothered me as a kid. Most of the parts in the film with the exception of David and Max are fairly small but everyone does a great job and carry the film wonderfully.One of the truly brilliant things about Flight of The Navigator is their is NO antagonist, no villains. There are perhaps character with questionable motives but the entire film works without a villain. Instead the film relies on the quest for this boy to find his place in a world moved on without him and to figure out where he's been. Scenes of true brilliance include the actual flight once the ship escapes, the creatures inside Max all waiting to be returned home, and Max and David swaying and dancing to The Beach Boys...all classic Disney film. The Flight of The Navigator is a sure fire hit with kids and kids at heart. If you've never taken in the adventure...well you need to!! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Pleasant landing","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this on television, seemingly cut for such. I think I expected different things of this, but I can't claim that it's poorly done. The acting, perhaps excepting any other kid(which there weren't many of) than the main one, is rather solid. The plot isn't bad, and they did employ an actual scientific theory. The pacing is remarkable, this flows and flies smoothly. The writing is good and consistent, albeit viewers are required to accept stuff that strains suspension of disbelief. The humor is plentiful, with no overdone gags or jokes, if repetition and silliness(I could have done without the gross-out material, even if there isn't that much of it, and the fact that it was confined to a single scene) are apparent throughout this, and the entire thing, partially also clear in the tone, while that isn't that bothersome, is directed at children. I must admit that it is done with care. The cinematography and editing are talented. The effects are fantastic, and not just for the time, with realistic reflection and fluid motion. There is a little language in it, maybe harsh at least considering who its intended audience is. There is nothing else that parents may deem inappropriate for their offspring, save for a couple of actions that can be imitated(and definitely shouldn't be). I recommend this to those who enjoy lighthearted sci-fi fare, in particular those who can appreciate that kind of film not being, or having to be, stupid. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Flight of the Navigator is a great movie","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great movie. It is classic for both parents and children. It really brings on nostalgaia. This is a clean movie. It has supereb special effects. ( especially for 1986) The writer did an excellent job. With its scfi elements and excellent characters it will delight children of all ages. Adults too. Joey Cramer who plays David, the main character really brings the story to life. The rest of the cast is equally as talented in their respective roles. The little robot at NASA and the design of the space ship are well done, and pulled off with a great degree of skill and competence. I recommend this movie for anybody who likes a fun, relaxing and all around good movie and good time. "}{"Title":"Eight Years in Space...Or Is It?","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was during the spring of 1995, while on vacation in Fort Lauderdale, that I read an eerie headline in the Sun-Sentinel.  An elderly woman was dying of cancer, and she proclaimed that she wished to see her son one last time.  What makes the story eerie is that her son disappeared from the Fort Lauderdale area in 1978, just like David Scott Freeman in Flight of the Navigator.  On the morning of July 5, 1978, Helen and Bill Freeman (Veronica Cartwright and Cliff DeYoung) awoke to learn that their son David (Joey Cramer) was missing.  Eight years later, in 1986, he returned, not having aged a minute.  Meanwhile, a flying saucer from the planet Phelan has landed on earth.  It was later determined that all of its starcharts and artificial intelligence have escaped into David's brain.  A team of NASA scientists led by Dr. Faraday (Howard Hesseman) is determined to research the connection between the alien ship and the time travelling David.  Will David remain a lab rat for the rest of his life, or will he escape to freedom?  There's only one way to find out, and that is by watching the movie.  Perhaps there are several themes to this movie.  Many families have lived with the tragedy of missing their children, and retrieving them is an arduous and time consuming task that often goes unfulfilled.  It can also be seen as a story of alienation someone mired in 1978 may face if he were to suddenly awake in 1986.  During those eight years, as David learned, his family moved and aged, Jimmy Carter was voted out of office, Starsky and Hutch went off the air, four new kinds of Coca-Cola hit the shelves, some girls began to dye their hair purple, and an all-male group named Twisted Sister replaced the Bee Gees as the most popular band of the time.  Take note of the cameo appearances of Sarah Jessica Parker as NASA assistant Carolyn McAdams, and of Paul Reubens as the voice of Max.  To answer your question, Chad Perman, Joey Cramer is alive and well and living in Vancouver.  Having visited South Florida several times, I can add one last message of the movie.  It really does feel like eight years when you travel up the I-95 instead of taking the Turnpike!  "},{"Title":"Highly recommended family sci-fi film","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this film in the cinema theater in my country in 1990 and was so amazed by this science fiction movie so I came to watch it again and again. Flight of the Navigator was not the first movie about traveling in time but arguably was the first to visualize UFO spaceship and hyperspace in a high-quality image. Also the idea that UFO can travel not only in space but in time looked pretty fresh. If you were a part of late 1980-s / early 1990-s you probably remember the interest to all this UFO and paranormal stuff and Flight of the Navigator hit those targets. The film is a family oriented movie made by Disney so anyone can watch it with a big pleasure "},{"Title":"12 year old David finds himself 8 years in the future and a nearby UFO plays a part in finding the answer","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Great all time favorite.A 12 year old boy (David) goes into the wood to meet his little brother to take home. He wakes up 8 years later and finds out that he has been reported as missing. Tests are conducted at the local hospital to find out why he hasn't aged in the time passed.NASA Finds a UFO nearby where he was found and pretty soon David is in the middle trying to piece together the unanswered questions and get back his life.I loved this movie as a kid and still do, it had aged but is still a loved classic. "},{"Title":"Cool kid's film","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember catching this on TV as a kid and really liking it. Not much has changed in the years since, as this is still a cool, fun kid's adventure film, perhaps not as in depth or as well made as Joe Dante's EXPLORERS but nevertheless a firm staple of a 1980s childhood.The storyline is split into two halves, and the first half actually turns out to be an intriguing mystery about a boy who suffers a fall in the woods and who wakes up to discover eight years have mysteriously disappeared. Joey Cramer makes for a likable lead; maybe he's not the best actor in the world but I found myself caring about and identifying with his character.After this set-up, the second half lets rip with an exhilarating fantasy set piece in which the lad takes a journey around the world in a really cool-looking UFO. There are some excellent special effects here and plenty of humour thanks to the reliably strange Paul Reubens in a voice performance. It's all very lightweight but no less entertaining because of it. Sarah Jessica Parker turns up in an early supporting role and Veronica Cartwright (ALIEN) is as good value as ever playing the kid's stressed-out mother. "},{"Title":"one unbelievable turn in otherwise good children sci-fi fantasy","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's 1978 Florida. 12 year old David Freeman (Joey Cramer)'s parents are Helen (Veronica Cartwright) and Bill (Cliff De Young). He falls down a ravine in the woods behind his house and hits his head. He wakes up to find 8 years have passed but he hasn't aged a single day. His little brother Jeff (Matt Adler) is now 16. Meanwhile Dr. Louis Faraday (Howard Hesseman) is investigating a crashed UFO. David seems to have a connection to the ship. Faraday convinces the family to allow David to go with him by his lonesome. Carolyn McAdams (Sarah Jessica Parker) is a low level worker at the secret facility who befriends David.There is a moment where this movie goes off the tracks a little. Faraday is able to convince David and his family to allow him to go off to a secret base with strangers all by himself. It's crazy unbelievable. No parents would ever do that without guns pointed at their heads especially for a 12 year old who's been missing for 8 years and presumed dead. I get the appeal of having the kid by himself in a strange environment. It raises the tension but does it in an unreasonable way. The core of the movie is a fascinating children's sci-fi fantasy. Joey Cramer is an endearing child actor. There are a lot to like in this movie but that turn keeps bugging me. "},{"Title":"Dorky 80's Sci-fi movie  )","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is crazy, weird and completely original. It was a brilliant idea that was executed in true 80's style. The special effects are terrible yet fantastic. Bright technicolor, dorky clothing and hairstyles. The 80's was one of the worst and the best decades. As a bonus it's also got adorable strange alien creatures.I have never seen anything quite like this before and it had a surprising amount of substance. I even teared up at one point. Don't underestimate how interesting this movie really is. The story is very strong and has a slight comical edge.Recommended if you enjoy movies like Weird Science, Back to the Future and Gremlins. "},{"Title":"I vaguely remembered a few scenes from this before watching it again","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I was in kindergarten, I used to go to a place after school. This place would occasionally show us tykes movies. They showed us E.T., Honey I Shrunk the Kids and The Little Mermaid a few times. But they also showed us another movie. When someone said the title, it sounded to me like How to Fight an Alligator. That made no sense to little old me, since I couldn't imagine why anyone would attempt to fight an alligator (I later found out that people DO in fact fight alligators, but I'm not going to try that).Anyway, the scenes that registered in my mind were the boy looks for his brother and gets scared when someone jumps out of the tree; the boy returns home and finds a different family there; the boy hides in the machine to board the alien ship; the boy says I promise and the voice says Don't know promise; the boy calls the voice a geek; the voice says You called me a geek!; the boy wakes up again in the forest. Overall, I found it as entertaining as a six-year-old would find it.I later learned that the movie's title was Flight of the Navigator. Now that I'm an adult, I've now seen it again. I found it to be one fun movie, the sort of thing that anyone would love to experience. Obviously I now recognize a young Sarah Jessica Parker. If the director's name rings a bell, it's because he also directed Grease. I picture Randal Kleiser telling everyone Respect the people playing the parents. Remember, the dad was in a band that performed with The Doors, Jimi Hendrix and Janis Joplin, and the mom worked with Alfred Hitchcock.* Anyway, a really enjoyable movie. You're sure to love it.*Cliff DeYoung was a member of the '60s group Clear Light, which performed with the aforementioned people. Veronica Cartwright played Rod Taylor's niece in The Birds. "},{"Title":"A great family film that doesn't talk down to kids!","Date":"7 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I was a kid I always loved this film. I'm 23 now and I still love it, especially as I am a fan of science fiction. If you are a fan of science fiction you will love this film. The film is about a 12 year old boy called David who, one night while looking for his younger brother in a wood, slips and loses consciousness. When he wakes up he thinks only a few hours have passed but its eight years later and his family had left him for dead. David hasn't changed but everyone and everything else has. David and his family try to uncover the truth, but little do they know that doing so will take David on a great adventure. This film has everything, it is well written, has good dialogue, has humour and what's more the acting is good. It is very subtle and sophisticated for a family/kids film and doesn't talk down to its younger viewers. This makes it easily accessible for adult viewing. Even though this film is nearly 30 years old, it has stood the test of time and is definitely a much watch. "},{"Title":"Compliance!","Date":"17 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fun sci-fi family movie about a twelve year-old boy (Joey Cramer) who disappears and returns eight years later, still twelve years old and unaware he's been missing. At the same time, NASA finds a spaceship but are unable to open it. NASA attempts to hold the boy against his will, but he escapes on board the spaceship. Paul Reubens is great as the voice of Max, the ship's computer.This is an awesome '80s movie. A good story told with nice special effects and lots of heart. The cast is terrific. In addition to Cramer and Reubens, there's Sarah Jessica Parker in an early role, Veronica Cartwright and Cliff De Young as the boy's parents, and Howard Hesseman as the film's antagonist. "},{"Title":"Good for the right audience.","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a kids movie, this one is definitely one of the better ones out there. This is simply stuff that the kids will enjoy watching. It tells the entire story from the viewpoint of a 12 year old boy, which means that the entire perception of the world and the people that are living in it are also costumed to that of a 12 year old. And I like that in all honesty. It's what makes this a good kids movie, which makes me wish more movies would had picked this approach. Hollywood these days seems to have no idea what kids like and how they should market and make movies for them. Just go back to some '80's movies and take notes.But having said all that, this movie is definitely not a great one. It had really a potentially great and adventurous concept but the movie did far too little with all of it. There is just not a whole lot happening in this movie movie. Story- and character-wise it's a quite poorly developed one. There is no villain, there is no real danger or conflict and the good original ideas that this movie had did not get developed or wrapped up properly. If the entire movie had been more like its first half the movie and its story could had really gone somewhere good and interesting. It could had been an E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial kind of movie, which this movie also seemed to have been really 'inspired' by in the first place. But instead of developing some more depth and interesting real emotions, the movie decides that it would be fun to set the movie aboard a spaceship, that's flying around the world, without ever letting anything exciting or tense happen.The story just doesn't make much sense. Not that that seems to matter much for a kids movie but it of course does. Children are not stupid and they just don't take anything for granted, which is something this movie doesn't really always seem to take in consideration with its story. They didn't put enough effort in it, which makes the movie a mostly bland one.Nevertheless the movie remains a fun, light one, especially for kids, since of its approach, that tells the story from the viewpoint and perspective of an 12 year old. Therefore I can say that the movie serves its purpose and for the right audience it's simply being a good one.It's also a real decent looking one. It's a Disney movie, who always knows how to spend some real money on these type of movies. The fact that this movie had the money and the backing of a big studio behind them means that this movie can do more than the usual average one, within this genre. They did not only got some big name actors to star in this movie but they also spend some money on its good looking effects. When you take into consideration that this is an 1986 movie. you have to conclude that the special effects in this movie were being quite good for its time. So nothing wrong with its cast or crew basically.It's good and entertaining enough throughout, especially for kids but yet it seemed to had some far more potential, which got wasted by a below par and not adventurous or fun enough script.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Randal Kleiser is a great director!","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first time I saw this movie, I was about ten years old. I had been spending the night over at a friends house and his parents had a copy on VHS. I should probably add that I am a big fan of time travel, but nothing ever enticed me quite like this picture. Anyway, I was drawn to it so much that I watched it again the next day all by myself. I can't really explain why but after those first two viewings, I thought about the movie for a long time. Almost twenty years later, I stumbled upon it here and remembered my fondness of it. I bought it on DVD and again, I still like the film very much. I know that sounds strange for an almost thirty year old man, but I suspect I'm not the only one. This is a most unlikely Disney film for a lot of reasons I won't discuss. In fact, had it been distributed by another production company, it might have been a better movie. Why argue that now? I'm a big fan of Randal Kleiser's films and I think Joey Cramer's acting is really good in his role as David. Maybe that's why I liked this movie so much. "},{"Title":"Fun in an '80s kind of way","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Flight Of The Navigator was an enjoyable adventure for our family. While some of the visual effects seem somewhat dated, and the story focusing on the boy as it should, the maturity level was not that high. Still, it is better than other Disney films like The Cat From Outer Space.Maturity and intelligence is not what this movie is about. Fun is the bottom line. While this is not something to revisit time and again, it is not a bad addition to my Disney DVD collection. Out of my usual four stars, I would rate this one **.5 If you are looking for excellent Disney features that hold up to many repeats, check out 20000 Leagues Under The Sea or Mary Poppins. But if a light story fits the bill, give Flight Of The Navigator a try. "},{"Title":"A great science fiction story from Walt Disney Studios","Date":"22 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember that i had watched this movie on television when i was about ten years old.It reminds me good stories like goonies,et the extra terrestial,close encounters of the third kind and basically the good movies from the 80s when they knew how to make an excellent movie without special effects.We see the story of a young boy in 1978 named David who apparently had been disappeared for 8 years without anyone know where he had been.He returns mysteriously in the year 1986 to find out that he was a missing person.This of course occurs the weirdness of Scientists who believe that David has a connection with a spaceship they found and which they cannot open.The most interesting part is that David has a high intelligence and that is the thing that they want to take advantage.David no longer can stand this situation he tries to escape from the Nasa facilities where he was captured and by luck he finds the spaceship to realize that he is the navigator and he can control it.And then there is a chasing for about 20 minutes and at the end David decides to travel back in time in 1978 again because he knows that if he stays he will an experiment for the scientists.Very good acting,an amazing music by Alan Silvestri.I think its a movie for all ages. "},{"Title":"found it at last my kids will love it.","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an excellent film i have been looking for this film for years and today I've finally found it,i have also found out that i can get it on DVD ,its worth getting. The first time i watched this i was really young my mum introduced me to it its a film that kids will love its magical and its really funny,the fraise see you later navigator i say to my children and they just laugh at every time.if haven't watched it its a must see film.Fascinating film there are little creatures (ALIENS)from other planets within the film some of them are funny some of them are ugly ,there is one that is really cute too u must introduce this film to your children or grandchildren they will love it.i would love to see the number 2 to this movie "},{"Title":"Good family fantasy adventure flick","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm one of the few here to comment on this movie who didn't see it as a child. I din't see this until sometime in the 1990's when I was in my 40's and it came on the Disney channel so I decided to check it out. I was surprised that it was a Disney movie as most Disney films are pretty well advertised but I had never heard of this before. A Disney family film geared for kids wouldn't have brought me into a theater to see it anyway so if I did hear about I just dismissed it and forgot about it. In the story, a 12 year old boy is somehow abducted by aliens and transported hundreds of light years from earth to their planet and then sent back in what amounts to only four hours of his life but on earth eight years have passed and the late 1970's kid finds himself back home in the mid 1980's. The movies first half is darker and more thought provoking and grabs your attention but then the movie becomes light and silly but that's OK as it's a good movie. Randal Kleiser directs. He had a big hit with Blue Lagoon and an even bigger one that he will always be remembered for in Grease but has had a lot of bad movies in his career. Although this is dated it has more of that enduring quality to it like his film Grease has. Kleiser's brother Jeffrey Kleiser is among a team of noted special effects and visual effects creators on this film including Ron Goodman, Bret Mixon and Peter Donen. Joey Cramer, whose acting career never materialized stars in an ensemble cast that includes Sarah Jessica Parker, Veronica Cartwright, Howard Hessman and the voice of Paul Reubens. This is a good family fantasy adventure movie and worth a look. I would give it an 8.0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Forgotten little 80's adventure movie","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Flight Of The Navigator is a kids movie and as such it has every right not to really make sense. In other words everybody who tries to pick it apart and tries to find plot holes is a hopeless geek who takes things too seriously. This movie isn't even trying to convey a coherent story.Nonetheless, it is a bit disappointing that after the first very strong half the movie kind of drifts into an amusement park ride with the main character just flying around in the alien ship. That may be fun to watch for kids who also like Knight Rider, but it's kind of tedious for anybody who's a fan of actual storytelling. Ultimately, it's the movie's gimmicky, but plot less second half that prevented Flight Of The Navigator from becoming a box office hit, let alone a classic like E.T.. That's a bit of a pity since the direction and especially the special effects hold up extremely well to this day and could have made for a much more memorable motion picture.If you like adventure movies with a nostalgic 80's feel to them, Flight Of The Navigator will not fail to entertain you on a Saturday afternoon. Kids between 8 and 13 are going to love it anyway. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" When young David is kidnapped by aliens (or, to be more precise, a sentient alien spacecraft, and then dropped off 8 years in the future, everything in his life turns to complete horrible. His relationship with every member of his family has changed, not to mention the military finding him to be of extreme interest. If only the spaceship would kidnap him back, and drop off when he came from...This is a family film with an original premise, some terrific special effects (state of the art at the time, and they still stand up well), and excellent central performances, particularly from Joey Cramer in the central role of the biggest film in his short career.This film gets nearly everything right. Although there is comedy (Paul Reuben's voice performance of spaceship Max), it is not overdone. The relationships and reactions are all spot on, and the story really works.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Omg. Totally Cute. Totally Disney. Totally 80's.","Date":"12 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" omg. omg. every time i watch stuff like this i feel like 'StarSearch' is back on television and it's the 80's all over again. this movie is even better than i remember it. as usual, another under-appreciated Disney classic from the much maligned period of the Disney 80's films.the Disney films from the 1980's are usually thought of by most critics and audience fans as underwhelming and forgettable. i'm starting to think that belief couldn't be further from the truth. i've always really liked Disney movies from the 1980's and have tried to defend them to detractors whenever i could. 'The Black Cauldron' and 'The Black Hole' are two of my all time Disney favorites along with the long under-appreciated 'Tron'. i actually would have liked to have given 'Navigator' ten stars since it was so quirky and entertaining, but given the lightness of the approach and subject matter, i felt a eight was probably more realistic. i'm not sure if i'm even right on this because the Disney films of the 1980's just seem to get better and better with each passing time period. i mean heck, if you're a true Disney fan, some of the 80's Disney films were some of the last produced at the Disney studio in Burbank.'Navigator' makes for imaginative children's sci fi and excellent Disney. much of this movie is down right hilarious with a lot of the quirky humour aided and abetted by the fabulous Paul Reubens who strangely is listed as Paul Mall here. the sci fi FX also compete with some of the best CGI to date.if you haven't seen this delightful little Disney gem, then i don't want to spoil the clever fun by revealing to much about it. part of the film's impact is it's element of surprising originality.this really is memorable stuff. and classic Disney. in our recent times when so much seems to have gone to waste morally, it's always a breath of fresh air to see something as wholesome and unoffensive as this in mainstream, media entertainment. there is no swearing, no hint of sexual suggestion, no substance use, and no violence. that prospect might bore most kids today, but their parents would be smart to at least encourage them to try a little with this kind of thing. man does not live by cynicism alone. a little true optimism and wholesome thinking can't hurt. not when times get as morally bankrupt as these. God Bless. "},{"Title":"Great adventure film, but too darn short!","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only problem I have with this movie is that it's not long enough. Other than that, it's worth watching. There is some questionable language, but if you know where it is, you can always mute it if you want to.***Spoilers Galore!*** 12-year-old David Freeman has a very annoying little brother - Jeff, who I guess is 8 years old. One night, I think on the Fourth of July, Jeff scares David so much, David has finally had it. But before he could get revenge, he falls down a cliff. When he wakes up, he's still 12 years, but in the year 1986. Through several adventures, he finally finds the source to something very strange, a spaceship, and the pilot is a strange-looking machine b y the name of Max. Max gathers information in David's brain, and after many adventures, David wants to return home to the right year, 1978. But Max is hesitant, saying that it would be too dangerous. When David persists, Max finally does so. You'll have to watch it for yourself to find out if David survives.Like I said above, it's not long enough, but if you're in the mood for a short non-animated movie, this is the one to pick.My Score 7/10. "},{"Title":"Flight of the Navigator 2","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Flight of the Navigator is one of the best movies I have ever seen. Hopefully I am speaking for other when I say I hope to see a sequel to the movie soon. It has now been 20 years since the movie was made, and it is time for the continuation. Others will agree that the ending left plenty of room for a Flight of the Navigator 2. Using the same characters if possible, the main character, David, will be 40 years old. Randal Kleiser has made some great movies in his time, and I believe he is one of the greatest directors of all time. He has directed some pretty knarly movies, such as Grease, The Blue Lagoon, Boy in the Plastic Bubble, and White Fang. There are other that are well known but too many to list. Flight of the Navigator needs a Sequel, that is all I am saying. "}{"Title":"Mythical!","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched The Flight Of The Navigator for the first time (the only one, actually) 15 years ago or so. I don't know, maybe I was feeling a little nostalgic lately, and I decided to watch it again. Now, I must say the movie remains as funny and imaginative as I remembered. OK, maybe the special effects, the music, the clothes are a little bit old-fashioned, but that's inevitable (specially for the 80's productions) and it doesn't detract from the excitement of the story.Is it my impression or they does not make movies like this (for the kids) anymore? Well, I guess the children nowadays would wet themselves out of products like TFOTN. They'll sure prefer elfs and Hobbuits stuff, or jap cartoons beating the hell out of each other... Anyway, this is one of the most mythical movies for the kids of the 80's (as good as Goonies or Explorers), one of the few Disney productions that are not sickly sweet.*My rate 7/10 "},{"Title":"Vectors? I don't have any vectors. I'm just a kid.","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Could have been so much better. The movie begins in 1978 Ft Lauderdale, with a dog Frisbee's catch competition. Then we are introduced to the Freeman family as they go home, 12-year-old Davey is a model son, his little brother Jeff is a real twit. So, getting dark on July 4th, mom asks Davey to walk into the woods to guide his brother home safely from a friend's house. He finds Jeff, but notices something in a ravine and, while leaning over to look, the vine he was holding breaks, and he falls and is temporarily stunned. But he climbs out of the ravine and heads home. But nothing is as it should be.Joey Cramer played Davey, then just disappeared from entertainment shortly after. It was fun seeing a 20-year-old Sarah Jessica Parker as the intern at NASA. Howard Hessman was perfect as the scientist, Dr Faraday.The movie's beginning set up some interesting possibilities which were NOT explored. Instead they took the easy way out and made it into a rather silly kids movie.SPOILERS. When Davey gets home from the fall in the ravine, strangers are living there. Taken to the police station, his family is found living somewhere else. It isn't 1978 anymore, it is now July 4th 1986. Everyone has aged but Davey. His brat of a little brother has become his big brother, a nice 16-year-old kid. When the doctors do brain scans on Davey, they find a fantastic amount of information there, including the location of an uncharted world over 500 light years away. But Davey is unaware of all this information. It turns out an alien in a space ship had been sent on a mission to gather a variety of species, study them, and deliver them back via time travel to the exact moment they were taken. But he thought Davey to be too fragile, so placed him in 1986. The alien had lost all his navigational memory when his ship plowed into high voltage lines, so needed the data he had placed in Davey's head as an experiment. But Davey didn't want to stay in 1986, he would never be left alone by the doctors, so they traveled back to 1978. Was it all a dream while he was knocked out? No, because he came back with one of the alien creatures in his knapsack.Paul Reubens was the voice of Max, the name Davey gave to the robot in the spaceship. "},{"Title":"Reminiscent of the best of the Heinlein young adult novels...","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Flight of the Navigator is a far better movie than we'd have a right to suspect.Plot spoiler if you read furtherA few minutes into this film, 12-year-old David Freeman (Joey Cramer) is on an errand to retrieve his 8-year-old brother, Jeff, when he falls into a gulley and is knocked out. Regaining consciousness, David returns to his house, thinking only a few minutes have passed, and instead of his parents and brother finds a locked door and an elderly couple living there.Taken to the police station, David is identified by computer records as a boy reported missing eight years before. Despite the fact that he hasn't aged, he's taken to the Freeman's at a different house nearby, and when he sees his parents obviously older, he faints. He returns to consciousness again on a gurney on his way to a hospital bed. A few minutes later, while his parents are called out of the room by a somber-faced doctor, David is left alone with his brother Jeff -- who is now 16.This is ostensibly a Disney movie for kids -- and later on there is a lot of comedic Disney hijinks -- but the first half hour of the movie, as David and his family deal with the trauma of his time relocation, are some of the most heart-rending and chilling sequences I've seen in any film.Spoiler over.This movie reminded me of some of the time-relativity sequences in Robert A. Heinlein's novel, Time for the Stars. The characters are well written and the actors do an excellent job, particularly in the scenes between Joey Cramer and Matt Adler, as 16-year-old Jeff. The distraught parents, Cliff de Young and Veronica Cartwright, are also excellent -- and Howard Hesseman and Sarah Jessica Parker round out a great supporting cast.Special kudos are due to Paul Reubens (best known for his character Pee Wee Herman) who was originally credited under his own name for lending his voice to a major character in this film, but had his name removed from the credits, replaced by the pseudonym Pall Mall, after Reubens was arrested for alleged indecent exposure committed in a movie theater seat. (I've never understood how Reubens was convinced to plead no contest to the charge, after theater security cameras showed him in the lobby buying popcorn at the time of the alleged offense.) Considering that Disney's Hollywood Pictures division released Powder, directed by a convicted and confessed child molester, Disney should show some backbone and restore Reubens real name to the credits.If you can get ahold of this movie, see it -- and maybe Disney will see fit to release it again -- on DVD, I hope. "},{"Title":"Good film.","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember when I saw this film for the first time I was 8 or nine years old and I quite enjoyed it. I looked at it again yesterday and I taught that it did look a bit old but there is still a kind of nostalgia about it that make it charming. This is a real 80's film ,the music,the costumes,the special effects and the story make you  think of the colorful day's were the gremlins were famous,Michael Jackson was black and E.T was the most popular film ever made and I do not complain about it,I love that kind of films. Talking about the 80's,you might think that film was a rip off of many films of the golden years(Because they were a lot of films about kids leaving a big adventure at the time like the goonies,the neverending story...)But it wasn't,the film is actually quite original. The great thing about this film is that the story is more interesting than many other kids film ,that means an adult can look at it without being bored. But I still recommend that film mostly to people who are real 80's fans.best scene When David see is aged parent,for him it's been four hours he did'nt see them(imagine how weird it must be.).I also have to say that Sarah Jessica Parker is very cute in that film. "},{"Title":"My 15 Seconds of Fame - Sort Of...","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" One fine morning in 1985 or early 1986 (I forget), a location scout from Disney's production company came to the office (I worked at a laboratory at the time), interested in filming the control room scene for this film at our location, however, this kind man found that our office had too much outside sunlight, so, I somehow thought of the nearby air traffic control center, and suggested that to him - he seemed very interested in the suggestion, and, thanked me and left.Well, much to my surprise, Disney (d/b/a Touchstone Pictures) did shoot this scene at the air traffic control center - while I can't say this movie is one of my favorites (though I like the scenes of the Everglades - the entire movie being filmed down here in South Florida), I'm glad that my suggestion helped! Frank "},{"Title":"Straight-up '80s Disney fantasy","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" What is essentially a harmless family film that just screams 1986, Flight of the Navigator mixes a talking spaceship, scientific mystery and the fish-out-of-water story of a 12 year-old kid shot 8 years into the future. Throw in the evil government men from E.T. and some inexplicable slo-mo shots of dogs catching frisbees, and you've got a kid fantasy film that feels like stepping into a wormhole back to the mid-eighties. And that nostalgic shot in the arm is what makes this film quirkily enjoyable, at least for me. Takes me back to the early days of watching mid-afternoon cable. But it's interesting watching this as an adult (& a parent, no less), because I found myself more engaged by the mystery surround David's sudden reappearance after he's been missing for 8 years. The kid's found his way into NASA's labs and brain machines, his head full of as-yet-undiscovered star charts ... and then the story switches gears, and the kid's absconded with the strange spacecraft that NASA's gotten its hands on. Now it's a buddy road movie as the kid and the talking space ship bond over Beach Boys songs.But it's a lightweight Disney movie, and that's where it delivers. Add the very cute (and pre-horse days) Sarah Jessica Parker and the synth score extravaganza (from the highly versatile and fresh-off-of-Back to the Future Alan Silvestri), and it's pure family fluff. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"80's Childhood Classic!","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Joey Cramer, Cliff De Young, Veronica Cartwright and Howard Hesseman star in this 1986 sci-fi film. This starts in 1978, where we meet 12-year old boy, David Freeman (Cramer) and his family. After David is sent by his parents, Bill (De Young) and Helen (Cartwright) to bring his young bratty brother, Jeff home, David is mysteriously sent 8 years into the future by an alien spaceship. David discovers everyone is different accept him and tries to find the answers. Hesseman plays Faraday, a scientist who works for NASA and Paul Reubens plays the voice of alien, Max who helps and travels with David to get home. I've loved this film since I was a kid, Joey is great as David and Alan Silvestri's score is excellent. I recommend this 80's classic. "},{"Title":"E.T., D.A.R.Y.L., Explorers + Back To The Future = Flight of the Navigator","Date":"11 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is a reason for the words I put in my summary. That's because I found elements in common with the films in question. Not the most original movie, then...While not tremendous, I prefer this anytime over that mediocrity called 'Grease'. This comparison only takes place because both were directed by the same person.This is the story of David Scott Freeman (decently but not greatly played by Joey Cramer, a Henry Thomas look-alike), an American 12-year-old boy who lives in 1978. In one Summer night, he mysteriously ends up in the year 1986 after a fall. Naturally, he finds out that everything around him is no longer the same. He panics and falls in despair because he doesn't understand what is going on. Although he is taken to his family, he is the only one who hasn't aged at all.David is taken to medical examinations to find out why he has the same age after 8 years but is forced to stay more 48 hours, to which he reluctantly agrees. Meanwhile, he finds out that he has to stay longer than the promised 48 hours and he can't take it anymore and that's when his journey to return to his family begins... with the help of a talking time-machine nicknamed Max by him.Overall, it's an okay movie although a little sappy. Despite its faults, it gives a feeling of nostalgia. A movie like this could have been made in no other time but the 80's. "},{"Title":"Imaginative and fun, if unnecessarily dumbed down in the second half","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Florida, 1978, 12-year old David Freeman (Joey Cramer) goes looking for his brother in the woods and accidentally falls into a ravine. He awakes shortly after to find his parents gone from their home, and everything changed. When the police eventually locate his parents and re-unite them, it turns out that they reported David missing eight years ago. He is examined by doctors, but his brain starts to transmit images of an alien spacecraft directly into the computers. When NASA hear about it, they are quick to take David away for further tests, after a craft was discovered crashed into power lines. They soon learn that David's head is filled with information about the outer reaches of space, and David feels like he is being beckoned by something hidden in the confines of NASA.This was an obvious favourite of mine as a child, as it was for many of my generation. Whilst I was re-watching, I was surprised by two things. The first is that I remembered next to nothing about the opening 45 minutes or so, yet as soon as David became the Navigator, it all came flooding back to me. And the second was that I couldn't believe how genuinely good the first half was. Playing out like an early Spielberg sci-fi, where all the grown-ups are suspicious and shady with their suits and broken promises, it builds slowly and is actually quite riveting in parts. The second half, however, although fun, just doesn't play well alongside the mature opening half. It introduces Max (voiced by Pee-Wee Herman himself, Paul Reubens - here named as Paul Mall), who after bonding with David, develops a silly voice and annoying laugh, a la Pee-Wee Herman.It is quite ironic that what I loved about the film as a child is now the thing that I feel ultimately lets it down. Maybe I have become a grumpy old man at the ripe old age of 27. It doesn't completely ruin the film, just brings it down a peg. It's very disappointing, as the need to seemingly dumb down to appeal to a young audience being fed on quality like The Empire Strikes Back, The Dark Crystal and E.T. The Extra Terrestrial around the same period just feels unnecessary. Not that it would have touched on those films, but it still could have been very good nonetheless. But apart from the sudden change of tone, this is a childhood favourite for a reason - it is fun, imaginative, and has a sympathetic hero in Joey Cramer's David. And if a film can survive an early appearance from one of cinema's true monsters, Sarah Jessica Parker, then good on it.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"What was the name of the Puckmarin?","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember watching this film when I was young I loved it! When my parents took us to Orlando on a family holiday I was amazed to see the space pod in MGM studios! We had a discussion on this film a few nights ago, we were trying to remember the two brothers names etc, eventually we worked them out but we still have one which is baffling us... Does anybody remember the name of the Puckmarin in the flight of the Navigator? It's a question thats haunting me & a group of friends...please help!! We would really appreciate it! its really annoying us. & I can't think of anything else to type on this comment but can't post it until I reach ten lines which is also annoying! "}{"Title":"Sit Down, NAVIGATOR .....and watch this great movie!!!!","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I absolutely LOVE this movie!!!! I have loved it since i was a kid. Considering this movie is from 1986, it is still one of the best movies that is great for the entire family. I think everyone should try and see Flight of the Navigator. It is pretty hard to find, but definitely worth the effort!!!! The story is great and is perfect for everyone regardless of age. Here's the basic story plot David's mother sends him to meet his younger brother who is walking home from a friend's house. David decides to cut through the forest. Something scares him and he falls and hits his head. He wakes up after what feels like only minutes, but turns out to have been 7 years. Nasa finds out about this and starts questioning him. David then stumbles across this amazing spaceship....and that's when his adventure begins!!! Even though this movie is from the 80's, some of the effects are still amazing (like the spaceship - both inside and out, the views from the ship, the creatures aboard the ship....etc). I think anyone who watches this movie will fall in love with it!!!! "},{"Title":"watch this movie!","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I loved this movie as a kid, and still do! I'm now 24 (4/4/5) and still do!@!#!# Can any one remember what he named the little cute thing he kept from the spaceship? I'm trying to suggest it's name as a name for my friends Jen and Stew to name their new sugar glider! go here to see a picture of it live journal.com/ users/ stolen _ smiles/ 67301.html?thread=107749(i had to add spaces so IMDb would let me comment)I haven't found it's name in any of the other comments and can't find it to rent ( Please mail me (mrvyze@hotmail.com) if you can help me... Thanks!I never realized that Paul Pee-Wee Herman Reubens was max's voice, or that Sarah Jessica parker was in it... Not that I care much about her! Being a child in England, we didn't get much exspoure to Pee-Wee. Not nearly as much as that movie theater did! -X "},{"Title":"One of the best Disney films of the 80s","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember watching this movie when I was 2 years old and always watching from then on. I love this movie, it's really a fantastic film for people of all ages. It's the story of David Freeman, a kid who is abducted in 1978 then is returned to Earth 8 years later to 1986, but to him it has only been an hour or two. When he returns, everything has changed except him and he is now the center of a NASA/government investigation. When the spacecraft turns up, David hitches a ride on it and becomes friends with the ship's host(this hardcore robot thing with a great sense of humor). So after getting out of this NASA holding place, David tries to make it home to his future family...or will he risk it all to go back to 1978? It's funny, touching, fascinating, and has top-notch special effects...seriously you will be surprised at how good they are. So see this movie! It's one of a kind!! "},{"Title":"An overlooked Disney Classic!","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't believe it.......after many years of browsing local video stores, I finally found this movie again!!! Nobody ever had a clue what I was talking about, & looked at me like I was completely crazy, so I finally had to get a subscription to NetFlix, to see it again. I'm a big kid at heart, & enjoyed this movie just as much today, as I did almost 20 years ago. I was always a huge fan of the whole Sci-Fi/ Time Travel story lines. Flight Of The Navigator, Voyagers, The Time Machine, & Sliders were at the top of my list.About 5 years ago, I was in Florida, & saw the Navigator spaceship just sitting in storage, in a studio junkyard. It was great to see it, but kind of a crappy way to display it. So much more could be done with it. Anyway, sorry to ramble on. If you like the kind of genres that I mentioned above, but haven't seen this movie, I suggest you give it a try.I had forgotten that Sarah Jessica Parker was in this movie, fresh from her Square Pegs look. I read that the kid who starred in this movie (Joey Cramer) only did a handful of movies/ TV appearances, and dropped from the public eye. His whereabouts are listed as unknown today.Pay attention Disney guys, this needs to be re-released next year for it's 20th anniversary, with cool DVD extra's. Get busy & find him, so you can film segments & comments for the DVD. Hopefully we'll hear from him, Sarah Jessica Parker, & Paul Pee Wee Reubens, as well as other cast members. "},{"Title":"a great childhood movie","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" fortunately for the above reviewer, it has been re-released by Disney as well as a myriad of other older movies like The cat from outer space and Return to witch mountain. I totally agree that this is a great movie FM my childhood and i look forward to sharing it with future generations. I think it's great to see studios coming out with old material once again. Disney is releasing sets right now that contain all the feature cartoons for certain characters. The only one i have sen in stores so far is Pluto, but it's great to have to sit down and watch with my nephew. We both get great enjoyment out of it, and your kids will too. "},{"Title":"Better than you remember","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hot on its heels, another trashy kid-oriented 80s SF flick.  But I make no apologies for this one.  The first half concerns a kid who falls over in the woods one day, and walks home to find his family gone and the whole world moved forwards about a decade in time.  This is real Twilight Zone stuff. It's not giving much away to say that a spaceship then turns up, but the movie doesn't fall apart at this time simple because said ship is one of the coolest ever put on screen. "},{"Title":"Good SciFi & Good Family Fun & Great Space Ship","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Flight of the Navigator is one of my all time favorite movies.  It's quite good as scifi but it is also a good family movie.  I have seen it many times and I always enjoy it.  But the thing I like most about Flight of the Navigator is Max.  Max is an intelligent silver space ship that is probably one of the most beautiful things ever created for a scifi film.  Max shines and glitters like a Cylon but he is not menacing and he is not the villain.  He is a space ship with attitude and some of the funniest lines in the movie are his.I would recommend it for anyone who likes scifi and/or family friendly movies.  "},{"Title":"Movie of my childhood too!","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember that my parents rented this out for me when I was about 6 years old, and I loved it a lot, and I remember renting a whole bunch of times and I own it now, hopefully my son will enjoy this movie with he's old enough to watch it!Its an awesome family movie to watch! "},{"Title":"In my opinion, one of the best Disney movies ever!","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was only 4 years old when this movie came out and I loved it. When I was about 13 or 14 my uncle who owns a lot movies not counting this one, Ordered it for me out of a movie catalog as a gift. I'm 20 years old now and I just watched it again for the first time in a while and the tape is still perfectly functional and I still like it! If your looking for a good Disney movie in the video store and you come across this movie, rent it or buy it if its for sale. You won't be sorry. It is a wonderful movie for the whole family. "},{"Title":"DVD","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yeah, this movie was great and wish Disney would release a DVD, but no worries, I got a DVD version of it off e-bay, it's from Canada, but it's still awesome! Flight of the Navigator is one of the best movies ever! And what ever happened to actor Joey Cramer, who played 'David Scott Freeman'? "}{"Title":"I love 80's Sci-Fi!","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Disney really should give this a rerelease.  Forget Dumbo or Beauty & the Beast.An 8 year old boy flys in a space ship and returns 8 years later at the same age.Paul Reabuns is the voice of the space ship, and for once he is funny and not annoying!Rice a Roni, the San Francisco treat!***/**** "},{"Title":"Underrated sci-fi","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rewatched this recently (having loved it as a kid) and it still made me smile.  The look of the film has dated, but this only adds to its charm.Who wouldn't want to be taken on board an alien ship and travel in time? The secret to the films success is having a theme every kid (and adult) can relate to.Most of the FX still stand up compared to today's standards and you can even see a young Sarah Jessica Parker pre-Sex and the City. "},{"Title":"A Timeless Classic Ignored By Disney","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a favorite of mine as a kid and now that I'm 25 I still have an appreciation for this classic. This movie, along with another favorite of mine - D.A.R.Y.L., is not available on DVD. It amazes me that there are so many bad, bad movies out there on DVD (eg. Masters Of The Universe) but this classic is overlooked. Shame on you Disney! If you really want this movie on VHS, I suggest you either scour a local pawn shop and hope you get lucky or you could resort to buying it on Ebay and paying upwards of $50 on this out-of-print movie. Personally I chose the Laserdisc and I'm completely happy. "},{"Title":"Wonderful escapism","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the best adolescent fantasies on celluloid that I know of. It conveys perfectly the the feel of childhood dreams and adventures and the wonder of flying as well as the atmosphere of Florida.So far from being a Walt Disney type children's movie, as a man in his early sixties I find myself watching it over and over again, whether on TV or video and enjoy it every time!  An antidote to depression. "},{"Title":"Great fun for the entire family...","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie brings back so many memories. I remember watching it when I was a kid. If you want to watch a movie that is low on violence, curse words, sex, & anything else of that nature and want some good, wholesome fun, then this is the movie just for you.There is no point in me getting into the entire plot, for it has been done time after time here. I just recommend you checking it out for yourself. It may be very hard to find, because I haven't seen it anywhere for YEARS.Definitely recommended for anyone of all ages. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very cool 80s sci-fi film","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Disney couldn't have had any hand in this film.  I still fail to believe it. How could a film so cool  and interesting be made by a company like  Disney? With the speculation aside, this film  was one of those films I always wished I was  in. Coupled with good creature effects and  some really entertaining cultural differences  between the 70s and 80s, this film was  entertaining to say the least, even if it is a bit  dated in respect to special effects and what not.  Nonetheless, I will always watch this film if its  on television. "},{"Title":"Perfect Rainy Night","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film rocks.  If you ever just want to sit back and watch a good film... watch this 'un.  It does not require any thing of you... it does not make you want to be any thing other than yourself (like alot of movies out there right now) it's just a good movie to watch on some rainy evening with some friends. "},{"Title":"GREAT PLOT...WITH LOTS OF HUMOR, GREAT FOR KIDS AND ADULTS ALIKE!","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was great....it is too bad disney has discontinued this title. I am very suprised however to see that it didnt do so good in the box office, especially if all of us that have watched this as kids, and continue to watch this today. Flight of the Navigator is clearly a great movie. There was a couple of things they could have cleared up a little better, i guess u can call them goofs, but i caught them just to say a few When David wakes up 8 years later and climbs out of the ravine and back to the house. As you can clearly notice at the front door that there are now two giant small trees or plants that were not their in 1978. That was a bad call cause if i was david, i would know what my house looks like. Another continuity was when david got dropped back off to 1978 and he climbed out of the ravine, and then the shot where he walked over the train tracks, that was clearly the same scene you saw when he first came out of the ravine in 1986, now in 1978 when we climbs back out it is the same exact shot. Well i guess most kids wont know that it, but i thought i mention it. Bottomline I would give it 3.5 stars out of 4.. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Movies Ever","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this movie is GREAT! I grew up watching it as a child and I got it memorized by now. My whole family knows every detail about this movie because of me. It's a weird movie to be as a favorite, but it sure is mine. It brings back SO many memories! This movie ROCKS! "},{"Title":"The place where David is taken","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For anyone who is unsure, David was taken by Max to 'Phaelom' (as was stated correctly by one user), not 'Phelan'!! Anyhow, I thought the movie was great. If you haven't seen this, go see it. Just make sure Max doesn't 'fry your brain' in the meanwhile! "}{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I started watching this movie as a child cause it was on the Disney Channel all the time. I love it! It's a wonderful story and a great cast! I wanted a Max of my own! This was one of the early movies that sparked my interest in science fiction (I'm a sci-fi fanatic). It is truly a treat! "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a good movie. When I first saw it I thought it was pretty cool. This is one of the good 80's movies that I have seen. If you haven't seen it then I see it. I recommend this movie if you want some retro entertainment. "},{"Title":"This is my childhood movie","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i remember seeing this film when i was 5 years old and i watched it many many times after and i loved it as a small boy. i always wondered if i had a childhood film, and now i've found it. I always wanted to be that lucky kid who got to be in an alien spaceship. A really fun kids adventure. "},{"Title":"Opinions and review by Eruadan, August 26, 2000","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have felt for some time that this film was badly underrated by the critics, as well as by the general public.  I really believe it deserved much better than it got.  I doubt that the average viewer really understood the film.The story deals with what I would call alternate realities.  The film begins with one premise - the problem of missing children.  Add a dose of artificially intelligent alien spaceship, a few other SF concepts, and you have a decent story that postulates at least 4 different possibilities. One of them is exactly what the film showed.  The others would be where David never disappeared; where he never came back; and last where he stayed in the other world where he never really fit in.I had some problems with the overall believability, but I enjoyed the film. Definitely worth bringing back. "},{"Title":"Mine too.","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a child I was also captured by the magic of Flight of the Navigator, and seeing it again a while back, it still worked for me.  Of course, many years had passed, and Sarah Jessica Parker had become a big-time sex symbol and movie star (what ever happened to the kid,Joey, though? is he alive?), but the movie still worked for me.  Whether it was stubborn nostalgia or genuine appreciation, I still love this movie...probably not as much as when I was 7 or 8, but I'd honestly recommend it to any one of any age.  It's entertaining, fast-paced, sci-fi tinged fantasy that turns every viewer into a kid again, if only for an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"One of the best 80's sci fi movie ever.","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie, ever since I saw it way back in the 80's at the cinema.The 80's for me, has got to be the best year for sci fi films, and this is one of them.  Okay, so there's Empire Strikes Back, Return of the Jedi, Back to the Future, ect, that are considered classics, which are true, but there was also movies from the 80's, which are underrated classics, not because there rubbish, but most people wouldn't even give a second look if it was on t.v or on video, because they think it's dated or cheesy.Joey Cramer is excellent as a boy who is transported in to the future after falling into a hole.  Sounds stupid?  Well no it's not, considering, that everyone is asking, how come he's still the same age,  on the day he went missing ten years ago?  Not only that, there is also a space craft, that has crash landed somewhere in America, and all the star charts, are dumped inside Joey's head, and he is the only person that has a telepathic link to the space craft.This film is excellent and I highly recommend this film to everyone, and keep a look out as I recommend you the best of the underrated 80's films. "},{"Title":"One of the good movies from my childhood","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie when I was about 6 or 7. Back then it was my most favorite movie. I definitely couldn't let go of it. Looking back, it still remains as one of my favorites, but in a list of many others. Joey Cramer plays David, a 12 year old that becomes missing in 1978, then he appears once more in 1986. He hasn't aged in those 8 years. When David 'comes back' however, a flying saucer is found, entangled in electrical cables. The film itself was a good one. Not only because of the main character, but you also had Paul Reubens giving the voice of a character named Max, a computer aboard the ship. He gives some funny quips throughout the film that are worth chuckling at. Sarah Jessica Parker also makes an appearance as Carolyn McAdams, a person trying to help David.Don't miss this film. I am surely going to go out and rent it to remember it. "},{"Title":"see it","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I was 7 years old, I liked 3 things; Batman, blocks, and this movie. I have honestly seen it 100 times. Go see it. Young and old will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" when i watched this movie,i thought that it was very good and my son most of all loves it to this day.He thinks that space ship is very cool and would love to have one hahaha,The film has a very good story line to it and makes my son and myself laugh,so if you or your children haven't seen this film then i put it to you that its worth watching.this film is so good that i have it on video and DVD now so i know i will never lose it.these kind of films are the best and i am disappointed that some films like this you can not get on DVD etc THE GATE from 1987 i have tryed so hard to get but no luck.well all i can say is this is a must see film ( enjoy ) "},{"Title":"This was a very interesting and great movie","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I loved this especially as a kid. The story is very good and very well executed. I saw this maybe 15 years ago and I still like this movies' idea and story after seeing the likes of the Matrix and other classic Sci-fi movies. After David (Cramer) falls and blacks out, he returns home as if nothing has happened. He goes home to continue with his daily activities. But he finds a lot of shocking changes when he gets back home! The best part was when David (Cramer) returns home and the folks take for a long lost kid or ghost! That was amazing. The UFO and aliens/visitors-from-space addition were also beautifully plotted and executed. The scene where the ship moves above the sea and dives right into the sea still lingers in my mind. The design of the 'being' inside the ship was also far ahead of its time. Far far ahead of its time. "}{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This Is a great movie for anyone to see.  It is packed with comedy, action, and even some heart touching parts.  In this film, David (Joey Cramer) has found himself bound in a vicous cycle of time.  While He has only aged 4 hours, the rest of the world has aged 8 years.  David soon finds out that he has been taken to Phaelom at the speed of light and has landed in the year 1986.  Then D. Faraday (Howard Hesseman), an official from NASA, discovers Davids situation and wants to keep david and run tests on him.  What David doesn't know is that Dr.Faraday has found the spaceship (Max) and is keeping it in a top security hangar.  David stumbles on the space ship and gives Max the star charts Max has stored in Davids brain.  Max promises to take David home.  An exciting movie it is indeed.  You'll have to see the movie to see how it turns out.  Again this is one of those films that Disney put out in 1986 and it has been aired on Sci-Fi and Television.  If you've seen this movie, I recommend you check out the 1987 movie Earth Star Voyager on IMDB. "},{"Title":"My Absolute Favorite","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was six when Flight of the Navigator came out, and I absolutely loved it! I remember when it came on TV on Sunday night as a part of the Wonderful World of Disney (aired a new family movie every Sunday night on either CBS or ABC). I taped the movie and over the last 18 years I've nearly destroyed the tape from watching it so much! One of my favorite scenes is when David figures out how to fly the spacecraft. Watching the craft transform from Stage 1 to Stage 3 created so many dreams and fantasies for me as a child. Regarding the 80's in general, I love the special effects. True acting died with the invention of super-computer generated effects and only in the movies made in the 80's were the actors capable of portraying the story line purely through true acting. I'm so glad it has come out on DVD; it will remain one of my favorite movies (among a list of other 80's movies) for all time! "},{"Title":"very good disney original","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I happen to find this movie on film in the past few months and i bought the print of it.I remember watching it for the first time when i was still in elementary school on 16mm film.Now that i have it i have shown it to my family and friends and it still has not lost its magic. My family liked the idea of it being projected on a large screen in the house. I highly recommend this movie to anybody who likes disney.the special effects are great for 1986 and the acting is good.  "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the greatest movies of all time. Great special effects that can't be matched and thought provoking time lines for it's era. If you were a child in the 80's and watch this it will be just like the first time. "},{"Title":"Second only to Neverending Story","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very imaginative film. I saw it when I was about 6 or 7 and I must have watched it 29 times. I still have it on tape. In my opinion, its one of the more intriguing Disney films in that decade that really didn't dumb anything down just because it was geared toward for kids. For a children's sci-fi fantasy, only Neverending Story is better. Maybe Dark Crystal and Labyrinth too... "},{"Title":"An excellent film","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember seeing this film as a little kid, and I loved it. It was a joy every time I rented it. I still remember some of it and I love the memories. I haven't seen this movie in years, and I really really hope this will be re-released. I want to rediscover it for the first time. This is such a great movie, and I miss it tons. Bring it back Disney!! "},{"Title":"Good fantasy tale.","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Flight of the Navigator has always been one of favirote sci-fi movies, ever since I first saw it when I was around 11. The whole movie just interested me. I think it's because at the time I had a fascination for flying saucers and aliens. Plus I thought it would be like E.T which I loved at the time as well.Flight of the Navigator may be pretty old now. But I think it still remains a true classic for children who love fantasy movies. Flight of the Navigator will always interest and amaze a young childs mind despite it's age.It may have not been a block buster hit at the time. But I think a lot of children have re-discovered Flight of the Navigator over the years and enjoy it more than when it first came out.8/10. "},{"Title":"A wonderful adventure...","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Children everywhere would love to head for the stars, and they certainly do in 'Flight of the Navigator', a fantastic tale of a lost boy who reappears eight years later under amazing circumstances. Full of fun and adventure, 'Flight of the Navigator' takes you on a touching journey. This film is truly one of my favorites, and I'm sure the whole family will love to rent this one! "},{"Title":"A little gem of a film","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Flight of the Navigator might not be a huge blockbuster, but I've seen this film three times now, and never failed to enjoy it. A neat plot is enhanced by winning performances by the leads, a light touch of humour and special effects that work well, but don't overpower the film's essential humanity. It's an escapist, feelgood movie that touches the heart and the imagination as well as being thoroughly entertaining. It always brings a tear to my eye, but also leaves me smiling. "},{"Title":"can't get enough","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have watched this movie countless times. I show it to kids whenever I can hoping they will like it as much as I do (grownups to) I wish I could see it again for the first time. "}{"Title":"What a wonderful sci-fi movie!","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has everything in it. Humor, drama and fantasy. The movie is fun for kids and adults at the same time on different levels. Great fun!One of the best sci-fi movies I've ever seen. Simply perfect. Just watch it, you won't regret it! Funfunfun!Well, maybe I'm exaggerating, but I really like it. A hidden gem. "},{"Title":"Good movie for children & adults","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the best movie I've ever seen in my childhood. It's very mysterious & thrilling. Highly recommend. "},{"Title":"scuz bucket!!!","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has got to be one of my all time favorites, this film beats any new film, they don't make them like they used to. i just wish there was more films like this one!!The best scene in the film must be when Max asks David what is laughing, and then Max try's to laugh, also the scence when David is traveling inside of RALFY and the excellent soundtrack hits in with the 80's electronic tune, such a good scene.This film has brought much joy into my life and am so glad i managed to find it on DVD last year. such a good film!!!WATCH IT!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Two good movie ideas collide!","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great movie idea A  Your son has been lost in the woods for eight years, and has been declared legally dead.  One night you get a phone call.  A woman found a lost boy who had run out of the woods, confused and disoriented.  He fits the description of your son.  You're stunned.  He's alive!  The police bring him to your house but tell you that there's something unusual about this case, and then he shows you your son.He hasn't aged a day since the day he was lost.Great movie idea B An alien spaceship lands outside your gas station.  That's not what strikes you as weird.  A human kid rushes out asking for directions and where the phone is.  That's a little off.  A robot eye pops out of the ship and greets the kid on his way back in, then addresses you with the voice of Pee-Wee Herman.  They take off into the sky.  Now that's just weird.Flight of the Navigator could have been great as either ONE of these movies.  As it is, it's merely good cheese. "},{"Title":"One of the most remembered movies of all time!","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know if anyone read this or not before i edited it but this is the revised version. I gave it a 10 and the reason why is 'cause i just met Joey Cramer. I always loved Flight of the Navigator but i never knew the actors name who played the main character, i saw the movie when it opened 2x and then again on T.V a few times and even had a crush on him but never paid attention to what his name was, i just knew i loved the movie and the actor. Growing up i would ask myself I wonder what happened to that kid from Flight of the Navigator. Well now i know, I was introduced to him as Joe by my Fianc and didn't think anything i saw him as just another guy that was really down to earth, sweet and kinda shy although he looked really familiar.A few days later visiting my Fianc, his friend asked me if i had ever seen Flight of the Navigator, i asked why and he told me that the guy Joe that i had met was the kid from the movie and right away i went up to Joe who was in the next room and asked him and it was true not only 'cause he said so but comparing facts and pics. on the internet i know it's true. He looks basically the same, i remembered him being chubby so i thought he had lost weight but i just bought the movie and watched it again and he's pretty skinny there, hes now got some muscle though. I was so excited about finding out it was him but he doesn't like to talk about his life back then, he wants his privacy. After he did Flight of the Navigator he had a hard life and is now trying to make it better so that's all i'm gonna say about him.In regards to the movie i loved it when i was a child and still do although i remembered it differently and it seemed a lot shorter now too. It's perfect for the whole family and it's not boring. I don't think it was digitally remastered though but the effects are still good. I gave this movie a 10 on the basis that i know Joe but even if i hadn't met him i still give it a 10 because it really was good, to me it's one of the classics for kids in the 80's. "},{"Title":"BRING THIS MOVIE BACK!!!!!","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!! Bring this movie back to the public. I use to watch this movie all the time when I was a kid, and to this day I never get tired of this movie. It's hard to imagine that this movie went out of print. It's also sad that only a few people know about this movie. I would love Disney all over again if they bring this movie back!!! If you come across this movie at a video store, rent it!!! Take it from me, this is an outstanding movie!!!! "},{"Title":"Disney's Problems In the '80s  -  Exhibit A","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"14 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" This picture is a perfect example - maybe the best example - of why the Disney company went into the dumper by the mid-80s and had to be saved a few years later by a new regime which restored the Disney name to prominence in the film industry.Why was this Disney film an example of how the film company had gone downhill? Well, let's see.....there were two s-words, one bast--d, one GD, one Jesus, etc. etc - yes, this was a Disney film. In addition to the profanity that had not been in Disney films of the past, it had a stupid, annoying 12-year-old brat in the lead and enough holes in the story to start the proverbial swiss cheese factory. It was just plain dumb.Thankfully, new owners put this company back on track with some higher-quality films in the next decade. This film was a disgrace. "},{"Title":"One of the ugliest collisions of Disney and sci-fi","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" As one of the sites linked to this IMDb entry states, one of Disney's first business-driven forays into live-action film drove the film industry in a new direction. It was the first time that the science fiction genre was treated in an adult manner. From then on, Disney and science fiction had a relationship that was occasionally interesting, but as examples like Flight Of The Navigator demonstrate, usually quite abyssic. Part of the problem is the clash of messages, but the real problem lies in the same place as the problem every film of this mould, the adult genre brought to child sensibilities, lies. Namely, the film aims at children and makes the assumption that because its audience is made up of children, it can treat that audience with less respect. If anything, the children of the 1980s were an even more sophisticated audience than the children of the present, and thus, Flight Of The Navigator was firmly ignored at the box office. It was pretty much ignored on the then-maturing home video market, too, come to think of it.Part of the problem is that Flight is not just ignorant of the culture of both eras represented. It goes to absurd lengths to insult it. While I grant that I was barely two months old at the end of 1978, I know enough about the time to know that a twelve year old of the era would experience far less culture-shock when teleported to 1986 than would be the case if he were teleported to 2006. This is hilariously ignored in the moment when the protagonist meets a glorified janitor, played by an incredibly young (but still staggeringly ugly) Sarah Jessica Parker. While the existence of multiple Coca-Cola varieties in 1986 would surprise any visitor from the 1970s, music video was in fact quite an intrinsic marketing tool well before 1978, with a variety of artists such as Black Sabbath or David Bowie using the medium to an effect that was almost half as artistic (or just as much in the latter's case) as their music. One viewing of the promo video for John, I'm Only Dancing will confirm this much.It is important to keep this in mind during such scenes as when David is educating Max about music. As I sit here and listen to a song that consists of a grinding bass guitar overlaid with one of the most instantly-recognisable drum patterns and a violin that brings tears to the eyes as the vocalist roars in Latin about what is essentially the story of a man being tortured to death, I realise that scene will never fail to creep me out. Given that Max is capable of travelling through time, across light years of space, and has enough memory to store the complete works of Ian Fleming a million times over, I can only think of one response such an entity would have to a child like David. At one point in the conversation, I see Max telling him to grow the hell up. At another, I see Max ditching David in complete annoyance. For certain, it would be another ten years before the Internet did to cultural hegemony what television did to the film industry, but pity for ignorance is soon replaced by anger when the exhibitor mistakes it for something to take pride in.Furthering the problem is a voice performance by Paul Reubens, or Paul Mall as he is credited here. Quite honestly, if someone had directed me to deliver a voice-over as screechy, irritating, and nonsensical as was the case here, I would be making certain that nobody knew I was involved. For the most part, it seems to be the script's fault, but at a moment after Max extracts data he placed in David's head for reasons that make no sense using a process that makes no sense for reasons that make no sense, Paul feels the need to shout/scream every line. If you go and buy an elderly pig, set it in your back yard, then stab it to death with a butter knife, you will get some idea of the kind of sound I am talking about. It hurts to listen to, and when you combine that with the horrid tone of the script, it only makes me hate the film even more. I often joke that people who block lines in supermarkets out in suburban or rural towns should be dumped in the Los Angeles CBD for a day. Well, David really deserves to be left in the middle of Los Angeles circa 2007 for a year or three.Does this mean that the film is a total write-off? Well, there are a couple of saving graces such as Howard Hesseman as a scientist who only seeks to find a rational explanation for David's disappearance, or Matt Adler as the elder version of David's brother. In contrast to Parker or Joey Cramer, they are endearing and create characters one can sympathise with. Not that this bothered Disney accountants during production. Who cares if the protagonist is a narrow-minded little twerp who revolts the most stratified segments of the potential audience, right? Well, given that The Goonies was released a year earlier, made twenty times the money, and was given the red carpet treatment on DVD recently, I think history has rendered its verdict on this nauseating load of family friendly syrup. In some commentaries about films, I have said that it is rare when a film that claims to be appealing to audiences of that mythical every age really does so. In case I have not already made it clear, Flight Of The Navigator makes the claim when in fact it does the exact opposite.Flight Of The Navigator is a two out of ten film, personnified. "}]