[{"Title":"Underrated, too little known comedy horror gem","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"70 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After an experiment is accidentally released from a spaceship in a tube, it crashes on Earth where it infects a youth in the 1950s. Flash forward to the mid 1980s, and the youth is now cryogenically frozen in a university lab for study. At least until Chris Romero (Jason Lively) and J.C. Hooper (Steve Marshall) release him, and he begins infecting countless members of a small college town.Director and writer Fred Dekker, who has had a lamentably short career as a helmer, wrote Night of the Creeps in seven days. He told himself that if he did not get to the end of the script by that self-imposed deadline, the whole thing would go into the garbage. If this is what one can come up with in such a flurry, maybe more scripts should have time limits. We should also be glad that he sold the script with a caveat if he wasn't allowed to helm the film, he wasn't going to sell it. He's said that he didn't care if it sold or not at the time.Why Dekker has received so little recognition and respect in the industry is difficult to say. Night of the Creeps didn't have the wide release and promotion that it deserved, especially given its $5 million budget (it's curious that TriStar didn't push more to make its money back). Both this film and Dekker's 1987 effort, The Monster Squad, are currently only available on bootleg DVDs in the U.S.Night of the Creeps is one of the better horror/comedies of the 1980s. The script is clever, paying homage to everything from 1950s sci-fi horror to the zombie craze started by George Romero to 1980s slasher films and even John Hughes. Just in case one couldn't catch the homage angle, Dekker has a lot of character and place names that are tributes to various genre directors. Dekker's dialogue is witty and memorable--there are a few classic diatribes in the film that would be worthwhile and a lot of fun to memorize. Dekker's writing is self-conscious and self-mocking, predating Scream (1996) by 10 years (there is actually a whole class of 1980s and early 1990s flicks that were doing everything Scream was credited with revolutionizing). Dekker is not afraid to be joyously silly, as with genre character actor favorite Tom Atkins' response when asked if he's Detective Cameron--No, Bozo the Clown. Dekker even gives us the 1980s high school classic of the hand-cranked middle finger.But Night of the Creeps isn't just a comedy. The serious horror aspects of Night of the Creeps are extremely well done. The film is suspenseful, the effects are good, and there is plenty of gore for fans. Dekker could have easily made an effective retro horror film--most of the first five minutes are set in the 1950s, shot in black and white, and have an authentic feel, with just a dash of tongue in its cheek. He smoothly transitions from The Blob (1958) and Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1956)-styled sci-fi (with heavy Alien (1979) touches) to early 1980s slasher material, then to a more complex and fantastic collage of zombies, slugs and detectives seeking revenge.While the film isn't likely to be appreciated by those who dislike mixing their horror with comedy, and especially won't be appreciated by viewers who don't even realize that it's supposed to also be a comedy, neither type is very likely to watch it in the first place--at least not for long. For those with the appropriate mindset and love of horror (it's a lot more fun if one is familiar with everything being referenced), Night of the Creeps is a gem that deserves better recognition. We should at least be able to buy it on an official DVD (and please put both endings on the disc). "},{"Title":"Definitely one of the better B-movies!","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"47 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Night of the Creeps is definitely one of the better B-movies that are out there. Granted, like all B-movies it's a bit hokey at times, and also follows along the trademark lines with films of this caliber (obligatory boob shot, corny dialogue, poor camera techniques, etc.).But give Night of the Creeps its due. First of all, it is fairly original for a B-movie. Alien slugs that infest the brain and turn you into a zombie may seem like a typical B-movie theme, but it's portrayed in a fairly unique manner. Given the time period of this movie's release, and it's obviously small budget, I'm quite impressed with the special-effects of the alien slugs as they race along the ground throughout the film. They're so simple, that it makes them look realistic and somewhat unnerving. In horror films, it is often the most simple effects that are the most discomforting to the viewer. I put these alien slugs along that line. I really like Tom Atkins (Lethal Weapon) as Detective Cameron too. He's the perfect actor for this particular role as the washed-up detective. Unfortunately or perhaps fortunately for Tom's career, it seems that he often got type-cast to play the depressed, on-edge characters. Atkins is one of the bonuses in this B-flick. Another acting bonus would have to be our two young heroes played by Jason Lively (European Vacation) and Jill Whitlow. Lively as always plays the young, likable clod. Somewhat bashful, somewhat moronic, somewhat accident-prone, but you can't help but like the guy. And Whitlow is just plain cute. I sometimes think that 80's flicks didn't have enough cute girls in them, but Whitlow is definitely one of them. All in all, Night of the Creeps is good for a B-movie. It'll entertain you for sure, and you won't get sick of it while you're watching. It's definitely one to watch if you're into the B-movie thing. "},{"Title":"I think thats the Morton Salt Girl","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"39 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For the genre, this film is outstanding. It has absolutely everything a horror film should. This includes a performance by Tom Atkins that is worthy of serious recognition. Zombies, exploding heads, creepy crawlies and a date for the formal. Like I said this ones got it all. Alien experiment is jettison from space and lands in Anytown USA where it releases a slug like creature that wants to get in your mouth and lay eggs in your brain. The movie begins black and white set in the early 60s, which is an awesome touch by the way, and then jumps ahead to the mid eighties where were treated to a sorority gals, frat nazis, a couple of pledge geeks(our heroes), Tom Atkins cop on the edge(who delivers some of the best lines in cinema history,i.e.Duck! It's Miller Time! Exploding heads aplenty, flamin'zombies, a great lawnmower kill, zombie cat, zombie dog, a parapelegic whos faster on crutches then his able friend, and a hilarious janitor who has only one repeating line. NOTC is everything you want from a film, a perfect 10! "},{"Title":"...Screaming like, Banshees!!","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow! I must say that I grew up in the 80's, and had never before heard of this film when it came out, initially. My guess would be that it played in very brief, limited release, or was a product of a straight-to-video release. In either case, a tragedy. I discovered this film, late one night, while watching Cinemax. I saw that it was from 1986, and starred Jason Lively, who I vaguely remembered from National Lampoon's European Vacation. I never gave much of a second thought to his performance in that film, but he was surprisingly decent here. Since I am an avid Horror film fan, and this was a product of the 80's that I was not at all familiar with, it picqued my curiosity. So, I decided to give this one a try, and am so glad that I chose to do so. What a refreshing little gem this was to discover. I can't believe I had never heard anything about it before, one way or another. A great little B-movie, that does not take itself too seriously. This film has it all terrific writing, impressive acting, (especially Tom Atkins), zombies, creepy slugs, an ax-murderer, aliens, fraternity studs, sorority babes, as well as, lovable lonely dorks. This would make an excellent double feature, along with Re-Animator. I only hope that this film will, one day, get to see the light of day, and be given a royal DVD release, (hint, hint, Anchor Bay). Do not miss an opportunity to see this one, if you can.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful, silly comedy/horror!","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Viewing this particular film as a straight horror movie is a mistake. When I first saw this film (in 1989 or so) I thought it was a terrible horror movie and shut it off about half way through. I was under the impression it was a straight up zombie movie from the box art. There where some attempts at humor that fell flat. My problem was I was expecting Dawn of the Dead (or at least Day). On second enconter (around 1995) I laughed myself silly. I got the joke. The script is actually a joyous tribute to 50's-80's B-Movies, Mad science, aliens, couples necking in a convertable (in black and white no less) and a catchphrase spewing hard boiled gumshoe. With out the preconceived notions I found this film quite charming. While not the best of the comedy/horror mix (Scream, American Werewolf in London...) this is a decent attempt at the cross-genre and best enjoyed with freinds. "},{"Title":"Now This - Is Something To See","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is so super cool. I love this movie. Even though the stars are like second - billing , this movie is still like no other - its original all in it's own right. Had to be a drive - in film from the looks of the release date. Wish I seen it there! If you have a slug in you , on you or around you - to say the least - you're totally bumming. 80s comedy - horror at its best. Makes you laugh and scares you into jumping out of your seat. Spooky. Funny and different make this a favorite of mine...and maybe yours! I rate this 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"You'll scream like a banshee!","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As i sat with baited breath. Holding in my hand my newly acquired copy of Fred Dekker's directorial debut Night Of the Creeps i pondered to myself. I had first watched this wonderful little Sciience fiction horror masterpiece way back upon it's first release on video tape in 1986.Could the movie still carry such a lofty reputation as it had done all those years since i had last watched it as a teenager hooked on horror movies. Well of course the answer was an unprecedented yes. Still as fresh and funny second time around. Memories lingered in my mind of the many scenes and hip and happening dialogue that sprung forth from the many characters that wandered through this little gem.As we fade in, we find ourselves transported to an alien spaceship travelling through the galaxy, two little aliens carrying zapper guns chasing a third, who as it happens is possessed by something sinister and is about to launch a canister containing a lethal parasite off the spaceship and off into the unknown and so it begins.Star of the show for me has to be Tom Atkins playing yet again another one of those grizzled cops, who in his time on the force has seen it, done it, could write a book about it. However for once, unlike his role in Maniac Cop He is given many wonderful lines of hard boiled dialogue to chew on.Ably assisted by a then young and unknown group of young actors, Jason Lively who would later take the lead in one of Roland Emmerich's first movies Ghost Chase Also look out for the actress Suzanne Syder way before The Return Of The Living Dead 2 and Killer Klowns From Outer Space in a small and very brief cameo.Stranger to think that Fred Dekker's career appears to have found it's way into television land, sit back and scream like a banshee at this truly fast and furious romp form the 1980's Then think about this, why can't they make them like this anymore Without any hesitation, 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"S10 Reviews Night of the Creeps (1986)","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Chris and J.C. are to college geeks. They are always the brunt of the jokes and always ready to give back a quick tongue lashing. When Chris takes a shine to one of the sorority girls both Chris and J.C. have to perform a hazing prank so they can join the fraternity and win his fair maiden. The boys are sent to the campus morgue to get a body but through a series of fowl ups reanimate a cryogenically frozen body that has an alien parasite residing in its body. It seems these parasites enter your mouth and take over your body whether you're dead or alive. Hilarity ensues as Chris and a police detective attempt to save the campus then the world.Night of the Creeps is one seriously fun film. A mixture of1950's sci-fi films mixed with some zombie action and a lot of humor. Night of the Creeps is a gem that needs to be revived in the DVD age. Tom Atkins is the highlight as the foul-mouthed and sarcastic detective that accompanies Chris during the debacle. "},{"Title":"Aliens, Slugs and Zombies","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1959, an alien throws an experiment from his spaceship to the space and the capsule crashes on Earth. The college students Pam (Alice Cadogan) and Johnny (Ken Heron) are dating in a parking area nearby the location and believe it is a falling star. Steve decides to investigate, but they are warned by Pam's former boyfriend, the police officer Ray Cameron, that a maniac is killing people in that area with an ax. However Steve leaves Pam and walks in the woods looking for the star and a slug-like creature jumps into his mouth.In 1986, the college students Chris (Jason Lively) and the disabled J.C. (Steve Marshall) are best friends and Chris has a crush on Cynthia Cronenberg (Jill Whitlow), who is the girlfriend of the cocky Brad (Allan J. Kayser). They decide to join Brad's fraternity to impress Cynthia and Brad tells that they need to bring a corpse and leave in front of another fraternity. They go to the Med School Laboratory of the Corman University and find Johnny's body in a cryogenic chamber. They remove the corpse from the chamber but get scared and leave the body on the floor. However, Johnny leaves the laboratory and releases slugs that transform people into zombies. Detective Ray Cameron (Tom Atkins) is in charge of the investigation and initially believes that it is a prank. But soon he realizes that the campus is crowded of zombies. Night of the Creeps is a cult-movie by Fred Dekker with a funny story of aliens, slugs and zombies. This movie is a sort of comedy and tribute to the zombie, slasher and sci-fi genres. There are good performances, the make-up is great and the lead actress Jill Whitlow is cute. This film follows the formula of B-movie inclusive with many beautiful legs and breasts in the sorority house. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) A Noite dos Arrepios (The Night of the Creeps) "},{"Title":"It Came from the Lab - Frozen!","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fred Dekker directs this somewhat forgotten, low-budget horror spoof from the 80's. Dekker treats the material liberally and never tries to make the movie anything more than a fun B movie going for laughs. Although not always an easy thing to do, Dekker and his virtual cast of unknowns pulls it off rather nicely. The story begins with a wonderfully filmed flashback in the 1950's where we see something fall from the sky passing overhead the boys and girls parked at a Lookout type place. Unfortunately whilst this goes on, an ax murderer has escaped the asylum in that very vicinity. Now you might think what do these two things possibly have to do with each other, but Dekker the screenwriter pulls that off as well as the film jumps to the present 1980's and we meet two lovable(OK, maybe not so lovable) losers, one with a pair of crutches and cracking wise constantly and the other newly lovesick with a young lady he has just seen from across the street. To spin a long tale short - these two want to join a fraternity to impress the girl, are asked to throw a cadaver on another fraternity's lawn, find a cryogenetically frozen body(from the 50's that had met with what fell from the sky), and all havoc breaks out as parasites in the brain begin to throw themselves from the cadaver's mouth to the mouths of others. Aside from mentioning Night of the Living Dead by name, Dekker's use of his walking dead pays on obvious homage to horror-meister George Romero. The film creates some interesting characters while again never taking anything serious. Tom Atkins, the Carpenter guy, plays a police detective that lost his girl back in the 50's to the ax murderer, and while I initially felt like he was over doing things early on with his over-blown performance, I found it working shortly after and realized the B movie 50's style effect he was going for. He carries it off wonderfully, and for me was easily the brightest spot in the film. While Night of the Creeps does have humour throughout, there are some genuine scares, lots of gore, and sustained pacing and suspense. For a little budget movie like this, it appears a lot of TLC was put into it - and it shows. As for the rest of the cast, Jason Lively plays romeo and Steve Marshall the sidekick. Both are pretty decent, and female lead Jill Whitlow, while not a particularly good or bad actress, is a banquet for the eyes. "}{"Title":"The Good News Is Your Dates Are Here, The Bad News Is THEY'RE DEAD!","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tom Atkins, Jason Lively, Jill Whitlow and Steve Marshall star in Fred Dekker's 1986 horror film. This begins with an infected alien releasing a dangerous experiment off a spaceship into space. In 1959, A college couple go on a date and run into a cop, Ray Cameron who is actually the girl's ex-boyfriend. They're told that an escaped killer is on the loose and should go home. Instead, they try to find a shooting star and the girl gets hacked up by the killer while her boyfriend gets infected by the alien experiment in the woods that's really the shooting star. In 1986, Two college buddies, Chris Romero (Lively) and J.C. Hooper (Marshall) attempt a pledge prank and find the infected teen who has been frozen for 27 years. Chris also meets Cynthia Cronenberg (Whitlow) while detective Cameron (Atkins) investigates the bodies. He thinks they might have something to do with the killer who murdered his ex-girlfriend and shot years ago. J.C. doesn't make it, but Chris learns that the slugs infect their hosts turning them into zombies. Soon, Chris, Ray and Cynthia fight against them and the zombies. I finally watched this a few years ago and liked it since. Atkins is great as usual and steals the film. I also like how the film makes references to famous directors and has a nice little mix of sci-fi & b-movie elements added. I recommend this fun, campy 80's horror flick. "},{"Title":"Totally deserves its killer cult status","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This bright, campy, slickly produced, and quickly-paced anything-goes homage/pastiche of choice kooky sci-fi/horror schlock rates highly as one of my all-time favorite 80's cult flicks; it's skillfully pulled off with a terrifically breezy, sassy, and slyly knowing tongue-in-cheek attitude which never becomes remotely condescending or too hip'n'ironic towards either the audience or its admittedly tacky source material. Writer/director Fred Dekker, who later blessed us with the equally delightful The Monster Squad, does a truly super job with this righteously rip-snorting fast, funny, and freaky blast of sheer giddy macabre merriment the incessantly brisk pace, uniformly excellent acting, wittily goofy rat-a-tat-tat dialogue which never ceases to top itself, and a constant sense of good, deliberately silly and outlandish fun permeates every last fabulously flipped-out frame with always energetic and entertaining results.Tom Atkins, all sardonic one-liners (What is this? A homicide? Or a bad B-movie?), morose, gloomy suicidal brooding, and full-throttle invigorating intensity, easily cops top thespic honors with his astounding portrayal of burn-out, cynical, self-destructive Detective Ray Cameron. Jason Lively as sullen sadsack Chris and Steve Marshall as his impudent wisecracking paraplegic best buddy J.C. display a warm and natural on-screen chemistry that's sweet, amusing, and even touching. Perky, petite, button-cute brunette Jill Whitlow makes for a very fetching and appealing heroine as the spunky Cynthia Cronenberg. The immortal Dik Miller has a great spirited bit as an amiable police armorer named -- what else? -- Walter Paisley. (In fact, this movie is loaded with a wondrous wealth of nifty dimestore cinema in-jokes that include a college called Corman University, a clip of Plan 9 from Outer Space playing on a TV screen, and numerous characters named after many horror film directors.) Barry De Vorzon contributes a frothy, punchy, and appropriately melodramatic score. Robert New's polished cinematography gives the picture an impressively glossy look. David Miller's splendid, suitably grisly make-up f/x deliver the splatterific gross-out goods. The climax with a bunch of frat boy zombies attacking a sorority house totally smokes in no uncertain terms. An absolute treat. "},{"Title":"It Thrilled ME!!","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Night of the Creeps 12/14/09This movie is a gem of the 1980's horror/comedy genre. It was just released on DVD for the first time this October. Directed by Fred Dekker, this landmark movie has inspired many other horror films like 2006's Slither by Sean Gunn. It's a great party film or so I've heard. I don't get out much or I could confirm this theory. The opening scene shows midgets in rubber suits (Aliens) on a space ship that is being invaded. Is that a great way to open a movie or what! They jettison a container of something into to space and it finds its way to Earth. We then come upon a scene set in the 1950's that is shot in black and white. There is a teenage couple making out at a lovers lane cliff overlooking the city, when they sees a UFO crash into a field. They go to examine the crash as the radio blares about an escape mental patient. They pull over on a vacant stretch of road and the guy goes into the woods to investigate. We see the escape psychopath approaching the car, and he eventually hacks up the girl with an ax. Upon inspection of the UFO the guy has and alien slug fly into his mouth, infecting him. This is where the movie goes back to color and we see Detective Landis disturbed from his nap by the phone ringing. Landis is your typical hardboiled cop who found those bodies' years back. He has the memorable catch phrase of thrill me! every time he answers the phone. Our main characters are two college freshmen. Chris is played by Jason Lively who got the part right after playing Rusty in the classic European Vacation. He is your basic everyman that you can really get behind and root for in a horror movie. Then we have his best friend J.C. played by Steve Marshall. He's a witty, smart assed handicapped kid who everybody likes. Except of course those mean frat guys. The head frat guy is played for a laugh, since he is such a clichéd stereotype. He is a blonde haired, sweater vest wearing guy named Brad. His red sports car even has license plates that say Bradster. What a douche! Anyway Chris has a huge crush on a sorority girl, Cynthia, but she is also the Bradster girlfriend. Chris and J.C. try to get into a fraternity and must somehow get a dead body and put it another frat houses yard as a pledge. In the college medical research building they find a cryo-chamber with the frozen body of the infected guy from the '50's. Needless to say he is thawed and escapes to infect the campus. Upon investigating the lab Detective Landis asks the cops Is this a homicide or a bad B-movie. Director Fred Dekker also wrote the script and has several tongue-in cheek scenes and bits of dialogue. Kind of like what the Scream movies did in the mid 90's. The alien slugs go in through your mouth and lay eggs in the unfortunate person's brain, turning them into zombies. Their heads eventually (wheather shot or hit with an ax) explode, releasing more slugs to infect more people. Cynthia finally leaves Brad after he trip J.C. in front of a crowd. Dude, picking on the crippled kids will not win you points with the ladies. Chris finally gathers enough courage to talk to her and she asks him to be her date for the dance. On the night of the big formal, the frat guys run into a little bad luck, and Detective Landis (who has all the best lines) says The good news is your dates are here, the bad new is their dead. The whole sorority house scene that follows is completely insane and fun to watch.Although made in 1986, this movie feels very modern and way ahead of it's time, even if can be very 80's at times. The blood and gore effects are actually quite good considering the meager five million dollar budget they had to work with. It was also made in a time without the aid of computers and CGI. Many horror movies released today are either remakes of popular 80's movies or made to give it the feel of the time period. Looking back who doesn't miss the 80's? (I'm laughing on the inside) "},{"Title":"Zombies, exploding heads, creepy crawlies. And a date for the formal","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" NIGHT OF THE CREEPS **** ½ Out of 5 Release Date- August 22nd, 1986Running Time- 88-Minutes Rating- R Writer/Director- Fred DekkerStarring- Jason Lively, Steve Marshall, Jill Whitlow, Allan Kayser and Tom Atkins as Detective Cameron Night of the Creeps is in my opinion one of the very best horror flicks out of the 80s and easily rates as one of the most fun viewing experiences; Night of the Creeps is one of those movies I can watch everyday and never get bored of it. As much as I love 80s horror I do think it did start a bit of a decline. I think some of the best horror flicks of all time came out of the 80s, but it seemed to focus more on gore F/X and character development pretty much took a backseat, but Night of the Creeps is one of the movies that features some gore, but also features some of best characters in a horror flick.Night of the Creeps marked the directorial debut for Fred Dekker and the one thing I can say is the genre truly is missing Fred Dekker. This rates as one of my favorite directorial debuts and by the time Night of the Creeps was released horror was still going strong, but we were seeing a slight decline in quality. What was working in the early part of the 80s wasn't working as well, which is partly the reason comedic horror flicks were being made more and more. But really by this time in the genre the slasher film was really all, but dead and even zombie movies were lacking, but with Night of the Creeps Fred Dekker made an excellent zombie flick that stands-out from the others that populated the horror genre at this time.As much as I do enjoy comedy/horror a lot for me don't hold up as well over the years, but in many ways I think Night of the Creeps gets better and better as it gets older. Sometimes comedy and horror can work, but sometimes they seem to really fall flat; I think often the biggest problem is the comedy takes away from the horror and the horror takes away from the comedy, but Fred Dekker was able to mix both together and keep the pace moving and is able to mix horror and comedy successfully together in the same scenes and neither takes away from the other.For a low budget horror movie the acting is actually fairly strong from the main cast. Normally movies like Night of the Creeps even if enjoyable have weak acting, but this movie actually has some solid acting. Tom Atkins as Detective Cameron is excellent like always. Seriously is there an actor cooler than Tom Atkins? Steve McQueen might be known as the king of cool, but Tom Atkins can seriously give him a run on that. Atkins has stated Night of the Creeps is his favorite of all the movies he's done and I'd happen to agree with that. Jason Lively as Christopher Romero and Steve Marshall as JC are both very good in their roles and Jill Whitlow is solid as Cynthia and is total hotness as well.Fred Dekker actually writes a very good and creative screenplay; by the time of the release for Night of the Creeps there were still many great horror movies released and many great ones after Night of the Creeps, but at this point of the genre there was a slight decline, but Night of the Creeps is a great example of great horror. Many movies in the 80s focused more on the gore than the characters and Fred Dekker is able to do both. JC and Chris are two of my favorite characters of all time and they are both highly likable and the bond between the two of them feels real and never comes across as sappy with the exception of maybe a scene or two. And the love story angle between Chris and Cynthia also really works well and adds a lot of depth to the characters and the movie. Like I said the comedy really works well and anything Tom Atkins says in the movie is so quotable. Night of the Creeps is one of those movies you can quote over and over again.Directing wise Fred Dekker really delivers on his debut film; the pacing never once lags and is always moving forward. The comedy works well and it really is quite funny and there is some decent suspense. Fred Dekker is obviously a fan of the horror genre, which is really clear as he uses names such as Hooper, Carpenter, Romero, Cronenberg, Landis, Raimi and Cameron to name a few. Night of the Creeps is very much a homage to the horror genre from the 50s all the way up until the 80s, but with Night of the Creeps despite the homage's, Fred Dekker also puts his own twist on things, which by this point in the horror genre was rare. A lot of movies at this time were nothing more than cheap knockoffs even if they were enjoyable, but Dekker puts his own twist on things and possibly makes the coolest movies of the 80s or of any era for that matter.Night of the Creeps is just a blast to watch and like I said seems to get better and better with each viewing and again the movie is so quotable. Night of the Creeps never fails to put a big smile on my face. We got a solid plot and some really awesome and likable characters, which again by this time seemed rare. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Zombie Comedy","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fred Dekker's Night of the Creeps of 1986 is a hilarious Zombie satire that enjoys an enormous cult-status among many Horror fans. The film is regarded by some as an absolute cult-favorite of the 80s and sometimes even compared with highlights such as The Evil Dead or Re-Animator. While my personal opinion is that this little gem cannot possibly compete with The Evil Dead or Re-Animator (Both personal all-time favorites of mine), it is beyond doubt that any Horror lover with a sense of humor will have a blast watching this. The film begins with a hilarious opening sequence in space (and the funniest-looking aliens I've ever seen) and continues with a black-and-white prologue set in 1959. At the same time that a murderous psychopath is on the loose, a part of an alien experiment falls out of a spaceship and hits earth. Near Corman (!) University, a guy is befallen by extraterrestrial slugs and hence turned into a zombie. In 1986, two nerds break into a scientific facility and accidentally unfreeze the poor fellow, releasing the zombie-making slugs... The film is great fun to watch from the beginning to the end. Some people seem to regard this as one of the rarities that are funny AND scary at the same time. Well, scary is something different, in my opinion, but the fun-part is hilarious, and the film enjoyably relies on cool make-up, nicely-done gore effects, a nice atmosphere, eccentric characters, macabre humor and memorably funny dialog. The performances are good, legendary B-Movie star and super-badass Tom Atkins shines as the tough cop, Jill Withlow is yummy in the female lead. Jason Lively and Steve Marshall are very believable as the nerdy protagonists, and the film even features a cameo appearance by Horror/B-Movie legend Dick Miller (A Bucket of Blood,...). Many of the characters have a tribute as their name Detective Landis, Ray Cameron, Cynthia Cronenberg, Sgt. Raimi, Corman University, etc. Overall this is a hilarious and extremely entertaining little film that every Horror fan should enjoy. Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"Tom Atkins is and always will be The Man","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hands down a classic in the horror genre. Everything you'd want and then some.....Tom Atkins is amazing. Never once in a movie has Tom let you down and he really shines in this one. The little references to horror movie directors and characters is well done. The quotes and one liners in this movie will never leave your head....Screaming Like Banshees I mean come on. No line is ever delivered better without a glass of whiskey and a cigarette in hand. You just need to see this movie for yourself....don't let it be forgotten. It layed down the tracks for what the audience wants to see in a movie. It's limited DVD release is almost sickening. I felt pretty bad handing Tom Atkins a bootleg version of one of the best performance of his career. But he signed it nonetheless because he is and always will be The Man. Thrill Me "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant - 1 of my favourite films of all time.","Date":"18 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is absolutely brilliant and hilarious - especially for horror comedy film fans.In the mix it is a comedy horror film which includes elements from zombie films, slasher films, alien invasion films, teenage frat parties, an alcoholic detective. But I won't ruin it for everyone, just watch it - but a few alcoholic beverages will make it even more enjoyable.You know you're in the 80s with the music and clothing with this one. There are some parts of the film where I just creased up with laughter. You won't ever tire or get bored of this film. You'll love it when you watch it. "},{"Title":"It Thrilled Me","Date":"27 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Though something of a highly regarded cult item today, Fred Dekker's first film, Night of the Creeps, was an unqualified flop when first released in August 1986, only recouping a little more than 1/10 of its $5 million budget. A highly amusing yet genuinely jolting mixture of comedy and horror, the film combined any number of disparate genres--the zombie film, the alien invasion film, the depressed/suicidal cop-seeking-redemption film, the frat house comedy--into one highly satisfying stew, and yet, for some reason, failed to find its audience at the box office. With the advantage of hindsight, however, and in no small part thanks to the advent of the DVD revolution, Night of the Creeps, like many of its primary and secondary characters, is enjoying a very vigorous second life after having arisen from limbo, and is today appreciated for the highly entertaining, modest piece of work that it is.The opening sequences of the film are perhaps the best. The viewer is treated to a pitched battle aboard an alien spaceship, during which one of the diminutive ETs manages to jettison a canister of...something, which promptly plummets down to planet Earth, in the year 1959. Although the entire film can be regarded as a pastiche of and homage to the sci-fi B movies of the 1950s, the next sequence, filmed in B&W, is especially reminiscent. In a scene straight out of The Blob, two necking teenagers see a streaking meteor fall to the ground, and go to investigate. The male youth, Johnny, is attacked by something from the fallen canister, while his poor galpal, nervously waiting back at the car, is hacked to bits by an escaped ax murderer. Flash forward 27 years, to 1986, when we meet two college students, Chris (Jason Lively, who had appeared in European Vacation the year before) and J.C. (Steve Marshall), his handicapped best friend. When Chris develops an instantaneous crush on sorority girl Cynthia (Jill Whitlow), the pair decides that the only way to impress the young hottie is for the two of them to apply to the superhip Beta fraternity. The two break into a cryogenics lab in order to purloin a cadaver, as part of their hazing ordeal, but when the corpsicle suddenly comes to life, the two youths flee in fear. Too late, however. Before long, the awakened cadaver--soon revealed to be Johnny himself--begins to lumber around campus, and even worse...his body soon disgorges a swarm of scuttling, sluglike creatures, which only serve to spread the zombie contagion even further....Fans of so-called B movies will especially enjoy all the cinematic and directorial references with which writer/director Dekker has filled his movie. The bulk of the film transpires at Corman University, and Chris', J.C.'s and Cynthia's surnames are, respectively, Romero, Carpenter Hooper and Cronenberg! Four of the detective sergeants on the zombie case are named Dante, De Palma, Landis and Raimi (Raimi is played by Bruce Solomon, who many will recall as another sergeant, Sgt. Dennis Foley, on TV's Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman), while veteran character actor Tom Atkins (who many will recognize from such films as John Carpenter's The Fog and Escape From New York, as well as from Lethal Weapon) plays that depressed/suicidal head detective previously mentioned, a character named Cameron. And if all these wonderful wink-wink mentions aren't enough, one of the zombie victims in the film is shown watching the Ed Wood classic Plan 9 From Outer Space on TV, and B-movie legend Dick Miller pops up in a very amusing cameo, playing a police armorer. The film contains any number of memorable scenes, and the one in which the crippled J.C. is trapped in a bathroom with a swarm of the scurrying creeps should do for toilet stalls what Psycho did for showers and Jaws did for the beach. Those creeps, by the way, should really strike a chord in anyone who has ever been startled by a mouse or water bug speeding through his or her apartment or between their legs. Zippy as a rodent yet undeniably sluglike, they are memorable horror creations indeed. And in a film with consistently ingratiating performances from its largely no-name cast, Atkins really does shine, and gets to deliver the lion's share of the picture's best lines. His constantly repeated refrain, Thrill me, should have become some kind of cinematic catchphrase, on the order of Dirty Harry's Make my day (Dekker, in one of the deluxe DVD's copious extras, reveals that it was this line, which came to him as he slept, that served as the basis for the entire rest of the film), but is just one of a dozen great others that Det. Cameron amusingly grates during the course of his job here. A smart, audacious film says author Glenn Kay while describing Night of the Creeps in his Zombie Movies The Ultimate Guide, and darn, if that isn't ever the truth! Dekker, over the course of the next six years, would go on to direct Monster Squad and, um, RoboCop 3, neither of which this viewer has seen. Still, I very much doubt if either of those films provides such a deft balancing act of chills and laughs as does Night of the Creeps. The film is an unexpected winner from beginning to end (this viewer prefers the director's cut, by the way, with its returning-spaceship finale), and might leave you open mouthed with surprise. Better to tape that mouth shut, hence, in order to prevent an entry point for any of those darn creeps! "},{"Title":"I love this underrated B-movie gem!","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A vessel containing an intergalactic experiment from an alien spaceship arrives on Earth. Meanwhile, a young couple is making out in their car near where it lands. The guy, after hearing the strange noise it made, goes to investigate. The girl stays behind and is killed by an escaped mental patient with an axe. The guy finds the vessel, which opens up and frees an alien slug. The slug then enters his body through the mouth and takes control of his brain. Thirty years later, Chris (Jason Lively) and J.C. (Steve Marshall) are two college students who, while trying to impress a beautiful young co-ed named Cynthia (Jill Whitlow), are hazed into leaving a dead body on the sorority house doorstep. They only get as far as the morgue where they find a frozen corpse, actually the young man from before, and accidentally thaw him out along with the parasite in his brain. Soon the alien slugs multiply and start taking control of all the students around campus, resulting in a terrifying zombie crisis. Chris and J.C. join forces with the one liner spitting Detective Ray Cameron (Tom Atkins) and must now fight to put an end to this threat from beyond the stars! This is one of the greatest horror films I've ever seen and it sickens me how little known it is. This movie has all the right ingredients for B-movie greatness and is one you will want to watch over and over again. All the characters here really fleshed out and three dimensional. Ray Cameron, played by the always great Tom Atkins, is hilarious and steals every scene he's in. He's easily one of my favorite horror protagonists ever. I just loved him! Jason Lively as Chris makes for a great hero as well and gave a very grounded and credible performance. I could go on and on about the acting but what really makes this movie so perfect is the intricate premise of alien slugs taking over human bodies and making them into mindless zombies. It's like a clever tribute to the sci-fi monster movies of the 50's but with an 80's twist. Another cool treat for horror fans like myself is that most of the characters are named after great horror directors (such as Carpenter, Raimi, Cronenberg, etc.). Night of the Creeps was definitely made for people who love this sort of thing and I applaud the filmmakers for that. I could write an entire novel about what makes this film so great but I'll go ahead and conclude this review by telling you to check it out immediately. You will not be disappointed! "},{"Title":"A Brilliant,Entertaining Sci/Fi/Horror/Comedy And A Wonderful Cult Classic.","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Night Of The Creeps is a brilliant and very entertaining Horror film that Sci-Fi/Horror/Comedy that combines great direction,a wonderful cast,a well-written screenplay,great special effects and a memorable soundtrack. All of those combinations make Night Of The Creeps one of the best Horror films of the 1980s and a Cult Classic.Night Of The Creeps tells the story of two college students Chris(Jason Lively)and J.C(Steve Marshall)who are asked to pull a prank by a college fraternity by taking out a cadaver,that's been frozen since 1959,and put it on the ground of a rival fraternity. Unfortunately,the Cadaver is still alive because it contains Alien Zombie slugs from outer space that are let loose on the college campus and posses people one by one. Now Chris and J.C with the help of Chris' Dream girl Cynthia(Jill Whitlow)and Police Detective Ray Cameron(Tom Atkins)the four have to the stop the possessed zombies and save the campus.Night Of The Creeps is easily one of the best,most memorable and entertaining Horror films of the 1980s that unfortunately wasn't a big hit when it came out in 1986 because Night Of The Creeps didn't get a nationwide theatrical release but instead got a limited release grossing $591,366 not even making back it's 5 million dollar budget. But thankfully Night Of The Creeps has become a Cult Classic and for a good reason it's a great genre film. One of the reasons Night Of The Creeps is such a great Horror film is because writer-director Fred Dekker has taken his love for Horror and SCI-FI B-Movies and has put in this film making a movie that is scary,funny and at times campy and not straying away from it's purpose of making a Horror film that is clever and slick. The Comedy and Humor in this film is hilarious because NOTC makes fun of the B-movie trademarks of the Horror and SCI-FI films of the 1950s and 60s whether it's the Alien Zombies,the style of the characters or the funny dialog that is quotable and memorable. The Comedy in this film Pre-dates the Post Modern Humor of Scream because like Scream would do ten years later in 1996 Creeps would do as well making fun of classic Horror films while at the same time paying homage and making reference to them. What also makes NOTC post modern is how the college and main characters are named after notable genre directors such as John Carpenter,Wes Craven,George A Romero,Roger Corman(the university is named Corman University),David Cronenberg,Tobe Hooper,James Cameron,Sam Raimi,John Landis,and Steve Miner. NOTC was so ahead of it's time in terms of it's style. While NOTC is very funny the film still remembers it's a Horror film and NOTC has a few scary and suspenseful moments done are done with great build up and surprises and shocks that will have most viewers jumping from their seats. The four main characters in the NOTC Chris,J.C,Cynthia and Detective Ray Cameron are great because while the characters archetypes(nerds,girl next door,tough police detective)all four of them have great depth and likability and you don't want anything bad to happen to them. Where most Horror films have some characters that are just waiting to get killed off and wiped off the face of the earth,Chris,J.C,Cynthia and Ray Cameron are so great to watch you as a viewer want them to survive and save the day. The screenplay by Fred Dekker is truly wonderful, fantastic,funny,well-written and quotable with Dekker giving the main and supporting characters dialog that is witty and smart with a lot great,funny moments and amazing lines. The violence,blood and gore in the film is well-done an disgusting at times but not disgusting enough to be dark and bleak because the film never takes itself too seriously. Now if there is something that will confuse viewers when they watch the film is the ending because there is two different endings. There is the theatrical release ending which is the jump scare ending and director Fred Dekker's preferred ending which is ambiguous,funny leaves an open ended conclusion. Personally,I like both endings to the film because I love jump scares at the end of Horror films but at the same time I love endings that are ambiguous,open ended and leave you with questions. Both endings are different but don't stop Night Of The Creeps from being a classic that it is.The whole cast is amazing. Jason Lively is excellent as Chris Romero,the hero of the film,with Lively bringing depth and likability to the role. Steve Marshall is great and funny as J.C(James Carpenter Hooper),Chris' best friend,with Marshall saying funny lines. Jill Whitlow is fantastic and beautiful as Cynthia Cronenberg,Chris's love interest. Tom Atkins is brilliant and unforgettable as Detective Ray Cameron,with Atkins bringing toughness,humor and saying memorable one-liners. Allan J. Kayser is wonderful as Brad,Cynthia's jerk boyfriend. Also lookout for cameos from Roger Corman and genre veteran Dick Miller(Walt)and David Paymer(Young Scientist).The direction by Fred Dekker is excellent,with Dekker always moving the camera with great low and high angles,zooms and close ups and bringing a great style,tone and pace to the film. Wonderful direction by Dekker.The score by Barry De Vorozen is fantastic,creepy and intense and matches the tone of the film. Great score,De Vorozen. There is also great songs from The Platters(Smoke Gets In Your Eyes),The Diamonds(The Stroll),Sandy Nelson(Teen Beat),Paul Anka(Put your Head On My Shoulder),Preston Epps(Bongo Rock),Stan Ridgeway(The Big Heat,Drive,She Said and much more. Great soundtrack.The special make-up effects by David B. Miller are outstanding,bloody and very realistic and add to the film. Fantastic effects by Miller.In final word,if you love Horror Films SCI-FI films,Cult Films or genre films in general,I highly suggest you see Night Of The Creeps,a scary and funny Horror film and a wonderful Cult Classic that deserves to be in every Horror and genre fans collection. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "}{"Title":"lots of B-movie horror subgenres","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Back in 1959, fratboy Johnny gets infected by an alien experimental brain parasite that turns people into zombies. There is also a serial killer with axe who kills the girl. Then in modern times, Chris Romeo and his talkative sidekick James Carpenter Hooper ask to pledge a fraternity to get close to cute sorority girl Cynthia Cronenberg. They go looking for a corpse in the morgue for the fraternity initiation. They accidentally get into a science lab and releases Johnny who had been frozen. Police detective Ray Cameron is called in to investigate. He is still haunted by the events in 1959.This is full-on horror camp. The first ten minutes of movie has silly aliens, brain parasites, serial axe murderer, and sorority row. I like that the movie is so camp that it knows that it is camp. However I wish the two young amateur actors could be much better. The problem is that one is bland and the other is annoying. The girl doesn't have much charisma either. It is probably too much to ask the young actors to be good but sometimes these B-movies get lucky. There's no such luck in this one. The campy jokes don't really work probably due to the amateurish acting. All the horror names for the characters buy a little bit of good will. This is a reasonable B-movie horror but it is not more than that. "},{"Title":"An 80s homage to the 50s","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 50s was rife with ultra cheap, ultra nasty B-movie horrors. It was half a century ago but similar garbage is still abundant in cinemas today in the form of drek like Hostel, Sorority Row and Final Destination. I guess the older horrors could be forgiven as it was a more innocent time. All B-movies from day one have been mere potboilers. Is Night of the Creeps an exception? It's hard to review Night of the Creeps. There are many hits and misses. You could let the film off on all counts by claiming that all the goofiness is intentional, even when it's not. But the endless references to classic horror films becomes a bit too heavy. I'm not a fan of in-jokes, especially when their none-too-subtle. They're all over the place in horror films these days so maybe back in 1986 it was regarded as new and clever.The plot is torn right out of a 1950s sci-fi comic. Aliens lose an experiment while cruising through space and it comes to earth in a cannister where it crash lands in the woods of a quiet little town in 1959. A wholesome teen couple in the middle of making-out go to investigate. The boyfriend is infected with something and the girl is slaughtered by an axe-murderer.Flash forward to 1986 and we have a couple of dorks trying desperately to get into a fraternity at their college in order to impress a hot chick. During their hijinks they accidentally thaw the cryogenically frozen body of the wholesome boyfriend who comes back to life. Parasites are controlling his body and an plague of alien slugs slowly spreads across the town.This biggest miss of NOTC is the fact that nothing really becomes of either plot line. The resurrection of the axe-murderer goes nowhere and is over as soon as it begins. The slug invasion doesn't add up to much action either. I saw the Director's Cut of the film which has a more conclusive ending and I can't imagine how weak this film would have been in cinemas with the original anti-climatic end.It does has a lot of spirit, however. Fred Dekker crams loads of enthusiasm and affection into the 90 minute run-time and the cast seem to be caught up in the high. I've never really liked Jason Lively. His acting abilities are slight and outside of NOTC I've only seen him in European Vacation and Ghost Chase. He's merely okay in NOTC and his tall stature and gangly limbs fit his character. But his co-star Steve Marshall acts him off the screen. A friend of Robert Downey Jnr, Marshall came to Hollywood at his pal's insistence and within six weeks had a role in this movie. Despite the promising beginning he never made another theatrically-released film and has less than ten entries on his filmography. I can't imagine why.Apart from Tom Atkins as a bitter detective you're unlikely to recognise anyone else in this movie. Though David Paymer has a cameo as an unfortunate scientist and Dick Miller appears for a small scene with the same name as the character he played in Roger Corman's Bucket of Blood. Even Fred Dekker himself never prospered as a director. After NOTC he went on to helm The Monster Squad and the exceptionally poor RoboCop 3. NOTC seems to stand out as the defining movie moment for many of those involved.The film itself has been homaged/copied in recent years with James Gunn's Slither, which I have never seen. But the tacky 80s edge of NOTC has no modern day equivalent. Barry De Vorzon's score seems a little dated in some places but is otherwise adequate enough. Even De Vorzon's career pretty much ended with this film. He went on to score Exorcist III in 1990 and has done nothing since.Considering the film's cult status and adoration among horror fans it's strange that it effectively killed/harmed the careers of everyone involved.As a cheap 80s horror with gory make-up effects and a silly story you're unlikely to find anything better than NOTC. It knows it's dumb and has no delusions of grandeur. If only it had been pushed further it might have ended up being the classic such as those it paid homage to.. "},{"Title":"Cameron? No, its Bozo the clown","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is a very strange one.It starts off with aliens, then black and white, then normal modern day.Plot in nutshell A college student is infected with an alien life form in 1959, making him a zombie. His body is frozen in the campus lab. 27 years later, 2 losers unfreeze him as a fraternity prank but then the epidemic begins.Most of the cast is unknown. The only actor I had seen in other movies is Tom Atkins, who played Detective Ray Cameron. Not that the others were bad. They weren't excellent, but I didn't watch this movie for great acting. I watched it expecting a cheesy, pretty good, horror-comedy, and thats just what I got.There were some dumb parts I think, but then a lot of great scenes too.I wouldn't call this movie a classic, but its good enough that you won't feel like you wasted your time watching this.7/10.80's horror/comedy fans would like this "},{"Title":"Yay, Slugs!","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a slug owner and enthusiast, I was offended but amused at this farce. I have always dreamed of the day that these soft, noble, beautiful creatures will take over the world...Surely they would be gentle rulers, and I their more-than-willing and gracious slave...It saddens me that the world is not yet ready to embrace slugs as cuddly loyal friends and confidantes.Instead they are portrayed as slimy, icky, parasites who prey upon humans when given the opportunity.While this movie did feed my fantasies about slugs gaining the power and recognition they deserve, I was troubled that were feared rather than loved as they should be.The next time you see a slug, instead of cringing, squashing it or sadistically pouring salt on it, offer it your finger! Watch it twirl around and leave an iridiscent rainbow trail along your palm while it smells you with its delicate antennae! Feed it a diet of lettuce and love!Slugs don't want to make you a zombie! They want to make you a friend! "},{"Title":"'Night Of The Creeps' is fun, but not particularly funny. It never really seems quite sure how to approach the material, but Tom Atkins is great in it and has all the best lines.","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many people I respect absolutely LOVE 'Night Of The Creeps', but while I enjoy watching it for the most part, it just doesn't live up to its reputation. Horror and comedy for me are an uneasy mix. For every 'Re-Animator' or 'Frankenhooker' there are dozens of lame attempts that are neither amusing or scary. 'Night Of The Creeps' is somewhere in between for me. It's fun but not particularly funny. The movie begins with some silly aliens, then a tongue in cheek 1950s sequence inspired by the likes of 'The Blob'. If it had stayed in that period/style I might have enjoyed it a lot more, but it then jumps to the 1980s, hardly a golden era of comedy for me. The lead actor is even from one of those Nation Lampoon vacation movies. I get it that the characters are named after horror directors... so what. I thought initially that it was going to be a lot more self-referential and full of in-jokes, but that's it folks.  The movie never really seems quite sure how to approach the material, and that's why I have reservations about it. Maybe they should have just played it straight, I don't know. I watch 'Night Of The Creeps' for one reason - Tom Atkins (okay, it's nice to see a Dick Miller cameo too, but that's all it is, a cameo). Atkins is great in this and comes up with all the best lines. Every time he's not on screen my remote control finger gets itchy. If you're an Atkins fan you must see this movie, otherwise proceed with caution. "},{"Title":"Interesting moments","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A wonderful opening which catapults you from a chase sequence among aliens in their space ship, to a college prom night in the 50's complete with an escaped axe-wielding maniac, to an 80's college campus' Greek row during Rush Week, each scenario laced with intentional humor, raises your hopes that you're about to be treated to a fun tongue-in-cheek horror homage. Unfortunately, these and but a handful more, make up the most interesting moments in this film. And what a shame, because the premise is fun, the storyline interesting, the actors likeable, the special effects wonderfully appropriate, but these all are sadly overwhelmed by morose dialogue and lack of direction. So invest 10 minutes and watch the film's setup - it really is fun. "},{"Title":"Very under rated and very good 80's horror/comedy","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I grew up in the 1980's and it was not until between 5-10 years ago that I became aware of writer/director Fred Dekker's debut classic Night Of The Creeps. Better late than never, but what matters is that I do enjoy it. The film is Dekker's homage of all kinds of horror, fantasy and science fiction. Night Of The Creeps is a great blend of campy horror, 50's sci fi and John Hughes style 80's teen comedies. Night Of The Creeps blends these genres easily and this film is a whole lot of campy, lighthearted fun. Rusty(from National Lampoon's Vacation movies) is a college nerd with one friend, who is crippled. However, he is witty, smart and more uninhibited than his shy buddy. He then goes out of his way to help his introverted pal score with the sorority chick he is afraid to talk to. This brings our heroes to fraternity membership, which leads to the thawing out of a cryogenically frozen corpse that is infested by alien slugs that turn people into zombies. This is where Tom Atkins shows up as a hard boiled detective. Tom Atkins performance is a highlight of the film and as action hero Atkins is awesome. His performance and presence greatly enhance the film, plus he has an incredibly stylish and manly moustache. Night Of The Creeps is tongue in cheek, action packed and funny horror flick. It has good performances, direction, f/x and lots of memorable 80's one liners. Night Of The Creeps is a lot of fun and not one to be missed. "},{"Title":"A gem of schlock from 80's eyes.","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I sat long and hard these past few days trying to come up with a gimmicky angle that could boost readership by at least a couple dozen. But all I could muster up was a play on the whole Throwback Thursday phenom that the internets has grown to love so dear. It's a new twist on an old fav and I have decided called this new blog segment, get ready, Throwback Thursday. Still with me? God bless you.Now allow me to elaborate. Every Thursday I review an older film from when we where more impressionable (stupid and liked pretty colors) and give it another watch. Look forward to the reviews of such classics as The Goonies (1986) or the other Corey filled romp, The Lost Boys (1987). We will explore more than just Corey laden 80's fair. Don't fret. They were just the first two movies I could muster up.For this, my inaugural edition of Throwback Thursday, I have chosen a rarely watched gem of schlock for schlock's sake entitled Night Of The Creeps (1986). Now this particular film had missed my radar until college when one of my roommates, Vinny, decided that we had no choice but to scour the local video stores (ask you parents, kids) and find this almost unknown piece of 80's gold. After a long, exhausting search of what had to be at least three rental establishments, we finally hit pay dirt. There on the dusty shelf laid in wait, a copy of my friend's beloved tongue-in-cheek horror classic in all of its VHS glory. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate in Fun 1980s Horror","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alien brain parasites, entering humans through the mouth, turn their host into a killing zombie. Some teenagers start to fight against them.So, in retrospect, it seems a bit cheesy to name characters Romero, Hooper, Raimi, and so on. The references are far too obvious. And this same thing would be repeated in Dead Next Door and probably other films. That can probably be excused. And, of course, there is the slightly less obvious reference of Dick Miller as Walt, a nod to his character in Bucket of Blood.There is a nice blend of fun, humor and horror here, and Tom Atkins is at his finest. Most probably think of him as the guy from Halloween III, but this is the movie where he shines. Well, this and Lethal Weapon. "},{"Title":"What is this? A homicide, or a bad B-movie?","Date":"20 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not exactly what you would call an unknown horror comedy, but there is the distinct feeling that it should be better known. As its cult fan base will attest, this is blast of a movie, a homage to the B schlockers of lore. Directed by Fred Dekker, the premise sees some alien beings eject a flask of alien slugs down to earth, which lands at a fraternity campus, something which cause mayhem some years later when a frozen body is disturbed at the medical lab and the slugs are unleashed. Cue infestation that turns people into zombies!The pic plays up to the clichés of fraternity based movies, with nerds and nudity on tap, all smothered in a gooey horror comedy sauce. One-liners are ripe, the characterisations also, the latter of which fronted by a glorious Tom Atkins as a hard drinking hard - boiled detective with issues and quips ready to be poured out. It's not genius film making, but given the low budget it deserves its cult status, because it never pauses for breath and it's very aware of what it wants to be - and crucially who its target audience is. 7/10 "}{"Title":"What is this, a homicide or a bad B movie?","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" College freshmen Chris and J.C. (Jason Lively, Steve Marshall) are trying to join a fraternity and are given the initiation challenge of stealing a body from the morgue. In attempting to do this, they unfreeze a cryogenically-frozen body that was inhabited by parasitic alien slugs in 1959. Now the alien slugs are free and attacking the college campus, turning people into zombies. After his friend is killed, Chris tries to stop the slugs & zombies with the help of a detective (Tom Atkins) whose tragic backstory ties into the alien attack in 1959.This terrific '80s horror comedy from Fred Dekker is one of the most underrated movies from that decade. Steve Marshall is great fun as the handicapped best friend of 'the hero.' He gets many of the movie's best lines. Jason Lively and beautiful Jill Whitlow are both good. Allan Kayser (Bubba from Mama's Family) is the Zabka-esque jock villain. The movie's highlight is Tom Atkins, who gives a memorable performance as the tough and sarcastic detective. The movie's filled with in-jokes and references that genre fans will enjoy. The movie itself is a sort of homage to classic B sci-fi/horror flicks of the '50s. By the way, in one scene Jill Whitlow is making cookies or something in the kitchen with her sorority sisters. She drops a wooden spoon and kicks it under the refrigerator. Then she picks it up and proceeds to put it right back in the bowl. Eww, how gross is that? That made me want to vomit far more than any of the movie's special effects! Give it a shot and I'm sure you'll agree it's great fun and years ahead of its time. Any movie with a Dick Miller cameo can't be that bad. "},{"Title":"Unearth this mostly forgotten zombie treat","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" (58%) A bright and breezy horror comedy that is largely, and rather sadly, almost entirely forgotten about. This is a more ambitious movie than most 80's gore flicks, and the opening with funny little aliens basting a pod onto 1950's America is handled really well as it has a sense that almost anything could happen. The movie settles down after that and becomes a largely typical college set teen movie, but the characters a likable, and there still is plenty more fun to be had. The zombie frozen in a tube is similar to the one in Return of the living dead, only here is makes little sense why a college would have a man frozen on campus for 27 years, but once the slug monsters start leaping into peoples (as well as cats and dogs) mouths and all hell breaks loose it really doesn't matter. So it may make little logical sense, but it's well worth tracking down, especially for zombie comedy fans. "},{"Title":"Endlessly Fun with generous amounts of Gore.","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Two students named Chris (Lively) and J.C. (Marshall) pledge a fraternity so Chris can make points with his dream girl Cynthia (Whitlow). The fraternity jocks have no intention of letting the geeks join them, but set them up for a prank that results in them freeing a cryogenic ally frozen zombie from 27 years ago that has alien slugs still alive in it. The slugs quickly multiply on campus as they enter the victim's mouth and incubate in their brains until their hatched. A radical police detective named Cameron (Atkins) who has connections to the case from years ago is called in to get to the bottom of it. It isn't long before students are turned into zombies and our rag tag team must figure out how to stop and kill them. This fun film is a great mix of Sci-Fi and horror done with tongue in cheek from first time Writer/Director Fred Dekker. Dekker fills this movie with everything a fright film fan can want. He starts by making his characters very real. The friendship between Chris and J.C. is real and believable and credit has to be given to the actors for pulling this off in such a fashion. When Chris discovers slugs may have taken over his best friend we truly believe and feel his pain. The over the top smart talking detective played by Tom Atkins is a delightful mix of attitude and humor, and is probably Atkins best genre roll. Atkins shines in a role he seems born to play as he answers to anyone with the memorable line Thrill me. The film has a fun campy side that is purely intentional, but boasts some excellent make up effects and delivers some great gore moments. Not overly scary, but well made and executed with genre fans in mind, Night of the Creeps will keep a smile on your face throughout and you will have a ton of fun watching it. "},{"Title":"Not as great as remembered","Date":"15 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Night of the Creeps (1986) This is a re-watch, I not seen in over 10 years, I do remember that enjoyed it a lot, when I first saw it. The second watch, I didn't find all that great, The opening scenes was very bizarre, I had mixed with Black and white part of the movie. I thought the movie took a bit long to get going, I was bit bored in some parts of the movie however the second half of the movies dose make for it. When the movies actually gets really funny, some funny jokes and some good so-what gory zombie kills and some of death were very funny as well. The acting was great from the whole cast and I didn't mind the ending was decent!6 out of 10, Not as great as remembered, I think I enjoyed Slither a lot more "},{"Title":"God bless the 80's","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the year of 1959, an alien experiment of some kind crashes to earth, and infects a fraternity guy. If that's not enough, a madman that has escaped kills his date with an Axe. They freeze the body of the fraternity member. Years later in 1986, two geeks want to join a fraternity club. Chris (Jason Lively) falls in love at first sight with Cynthia (Jill Whitlow) but the leader Brad is dating her, so Chris agrees to an initiation test. They inadvertently let the corpse loose from a cryogenic state, and people start getting infected all over the place. With the help of detective Ray Cameron (Tom Atkins) it's up to Chris to stop it.If you wanna know why I love the 80's, it's fantastic camp like this. They simply don't create movies like this anymore. Ever since the found footage craze commenced, I've found myself bored with horror films. There isn't much originality these days, aside from movies that wind up surprising me, and there have been quite a few, but you couldn't create a movie like this at this day in age. This movie combines the genres of Horror & Comedy, and it doesn't seem out of place in the slightest. Director Fred Dekker knows how to properly balance the two genres, and the result is one of the best horror/comedy films you may ever see. The opening is so cool. It's a terrific tribute to the 50's. I loved how the opening entwines with events later on in the movie. It was very skillfully done. It's not a gore fest, but it's decent. We get heads blown off by a shotgun, other shotgun blasts, nasty walking corpses, creepy slugs, an Axe in the face, and more. It has just enough for the gore hounds. The acting is a lot of fun. Jason Lively has this lovable way about him that makes for the perfect, reluctant hero. Not only does he have a couple of great one-liners, but his friendship with Steve Marshall (J.C) was precious, and sadly short-lived. It's my only complaint about this movie. Steve Marshall was really cool, and his screen time is tragically short. Jill Whitlow is a cutie. Her romance with Jason Lively is believable, and heartwarming. It's refreshing that Dekker went the unconventional route by making Whitlow courageous in scenes, in lieu of the whiny broad that you tend to see a lot. Tom Atkins is utterly fabulous as the emotionally beaten detective, who is haunted by his past. His anti-hero persona made him so endearing, and he fires off the one-liners like a champ. His favorite quote in this movie is Thrill me well, Tom. You certainly did, just that. The finale is one of the best action packed finale's I've seen in a horror film. I could never forget about that humongous pile of creepy slugs *Brrrrr*Final Thoughts If you're looking to settle down for an evening, and have a blast with a fun 80's horror film, look no further. Put your worries aside, crack open some beer, soda, water, whatever it is you drink, and thank me later. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Was CHEESE ever made better than in the mid-80's?","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...I don't think so. I love Cheese. Any kind. Any product there of. And is there any decade more worthy of being ridiculed than the 80's? Again, I don't think so. It was a time of anything goes. Flashy colors, strange hair styles, good music with bad lyrics (and/or vice versa), and, of course, way over-done horror/comedies that look like very long music videos. Don't get me wrong, I LOVE this movie.Probably because every crevice of this film oozes cheese-whiz. Let's start with every character having a last name of a famous Horror-Movie Director. Carpenter, Cronenberg,...etc. They had my heart with just that. The two leads are Chris, a nerdy ginger and his muscular dystrophy ridden dorm-mate J.C. (that seems to be in love with Chris...? I won't go into the IMPLIED homosexuality here. If you want my comments on this issue look under the posts for this film and find the one summarized J.C. CRUSH ON CHRIS?) There's a pretty girl that belongs to a sorority and her over-blonde boyfriend that belongs to a fraternity. Oh, and some slugs that come out of a frozen dead guy that go in search of fresh brains and create zombies. What more does one need in this type of movie? Except, maybe, Tom Atkins! And let's have him way over-act the someone-done-him-wrong detective. Now we've almost achieved perfection...The script is not wonderful. The special effects are (probably on purpose) cheap and, duh, cheesy. The acting is sub-par (again, probably on purpose.) There are very pretty girls with itty-bitty-... (you know whats.) There are think-they're-good-looking guys... but not really. And my last cut-down would have to be NOT being a fan of the new DIRECTOR'S CUT. I preferred the original ending. Zombie Dog walks up to lead girl. She bends down to pet him and he spits a slug into her mouth. Credits roll... Much better than the over-long pan of the ONE slug that's left going into a, GASP, cemetery. Where it can be fruitful and multiply. Oh, yeah, there's a shot of the spaceship, from the beginning of the movie, using a searchlight to (yeah, right) find the lone slug.Put all of this together and you understand my rating. It's pleasant enough, but not as good as, oh let's say, Phantasm, or (a better comparison might be...) Tourist Trap. I also have to mention that Night Of The Creeps-type movies have been made by the dozens, especially between the late 70's and 80's. But, I'd like to think that this one was made in parody or homage to those that came before it.It's better than a decent waste of time. And, for the type, you could do a lot worse. Just let the cheese wash over you! And laugh at all the intentional and unintentional humor. "},{"Title":"Slugs Get in Your Mouth","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Naked aliens have a gunfight in outer space. In 1959, an object is hurled from their spaceship, destined for Earth. The unidentified flying object is spotted by teenage students parked at a lover's lane make-out spot... Meanwhile, a mental patient has escaped, butchering four new victims with an axe. He's about to increase that number. Also noteworthy is the presence of a young police officer who once dated victim number five...Twenty-seven years later, college student Jason Lively (as Chris Romero) is depressed about not having a sexually active love life. Best friend and roommate Steve Marshall (as James Carpenter J.C. Hooper) tries to cheer Mr. Lively up and help him score with beautiful Jill Whitlow (as Cynthia Cindy Cronenberg). To impress Ms. Whitlow, the young men decide to join a fraternity. Bleached blond frat head Allan Kayser (as Brad) orders the pair to steal a cadaver from the college lab, which all agree is better than having sex with a farm animal. However, the dead body turns out to have a big surprise...All of this connects to the alien object and escaped mental murderer from 1959. Also present is the police detective, now old enough to be Tom Atkins (as Ray Cameron). Writer-director Fred Dekker ties everything together with respect for the genre. A touch of humor is used wisely. The standout character is the one played by Mr. Marshall. His physical handicap (he walks with crutches) is treated as ordinary. In one of the film's better scenes, Marshall visits a men's room with no other intent, apparently, than to correspond with a pen-pal by discreetly writing in a stall. No wonder something crawls up his pants.****** Night of the Creeps (8/22/86) Fred Dekker ~ Jason Lively, Steve Marshall, Jill Whitlow, Tom Atkins "},{"Title":"A very empty 80's horror dud","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 80's for the horror genre was vital. It essentially gave birth to the slasher genre, low budget film making, gore and campy fun. There are as many classics as there are horribly done knock offs. Night of The Creeps is generally considered one of those campy classics so I eagerly decided to watch it. All I can say is...womp womp...there was very little likable about this. I can handle campy, I love a good classic campy film but this was just dumb. Its part zombie, part monster and part downright ridiculous. The characters are completely empty and forgettable and you never feel like the heroes are heroes at all. The romance is ridiculous and does nothing to further the story. It just doesn't make you feel anything. The special effects are okay and the story is certainly simple enough. Maybe part of the problem is that we have seen this premise before and so much better.Jason Lively, Steve Marshall and Jill Whitlow are our three heroes. I'm not sure I blame them on really bad performances or just the empty writing of their characters. They aren't likable at all and they have no chemistry with each other. I suppose Lively is redeemable as the geeky, reluctant hero but barely. The one character that they could have done something with was Ray Cameron played by Tom Atkins. He's the tough as nails, grizzled cop type that could have been focused on as the hero but he is played as a joke and too campy so he is wasted in the story.Fred Dekker seems to have some sort of cult following due to this film and Monster Squad but outside of that and basically making the worst Robocop film he doesn't seem to have a whole lot of experience of vision as a director. I think this was an opportunity for them to make a violent, goofy, zombie/monster flick for next to nothing and turn a profit. I really had to push myself to get through this and with the exception of a few, a very very few watchable moments, this was barely acceptable. Definitely wouldn't bother with this when there is so much better 80's Horror fare out there. 3/10 "},{"Title":"27 Years Later...","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fred Dekker directs this horror comedy about a pair of fraternity pledges who thaw out a cryogenic frozen body of a college student from 1959. Turns out, he had been infected by an alien parasite from a crashed UFO experiment, and now reanimated, infects the entire campus, turning students into zombie-like creatures who threaten to infect the world.Highly contrived and over-the-top film has appealing performances from Jill Whitlow and especially Tom Atkins as the investigating detective, but otherwise is absurd and crass, with little else to recommend it, though it is a cult classic. "},{"Title":"Tom Atkins is a treat to watch, as usual.","Date":"16 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great send-up of the 1950s era monster movies that saturated the horror genre. It manages to at once take the story serious enough that you sympathize with the characters but also has enough fun with itself that it is never falls into self-parody.Tom Atkins is a great as usual. He is one of the horror genres most dependable actors and this is no exception. Fred Dekker, who would go on to make The Monster Squad, reveals a real appreciation for the genre he is working in with his direction and the screenplay shows a thorough knowledge of horror convention and knowledge.This is not a groundbreaking, transcendent genre film like Dawn of the Dead or The Exorcist. It operates well within the confines of the genre but it does so brilliantly. "}{"Title":"Zombies, exploding heads, creepy-crawlies...","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...and a date for the formal. This is CLASSIC, Spanky.What a great descriptive line to sum up this fun and endearing sci-fi / horror / comedy that itself is one of the truly fine 80's genre efforts, written and directed by Fred Dekker, who that year also provided the story for House, another horror movie that had an appreciable sense of humour about it. Night of the Creeps maintains a high fun factor for its breezy 90 minute running time, supplying appealing characters, delicious makeup effects, some highly quotable dialogue, and truly hearty laughs.Our story begins in 1959, when an alien experiment ends up on Earth and soon infects an unlucky schmuck, who remains on ice for 27 years until two college students awaken him, prompting an onslaught of zombified victims who retain the same trait carrying around slug-like parasites (which enter via the mouth) that incubate in the brain and make their messy exit via the forehead. An unlikely trio of heroes take matters into their own hands.It's always a treat when we as genre fans watch something clearly made by another genre fan, and Dekker makes a healthy nod to his influences by naming many of his main characters after genre directors (Hooper, Carpenter, Raimi, Romero, Cronenberg, Corman, etc.) Even an Oriental janitor gets named Miner, likely referencing House director Steve Miner. Viewers will love the choice dialogue (Thrill me!; What is this, a homicide, or a bad B movie?, Screaming like banshees!) that they will surely want to use themselves at some point. Yet, even among the various gags, there ARE moments when this can be taken seriously, as the comedy never detracts from the creepiness (the resurrection of a certain corpse is a mighty fine moment). And when our young hero listens to a tape left by his friend, it's very sobering and touching.Jason Lively and Steve Marshall have good chemistry as our two leads, with the gorgeous & sexy Jill Whitlow making for one Hell of a great leading lady; she gives us a brief shot of her breasts, but just as nice is seeing her kick some zombie / slug ass later as she wields a flamethrower. The eternally cool Tom Atkins makes the most of his superb character, a guy who is not only cool and bad ass but an effective tragic hero as well. Allan Kayser is a total hoot as smarmy jerk The Bradster; look also for appearances by the legendary Dick Miller (playing Walter (Paisley) once again), a younger David Paymer as one of many victims, and makeup effects guys David Miller, Howard Berger, and Robert Kurtzman among the zombified frat boys.You have all of this, and it adds up to an entertaining package. It's too unfortunate that Dekker would only get around to directing two more features (1987's The Monster Squad and 1993's RoboCop 3), but having both Night of the Creeps and The Monster Squad, both fan favourites, on his resume, is not a bad legacy to have at all.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"one of the best 80's horror films","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the greatest horror films from the 1980's. It's got a plot that pays homage to the 1950's b-movies, some funny intentional humor, and horror hero Tom Atkins spitting out classic one liners as a burnt out, suicidal cop! It's directed by Fred Dekker, the man responsible for the other 80's classic Monster Squad. Night of the Creeps is about an alien slug that possess humans and turns them into zombies who need blood to survive. The movie has a good soundtrack, decent special effects, and is totally tongue-in-cheek. Night of the Creeps is a gem of an 80's film that is finally getting the DVD release it deserves. Thrill me! "},{"Title":"Perfect campy 80s gorror","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Space slugs? Check. Zombies (with exploding heads)? Check. Axe murderers? Check. Zombie axe murderers? Check. Zombie cats and dogs? Check! Flamethrowers, shotguns, lawnmowers as weapons? Check, check, check! This is the quintessential 80s camp horror gore-fest flick. It's perfect in its own way, though it's not without its problems. The opening sequence showing the origin of the space slugs is, well, ridiculous, and actually totally unnecessary, especially in light of the 1959 prologue to the main story, which is in black-and-white, even though the opening scene with the space slug origin is in color. The director's cut of the end is also pretty unnecessary and only works when paired with the also unnecessary opening. But this is just nitpicking. The first half of the movie is painfully slow as the relationships between who end up being the main protagonists during the mass zombie invasion build, but this is all classic 80s fare. There are relatively few scares in the first half, which is really the biggest problem. Never mind the laughable dialogue, wooden acting, and gaping plot holes it's par for the course! When the second half of the movie gets under way, things really start cooking. There are more exploding zombie heads than you can keep track of, and there are some really classic moments. The gore effects are perfect for this genre of film and there are some really classic one- liners (example Detective Cameron I've got good news and bad news. Good news is... your dates are here. Sorority girl What's the bad news? Cameron ...They're dead.). This campy classic combines elements of zombie invasion, the alien experiment, teen scream/prom date horror, college slasher, and more to craft a perfectly terrible classic. Even though a lot of this film sucks in terms of true cinematic appraisal, it's perfect if you're a fan of cult horror and campy gore from the golden days of American horror. "},{"Title":"Creeps Will Thrill You","Date":"29 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Night of the Creeps, the much beloved debut of director Fred Dekker, is a gleeful mix of comedy and horror, with some zombies, aliens and colorful characters thrown in for good measure. Dekker crams his film with as many special effects as he does nods to his influences (fun drinking game take a drink each time a famous horror director is referenced) and turns in a film that is bold and brilliant and a perfect example of the nostalgic value of 1980's horror.The film opens with an alien making his escape to Earth in the 1950's with what turns out to be a deadly parasite. Fast-forward to the 1980's and we are introduced to two college freshmen (Jason Lively and Steve Marshall) who, in an attempt to win over the affection of a pretty co-ed (Jill Whitlow) are implicated in a fraternity prank that sets the parasite free once again. Hot on the case is hot-shot cop with a troubled past, Ray Cameron -- as played by genre hero Tom Atkins -- who is as quick with a gun as he is with his one-liners.While its campy sense of humor doesn't exactly sit well with the likes of the George Romero Dead films, Night of the Creeps is no doubt a genre classic, a b-movie that knows it's a b-movie and has a blast with it. As Dekker's first feature-film, it's surprisingly stylish and competent, well-written and full of fun and lovable characters. It's got the kind of heart and fun-loving spirit that is rarely found in the genre and is almost guaranteed to be an instant fan favorite. "},{"Title":"A blend of the creepy. A good creepy.","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" NIGHT OF THE CREEPS all but unnoticed, but for the strength of cable TV and movie rental outlets like Blockbuster...a mild cult following is born. Just about everything a horror freak could ask for besides ridiculous dialog. The movie starts out at a 1950's lover lane and UFO landing; before moving to a college setting in the mid 80's. The special effects are at the top end of low-budget. First time director Fred Dekker gives us alien monsters, an insane ax-swinging killer, leech-like cockroaches, zombies needing their heads blown off, intoxicated frat boys and the obligatory hot chicks and nudity. The dialog is filled with forgettable one-liners. Photography is actually pretty good.This little piece of fun features Steve Marshall, Jill Whitlow, Bruce Solomon, Allan Kayser, Jason Lively, June Harris, Wally Taylor and Ivan E. Roth. "},{"Title":"Underrated, Cult Classic from the 1980's.","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" On board a alien spaceship, an possessed alien releases an canister from the ship and crashes to earth in the late 1950's. A young college man takes his date to make-out at a parking spot looking at the stars. When he sees the thing crashes in the forest, thinking it's a falling star. He decides to check out it and while his girlfriend waits in the car. She hears on the radio that an escaped criminally insane mental patient is somewhere in their campus town. The man finds himself possessed by a Alien leech-like and his girlfriend got killed by the escapee. Nearly three decades later, Chris Romero is a shy young man (Jason Lively) and his supportive best friend J.C. (Steve Marshall) are trying to find a fraternity to accept them and Chris thinks he could win the love of a cute fraternity girl (Jill Whitlow) by joining the fraternity. Meeting one group (Lead by Allan Kayser), they want them to play a practical sick joke to release a dead body somewhere in the university medical center to bring the body to another frat house. Instead they find themselves in a top secret room in the university with a body frozen in suspended animation. They released it and quickly the supposedly dead person wakes up. Now a whole a lot of trouble in release in the campus, while this dead person is possessed with alien slugs and it could possessed any person in sight. The only person, who believe their unlikely story is an alcoholic detective (Tom Atkins) with a dark secret.Written and Directed by Fred Dekker (Robocop 3, The Monster Squad) made an amusing Science-Fiction/Horror movie with an refreshing sense of humour and plenty of in-jokes. Director Dekker certainly has an visual style to his film, it has well-written characters, it's often very funny, occasionally creepy and he certainly loves giving tributes to his favourite B-Movies. Barely released in 1986 with very little marketing. Although it has found an cult following on video and cable for many years. It got resurrected there and it has true loyal fans of the picture. Atkins is certainly gives the stand-out performance in this film.The Blu-ray has an good if sometimes grainy High-Defintion 1080p anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an fine digitally remastered DTS 5.1 Master Audio. The Blu-ray includes two commentaries track, one from the director and the cast members. Also an interesting one-hour documentary of the movie, interview with actorTom Atkins, Trivia Track and more. Night of the Creeps is certainly a very fun picture to watch and keeps the viewer entertained. Since it's the Director's Cut, the director included the original ending (Which it was seen only in Cable Versions). Which the original ending is certainly more satisfying. James Gunn's equally underrated Slither certainly wouldn't exist if this film wasn't made. Don't miss it. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"B-Movie Brilliance","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Seeing this again brought back memories. I loved cheesy horror when I was a kid. Back then I found this scary, seeing this and films like it again, shows them in a great comical light.The key core key characters are really placed. The geek that wants and gets the top girl, who is seeing of course the top footballer. The best is the Detective both with the bumbling cops and later emerging as the valiant hero I guess unintentionally costume detail, it was excellent, the whole look of the film does seem high detail. It is a pleasure to watch the picture as well as the acting.With a black and white start it really helps give the film an artistic edge.Enjoy "},{"Title":"Should win the award for Most Head Explosions in a movie, ever.","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's finally on DVD(or blu ray, but I didn't feel like paying the extra ten bucks) after 23 years! I had been waiting for this to finally come to DVD since I'd heard about it a few years ago. I haven't even been around 23 years, but I'm sure there sure people out there who had been waiting that long for it to get an official DVD release(or at least since they had heard about dvds.) Well, on to the actual review of the film. I really loved the script more than anything else. It had so much hilarious dialog and snappy comebacks! It had characters I could actually care for, too. (Spoilers Ahead!) I actually felt sad when that kid with the crutches got killed. The film is incredibly fast paced and has a lot of head exploding. Another highlight of the film is the scene in black & white. It was so well made, I felt like I was actually watching a 50's b movie. This is horror comedy that actually works as both horror and comedy, unlike so many other lame wannabe horror comedies. And man, there was A lot of head explosions. "},{"Title":"This movie thrilled me!","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Zombies usually make for a neat movie. Night of the Creeps, in my opinion, brought the genre to its apex. It all begins back in 1959, when two college students see something crash in the forest. When the boy goes to investigate, something from the crash jumps into his mouth, while someone or something murders the girl. Fast forward to 1986, when college friends Chris Romero (Jason Lively) and J.C. Hooper (Steve Marshall) are often bullied by the jocks. Then, they find the boy's body frozen in the laboratory, and they happen to unfreeze it. Needless to say, the body comes to life and starts wondering around killing people, building a zombie army.I saw Night of the Creeps in the summer of 2001, the same summer in which I saw The Monster Squad (also helmed by NOTC director Fred Dekker) and Killer Klowns from Outer Space. I then proudly went around saying that I had seen those three movies, but I had never seen Mary Poppins. I eventually saw the latter in November, 2004, and I only saw it to carry out my part of a deal I would watch Mary Poppins, while my college friend Taylor would watch Killer Klowns from Outer Space (as of the time when I am writing this, on 20 June 2005, Taylor has not yet carried out his part of the deal). Either way, that sure is a diverse bunch of movies! "},{"Title":"Zombie's and Slugs, what more do you want?","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just watched Night of the Creeps last night with a buddy of mine. It took a while to hunt this VHS tape down because for one, it is not available on DVD and two, it's no longer in print for VHS. Nonetheless, we were able to track it down at one of the local video stores in town. Upon arrival, we asked about renting it, the clerk simply told us that he'd be willing to sell the tape to us for $1.00. Yes, I couldn't believe it myself. Anyways, Night of the Creeps delivered in every way possible that a good 80's horror picture could. Sometime in the early 1950's an alien organism landed on earth. Once it came into contact with a humans, it'll immediately infect them. Also, this segment of the movie was cool because during the 50's portion, it was all shot in black and white footage. Some thirty plus years later,(specifically the 80's) the alien organism is contained in a frozen morgue. In an effort for a fraternity prank, a couple of nerds end up breaking into the morgue so that they can steal a corpse at random.. However, these two dweebs end up chickening out. They get as far as just unfreezing the zombie and essentially setting him free. And of course, these two knuckleheads have no idea as to the why this thing is frozen. Once these guys crap their pants, the zombie then starts to make an exit for himself. Detective Ray (Tom Atkins) Cameron is now assigned to this case. Apparently, he had an early meeting with this organism during his rookie years on the force. Once he arrives to the crime scene, he has some awesome quotations. Anyhow, it's up to Tom and a few of the college punks to stop this alien organism from spreading any further. And spreading the alien does, in some rather disgusting ways. Once you think that you killed the alien organism, it'll transform into a mutant slug. Again, this is really cool. Night of the Creeps has some real awesome special effects for it's time. This movie is a cross between a good sci/fi flick and a zombie movie. It totally delivers in a gruesome ways. Primarily it's a horror film, but there is plenty of humor to go along with it. I take my hat off to Tom Atkins for his acting capabilities. Tom was also great in the original Creepshow. Towards the end there are some cool ways that our protagonists try and put a stop to these zombies. The problem solving includes, but is not limited to shotguns, flame throwers, hair spray and gasoline. Bottom line, if you can, go ahead and rent this gem. You'll totally be pleased. I ended up giving it 9/10. My friend on the other hand, didn't seem to agree with me on this. He scored it 6/10, which I totally couldn't understand. However, his girlfriend ended up arriving approximately three quarters into the picture. She had some personal issues to which she didn't eat or something, and he wasn't able to devote his undivided attention towards the motion picture. If you are a fan of Night of the Living Dead, Night of the Demons, Slugs or Return of the Living Dead, you'll want to check this out for yourself. ENJOY!! "}{"Title":"Woefully under-appreciated '80s horror","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The '90s presented a slew of tongue-in-cheek, self-referential horror movies that owe everything to writer/director Fred Dekker and Night of the Creeps. Not only does this SEEM to be the first to capitalize on the name-homage (characters named Raimi, Carpenter, Cronenberg, etc.) but it also appears to be one of the early forerunners in the self-parody vein--I'd spout off a line or two but I don't want to spoil it for you...So...does it really deserve a 10 out of 10? Yes and no. The effects, while above average, still belong in a B-budget flick. The same can be said of the acting--great for a low-budget horror effort, so-so if held up against the likes of a Pachino or Brando. Ditto for story, dialog, etc, etc. Taken for what it is, you will be hard pressed to find a better effort-- especially from a first-time director. "},{"Title":"Better than I thought it would be","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Night of the Creeps' is a pretty enjoyable killer-monster movie from the 80's.**SPOILERS**Two slug-like aliens accidentally allow a container carrying mutant DNA to escape from their ship. The container lands on earth in 1957 near a college in Connecticut. It escapes into the night and inhabits one of the students. In 1986, two college nerds, J.C. (Steve Marshall) and his buddy Chris (Jason Lively) are awestruck over a woman, Cynthia (Jill Whitlow) on campus. They meet her at a party for one of the sorority parties, only to be stopped by their cowardliness. They decide the best way to get her to notice them is to pledge her fraternity, and are asked to perform a special task. The two sneak into the school's morgue to steal a body, but find the body frozen in a solid steel coffin and decide to unfreeze him. He comes back to life, and they run. Police Detective Cameron (Tom Atkins) is assigned the case of the missing corpse and realizes it's gone. The corpse finds it's way to a sorority house, where it releases thousands of miniature snails from inside its body. The next day, as the corpse is found, Cameron thinks the body is part of a pledge prank and brings in J.C. and Chris for questioning. Infected bodies with the slugs begin killing people, including the woman at Cynthia's sorority. J.C., Chris and Cynthia have to find out the truth about the slugs before more people are killed and how to stop them.The Good News The sarcastic-ness of many people in this film was a very nice touch. It was good to see situations where people were moronic and someone insults them to put them in their place. I feel that is a quality that is missing a lot, not only in today's world but also in movies and TV shows. The best example was Tom Atkins' character. He was such a sarcastic person that many of his lines to other police officers or to students made me crack up a lot. His first appearance in the cryonics lab to the other officers is an absolute classic that includes several different rants. The gore in this movie should also be commended. There are the usual bodily mutilations, but we also see different stages of after-effects to the gore. We see what happens when the creatures have finished with their kill and the mess that it has made. In addition, we also get to see some very well done human heads exploding and several bodies that have been decayed and rotting moving around. The suspense is also much higher than I thought there would be for a movie like this. Once all the creatures come out of the woodwork, there are jumps piled up on top of jumps in tons of great scenes. Three come right in a row after they are trapped inside the tool-shed. That whole scene was really creepy and it has become one of my favorite scenes in the film. The ending is also a very entertaining part of the film. With an ending that includes zombies, gore, surprises, and tons of suspense and shocks, it has become my favorite part. This film may surprise you because you it is better than what the reviews about this film say about it. It is very entertaining and it has a couple of interesting turns you wouldn't expect the movie to go.The Bad News The opening of the film, which was filmed in black & white, was a total irritation. It never really made the film scarier, except for one scene with the high suspense. It was nice and fresh approach to film the scene like that, but I felt it never served the film much importance. The slugs were a little too obviously fake, as they really did look like they were small puppets being pulled around on strings, but at least the strings were hard to see on film. I never did see them.The Final Verdict A very overlooked and entertaining movie that has become one of my personal favorite movies. It may contain some cheesy moments, but it becomes an entertaining film over time. I recommend it to those looking for a hidden gem or to those who want to see something new from their killer monster movies.Rated R Graphic Violence, Adult Language, Nudity, and the after effects of violence towards animals "},{"Title":"A rarity--a horror comedy that is funny AND scary!","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It all starts out with a beautiful black & white prologue at Corman (nudge nudge) University in 1959. Some creeps (disgusting little things) come to Earth and attack a young man (they get in through your mouth, turn you into a zombie and plant other creepers that shot out of the mouth to infect people). He is caught and frozen solid and (for some reason) kept at the university. Then, in 1986, two friends Chris Romero (nudge, nudge)(Jason Lively) and J.C. (Steve Marshall) unwittingly revive him. He wakes up and attacks the university. Soon, it's overrun by the things--it's up Chris, J.C., Cynthia Cronenberg (nudge nudge) and Detective Cameron (nudge nudge) to battle them.As you can see this movie doesn't take itself seriously for one moment. Heck, there's even a cameo from Dick Miller! And it IS very funny (especially some of J.C.'s lines). But it doesn't shy away from blood and gore--there's PLENTY of that. And it is creepy (sorry) more than once. They even break one of the rules of horror films--POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD--a sympathetic character (I won't say who) dies and it's actually one of the film's more unpleasant moments (you don't see it but you HEAR it). As 83 minutes it doesn't overstay it's welcome and ends with an all out massacre (I'm REALLY surprised--and pleased--that this got an R rating). There are some gaps in the plot (things happen way too quickly and characters just automatically correctly guess what's going on) but this is a small quibble.I saw this back on video in 1986 after Fangoria magazine raved about it. I loved it--then it disappeared. I never even saw it again until today! Here's another great movie awaiting rediscovery. From what I heard Sony owns the rights--hopefully we'll see the DVD someday.A fun, scary, gory movie. A 10 all the way! The good news is that your dates are here. The bad news is they're dead! "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Taking virtually something or another from every horror movie ever produced, this lively homage makes once tired cliches seem fresh and alive again. This time around a college campus falls prey to an alien parasite that is accidently unleashed as the result of a frat initiation gone wrong. This film's sense of humor is sharp and the scares are plenty. The effects are outstanding and the finale at the sorority house is one of the most memorable from an 80's horror film.Rated R; Nudity, Violence, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Night of the Creeps (1986)","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alien parasites take over the minds of humans to kill and cause havoc. The kind of film I'd usually love and want to marry. Unfortunately, I saw Slither first. That film was funnier and grosser. Night of the Creeps certainly has a lot of nice ingredients, with aliens, exploding heads and little slugs, but when it's all combined it lacks any sort memorable punch. The FX still hold up, with the zombie head explosions looking real. In its defence, it plays out mostly tongue in cheek. The ending picks up on the action front, and I felt that was something necessary to keep my attention. An enjoyable, if fairly uninteresting oddity. "},{"Title":"Creepy crawlies.","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Two teenagers named Chris Romero and James Carpenter Hooper discover an alien invasion.The invaders from outer space are slugs that enter the human body through the mouth and incubate the brain.The victims of cosmic parasites becomes zombies.A group of drunken jocks becomes living dead after lethal bus accident.Night of the Creeps by Fred Dekker mixes Plan 9 From Outer Space with Night of the Living Dead.The main characters are named after horror directors,the pacing is brisk and the makeup effects are solid.There is a zombie with a skull face and most of his skin ripped off and plenty of gore.If you enjoy screaming like banshees Night of the Creeps is a must-see.8 slugs out of 10. "},{"Title":"Alien slugs + Cheesy Acting + Bewbs = Fun Flick","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This flick and Night of the Comet I always get mixed up with. Hell, even sometimes I get confused with this and Night of the Lepus. Well, I finally can end those mix-ups, because thanks to Comcast OnDemand (where's my check?) I got my hands on Night of the Creeps.Story revolves around a couple of high-hoping geeks who accidentally unleash an alien experiment/zombie epidemic on their unsuspecting college town.Pretty cool plot, and a pretty cool flick as well. The movie has a good attitude throughout and maintains a fun vibe as to boot. The acting by everyone is pretty good and we even get a couple roles of over-the-top cheese (Detective and smarmy Beta douche) which is always good. We also have some fun special effects and even some shots of some bewbs.Overall, it was a good flick, occasionally brought down by some boring parts, and couple characters you don't care about. Nevertheless, it was still fun and should be watched by any fan of 80s horror. "},{"Title":"Night of the Creeps","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Thrill me.Events that occur in 1959 come back to haunt a campus of college kids, in 1986, when a cryogenically frozen body with alien crawlies inside his brain is accidentally released by pals, Chris(Jason Lively)and JC(Steve Marshall)trying to fulfill a fraternity prank. An escaped lunatic/ax murder in 1959, killed by young cop Ray Cameron, will haunt him years later as he has progressed into a much older, bitter, alcoholic Detective(Tom Atkins, in one of the signature roles of his career) called on the case to solve the mysterious deaths of open faced corpses which explode the alien leeches after their incubation cycles have completed. Once these alien crawlies enter into the mouths of their hosts, the human ceases to live, only becoming a host for the leeches to grow within the their brains. It's love-at-first-sight for Chris who falls head-over-heels for Cynthia(Jill Whitlow), quite a virginal cutie, currently dating the head honcho of the most renowned fraternity, Brad(Allan Kayser). Brad, of course, is a real jerk who never planned to allow Chris and JC to join their fraternity anyway. Soon the campus and neighboring town will be crawling with these alien leeches and zombies will be on the horizon, specifically after a serious wreck leaves many dead. And, a certain ax-wielding corpse will rise from his burial spot to strike again.The young leads of Lively, Marshall & Whitlow are likable, but this is certainly Atkins' show. He has the best lines and delivers his performance with gusto. Obvious homage to 50's sci-fi horror and zombie flicks, this is derivative because of the the themes represented..but this film emulates those past flicks lovingly. Dick Miller has a very amusing cameo as Walt, the man who operated the weapon exchange for the police department. I'd lie if I didn't admit that this film is special to me, like many other fans, for nostalgic purposes..you know the 80's sensibilities and the way it spoofs past influences. This deserves an appropriate DVD release..it does have quite a fervent following. "},{"Title":"Fun low budget cult horror/Sci-fi comedy gem!","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From outer space, there's a deadly alien experiment involving slug-like creatures and one of the aliens takes it then sends it to Earth in 1959 where the creatures infects a college student and gets frozen. Years later to 1986, a couple of guys named J.C. and Chris ( Steve Marshall and Jason Lively) want to join a fraternity as they must do a task of bringing the frozen dead body and place it in front of the house of a rival fraternity. As the two guys do the job of finding the body then unfreezing it, the body comes to life as it unleashes the deadly alien slugs out of it's skull and they start to find some fresh bodies only to incubate their eggs in their heads. The local police detective ( Tom Atkins) is baffled by these mysterious killings and dead bodies with busted heads showing some places and joins with Chris on destroying these monsters before they infect the whole university.A well made and well written horror/Sci-fi comedy with humor, exploding heads, creepy crawlies from outer space, a little splatter, and zombies what more can you want? the acting is kind of decent and B-movie fanatics will recognize Dick Miller from Gremlins and Pirahna but the make-up and zombie effects are good for it's time.I just wish Sony would release this on DVD in a special edition with extras and the alternate ending shown n TV, if you can find this movie then you'll have yourself a good time.Also recommended Slugs,  Re-Animator, Lifeforce, Slither,  The Deadly Spawn ( a.k.a. Return of the Aliens The Deadly Spawn),  Doom,  The Return of the Living Dead Trilogy,  Night of the Living Dead ( 1968 and 1990),  Day of the Dead, Dawn of the Dead ( 2004), An American Werewolf In London, Terrorvision,  Bride of Re-Animator, From Beyond,  From Dusk Till Dawn,  The Toxic Avenger, Hell of the Living Dead ( a.k.a. Night of the Zombies, Zombie Creeping Flesh),  Dead Alive ( a.k.a. Braindead),  Nightmare City ( a.k.a. City of the Walking Dead),  Squirm,  The Thing ( 1982),  Killer Klowns from Outer Space, Critters 1 & 2, Eight Legged Freaks, Shivers, Xtro,  Evil Dead II. "},{"Title":"Good News And Bad News,The Good News IS The Boys Are Here,The Bad News Is They're Dead.","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie almost scared the s**t out of me,it was a great Night of the Dead movie.This is kind of a similar remake of Slither because the slugs go into your brains.And in Slither the people could talk,but in Night of the Creeps they just try-ed to get people to open their mouth to put the slugs in there.When I saw this I know I had to buy this movie and you should to,and seeing it over and oner will never get old.I also liked when it started when little pink aliens was trying to stop another alien sending it to earth,great beginning.I loved the part when all the guys want to get their girlfriends the car crashed because of a dog and got the slugs inside him.So later all the men was with slugs inside their brains controlling them.And lovely that the end showed the dog alive a got the slugs on the main girl,there is got to be a sequel to this movie and I will find it.It was just a great movie to see. "}{"Title":"A masterpiece in comedy/horror!","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I absolutely love this film! it is truly awesome & makes me long for the days when horror films were really horror films & not a glossy over budgeted Hollywood CGI horror movie filled with WB actors. This film was really entertaining & had great characters, good acting great special effects as well as a few laughs. TOM ATKINS was funny & very interesting as a cop who must help a college kid & his crush fight off a series of zombies that were once friends of theirs, until they all fell prey to slimy alien slug like creatures who hatched eggs in their brain & took complete control of them. The slug creatures accidentally fell to earth several years prior & once freed, they got inside a college kid whom is accidentally unthawed by the main hero & his buddy when they were trying to get into a group that wanted them to steal the body as part of an initiation. A fun film all the way & one that all horror fans should see. One things for sure, they definitely don't make them like this any more!**** (stars) "},{"Title":"So ahead of it's time it's scary....","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  80's horror movies have this weird feeling to them. I can't quite put a finger on it, but a majority of them almost seem clueless to just how bad they are. I don't know what passed for scary or shocking then, but as they stand today, many are just sad and silly.Night of the Creeps is not one of those many. It's a hilarious send up of all those terrible movies that we can now look back on and laugh at.Hitting theaters smack dab in the middle of this 80's horror craze(Friday the 13th IV came out just weeks before Creeps did, and a plethora of horror movies were quite successful the same year), it almost seems as though the general public just didn't get it back then.I don't know how wide Creeps opened when it hit theaters in late August of 1986, but it's gross of only $591,366 in the theatrical run leads me to believe it was either thrown on the backburner and quickly yanked, or that no one went to it. Whether it was one or the other, it's a pure shame this one wasn't originally successful. Thank goodness for VHS!The goodness of this movie is that it's AWARE it's a bad 80's horror movie. Numberous lines bring chuckles as these characters are VERY aware they're in a movie. What Scream made millions on so many years later, Creeps had as well A genuine wit and sense of humor about itself. Yes, this was a much more subtle film than Scream in that regard, but it makes it that much better.I beg of you to see this movie. It's just great entertainment. You don't need a plot synopsis or an overview of the acting jobs. All you need to know is this is most definately the BEST horror film of the 80's (even though it's really a comedy). It's on my top 10 list of 80's movies in general as well.On a side note, the director of this film (Fred Dekkler) also made another classicly under appriciated movie called Monster Squad, another 80's classic.Conclusion 10/10 A classic treat for all who are lucky enough to see it. "},{"Title":"Rusty Griswold vs the Undead.","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many successful Hollywood names have used horror as a springboard to launch their careers, but for director Fred Dekker and his cast, the opposite seems to have happened after Night of the Creeps, an affectionate homage to the schlock B-movie sci-fi/horrors of the 50s, Dekker had one other hit (with kiddie flick Monster Squad) before crashing and burning with Robocop 3; roles for stars Jason Lively, Jill Whitlow, Steve Marshall, and Allan Kayser dried up soon after (only grizzled tough guy Tom Atkins, who unsurprisingly plays a grizzled tough guy cop, has gone on to have a long film career, but then he is one of the coolest character actors in the biz).The lack of success for nearly all involved is a real shame, because based on the strength of this fun flick, they all deserved to go onto much bigger and better things (I know I'd liked to have seen much more of Whitlow, who is a total babe).Beginning with a nifty prologue, which sees an alien experiment crash land on Earth and unleash its cargo of parasitic creatures, and ending with an all-out zombie attack on a sorority house full of teens, Dekker's script is a delightfully daft but endearing slice of intentionally cheesy B-movie fun. Lively and Marshall play college nerds Chris and J.C., who attempt to steal a dead body from a cryogenic research facility as part of a frat prank; the only problem is, the body they try to make off with is host to alien slugs that enter live humans and transform them into flesh-eating ghouls.After best bud J.C. falls victim to the brain burrowing critters, Chris sets out to rid the planet of the alien pests, aided by beautiful student Cynthia (Whitlow) and cop-with-a-tragic-history Ray Cameron (Atkins).Considering that this is his debut as director, Dekker shows great confidence and flair behind the camera, and gets solid performances from his cast, all of whom have just the right amount of tongue in their cheeks. Working from his own script (that clearly displays both his love and understanding of the genre), Dekker pays tribute to everything from 50s sci-fi, Romero's 'Dead' movies, and teen comedies, and even has time to throw in an axe-wielding psycho and a cameo from genre great Dick Miller for good measure.Occasionally, the lack of a big budget is evident, particularly when it comes to the effects, which vary wildly in quality, and the cheese is perhaps laid on a little too thick at times&#x97;naming characters after famous horror directors ain't THAT clever, and Atkins' catchphrase ('thrill me') quickly gets tiresome&#x97;but for the most part, it all works very well, and the result is a witty, memorable, inventive, and thoroughly enjoyable time-waster. "},{"Title":"Fred Dekker's Best Work","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not one who's really into zombie flicks because some are just either over the top or just plain annoying. Why? Because no one can ever kill them! However, Night of the Creeps (1986) is one of those zombie movies that stand out from all the others. I went into this movie not expecting anything for a couple reasons I didn't know any of the actors, I had no idea what the plot involved and because I was bored one night and had nothing else better to do than to watch this film. My whole perspective was changed when the film had ended. Nothing beats this film when it comes to lovable characters and very unique special effects.There are four main characters to this film. Jason Lively and Steve Marshall star as two college students, Chris Romero and J.C. Hooper, who are only trying to fit in with their surroundings. Marshall's character, J.C., has polio but makes up for it by having a witty personality. Lively's character, Chris, has no disabilities but is very shy and timid when it comes to doing anything that's beyond his comfort zone. Playing Chris' love interest, Cynthia, is played by the college hot pocket, Jill Whitlow. Whitlow plays her role really well and although her character is not supposed to be seductive, if you watch her eyes they can mesmerize any male viewer in the audience (at least I think). Last but not least is Ray Cameron played by Tom Atkins for which the story line is based upon. His background will be explained in the beginning of the film and then will be brought up again later to fill in some questions the audience might have. Most zombie movies are not supposed to be funny but they can sound like they are intended to be. This film though, is supposed to be funny. Much of the dialog will make the audience giggle and chuckle. Much of the comedic parts are between different characters not just a specific one (though most come from J.C.). Now I'm not saying it's a comedy. It still has plenty of horror on screen for all you horror fans. The music for this movie was composed by Barry DeVorzon. DeVorzon does a great job in changing from scene to scene. The science-fiction part has an eerie feel to it. When the camera's focused on more of the human qualities, for example when Cynthia asks Chris to a formal (which is one of my favorite scenes), the tone of the music is sweet and innocent. What I like the most about this film is the science-fiction/horror aspect. In the beginning of this film the audience is introduced to an alien who's trying to get rid of something that we don't know of at first. Just the aliens themselves are cool to watch. They look like the Ewoks from Star Wars Episode VI Return of the Jedi (1983) without the fur. Once the movie gets going, the audience gets to witness the alien slugs (if that's what they are). I love the way they move, and I love sounds that they make when they're scuttling on the ground; it gives them a very icky, sticky, slimy feel. I also love the part of the film that builds up to the climax. I can't say much here but I think being paired up with your girlfriend/boyfriend with a shotgun/flame-thrower, fighting off zombies together is the sexiest date! Props to Fred Dekker for this funny horror fest!Considered to be director Fred Dekker's best work, Night of the Creeps has an attractive appeal that will not only deliver chuckles but also the creeps (as stated in the title). The actors work great together and the special effects are really something to admire. "},{"Title":"A gem from the 1980's","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Night of the creeps is one of the most entertaining B movies from the 80's. This movie combines elements from alien, zombie and slasher films, and the result is a funny, scary, movie. It is too bad this did not do better when it was released theatrically back in 1986. However, it has found new life on DVD released in 2009 for the very first time. Fred Dekker, the director of this movie has mentioned the possibility of a sequel. Hopefully, a sequel is still possible after all these years. This movie has created a lot of fans over the years for its uniqueness. At a time when slasher films dominated theaters. when jason, michael, and freddy had a new movie every year, there was a great movie that no one seem to pay attention to. That movie is called night of the Creeps "},{"Title":"For a cult movie of the 80's I expected more","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, people remember this movie as one of the great of the 80's, a movie that represents horror movies in that period. Well, maybe it does, but I didn't like it. Asshole characters, every one of them, trying to act cool before an infestation of alien creatures. There were a lot of things that could have been done better. One of them was the convergence of slasher horror (the mad axe murderer) and the alien monster horror. It didn't really happen. Also, it had a lot of fun scenes, clearly meant to ironize some of the previous productions, but it just fell on deaf ears if the end was just a recipe monster flamethrower ending.Bottom line I want more and I be damn if I am not going to get it! (Leaving home packing axe and alien larvae) "},{"Title":"sinister little critters","Date":"6 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This starts out brilliantly with a 50s flashback sequence and is also very good when we flash back later in the film to see what happened next. The film is well written with the emphasis on comedy. There is not much blood and gore and only flashes of nudity so it's the comedic theme that dominates. In some ways this is a shame because the idea of these alien slugs that derive from some meteorite and dive off to multiply in brains is a good one. Fortunately more recently someone else thought so and created, Slither, which really runs with the idea and makes a much more gut wrenching business of it. Anyway there is some of the sinister little critters here and much to enjoy and laugh along with. "},{"Title":"so much fun","Date":"7 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Night of the creeps Directed by Fred DekkerI remember opening a newspaper in 1987 and seeing the ad for Night of the Creeps playing in one of our local theaters. I never got around to see it on the big screen then, but i picked it up on VHS a couple of months later. And i have to say, it is such a funny scary movie. It plays with all the clichés of the genre, and it works so well.This movie was made in the 80ies, and of course it shows. But thats what makes it great. A couple of years ago it played for one evening at the film-museum in Amsterdam, and i finally got to see it on the big screen.The DVD is coming out soon. As a fan, i can't wait! "},{"Title":"Definite 1980's horror comedy that delivers","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This past week I had the privilege of watching Night of the Creeps free on demand. The summary that was most likely done by an unpaid intern included Kind of like those 1980's teen romantic comedies but instead of Molly Ringwald it contains cryogenically frozen zombies. Needless to say, this caught my attention, and I was expecting a mix of My Boyfriend's Back, and Night of the Living Dead. Though it didn't pan out quite like that, Night of the Creeps was an effective, B movie that really wasn't a waste of time, but not pure cinematic gold either.As you can most likely read synopsis, I will spare the details of rehashing the plot.First and foremost the movie contains several positive features that help to elevate it above being mediocre. The movie flows between two time periods that flesh out a much more layered story than originally planned. I was impressed at the directors choice to take a story above zombies and weave in a tapestry of side stories that interconnect. Also the special effects were decent at providing gore hounds with what they want. Blood, guts,and gunshots were all really well done.Unfortunately the movie did suffer. It seems as if the director didn't know what he wanted his zombies to do. Some acted in unique ways, and others didn't. Then the final onslaught, the zombies were much more menacing than before. Also the pacing seemed off at times. Originally it moves lighting fast, and I was surprised that an hour flew by with little to no effort. Afterwards the last twenty minutes seemed to drag on for too long.In the end, Night of the Creeps was a fun romp. The comedy, clearly 80's style, and mix of horror was well worth a look. If you have the chance to check this title out, please do so. There is no DVD, and nobody knows if one will ever be released. This title is definitely better than some of the other fare that is currently being released today.So if you get the chance, sit back, grab a beer, and say Thrill me!. "},{"Title":"That's just awesome","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just can't really hate a movie that has snails shooting out of someone's head. It's not as cool as Scanners maybe, but they're still snails shooting out of someone's head. That's something. This movie doesn't really get on the rails until the second half, but the second half has snails shooting out of someone's head. Like a lot of times. It's just a really cool cheap effect. The handling of the plot is really quite standard, whatever evil there roams comes to the surface piece by piece until you have this big showdown, where more cool stuff happens. You can't really go wrong when you have a flamethrower in your movie. A flamethrower is a very underused plot device. The action scenes are pretty good(though not high in number), mainly because of the people who play the zombies. I wouldn't think playing a zombie is that difficult, but these guys must be doing something better than the rest. It's low-budget 80's sci-fi horror, so it's probably better than what I gave it credit for. "}{"Title":"What I'm going to need is your standard flame thrower.","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not your normal zombie movie. The original zombie was infected by something from outer space and then cryogenicly frozen for 27 years until two dorks (Jason Lively and Steve Marshall) release him in an effort to impress a girl (Jill Whitlow).It also appears that an escaped ax murderer disappeared about the same time 27 years ago.Now, there are people showing up without heads while some slug-looking creature run around.Things get really out of control until a detective decides to flame out with the creatures. But you know that one will always survive.A brief skintastic moment from Jill Whitlow and two girls in the shower. Pretty lame for a sorority house getting ready for a big dance. "},{"Title":"One of the best Sci-fi/Horror/Comedies ever made","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The plot of this great film consists of the classic b-movie alien invasion plot with a zombie movie mixed in. This idea is genius and you put in strong characters and witty dialogue, you are getting one of the best films you have never seen. Jill Whitlow is a great female character who can be hot and be able to hold her own instead of just be in the background. Good special effects (no CGI as it's 1986 and it was not used often like it is now) top off the experience. You could see this film as a tribute to classic b-movies and that's basically what it is. For fans of sci-fi and horror, this is a real treat and if you are lucky to find a copy, you will not be sorry as this is pretty much the holy grail of movies due to its rarity (It was only released once under the HBO/Cannon label and is difficult to find), but if you see it on television or you are lucky enough to find the VHS, you will be in for a fun movie.10/10 R - Strong Violence, Language, Brief Nudity "},{"Title":"The Original Slither","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is probably, in my view, one of the best zombie/alien movie that I have ever seen and Tom Atkins would agree with me. This movie tells of an alien slug species the invade a small town back in the 50's, and a pair of geeky college friends accidentally release the original host of the life-forms after a fraternity prank went bad. What I enjoyed so much about his movie are three things the acting, the excellent editing and the creature features, all of which made this move so memorable. EDITING Like the movie 2001 A Space Odyssey, this movie effectively transitions from the 1950s to the present day 1980's using a careful edit. The killer is about to kill the young woman when as soon as he brings the axe down it's the year 1986. It's this kind of technique that I love to see in horror movies, the concept of contrasting images that horror movie lack. If you pay attention to some of the action sequences, the two different shots match up perfectly so it doesn't look like they are two different shots, they are practically seamless. It was an overall great use of juxtaposition. ACTING What I want to point out is that this movie, character wise, is a huge tribute to all the great horror directors just like Evil Ed is to Evil Dead. The character list is as follows Christopher Romero, James Carpenter Hooper, Cynthia Cronenberg, Det. Ray Cameron, Det. Landis and Sgt. Raimi. There were great performances by Jason Lively (Romero), Jill Witlow (Cronenberg), Tom Atkins (Cameron) and Steve Marshall (Hooper). There were even great performances by supporting actors like Vic Polizos and Dave Alan Johnson. It's these kinds of formulas that I love to see in horror movies, a great character tribute with great performances by the cast. CREATURE FEATURES As far as the special effects go in this movie, they were not all that bad, and for that time they were pretty decent. You can tell that the zombies that are about to be decapitated are pre-cut heads and the blood looks pretty fake, and the zombie cats and slugs look too much like puppets, but it's these things that make the creature features all the more recognizable. The gore was pretty good and some of the decapitations and head blowings were pretty cool and there was a reasonable amount of blood and flaming zombie drones. It's easy to see where James Gunn got his idea for Slither; only in this movie it jumps from the 1950s to present day. It can even be inferred that the 50s portion of the movie is a tribute to the cheesy 50s b-grade horror movies the probably inspired the director. I would recommend this movie to anybody who loves horror movies, especially those who love either zombie flicks or alien farces. As for me, it would probably be one of my favorite horror / sci-fi's that I have seen. "},{"Title":"Slugs, Zombies, Sorority Chicks!","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I found this movie to be very entertaining for the most part. The tone of the movie is set right from the beginning. Seeing mutant teletubbies running around, shooting at each other was absolutely ridiculous. And that is what this movie is...ridiculous. But that is what makes this film entertaining. The movie never intended to be a seriously scary movie. That is why I gave it higher marks then it probably deserves.The movie starts off slow, but, hang in there because, towards the end it does pick up. The basic plot of the movie is that some type of alien slug falls to the earth and when they enter the mouth of a living being (ie humans, dogs, cats) they turn those beings in to zombies. These slugs infiltrate a college campus and turn some people into zombies.Tom Atkins' performance is the one I found most entertaining. He plays the strong detective who is intoxicated and trigger happy. In contrast, Jason Lively plays 'Chris', a shy nerd who would love to get laid some time in his life but doesn't have a clue where to begin. His character, like his name, persona, and charisma, just wreaks of weakness. I found his character rather annoying along with his sidekick.Overall, the movie is funny, over-the-top, 80's horror. I give it 6.75 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Die, Frat Boy, Die","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fun, over-the-top '80s cheese.Easily one of the best B movies ever made, and it proudly attempts to achieve that status. Starting off with an alien sequence that's so goofy it's enjoyable, and ending with a massacre that involves blowing off the heads of frat boys' with a shotgun, this is one cool movie. Marvel at all the in-references to horror directors littered throughout the movie.If you're looking for serious, thought-provoking horror...go look somewhere else. This is one stupidly awesome time. And it's obviously proud of that fact. Fred Dekker's the man. "},{"Title":"This Movie Gave Me The Creeps!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  1986 was a pretty good year for horror films. There were stellar, undeniable classic releases like ALIENS and The Fly. Gore soaked goodies such as From Beyond and Demons.  And then there was a severely underrated gem called Night of the Creeps.A skin crawling tale about parasitic alien slugs accidentally unleashed from a cryogenic state of suspended animation, wrecking havoc on a college campus by way of invading the student bodies bodies through the mouth, effectively turning them into kill-happy zombies. The infesting parasites incubate in the brain long enough to spawn another generation.  When the alien slugs are born, the host's top pops!This is a endearing homage to everything from 50's B-movies, George Andrew Romero's zombies, silly teen/early twentysomething movies, slasher flicks and much more, wonderfully directed by Fred Dekker.If you enjoy watching college frat boy wannabes screaming like banshees, a cool, catch phrase spewing detective settle old vendettas with an ax wielding reanimated corpse, gratuitous scenes of slugs violently and graphically erupting from peoples heads, and a little T&A to arouse your eyes...well this movie's for you. I know it's certainly for me.  I've seen it so many times(lost the exact count)and it never losses it's appeal. The biggest draw in this movie is unquestionably venerable character actor Tom Atkins performance of a lifetime as Detective Cameron.  Trust me you will hang on every word Atkins utters.If you have not yet viewed this cult fave stop for a moment and give this one the chance to creep up on 'ya! "},{"Title":"Get away from me, creep!","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was enthusiastic about seeing this movie once I saw director Fred Dekkar's name in the credits being that I absolutely loved The Monster Squad, and will continue to, no matter how old I get.But, I don't really see why Night of the Creeps is so wonderful, or why it has the cult following it does. Maybe because it is another horror movie about teenagers. For me, it was just another B-horror movie.On a college campus somewhere, brainless sorority girls and obnoxious frat boys are haunted by the living dead all thanks to a college prank gone wrong. The zombies are powered by these large parasitic leeches called Creeps that are always searching for new hosts with which to incubate and make more little Creeps. A young kid (Jason Lively) teams up with a washed up detective to figure out how what's causing all the murders around town and how to put an end to the madness. It seems like just another zombie slasher movie to me, a ground pretty much covered in full by the Romero films, or an alien encounter movie, pretty much covered by a wide selection of 80s alien movies.  "},{"Title":"Extremely enjoyable horror film","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen this film a number of times over the years and I have told many people that this is an underrated movie. Of all the low budget horror films made in the 80's this was always one of my favorites. Story starts in an alien spaceship and one of the aliens has a container of experimental mutant slugs and he's being chased. He gets cornered and ejects the container out into outer space. It's 1959 on Earth and the police are searching for an escaped homicidal maniac and when two kids are necking they spot something fall out of the sky and they go and see what it is. The boy finds the container and a slug escapes and enters his mouth where it incubates. Meanwhile, the maniac comes across the girl in the car and he axes her to death. Fast forward to 1986 and we find Chris (Jason Lively) on a college campus and he's in love with Cynthia (Jill Whitlow) but is to shy to talk to her. Chris and his friend J.C. (Steve Marshall) try and join a fraternity and are told to steal a cadaver and bring it back. They sneak into a lab and find a body in a cryogenic chamber so they open it and get the body out but when they think it moves they get scared and run out. The body has the mutant slugs in it and they all get out and crawl off. Detective Ray Cameron (Tom Atkins) is called in and he gets suspicious of the whole thing. Ray is haunted by the death of his high school sweetheart who was killed by the maniac and when he was a rookie cop in 1959 he tracked the maniac down and killed him and buried the body. The slugs slither about Corman University and invade any body that they come across living or dead. The slugs find the maniac's body underground and the corpse comes to life. When Ray witness's what has happened to the corpse he starts to figure out what is going on. After a bus crashes all the bodies on board get invaded by slugs and they start heading to the girls dormitory so Ray and Chris race to get there in time to try and stop them. This film is directed by Fred Dekker and it's easy to see that he is a lover of horror films. There is all sorts of references to horror filmmakers and the names of the characters are all from directors. Lively's name is Chris Carpenter Hooper, Marshall's is J.C. Romero, Whitlow's is Cynthia Cronenberg and Atkins is Ray Cameron. Two of the other detectives are named Landis and Raimi and the university is called Corman. One of the main reasons I have always enjoyed this film was the performance of Atkins. It's top notch! Even in a silly low budget effort like this he gives a terrific performance. There are scenes where he is on the brink of tears and he really creates an indelible character for this film. He spouts Thrill Me!! Or other catch phrases like It's Miller time. He wears this long coat and drives a very old car and even calls two of the kids Spanky and Alfalfa. My favorite scene comes near the end when he's trying to get his gun while wrestling with a body and when he spots a photo on the wall of his dead girlfriend from 1959 he stands up and screams while shooting at the walking dead. For you trivia buffs out there look for David Paymer as a lab assistant and the great Dick Miller as a cop.  Silly story and a very clumsy romance between Lively and Whitlow have made many viewers dismiss this as just another bad horror film buts it's not. I think it definitely crosses the line over into cult status and it's just a lot of fun to watch. Atkins performance brings this film up a level or two and I hope future viewers give it a chance.  "},{"Title":"Creepy Crawlers On Sorority Row","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A fast-paced horror film that has many moments of slim and blood entertainment. Action from little leeches moving at warp speed. Quickwitted dialog from Detective Ray Cameron as played by Tom Atkins makes this feature a well worth the time to watch. Detective Ray has so many memorable lines corpses that have been dead for 27 years don't just get up and go for a walk girls I have good and bad news for you, the good news is that your dates are here, the bad, your dates are dead and probably the best what is this? A homicide or a bad B movie? It was the type of dialog that made the TV version of Buffy, the Vampire Slayer so enjoyable in the early years. Maybe Creeps has a B movie feel at times but truly this one is one creepy classic.  "},{"Title":"Thrill Me....","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the best 80's horror movies around, with just the right touch of humor. Back in the 50's, a teenager stumbles upon a tube. He soon finds out (unfortunately) that the tube contains alien slugs, that jump down people's throats and turn them into creepy zombies. Years later (The 80's in fact), 2 wannabe pledges stumble upon the 50's teen that is now in a lab and in a glass case. Accidentally releasing him, the slugs escape, and cause havoc around the campus. Detective Ray Cameron (Tom Atkins) is on the case (And is linked to the events of what happened in the 50's) and tries to stop the slugs from killing more people. Atkins is wonderfully funny and has some of the best lines (Especially the Good News/Bad News scene). The creatures, which look a lot like speedy slugs, ARE creepy. If possible, get a copy of this film and add it to your collection. You won't be sorry! "}{"Title":"One of My favorite Zombie Films","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Night of the Creeps is my favorite zombie flicks. Fred Dekker, who also did THE MONSTER SQUAD, really delivers the thrills and laughs. Tom Atkins is great as Detective Cameron, and the rest of the cast is good. The TV version has the director's preferred ending, which is much better than the home video ending. Alien slugs turn obnoxious frat boys into zombies, who could ask for more? "},{"Title":"Everything thrown in, some of it to good effect","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've got good news and bad news for you, girls What's the good news? Your dates have arrived. What's the bad news? They're dead.How one responds to Night of the Creeps really depends on your patience with good (and bad) in-jokes and knowing B-movie references. This is a film into whose low budget pot the makers have obviously thrown everything, with elements introduced from slasher films, Re-Animator, Cronenberg's oeuvre, Star Wars, hard boiled noir (thrill me says the morose detective), Night of the Living Dead, and anything else they enjoy (some of the characters have even the same surnames as horror directors). In some films this can easily be lazy; on this occasion the intention was clearly a cheerful, ironic homage rather than plagarism and therefore one forgives many weaknesses. One of the pleasures of this film is that an unaffected enjoyment of genre film (particularly the horror genre) is transmitted so effectively. The result is a completely ridiculous dramatic structure but, providing you can accept the scattergun technique employed, it all still provides fun. In it's post-modern 'knowingness' it was certainly in advance of the times, although the innocent pleasures of Night of The Creeps is miles away from the cynicism of much modern product. "},{"Title":"OK horror film.","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was an OK film.  Granted, they could have done better with it here and there, but the acting was good, the death scenes were good (at times), and the one-liners by Tom Atkins were the BEST!  What is this, a homicide, or a bad B-movie?! plus assorted others.  This is a good film to watch.  A little cheesy, but fun mostly!  "},{"Title":"Great, fun movie!","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first came out when I was a little kid, and even watching it now, it's lost none of its entertainment value. It's very funny, scary, and it's got lots of great 80's music.It's cheesy, but not so cheesy that you don't take it serious sometimes. All in all, it's just a complete blast - I give it a 10! "},{"Title":"memories","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film when it first came out - I was 16. To this day, I've never seen it or watched it again.  But I vividly remember the one line that summed it all up ... near the end, the main character says This is like a bad B-movieThat kind of self-parody made the movie watchable. Being 16, I didn't fully realize what kind of parody was happening at first, but then I kinda figured it out.  Would love to see it again to see if I appreciate it more with age, or less. "},{"Title":"Oh, what a Night....","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The next time someone complains that movies just don't try hard enough to entertain, here's your rebuttal....Night of the Creeps is so many things at once that it's hard to fit it into one category.  It's a zombie film, yes, but it's also a sci-fi film, a campus comedy, a sendup, a horror film....  It's all over the place, and it works.In turns, this movie will make you laugh, shudder, jump out of your seat and even make you wonder why they make cryogenic chambers so easily accessible to college students, especially during Halloween.So if you want something different, get the Creeps.Eight stars.  Thrill me. "},{"Title":"good campy fun!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i really like this movie. campy fun at it's best. it's also funny in some parts. i like how this took place at a college. the movie taking place at a college made the movie seem cool to me. it's not scary just very fun,and cool. i give night of the creeps *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Good enough","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a fairly good movie. The idea of slugs which eat your brain and control your body is good, but the movie could have had a lot more to it. "},{"Title":"Night of the leeches that turned people into zombies that are basically called the creeps.","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" You've probably heard that a movie can be better the second time you watch it.'Night of the Creeps' is that kind of movie.At first, I really didn't want to get past the first 30 minutes of the movie because I thought it seemed kinda stupid and I believe I've seen another movie that looks an awful like this one, but that movie was made 20 years after this so it doesn't matter.I actually got into the movie the second time and it was not a disappointment.The plot has lots of promise and premise and will surly keep you entertained.I really don't need to explain it if you've seen 'Slither(2006)'. If you have and you haven't seen this movie, then all you need to know is that the plot is the same as 'Slither', but I'll just explain it anyway for those who haven't seen it.Two stupid teenagers accidentally thaw out a frozen man who starts an epidemic unlike any other.Now slugs are taking over the city and their one goal is to get inside someone's mouth in order to turn someone into a zombie.Then that zombie will release a slug inside someone's mouth and the process continues.Is it cheesy? Yes. Is it your typical 1980's horror flick? I'd say so.Think of 'Night of the Living Dead' and 'Slither' and your overall movie is 'Night of the Creeps'. "},{"Title":"My Favourite Movie Of All Time","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What can I say about this movie? Words are hard to find. Not only does it have the greatest cast, script, one liners, aliens, parasites, zombie dogs, Axe murderers, zombie jocks, zombie Axe murderers, inept cops, exploding heads, jars of brains, zombie cat, lawnmower death, crippled hero's, flame throwers, jocks called Brad (aka The Bradster) Mono Browed jocks called Steve, Morton Salt girls called Cindy, an amazing soundtrack, a corpsicle and the most wise cracking detective ever put to celluloid. It also has the honour of being a Horror, Sci Fi, Buddy, Love, and B Movie all at the same time. Its Unique, endearing, heart warming, scary, funny, sad, and simply.....The Greatest Film I have ever seen. I love it! "}{"Title":"6 out of 10","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Taking virtually something or another from every horror movie ever produced, this lively homage makes once tired clichés seem fresh and alive again. This time around a college campus falls prey to an alien parasite that is accidentally unleashed as the result of a frat initiation gone wrong. This film's sense of humor is sharp and the scares are plenty. The effects are outstanding and the finale at the sorority house is one of the most memorable from an 80's horror film. And the ending is like Wow, that was the most amazing movie ever! I recommend this to anyone. Rent it or Buy it. Because this is Out Of Print and Hard To Find.Rated R for Nudity, Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"A rare non failed strange horror spoof ... Isn't?","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When you begin to see Night of the Creeps you going to laugh a lot ... and maybe surprised and frighting because you going to see a movie that surely going to be... BAD... well, i think that, but at the end, i found a really shocking surprise.Night of the Creeps is a customized movie, because is a horror movie with spoof comedy clothes, as too a spoof comedy with science fiction and horror clothes. So, you don't know what the hell is this movie! Well, anything that this thing is, is just awesome! The story is about how a strange creatures form outer space bring to life to death. Strange? Silly? Well, yes ... but the plot is funny and entertaining, with memorable characters played by Jason Lively, Steve Marshall, Jil Whitlow and Tom Atkins.Night of the Creeps has it all, in spite that is not perfect, actually, is other cheesy movie, but this one is not so bad as others. If The Rocky Horror Picture Show do it with a lot of things, why this not so known feature cant? Night of the Creeps is an easy movie, with funny and weird, with the bad acting that made it so distinguish and so good. This is a collectible piece to not be forgotten. Of course, is not the wonder of wonders, but is a different B - film. Give it a chance, this is another movie that demonstrate that aliens, zombies and bad acting can be together in just one film.PD Bad acting? Intentionally? Jeje... just another thing to think about.*Sorry for the mistakes...well, if there any. "},{"Title":"Creeps is another underrated 80's chiller classic","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What is interesting about films like this, and the directors of these camp classics are never heard from again. But somehow nowadays directors who deliver crap like Wolf Creek or Pear Harbor end up directing more movies afterwords. Night of the Creeps serves exactly what it promises-Slimy slugs, creepy zombies, and campy humor. It's definitely not Shakespeare or for the squeamish, but then again it's never meant to be. The saddest thing about this horror gem is that it still has not come to DVD. This maybe a good thing because if fans of the movie who may or may not be aware of this- THERE IS AN ALTERNATE ENDING OUT THERE. I wont spoil it for anyone who hasn't seen it but if you ever catch it on a regular television broadcast just watch until the end. I hope Tri-Star Pictures who originally distributed the film does license any distributor for a DVD special edition release. I also hope the DVD distributor (for the VHS release it was HBO video all those years ago) hunt down Mr. Dekker and maybe some of the cast members for a nice commentary. Most of all I hope they stop with the omitance of the original poster artwork-like so many dvds have in the past. "},{"Title":"Out cheeses even Army of Darkness!  I mean That as a compliment.","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know I know- it's cheesy as hell and it panders to the cult crowd with it's unsubtle name dropping- Still- this flick has it all. Aliens, serial killer, zombies, snake monsters- it starts in the classic 50s and ends in the ridiculous 80s- the flat acting seems pretty damn well suited to this blissfully stupid and fun horror comedy- Just turn off your brain- eat some popcorn and enjoy. If there is a better openly cheesy fan boy horror flick- I've yet to find it. I laugh just thinking about it. Screaming Like Banshees! Thrill me This was a way ahead of its time feature in the spirit of Army of Darkness- but- hate me if you must- in its own weird way- more successful- Check it out. "},{"Title":"Evil alien slugs rule!","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I used to watch this movie when I was a kid all of the time, And that new movie Slither looks really similar to this....huh?...They used to show this movie on USA up all night a lot. When I saw the preview for Slither something clicked and I new it looked familiar, maybe it's a little different but it looks like it was based on Night of The Creeps to me. Geeeez Hollywood, It's bad enough you have to remake old school movies but don't remake old school B movies. This movie is a real classic to me. It used to scare the crap out of me. I know it's a straight up B movie but it's still cool. I wonder if anyone else picked up on this...??? "},{"Title":"Screaming like banshees!","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Really weird.This flick has it all,boys and girls Zombies,midget looking aliens,chicks with flamethrowers,outer-space slugs,insane axe men and a whole bunch of cool dialogs (be sure to check some (but not all) of them in the 'memorable quotes' section).Obviously, a movie containing all this kind of wicked stuff does not have to be good to still be enjoyable. That's basically it here. If you don't have anything else to watch and you want to see something that looks like 'The Blob meets Night of the Living Dead(or any zombie flick) meets The Slugs meets The Slumber Party Massacre(or other Z-class slasher)' than you're in for a ride.PS I bet you'll dig the zombie dog. "},{"Title":"Great 80s romp in the wonderful world of Camp","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I like this movie despite its low rating.  It represents horror movies of the 80s so well with its camp and low budget special effects.This is one of those so bad it's good bad movie.7/10.  "},{"Title":"A great horror film","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Night Of The Creeps is one of the better horror films of the 80's. It has all the elements of a cult film status. If anyone is interested in watching a original movie and in the need of a quick scare and laugh, then I recommend renting Night Of The Creeps.  "},{"Title":"Detective.  Thrill me!","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A very pleasant mix of sci-fi, horror, and comedy.  This movie stands out as a gem amongst 80's horror.  The characters were all deeper than the typical spam characters of horror films.  Tom Atkins brought some real depth to his role, especially.  His character brings a sort of legitimacy to the otherwise drive-in throwback plot.  If only his backstory had been more fully utilized this would have been an even better film.  As it is, the action and special effects are better than even some modern-day horror pulp.  Although this is a very funny movie, it also has some genuine thrills - pun intended - in it (the audiotape goodbye is still one of the creepier things ever put on celluloid).  Jill Whitlow is very easy on the eyes and not a bad actress in her right, although unfortunately most of the young actors' performances fall flat.  Despite this, the movie is a definite B-classic and deserves a DVD with both endings.     "},{"Title":"Surprisingly high-standard horror-fare","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  During the 80's - thanks to the phenomenal success of films like Halloween, Friday the 13th and The Howling - a number of low-budget, small-release horror films came into being. It is widely accepted that most of these trashy horrors were some of the worst films in the industry and ultimately aided the gradual decline of interest in the genre. However, every once in a while one comes across a little-known 80's horror that is a true gem. Night of the Creeps is one such film.While many will undoubtedly not appreciate its innovative vision, Night of the Creeps is an excellent film. Merging zombies, axe murderers and alien experiments all into a single storyline was an ambitious task - even ridiculously risky, some might say - but writer/director Dekker pulls it off remarkably well.Mixing things like alien experimentation with the walking dead rests a little uneasily at first, but then in steps Tom Atkins (Halloween 3) who, with all his disbelieving remarks and sarcastic stingers, helps the whole premise suddenly make sense. This is a remarkable achievement of scripting, but it is Atkins who truly shines through, giving a touchingly authentic performance and bringing sense to all the madness.What is so shocking about Night of the Creeps is the amount of character development included. So many horror movies - especially in the 1980's - neglect their characters for gore or scares, but Night of the Creeps takes a startlingly post-modernistic approach by actually taking the first thirty minutes of its eighty minute run to set up the characters and how they fit - or don't fit - in. All characters are given depth and motives, and in particular Tom Atkin's Roy is a character that finds a place in this horror lover's heart.While constantly shifting from alien attacks to zombie manifestations, Night of the Creeps never loses sight of the plot or characters, which suggests that Dekker actually wanted to tell a story here. Write Dekker throws no end of twists or laughs at us, while director Dekker builds an interesting atmosphere around the Frat/Sorority houses. At times one can't help but feel that a number of the scares could have been better directed for greater effect, but the suspense throughout - as well as some nice shots - make up for this.The make-up effects (by David B. Miller) play a large part in Night of the Creeps, and surprisingly they are of a high and believeable standard. Heads explode to throw forth slug-like aliens; zombies walk face-less through the streets and cats are de-fleshed, all to remarkable effect. The gore is abundant, and this makes up for some sloppy acting from the younger cast members.Of course, Night of the Creeps isn't without its flaws. Is the axe murderer plotline needed? Not really. Why would aliens be breeding slug-like creatures? Your guess is as good as mine. But seeing as Night of the Creeps is delivered with a happily light-hearted gloss, these minor flaws are of no matter. Just sit back, relax, grab a beer (or box of popcorn; I don't want to be blamed for under-age drinking!) and get lost in the magical world that is Night of the Creeps!THE VERDICT An interesting departure from most of the 80's horror trash that existed all those years ago, Night of the Creeps is a genuinely entertaining little zombie/slasher/alien flick. Tom Atkins is wonderful, and the make-up effects are excellent. Ignore the weird title and sink your teeth into this wonderful piece of horror! "}{"Title":"One of the best!!!","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is without a doubt one of the most cleverly written horror spoofs I´ve seen. Great script and acting, cheesy FX and all around fun.It´s a shame that this gem hasn´t gotten the DVD treatment it deserves.  "},{"Title":"A classic thriller!","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ﻿This film is down right scary.  It has that classic 1980s thriller theme to it.. Meaning you can see how real it could be by comparing it to every day life and that is why it's so scary.  An echelon films of the 1980s have that scary realistic quality; Halloween (1-2), Friday the 13th (1-5), Return of the Living Dead, and The Howling.  The horror and thriller films of the 90s are not scary because they use too much technology, high quality film, and digital cameras to impress the watcher.  And it lacks the quiet and then high suspense music. And when you watch it you can compare the realism to that of real life. Their houses and environment looks like your average neighborhood. The cameras give a visual to make it look real. Today's horror films just does not have it. Too much gadgets, computers, cell phones, etc.  The horror and thriller films of the 90s and beyond, use too much CGI (computer generated images). It looks so fake. Thus it doesn't make you scared. The horror films of the 80s used puppets and makeup. I mean they were at the peak of special effects. Now today just throw any computer science major with a doctorate degree to make up scary creatures, accidents, etc and call it a film.  Anyway this film is highly recommended.  Watch it during the night with absolute quiet and all the lights off. You will feel something. The film may have a few laughs like every movie but this is definitely not a comedy.  The end of the film just sends chills down your spine. "},{"Title":"Silly zombie movie with a touch of humor.","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nothing new here;  creepy crawlers invade a college campus where they subsequently take over the dead bodies of college coeds.  Some comedic momements (intentional) gives this movie some merit, but in all it is still not worth 89 minutes of your life.  "},{"Title":"Awesomly Bad!","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you are a fan of horror movies, the 80s, 80s horror movies, analog synthesizer soundtracks, or Rusty from the European Vacation movie with Chevy Chase or anything like that you have to see this movie! This type of bad movie doesn't exist anymore. Horror in the new millinium is made by morons with digital cameras and no budget or ability to light a shot properly.Night of the Creeps is a perfect example of an entertaingly bad movie. If you like good movies, don't see this. This movie definitely does not deserve more than 4/10 stars, which makes it an awesomly bad movie. I like the acknowledgments the filmmakers do - the main character's last name is Romero, and the girl (who is pretty cute and we get to see her nekkid!) last name is Cronenberg. "},{"Title":"Good, camp fun from the eighties","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Night of the Creeps is another of those fun teen horror/sci-fi flicks that filmmakers in the eighties were so fond of making. The film has surprisingly more ideas than most, and after a great little intro that takes place in space; the film moves on to 1959 (in black and white!), where watch a couple of unlucky kids become the victims of some sort of alien from space. There were a lot of zombie movies made around the time that Night of the Creeps came out, but thankfully it would seem that 'House' director Fred Dekker wasn't content to merely make another, as although, when it comes down to it; this really is another zombie movie - the way that the zombies come about and the method of dispatching them shows some brains&#133;literally. We pick up the story in 1986, where we watch two high school kids effortlessly break into some sort of medical facility in order to be inducted into a top high school fraternity. Inside, they find a glass container with the body of a young man inside. Naturally, they decide to open it up; and it isn't long before their fellow students are being turned into bloodthirsty mutants. Only the two kids, a girl and the local police detective can save the day! It seems that giving your characters names of horror movie directors was fashionable in the eighties, and Fred Dekker has adhered to it, with characters called Hooper, Raimi, Cronenberg, Cameron, Romero and Landis. If you ask me, this is a silly, ham-fisted exercise and I don't like it...but I suppose it doesn't make much difference. The rest of the film is lots of fun, however, and Dekker shows great imagination in putting the piece together. Sequences that see an axe-wielding psycho burst through the floorboards, as well as a number of exploding heads and strange slug-like aliens that look a lot like those things from David Cronenberg's Shivers are great. Tom Atkins is the biggest name on the cast list, and he gives a delightful performance in the role of the wisecracking police detective. Cult icon Dick Miller makes a small, but memorable, appearance; while the rest of the cast is made up of teenagers. The special effects are a bit suspect, but generally rather good and Dekker ensures that they fit the jokey tone of the movie. Overall, Night of the Creeps is a supreme piece of eighties trash that I recommend to anyone who enjoys a good, silly film. "},{"Title":"The best B-movie ever made","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am reviewing the theatrical release and not the horrible cut for television.I believe that Rob Zombie once said that 'Night of the Creeps' is one of the best B-movies ever. The director knows he's working on a B-movie and uses this at his advantage.The one liners, the 50's soundtrack, the story, the gore, it all works to create a true masterpiece.Of course no one understood this movie, so there's not even a VHS release. Who's to blame? Well, you!10/10 "},{"Title":"um...SUCKED!","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What's wrong with you people? This was one of the most boring horror spoofs I have ever seen. The zombies were boring, the action was unimpressive, and the jokes were lame. The effects were decent and the film had a good cast, but avoid anyway. ** out of *****. Stick with Slumber Party Massacre, Sleepaway Camp, and Night of the Demons if you want a good horror film. "},{"Title":"Zombies, exploding heads...and a date to the prom.","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you like a decent horror film complete with old fashioned make-up effects, you will LOVE this this film. If you like to have a good laugh and some gore when you watch a horror film, you will LOVE this film...If you like a combination of both, you will have the time of your life ! This film by Fred Dekker easily joins the chosen few; funny and at the same time good horror films of the 80's. It's right up this list together with Evil Dead 1 & 2, Re-animator, the Blob and maybe a few others. The story begins in the 50's. An extra-terrestrial experiment escapes from the spaceship and falls to earth ( By the way...Night o/t Creeps has the funniest aliens you'll ever see ) During the same night an psychopath with an axe is loose, this experiment makes its first victim on earth. How ? Slugs enter your mouth, crawl up your brain and there they lay eggs. They breed while the victim walks around...dead. Zombies in other words. Very cool. The axe murderer get slaughtered by rookie cop Ray Cameron and the infected person gets frozen. Then the story moves to the 80's. As a prank the frozen man gets released and the terror can begin. Rookie cop Ray Cameron is now detective Cameron and he joins Chris, J.C and the lovely 80's babe Cynthia in their hunting game to kill as much slugs as possible.I realize this is just one man's opinion, but as far as I'm concerned all the elements to great horror are here. Good story with a few nice twists and decent make up effects. Ray Cameron is played by Tom Atkins, a great B-film actor who has amazing expressions in his eyes and a terrific body language. The script contains very funny lines all fired off by him. Example  well girls, I got good news and bad news... the good news is your dates are here. What's the bad news ? ...they're dead. I assure you, this is great fun to watch. And did you think BRAINDEAD was the first film to use a lawnmower as a zombie-weapon ?? Think again. Add to this a soundtrack with golden oldies from the 50's and you got yourself a piece of pure entertainment. What else could you possibly wish for ?? Nudity, you say ? OK, the story mostly takes place in a sorority house, so we'll throw in a couple of boobs in as well. My advise, get your hands on it as soon as possible.And then finally this little extra for the horror buffs  Do the following names of the leading characters ring a bell ? ray CAMERON - Cynthia CRONENBERG - Chris ROMERO - J.C HOOPER - Detective LANDIS - Detective RAIMI ... Indeed, all characters are named after the biggest horror directors. This is a lot of fun when you're watching the film for the 2nd or 3rd time. Heck, even the small roles are filled in. The janitor's name is Mr. Miner ( The first House film was directed by Steve Miner) and even the cat is named GORDON ( Stuart Gordon directed Re-Animator). Rent this film. Unfortunately, it hasn't came out on DVD yet...damn shame that is. You'll love it and re-watch it over and over again. "},{"Title":"The best zombie parody of the 80s!","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With slicker direction, better performances and more energy than any of the other zombie parody's of the 80s (Return of the Living Dead, Dead Next Door, Night of the Comet) this movie delivers the laugh for zombie fans. It makes reference to  just about every zombie and modern horror cliche including a short cameo by Dick Miller who has become horror cliche himself. The only real problem with this movie is it takes too long to setup wasting its time on not one but 2 prolouges before even introducing the main charaters. Then they flashback to the second prolouge once or twice. Its a small snag in an otherwise wonderful film which should be a must see for all zombie fans. "},{"Title":"Teenagers vs. Midget Aliens","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie tries to be Scary and Funny at the same time.The only thing good about this movie is the beginning but then its a whole different story. Not to mention the bad acting thanks to most of the cast especially the main character. The idea is obviously stolen from a classical movie and this movie has turned the idea into a fruitcake.The worst part of the movie are the fighting scenes; teenage girlfriends with flamethrowers burning there zombified dates to crisp like there professional assassins.Final words This move is 84% garbage.Rating-Overall 3/10 -Soundtrack 4/10 -Special Effects (1986) 5/10-Plot 5/10-Dialogue 4/10-Acting 5/10-Humor/Comedy 2/10 --NoteI love the dog-Memorable 4/10-Ending 6/10-Anything Special/Unique? Not really...-Worth Watching? No. "}{"Title":"this movie is Old Dirty Bastard approved...Wu Tang!","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I seen this movie. Thank you Netflix? I guess it's better than any of the Maniac Cop movies, have you seen any of those they are terrible. Editing is important, know what you are going to say before you start writing a review. Take it from me. Don't use up space recommending other movies like Full Metal Jacket or Hamlet 2 or The Exorcist. Night Of The Creeps is still on, I should change the channel or maybe I should get up and do some exercises, I hear fitness is important. Maybe that's what I'll do, I'll get up off the couch and DO something, I don't know I don't own a bike, I could walk, walking is good for you and it's free, just looked up and saw I'm only 21 minutes into the movie, Jesus. "},{"Title":"Delight of the Creeps","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" (contains spoilers)'80s Horror Movies &#x96; you've seen them, you're an expert even. You've seen them again and again. A few of you may even remember when many first came out, or when you first rented them on video when you were in junior hell school. I'm sure a few of you even lived through your own personal '80s horror film (Topsiders w/ no socks, flat-tops, Vuarnet, Kajagoogoo cassettes, etc.) And how many times did you watch Evil Dead II, The Lost Boys, Fright Night, Return of the Living Dead, The Howling, Re-Animator? Or what about all that (yeah, I'm saying it) over-rated crap from Carpenter and Landis? Well, I bet there's one '80s horror film a few of you may not have seen; back in the day, it slipped right in between Fright Night and Evil Dead II. Its name is Night of the Creeps, and no joke, it's the best of its kind.The complete brainchild of one Fred Dekker, (someone give this man millions to make more movies&#x85; please!) Night of the Creeps creates a perfect balance between the pseudo- escapist, xenophobic scare-fare of the 1950s (i.e. The Blob, It Came From Outer Space, It! The Terror From Beyond Space, etc.) and the in-your-face splatter-gore of the 1980s. Hence the film itself begins in the '50s&#x85;1959 to be exact, and something mysterious has crashed down to our peaceful Earth. Investigated by a hearty frat member, he pays a nasty price for his snooping, becoming impregnated/infected by something long, black and slithery&#x85;hot! Oh yeah &#x96; subplot &#x96; his girlfriend, who was left in the car, gets hacked to bits by an asylum escapee. Forced cryogenic entrapment helps secure the pristine Eisenhower-world from alien apocalypse. Fast-forward to 1986, and two frat-wannabe geeks, quite homely I might add, are trying to impress the hot girl on campus. They find themselves agreeing to steal a corpse in order to get into her boyfriend's fraternity, thereby impressing the young lovely. Of course, said corpse ends up not being a corpse at all, but the iced-stiff jock from the prologue, which comes back alive and begins to infect the whole campus. You see, that something long, black and slithery was in fact a parasitic brain-eating slug that turns its host into a killer zombie. Once the slugs are done feeding and gestating, the zombie head will explode sending forth scores of more newborn slugs, that all have one purpose &#x96; find a mouth. Hmmm&#x85;sounds like a few dates I've been on.No one in Night of the Creeps gives a half-assed performance either. I tip my hat to the delightful Jill Whitlow, who plays the girl-to-impress, Cynthia Cronenberg. Cynthia's the kind of girl we all want to have at our side when we're fighting aliens, not afraid to get a little dirty, which I imagine is the kind of girl a lot us want for other reasons as well. Also impressive is Tom Atkins as Detective thrill me Cameron (hubba-hubba), who has a personal score to settle connected to the aliens (see 'subplot' above). The script is one of the smartest of its genre, giving respectful nods to all its influences (pay attention to everyone's last names), and creating some genuinely wonderful and original dialogue in its own right. The editing is as tight as can be, allowing this film to be just as enjoyable after the thirtieth viewing as it is during the first. And the special effects are still excellent, proving that the passing of time is no lazy, fallback excuse for more recent films whose own CG-effects now look bland or campy.Few carnage-ridden films are as fun and stylish as this, and in every frame you can tell that Fred Dekker truly loves what he does. So sell all your copies of Carpenter and Landis movies, and send the money to Mr. Dekker. Then get yourself a copy of Night of the Creeps and celebrate the gruesome deaths of many-a-jock, and be witness to perhaps the last, great unheralded horror film of the 1980s. "},{"Title":"An average night was had by all...","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A few weeks back I reviewed MONSTER SQUAD, it was pretty good but definitely better suited to the teen set. When I saw that the same guy had directed another horror film that was a little more adult I decided to check it out.What we have here is a little more of the same, a worthwhile film that is reasonably effective, but in the case of Night of the Creeps it is more evident that this film hasn't aged as well.The film opens in exactly the same way as Slither and Killer Klowns from Outer Space, a foreign (think outer space) object lands on Earth and some Americans come across the contents, with diabolical results.Always the Americans.The time initially is the late 1950's, and the initial pair that go to investigate are a young couple Johnny and his date, both find more than they bargain for.Both don't make it to the 60's.Move on to the 80's where the remaining three quarters of the film is set, again we are dealing with college kids, in this case two nerds Chris and J.C., lusting after one special chick named Cynthia. They decide that the best way to get near her and similar girls is to sign up with a fraternity, specifically the Beta fraternity, whose leader Brad looks like either a vampire or an albino.To be considered as viable applicants, (even though they never intend to let the boys in), Brad and the frat-boys set them a task, more a prank actually, to steal a corpse from the local morgue and place it near another competing frat house...Oh the hilarity.In the process of completing this task the boys inadvertently unfreeze the 1950's Johnny, who has been chillin' for the better part of three decades for some unrevealed reason in a cryogenic lab in the morgue. Only Johnny was not dead, just chilly, and he kills the unfortunate morgue attendant and goes for a bit of a walk.Hereafter starts the horror part, which is actually reasonably bearable even though it sounds and is very silly. Again like Slither the evil comes from worms, who enter the living or dead through any available orifice and cause the body to lust after more flesh, the only way these carriers can be killed is to burn them after they leave their host.It turns out that the worms are directly linked to the events of the 50's, and some main characters reveal that they were around at that time and can therefore shed some light on exactly what has caused the events.The finale ends on the night of the college ball, and by this time Chris has managed to hook himself up with Cynthia and is preparing himself for the night, along with almost every other college kid. Unfortunately he forgets he is in a zombie movie and his night is side-tracked when he is forced to run around with a shotgun and flame thrower killing those that were once his classmates.Ahhhhh those crazy college days.First up; Night of the Creeps is a terrible title. Name this College Ball Massacre or even The Thawed Menace and this would have a better rep than it does, which is almost none. But this is as good as a lot of crappy 80's horror movies that still pop up on movie channels and late night telly.Second; 90% of horror-comedies suck, especially those aimed at a teen audience, you only have to look at the recently released Doghouse to see a hastily thrown together example. Keeping with that %, about 90% of the jokes in Night of the Creeps fall flat, there are a couple of worthwhile moments still though.Lastly This movie is extremely formulaic, but that is perhaps a strength, as it follows the formula so tightly that even though we know what is about to happen, we draw some comfort from that.I found it amusing that the main cop in the film says at one point What is this a homicide or a bad B movie?. Well it was most definitely a homicide, and tiptoes the line of the second part of the statement.Final Rating - 6 / 10. Low budget formula zombie all the way, only set in the 80's, with all the good and bad that era brings.If you liked this review (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"NIGHT OF THE CREEPS (Fred Dekker, 1986) **1/2","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This underrated horror comic is a worthy predecessor to THE MONSTER SQUAD (1987) with, this time around, a teenage outlook. Following the hilarious and bizarre opening set aboard an alien spaceship is a clever black-and-white prologue that's actually a nice homage to 1950s Grade Z movies (later on we're also treated to a few excerpts from the ubiquitous PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE 1959 playing on TV).The mix of living dead/body horror themes suggests the influence of George Romero and David Cronenberg – in fact, I'd say that if Cronenberg and Romero had joined forces to direct PORKY'S (1981), it would have looked something like this!! – and, sure enough, the heroic couple are given these exact surnames; like THE HOWLING (1981), then, other characters are also named after horror-film directors. Fraternity houses are a favorite horror setting, particularly during this era – yet, despite some definite gore, the accent is on fun with likable dorky leads (involved in the expected bullying and romantic complications) and a wonderful Tom Atkins as a cynical cop, whose past is inextricably linked with the alien invasion.Still, the film does have its share of somber moments – such as the plight of the hero's crippled sidekick (who exits the proceedings halfway through, but not before accidentally stumbling upon the way to destroy the alien slugs inhabiting the zombies and passing on the information to his friend) and Atkins' own self-sacrifice at the end. The action/special effects sequences are quite well done, in view of the obvious low-budget.As I said, while I think of myself as generally averse to 1980s horror/sci-fi flicks, the more I watch of them the fonder I'm becoming of this time period; this particular title certainly turned out to be a most pleasant offering. "},{"Title":"Not THAT good","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After all of the hype, I finally sat down to watch this.It's not that bad, but it certainly isn't worth all of the rave reviews here.It's an original story, it has some funny 1980s clothes and music and it has a few laughs. You'll like it. It's a competent 1980s horror movie. It has a ton of homages to classic horror movies like Plan 9, Dead Alive, Night of the Living dead, etc.But to call this movie a forgotten gem? Please.If you are looking for some good horror-comedy try Evil Dead II, Dead Alive, Bad Taste or even Atomik Circus. Glad I saw it, wont forget it, Prob wont watch it again. "},{"Title":"Brain slugs from outer space.","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first scene of this movie had me worried a bit because it looked rather stupid.  It had this short little alien running through a ship and he sends this thing out of the ship and then it lands on earth in a black and white scene.  However, this movie was rather good...it has these two guys who end up releasing these creatures and they must find a way to put everything right.  How do they release them, for some reason they have to get a dead body from the morgue, instead they get one in some research area who is apparently frozen.  In him is a slug like creature that when given the chance will jump to another victim.  Sooner or later the head will explode because these things lay eggs in your head.  You don't stay dead though as these things make you walk around as zombies.  Heck, you can tell this movie has it all.  The guy playing the cop is really good as are the two friends who accidentally cause the whole mess.  The movie also has some comedy in it as well...though I do have a couple of complaints.  One, I didn't care for the guy on crutches being killed...totally unnecessary and it brought the movie down.  Second, I wasn't wild about the end with the dog.  Other than that a wild killer slug/zombie movie. "},{"Title":"A favorite of mine","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  NIGHT OF THE CREEPS is not the kind of horror movie any major studio would make these days-the characters,instead of looking like beautiful teenage models,actually look like college students. The plot-a web of love,revenge and redemption-is rather complex. And if you like yourhorror extra juicy,this movie delivers. Plus,Dick Miller has a great cameo(a cop named Walter Paisley,one of the MANY in-jokes) The script is full of great dialogue,too. A love letter to the genre,and a lot of fun to watch. Here,hold this,you'll feel better...  "},{"Title":"This movie ROCKS","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Night of the Creeps is the kind of movie that keeps me coming back to USA up all night time and time. Although the actors may be forgettable, this movie is not. It incorporates the standard nerd wins hot girl story line, worm-like alien brain parasites, and the perfect amount of non-plot related nudity. This movie really has it all, from film noir-esque flashback scenes to the absurdly obvious christ figure JC. I rate it a strong 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious spoof of sci-fi genre","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What the other reviewer seemed to miss about this film is that it is a comedy first and foremost. It should be judged on this criteria and it is pretty funny. My friend and I still say Screaming Like Banshees to each other in mock Oriental accents. And the line that starts with the tough veteran cop telling the girls he has good news and bad news for them has to be one of the best lines in movie history. In fact, you should watch the entire movie for this line alone which I will not ruin for you here. I couldn't do it justice anyway. I'd give this movie a 8 out of 10. It's WAY funnier than the average comedy that Hollywood spews out for a hundred times this film's budget. "},{"Title":"Beautiful gore!","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When aliens let a virus drop to earth it turns people into zombies that must be stopped! This movie starts slow but gets better. It has some nicely done gory parts. Acting could have been a little better. Nice movie for those insensitive to gore! "}{"Title":"It thrilled me.","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Much of the humour in Night Of The Creeps is based on repetition, a type of humour I associate with the original episodes of The Addams Family.  Various characters exhibit the same responses over and over (Tom Atkins' thrill me and related film noir dialogue), the mortician is always eating when he deals with bodies, the janitor repeating the weirdo line screaming like banshees and chuckling to himself.  On top of this, events are always referring to themselves, and to other events...for instance, Atkins' line A body that has been dead for 30 years does not suddenly get up and go for a walk by itself! (and a shot of the body walking down the street), is echoed almost word-for-word in Dekkers later The Monster Squad.  The old lady is watching Plan 9 From Outer Space.  One of the characters says the events are like a bad B movie.  All the characters are named after big-name horror-meisters.None of these references are essential to a horror movie.  But in this case, they expand the film beyond mere cheap thrills (and there are lots of those) and into a totally wacky film world.  The characters say VERY STRANGE THINGS, much like people do in real life (Better yet, use your whale radar, what the heck does that MEAN?), because people share in-jokes with each other.  They have pasts and hang-ups and quirks.  Likewise, this movie has TWO prologues, one of which establishes a second plotline that eventually converges with the first.What's my point?  Just that this film has a very complex structure, features 3-dimensional characters, stands up to repeated viewings, and -- as if that wasn't enough -- is scary, gory, funny, jumpy, stylish, and just plain fun.  Stan Ridgway's on the soundtrack as well, which doesn't hurt, and you've got sorority babes (albeit 80's ones), frat jerks, and a tough-but-kind cop.This film makes me think an awful lot of Vamp, Return of the Living Dead, and The Stuff.  Many will probably disagree, but these films try to be more than just plain thrillers, and I love them for that. "},{"Title":"Nice college horror, reminds me of the Faculty!","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, it's not a fantastic movie but I enjoyed it though. I had seen this one when I was very young and I thought it was great then, and if yu watch a movie that impressed you as a kid it let's you down almost every time, but this one is actually very nice even now. I like the 80's college parts! And overal I had to think about the Faculty a lot!  Some fx are pretty good and some are mediocre! If you're  looking for a light horror with some college humor just give it a try! "},{"Title":"TOM ATKINS DOES IT AGAIN","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  On a low budget, Night of the Creeps really delivers the fun. A great 80's horror movie, with a good cast.  But it couldn't of been any wiser to cast Tom The Man Atkins, as Detective Cameron.  His one liners are funny, and they will get you to answer your telephone with the infamous line, Thrill Me. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For all you movie lovers out there, there's one rule of thumb you can live by.  If Tom Atkins is in it, you can't lose.This never rang more true than when Night of the Creeps came out in 1986. I first saw it on HBO in 1987 at my grandparents house.All the adults were upstairs talking about boring topics while I was channel flipping.  What I found was something which would change my life forever.You guessed it. Slugs from outer space crashing onto earth and laying eggs in the brains of college kids.Sure, Jason Lively from European Vacation was in it.  But Tom Atkins is the one who stole the show.It's amazing this guy never shot up into the realm of superstardom.  But you wanna know what?  If Atkins ever became big, he'd probably get caught up in all the fame and appear in bad movies.You can also catch him in Maniac Cop, Creepshow,       Halloween III and The New Kids with Eric Stoltz and James Spader when they were nobodies. "},{"Title":"Creepy!","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As part of a fraternity initiation, Chris and J.C. sneak into a cryogenics lab and accidently thaw out a creepy corpse. Little did they know that they have just unleashed a plague upon both their houses. When the corpse shows up without its head in front of Kappa Delta sorority, Detective Cameron is hot on their tales. Suddenly unexplainable events begin to happen. Corpses begin to walk around, the dead rise from their sleep, and heads explode to reveal a nest of slugs. These creatures are the carriers of this so-called disease and are doing quite a good job of transmitting it. One by one, they consume people, nest and spread. After J.C. becomes one of the victims, Chris and Detective Cameron are determined to stop these little creepy crawlies.This is a awesome horror movie straight from the generation of the genre. Night of the creeps doesn't sport any big names, but its quite well done and is more than entertaining. There is also a bit of very lame foreshadowing that's pretty visible to anyone who has seen the movie more than once.There are few must see scenes and things to look out for when you watch this movie. First off is one of the first scenes of Chris and J.C. in the cryogenics lab. When they see the frozen body Chris asks, Who do you think it is? and in a sarcastic tone J.C. answers back, I don't know, Walt Disney? Who cares. Nobody could've known how funny that line would come to be in today's light. Keep you eye open for detective Cameron who comes armed with a twelve gauge and a myriad of cliches and one-liners in an attempts to be witty. Also watch for the magically self-extinguishing and self-re-lighting flame thrower. And near the end, like when they blow up the house, keep your eyes peeled on the crowd. There is a guy standing in there that looks a little like Bruce Springsteen.Night of the Creeps is time and money well spent. Do what you must to see this movie. Not a bad movie to watch with your girlfriend either, but its worth watching so don't be doing any of that other stuff! "},{"Title":"Still one of the best","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie 12 years ago and can still vivdly remember a number of the small details that make this a must-see for any fan of the '80s and horror flicks in general. (The characters named after splatter directors, the one-liners and Det. Cameron, one of the best characters in horror history.)I saw pretty much every crippled Scream clone that came down the pike last year and can't remember much about any of them.Do yourself a favor and track down a copy of this tragically forgotten masterpiece on video. The movie entertains where 90% of it's current big-budget, mass-marketed, wide-release brethren fail horribly. THRILL ME! "},{"Title":"Detective.............. THRILL ME!!!","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Night of the Creeps seems relatively aware of it's campiness and is almost parodical in some ways.  It almost suggests it's self as a modern spoof of Ed Wood's Plan 9.  It has all the characters types and elements that make 80's horror films great, two geek protagonist, jocks, preppies, college babes, zombies, shot guns, flame throwers and of corse Tom always plays a cop in 80's horror movies Atkins as detective Cameron.  I, however have come to call this character Detective Thrill me as that is his catch fraise of choice.  One gets the feeling that the writers plugged in Thrill Me! as Tom's action guy line in the belief that they would come up with a better fraise latter, but they did not.  It's just as well really, because of this movie I too now answer my phone by saying Thrill Me!!  Before blowing of a zombies ugly head Tom also says another cool line IT'S MILLER TIME!!  And he torches an alien slug with a smoke and some hair spray, so that's pretty cool.  There's also a bit where the central dork protagonist threshes some alien zombie keester with a lawnmower (ala Dead Alive) while his girl friend blast some other deadies with a flame thrower wile wearing a prom dress.  As in so many movies about multiplying monsters on the run the Old Man from Gremlins makes a cameo.  A fun film indeed Night of the Creeps will make you nostalgic for the good old days when you couldn't swing a chainsaw over your head once without hitting a zombie movie. Whatever happened to Tom Atkins anyway? I guess there's just no longer a need for the low rent Stacey Keech.  Oh well... Detective....... THRILL ME!!!!     "},{"Title":"Classical thriller with some of the greatest sequences in the genre","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In a time when Nightmare on Elm Street created the teens' number one villain Freddy Krueger, this great movie wasn't able to receive enough attention. The director do make use of really scare scenes, such as in the vision's of the character Cameron. The opening sequence are of steal our breath. Plus the two protagonists keep the comedy compound alive. A must see. "},{"Title":"Fun Film","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Night of the Creeps (1986) ** 1/2 (out of 4) This film was one of my favorites growing up but its been at least 15-years since I last watched it so I was really excited when I noticed the film was playing On Demand. The film tells the story of alien slugs, which attack a small town and soon turn people into zombies. A Detective (Tom Atkins) and a dork (Jason Lively) must try and battle the creatures before the entire town is turned into the living dead. The director's best film remains The Monster Squad but this throwback to the sci-fi films of the 1950's is still very good if you're a fan of the genre and offers up a lot of good monsters as well as some very good performances. What really stands out about this film are all the homages to previous horror directors as well as various films including a couple tips of the hat to Plan 9 From Outer Space. Atkins brings his typical B movie charm to the film but it's Lively and Steve Marshall who really steal the film. Roger Corman vet Dick Miller also shows up for a nice cameo. The special effects are very B budget but they're exactly what the film calls for. "},{"Title":"A night like every other.","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" With about 70% of older horror films, it's honestly hard for me to tell what horror films were meant to be comedy, and which were meant to scare me. Because the 70s were loaded with laugh-out-loud unintentional cheese films like Phantasm and The Omen, it's certainly not hard to see the natural evolution of horror films in the 80s. The 80s shifted from horror films intending to scare to horror films intending to make people laugh. Instead of trying to scare people with clichés, 80s horror took clichés and made people laugh at their predictability. Sadly, after you've seen this laugh-at-the-thing-that-would-have-scared-you-in-the-70s formula repeated over and over again, it stopped being funny really quickly, not to mention became as predictable as the movies it parodied. I've literally seen hundreds of 80s horror-comedies, and of them all, I can only pick out one or two that was genuinely funny or entertaining. The Evil Dead, for example, understood how to be genuinely comedic and still retain the horror elements. Night of the Creeps, however, is just . . . the same thing.If you've seen any 80s horror comedy, you've seen Night of the Creeps. Yes, it has a few comedic moments that set it apart from the crowd for a few seconds, but they're few and far between. The Star Wars parody in the opening was pretty clever, but after that Night of the Creeps just becomes like all the other 80s horror-comedies. It repeats the same lines, same pseudo-scares, same jokes, same clichés, same plot, same EVERYTHING.The main character is romantically challenged&#x97;really, who would have guessed? Have you ever seen an 80s horror-comedy where the main character is anything BUT a romantically/sexually challenged male? Over 90% of the movie is absolutely nothing but this cliché kid trying to figure out his pathetic relationship problems. It isn't funny, it's boring. I've seen the plot before in everything from 60s sitcoms to Dear Abby columns in the local newspaper. I can really care less.When the action starts, it's just a bunch of generic head-shots, then the movie goes right back to the boring, cliché dork drama. The gore is all done in PG-style cut-off scenes, so don't even expect any on-screen blood to make the movie more enjoyable. It starts out as a painfully forgettable movie, then quickly turns into a movie that I literally could not force myself to watch again.What else is there to say? If you grew up in the 80s, I can understand how this film may be nostalgic to you. I won't rain on your parade. If you watched this with youthful innocence as a kid, I'm not going to rain on your starry-eyed nostalgic parade. However, if you didn't grown up in the 80s, you'll have seen this material literally thousands of times in other 80s films and in the countless return-to-fun-horror films of the 2000s. By today's standards, Night of the Creeps is little more than a TV-PG-rated Disney Channel movie.0/10 "}{"Title":"Mildly entertaining 80's horror trash...","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has all the right elements and themes for an 80's horror movie. It combines semi-naked girls, bad hairstyles, hilarious fashions, a college prom (mind you, we never get to see this) and a hilarious soundtrack that seems to have gathered Men At Work-sound-a-likes and the main theme which appears to have been recorded directly from a synthesizer!The movie starts off in the 1950's where a young man and his date decide to investigate a grounded unidentified flying object which has come to rest in the middle of a forest. While the boyfriend investigates, he leaves his girlfriend in the car who manages to get herself hacked to pieces by a recent asylum-escapee wielding an axe (complete with a strait-jacket!). If this sub-plot doesn't sound formulaic already, the boyfriend investigates the UFO where a 'slug-like' creature shoots into his mouth (reminiscent of David Cronenberg's also-hilarious Shivers).Cut to the next scene and we're in the 1980s. One of the most homeliest guys ever to be passed off as a hero wants to ask this girl out who also happens to be dating the most popular boy on campus. Our hero has a funny little sidekick (complete with a set of crutches) who has a witty comment to make every 2 seconds. The two guys think that the best way to get this girl out on a date is to join her boyfriend's fraternity. The only task they have to complete to join the fraternity is to steal a corpse from the science labs. Of course, when they enter the laboratory (which is supposed to be under maximum hi-tech security), they stumble through an open door while the on-duty scientist is busy making a phonecall and discover a body in a cryogenics chamber. The laboratory has a lot of consoles and funny flashing lights (reminiscent to the consoles on the set of Battlestar Galactica). Of course, there is a big red button on the wall that says deregulate and whaddya know. Before you know it, the body is released from the chamber. Little do the two guys know that the body is the boyfriend from the 1950s chapter of the movie and that he is not dead at all.Cut to the next scene, our two heroes run screaming from the laboratory and our dead friend is shooting a slug from his mouth into the mouth of the scientist, seconds before his head explodes even more slugs. The slugs apparently control the brain (much like The Puppetmasters) and use the brain and body as an incubating chamber to breed more slug-like creatures and when manifesting, explode from the cranium in a shower of blood and gore.The rest of the movie basically feeds off dead plots like Night Of The Living Dead and The Pod People. Person runs into dead person. Slug goes into mouth. Person becomes dead person. There are a lot of plot holes. There is no explanation as to why the boyfriend from the 1950s was in a cryogenics chamber in the first place. Why he didn't attack the person(s) who found him and why being frozen stopped the slugs in his brain. According to the slugs, it doesn't matter if you're crippled from the waist down or dead even. They know how to control the body.Some of the best scenes involve the resurrection of the asylum-escapee from the 1950s, an axe through the head of the sorority house mother, a dead dog who infects a busload of dead frathouse prom dates and a vengeful cop who takes it upon himself to destroy the slugs in the basement of a house with a drum of kerosene and his trusty cigar. (Watch what happens to him at the end!)The film's weakest points is the story's hero. You won't find yourself sympathising with him or his sidekick much. The film's heroine is just another cardboard cut out of a ditzy brunette who doesn't know how to operate a flame thrower (like who doesn't!!). There is one scene where the story's hero and the girl he loves gets trapped in a garden shed. The scene is so pathetic, you don't know whether you should be angry at the fact that she didn't blast the zombies with the flame thrower before going into the shed, or the fact that our hero decides to run over a zombie's head with a lawnmower after he has been told that the only way the slugs will die is by fire. Neither of these two characters have much common sense.Which brings me to the conclusion of my comment on this movie. Watch it for laughs only. If you try to treat this semi-serious like one of those well maybe it *could* happen scenarios, you will only be fooling yourself. Try not to rent it on video. Try to catch it late at night on television. It pops up every now and then. Just be warned that you won't see any signs of Mulder, Scully or Doggett making any cameos.6/10 "},{"Title":"Strictly for the Police Academy crowd.","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Only very minor spoilers here.If there is any single movie that proves without a smidgen of a doubt that this site's ratings are nothing to go by, it's this abysmal little horror comedy. A 6.7 average for a 0/10 turkey well done, sheep. The only way I can explain this ridiculous phenomenon without laying the blame squarely on human viewers is to assume that someone had somehow taught 8,000 dairy-farm sheep how to log on to IMDb and then played them NOTC. I realize this is a slightly far-fetched theory, but considering my infinite love for humankind &#x96; especially (fanatical) movie-goers &#x96; I have no choice but to convince myself that the high rating is indeed a result of this very scenario that I just laid out for you. Sheep are to blame.Take all the worst and most annoying college-dorm gags, characters and putridly boring clichés and then multiply them by one hundred that's what we've got here. It is physically painful to watch garbage this bad. NOTC has NOTHING going for it the humour is embarrassing and obviously aimed at 5 year-olds (or 5 year-old sheep?), the dialog sounds stilted, the characters are one-dimensional plastic cutouts without either a soul or a purpose, the story is 100% derivative, the monsters aren't monsters (they're just leaches), the acting is horrible, the direction is uninspired, the action scenes are as dull as watching those 8,000 sheep graze grass, and the special effects and make-up sub-par.NOTC makes references to and shows scenes from Plan 9, a movie that is superior to it. The irony cannot be overstated.How bad must the writing and acting be when the nerds we're supposed to like and root for are so annoying that you'd want them dead from the moment you see them? The unfunny sidekick moron on crutches makes Pauly Shore look like Charlie Chaplin. Combine that with a truly dull run-of-the-mill alien-parasite plot, and you've got one of the worst movies from the 80s &#x96; no mean feat, considering that the late 80s are the worst period in American cinema.Fred Dekker, a talent-free writer-director whose filmography makes complete sense in light of this disaster, apparently wrote the script in seven days. Perhaps he is a very slow reader hence writer? I could have written this kind of tripe in 3 hours &#x96; and then would have hid in a corner for a month out of sheer shame. Dekker couldn't even decide whether he was doing a comedy or an all-out scary horror film; the confusion is written all over his ineptly written script. If you enjoyed NOTC, however, contact me I have wonderful fresh green pastures to recommend. "}]