[{"Title":"An adult movie rated PG","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"27 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sometimes it takes a great shock to remind us what our priorities should be. We may take offense at the suggestion that our ambitions, our lusts, and our greed are more important to us than the health and safety and happiness of our loved ones, but how often do we find ourselves acting as though they are? Sometimes the shock occurs in time for us to rearrange our priorities. Sometimes it comes too late, and we can only regret our foolishness.Garry Marshall's Nothing in Common concerns just such a shock. After 34 years of marriage, Lorraine Basner (Eva Marie Saint) leaves her husband Max (Jackie Gleason) because she can no longer tolerate his oppressive silence. Over the course of three decades he has treated her at best as a roommate, at worst as a handservant. Their marriage is barren, devoid of affection and intimacy. Aside from their son David, they have nothing in common anymore.Max is devastated by his wife's departure, and too proud to admit it. He would like nothing better than for her to return, but he is unwilling -- perhaps unable -- to protest his love. The shock has come too late for Max and Lorraine, and the blame belongs to both of them. Max has indeed treated his wife shamefully, but she in turn has put up with it. Thirty-four years is a long time to wait before lodging a serious complaint.The shock has come just in time for David Basner (Tom Hanks), the clever young adman always ready with a line -- for a client, for a girl. He lives a life of constant change, moving blithely from one presentation or seduction to the next, putting together a reel of 60-second commercials and 90-minute relationships as he goes. In his preoccupation with the surfeit of choices in his smorgasbord life, he has denied himself the opportunity to get to know his parents as people and deprived them of the one thing they still have in common, their son. The shock of their separation reminds him that he is neglecting his responsibility to his parents; the discovery that his father will require life-threatening surgery gives added urgency to his renewed interest in their lives.The shock also gives him pause to reflect on the shape of his own life, to recognize that he has nothing in common with the sleeping partners he picks out like actresses at a cattle call and that the childhood sweetheart with whom he can identify may not be available forever.Nothing in Common is an adult movie in the true sense of the term. It offers a mature treatment of a subject of extreme importance to adults in a country racked by divorce. It does not resort to nudity, coarse language, or superficial sociological dialogue. It presents the breakup of a marriage as an unmitigated tragedy, not as a grand opportunity for the exploration of narcissism (as is the case with such shallow contemporary films as An Unmarried Woman). It resolutely rejects the irresponsible and amoral lifestyle celebrated in so much of modern culture, and it encourages us to do likewise, by giving us an honest picture of it. Nothing in Common is an adult movie with a PG rating, a fine cast of characters, a skillful director, and an important story to tell. "},{"Title":"A Great Sleeper","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a great movie. It combines several emotional aspects of the human condition. Classic Tom Hanks humor, emotionally touching realism as well as some serious drama.Over the years since it was released I have watched this dozen's of times. I never get tired of it. I am moved as David Basner is forced to face the reality of his parents divorce and tries to build an individual relationship with each of his parents.I think this is much better than Splash, probably on par with BIG. Of course, just about anything with Tom Hanks is great simply because he is able to carry the load. "},{"Title":"Lots of talent, script a little facile","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film begins with a barrage of wit from Tom Hanks as an adman whose business is creativity. And indeed why should he not be witty? But then we meet his father, who is on his way to dying the death of a salesman, and his father is just as brilliantly witty. The lines just aren't lines that ordinary people could come up with. Everyone is a little too quick with the comedy, and when the comedy pauses, everyone is a little too quick to come up with the deep but gracefully phrased emotional revelations. And yet the movie is long; though most of the large cast of characters is quite undeveloped, still the script has a mighty load of relationships Hanks with his father, Hanks with his mother (not so much), Hanks with two different girlfriends, the father with the mother, Hanks with his boss, and Hanks with the big client. The big client is perhaps the worst the stereotype of the big blowhard who is charmed when you call him a big blowhard to his face.I think there were two movies here the one about the workplace, with a little subplot about the father; and the one about the father, with a little subplot about the workplace. I suspect, with no huge evidence, that someone had an emotional investment in not leaving material out. Some of the details have the ring of autobiography.Several big talents appear in the movie not only Jackie Gleason, Tom Hanks, and Eva Marie Saint but also Hector Elizondo and, in a tiny role, Dan Castellaneta. Nobody does anything here that he hasn't done better elsewhere, but still it's good to see them all.  "},{"Title":"Tom Hanks was great, even back then","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story line is pretty straight forward, and the production was good, especially considering the 80's style of movie making. But Tom carries the movie, with his now-classic mix of rapier wit, sarcasm, and charming humor.Tom play David Basner, a talented, slightly arrogant Chicago ad-exec whose parents just split after 50+ years of marriage. Though he has left the nest and views his parents as a necessary evil to be dealt with as little as possible, he finds himself providing ever-increasing support to each parent, all the while discovering the frailty and human side of each of them, and discovering what his priorities should be.A definite watch  "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie - Bess Armstrong at Her Best","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think the movie, Nothing in Common was a very wonderful show, from both the perspective of the acting and writing. The evolution of the relationship between the characters of Tom Hanks and Jackie Gleason was superb. However, what also had such a high degree of meaning to me was the character development between Tom Hanks and Bess Armstrong. Most especially poignant was the romantic street scene during about the middle of the movie, as the Carly Simon song played, If It Wasn't Love when Hanks comes to the realization of what he was letting go..and thus begins to grow up. The eye connection between Hanks and Armstrong as she begins to peddle away toward the end of the song, says it all. No dialog was spoken at all during this scene with the exception of Ms. Simon's lyrics...very moving. Bess Armstrong was wonderful in this role, and I believe much overlooked. She was beautiful inside and out. As another great song once stated, sometimes, the very thing you're looking for is the one thing you can't see. The movie was the greatest. The actors art seemed effortless, however, that is the sign of a professional. I highly recommend. "},{"Title":"A truly underrated Tom Hanks film","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have wanted to see this movie for a while now, and I finally saw it last night.  Tom Hanks did a great job, and so did Jackie Gleason.  In the 80's Tom Hanks made a lot of unmemorable films(Bachelor Party, The Man With One Red Shoe, Volunteers, The Money Pit, ect.), but this film is much better than all of those. This was also Tom Hanks' first dramatic role.  This film is probubly a difficult film to find, but if you can find it, get it and watch it. "},{"Title":"Garry Marshall once again sugar coats an important issue...and it works here!","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the movie that convinced me that Tom Hanks would go on one day to be an Oscar winning actor.  In his last screen appearance, the great one Jackie Gleason is perfect as the father who becomes a thorn in his son's side.  With his career in the advertising business going very well, Hanks is forced to care for his seriously ill father when he can as his parents (Oscar winner Eva Marie Saint is his mother) go through a divorce after 35 years together.There are some hilarious jabs at some of the immoral politics contained within the corporate world.  Bess Armstrong, Sela Ward and Hector Elizondo are all excellent in supporting roles.  "},{"Title":"Great Chicago movie and last hurrah for a Hollywood great.","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I happened to catch this movie while I was in college in 1991. At the time though, I only saw the ending, but it really piqued my interest b/c the last scene where Tom Hanks is pushing a wheel-chair-bound Jackie Gleason down a hospital corridor through a windowed overpass was actually filmed where I was born -- Northwestern Memorial Passavant Hospital in Chicago.Years later, I was finally able to view Nothing in Common in its entirety on video, and while I liked some parts of it -- mostly b/c of its numerous Chicago location shots -- I thought the film's production value was a little bit low for a Hollywood film as it was produced and directed in such a way as to be reminiscent of network television soap operas and made-for-TV movies. The overlaid 80's soundtrack, for example, gave this movie a sappy feel and exuded tres gauche maudlin schamltziness, IMO.Nevertheless, Tom Hanks was great, as usual, in his reprisal of the sympathetic 'everyman' role that has now become his trademark, and I believe that this was Jackie Gleason's last performance. Sela Ward, however, is the number one reason to see this film, as she is from beginning to end the unequivocal scene stealer. Not only is Sela Ward hot hot hot, Ward brought a certain amount of authenticity in her portrayal of a big-city advertising executive circa 1980s. This is because long before Ward became a model and began her acting career, Ward, who majored in advertising at Ole' Miss, was a real-life advertising copywriter and exec on Madison Avenue in NYC in the late 70's and early 80's. Regardless, Ward's drop-dead gorgeousness did not detract from her believability as the cutthroat yuppie executive, Cheryl Ann Wayne, by one iota. Great Chicago references though, e.g., Wrigley Field, location shoots in neighborhood pubs, downtown scenes, etc.  "},{"Title":"Hanks' perfect blend of comedy/drama; fitting swan song for Gleason; underrated Marshall flick","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  NOTHING IN COMMON (1986) ***1/2 Tom Hanks, Jackie Gleason, Hector Elizondo, Eva Marie Saint, Sela Ward, Bess Armstrong, Barry Corbin.  Garry Marshall's winning serious comedy about ad exec Yuppie Hanks who faces the inevitable caring for his at odds parents including separations, ageism and finally acceptance.  Warm and slyly comic turn by Hanks with some great moments. Armstrong is adorable and Ward is sexy (just needed to state this for no other apparent reason).  Best moment Hanks telling off bullying client Corbin. "},{"Title":"An intelligent and moving comedy drama featuring one of Tom Hanks' better performances","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" NOTHING IN COMMON was a smart and sentimental comedy drama that offered a pre-Oscar'ed Tom Hanks one of his best earlier roles. Hanks plays David Basner, an advertising executive whose lightning-quick advancement at his company becomes hampered when has to start taking care of his father (Jackie Gleason, in his final film role)who has become completely helpless after his wife (Eva Maria Saint) has left him. This comedy takes some pointed and effective jabs at the advertising industry and still manages to be a warm family story as well. Hanks beautifully walks a fine line between comedy and drama in one of his better and nearly forgotten performances. Gleason is abrasive as the dad, but Saint is lovely as the mom. Sela Ward, Bess Armstrong, and Barry Corbin are also effective in supporting roles and the ending has been known to produce a few tears. An intelligent and heartwarming look at the choices that we sometimes have to make regarding career and family. "}{"Title":"Charming early Tom Hanks movie.","Date":"2 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was directed by Garry Marshall, who also gave us such classics and Pretty Woman and Princess Diaries. It is a Garry Marshall type of movie.Tom Hanks was in his late 20s here as he plays David Basner, a very creative advertising guy who is popular with his employees and with the girls. But his life is thrown out of kilter when his parents of 36 years announce they are splitting up.Already near 70, Jackie Gleason is his dad, Max Basner, an old type salesman who brings samples to stores and takes their orders. But his time seems past and he is struggling to keep a job. Of note he died in 1987, the year after this movie was released. I remember him mostly in his comic roles in his old TV show I grew up on, but he was also a fine dramatic actor.Mom is played by still beautiful Eva Marie Saint (of 'On the Waterfront' fame) as Lorraine Basner. She married Max young, knew of his affairs, and finally after all those years is breaking off on her own.My friend Barry Corbin (we met shooting a movie in 1998 in Houston) has a good role as Andrew Woolridge, owner of an airline, looking to David and his company to develop a new advertising campaign.All-in-all a fairly typical movie for the 1980s, it is mainly enjoyable for the actors, the story itself is not particularly unique. "},{"Title":"Gleason went out on a performance to be proud of","Date":"13 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jackie Gleason and Tom Hanks two very gifted actors in a movie that runs all over the road. Nothing in Common opens up with Hanks at maximum likability, his successful ad executive riding in on cocky youthful charm. His relationship with his coworkers is the stuff of dreams (or fiction), and he makes the job look fun. Which gives no indication as to just how no-nonsense this story will get. He's playing an only child who has to deal with his parents' sudden separation and father's failing health. In short, he brings his dramatic A-game (especially notable for being so early in his serious actor career). Gleason, for his part, is playing a character that's not all that easy to stomach (sometimes even hateful), but it's one hell of a performance. This movie is all about their struggling relationship, and both men make it work. It's the tone that's inconsistent; sometimes light, sometimes serious, with an ending that feels sugarcoated. The comedy feels at odds with the darker material. "},{"Title":"A Highly Underrated Film","Date":"25 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've always believed, contrary to his starring in the 1988 film 'Big' that this was the film that actually launched Tom Hanks career as an actor who could tackle any role. He ran the gamut of emotions in this film, and made it all believable. He was funny, charming, and showed that he can tackle the role of a leading man in his David Basner character. It is also Jackie Gleason's swan song, and the chemistry between him and Hanks sent him off to the promised land with a flourish. Yes, it is a little dated and at times can look like a made-for-TV movie, but the dialogue and acting is spot-on.Great performances by Sela Ward and Hector Elizondo as well. This movie and its message can appeal to all generations. Do yourself a favor, watch this film, and the heartfelt performances that are given in it and you will see what I am talking about. "},{"Title":"Hanks a little too jokey","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" David Basner (Tom Hanks) is a lovable cocky successful Chicago ad exec who just got promoted returning from vacation. He wants his boss Charlie Gargas (Hector Elizondo) to make him partner. Then his mother (Eva Marie Saint) leaves his father (Jackie Gleason). He must shuttle between his stubborn crass father, and his mother who is happy with her new found freedom. Donna Mildred Martin (Bess Armstrong) is his best friend and high school sweethearts. He is trying to land a big airline account and uses his charm on the owner Andrew Woolridge (Barry Corbin). He sleeps with the media director Cheryl Ann Wayne (Sela Ward) who turns out to be Woolridge's daughter. His father does nothing but complains and is struggling. Then he gets fired from his salesman job.This movie tries too hard to be jokey. Director Garry Marshall is allowing Hanks to clown around a little too much. The broad comedy doesn't quite fit seeing how he's suppose to be a professional sweet talking the client. He is playing strictly as a wild creative ad exec who jokes around. The broad jokes don't fit either when the movie tries to move into more serious territories. The serious stuff has a bit more heft and that's due to genius of Jackie Gleason. He and Hanks have pretty good chemistry. I also have a minor problem with the over-use of montages to drive the story forward. It's lazy writing. "},{"Title":"A bit of an awkward experience to say the least.","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" David (Tom Hanks) has everything he could ever want in life! Fame, fortune, success, you name it. His life takes a chaotic turn when he finds out his parents have split up. I'm a big fan of Tom Hanks. The man can usually do no wrong, but this movie was a bit of a misfire. It tries to balance serious situations with awkward comedy, but it doesn't mesh together very well. The performances aren't the problem. Tom Hanks is absolutely great as he usually is, I didn't find his character very sympathetic though. Jackie Gleason & Eva Marie Saint are solid as the parents, but not easy to like either. Another problem I had with this movie is the poor pacing issues. This movie runs longer than it should for such a dull affair. I didn't hate this movie, but it was a rather mundane experience. Hanks fans might wanna give it a look, but I can't say there is much to look forward to. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Muddy but Well-Intentioned, This is More Drama Than Comedy","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jackie Gleason, in his final film role, plays the icy, stonewalling father of a hyperactive, professional Tom Hanks. There's a good message at the core of this one, about the impenetrable veneer expected of men from his generation and the dire effects it bore on those around him. Hanks, a smooth-talking corporate '80s ad exec, and Gleason, a foot-to-pavement salesman struggling to deal with the end of his career, manage well with the heavy stuff while occasionally injecting a few welcome dashes of humor and sarcasm to the mix. The film is flawed, though, in its unbridled lack of restraint. Every last supporting character hints at a big, convoluted back story and many of them are halfheartedly explored. That diverts attention away from the key players and leaves us with what seems like one big, fuzzy, unfocused batch of incomplete or unfulfilling arcs. There's simply too much to keep track of, and too much time wasted with characters we don't care about. Noteworthy as the stage where Hanks showed he could be more than just a comic player, but otherwise it's too overstuffed and vague to recommend. "},{"Title":"A very touching and meaningful movie.","Date":"27 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Nothing in common is truly a movie about relationships. It has so many interesting characters that are so important to each others. I have seen thousands of movies and the relation between the characters of Tom Hanks and Bess Armstrong is the most beautiful i have seen in a movie. Bess armstrong is so charming and beautiful, she brings sensibility and beauty to every scene she is in. We can see that she and tom loves each others but there are so many things that separate them. The beautiful song of Carly Simon if it wasn't love playing with images of the movie showing the people evolving with each others, and only by looking to their faces we see so many feelings of care and tenderness. It is a magic moment in the movie. Especially when Bess turns around and gives a touching look at Tom before going away with her bicycle, she tells him only with her eyes that he is letting her go.She is so expressive and touching in the expression of her love. It is also very touching to see the character of tom hanks, confronting but also caring for his father and his mother. This movie gives a very important message that we should talk to the people we love, tell them how we feel and tell them that we love them. And also, that we should create more happy and important moments with the people we love . It is a very underrated movie. It is very unfair that this movie has a 5.9 rating. "},{"Title":"Should have earned a nomination for Jackie!","Date":"1 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film starts with a Christopher Cross song, Lovin Strangers, which should have earned an Academy Award Nomination for Original Song. It's a catchy tune! The film stars Tom Hanks before hitting big. The film is directed by Garry Marshall. Tom Hanks holds his own against heavyweights like Jackie Gleason and Eva Marie Saint. This film was probably a final chance for Jackie Gleason who had a legendary status as comedian. His performance is subtle and terrifically played out as the father of Tom Hanks. This film is a comedy and melodramatic at times. Tom Hanks proved himself in his performance. Other actors like Hector Elizondo and Sela Ward act as his co-workers and boss.. Hanks's character Max Baxter works at an advertising agency. His mother leaves an unhappy marriage to pursue a single life. In the end, the theme song of loving strangers by Christopher Cross makes perfect sense. In some ways, they are not strangers but more similar than different with a stubbornness too. It's a must for any Jackie Gleason fan! Too bad, the Academy couldn't have given him one final shot at an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. Regardless, Jackie Gleason was legendary. "},{"Title":"Much better than I thought it would be.","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I finally got around to watching this movie on Netflix last night and was pleasantly surprised. I am a Tom Hanks fan and usually love all of his works but of course he's had a few that wasn't what I'd call spectacular acting or anything.But I watched Nothing in Common last night and really loved it. I wouldn't say it was his best, nor would it be one of my favorite movies, but I'd certainly watch it again. I thought every one did a great job and the characters were done very well. The storyline was great, it's such a common theme in today's world. I know many couples who got divorced in their 50's and 60's after many years of marriage and it does take a toll on the whole family. Kids who are now in their 30's often take for granted their parents are still together and don't even pay attention to the fact that things could not be going so smoothly. Anyways, it's a modern day theme still today and I thought the emotions shown in this movie were spot on.The only complaint I have was the cheesy '80's music that would start playing during a pivotal moment and I felt it sort of ruined it but I was able to get past that and realize what a fantastic movie this was. Definitely an important moment in Tom Hank's career that, I think, is often by passed. "},{"Title":"More Hanks and Gleason. It would have been better.","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie pops up on cable every once in a long while and I tend to watch it only for the scenes with Hanks and Gleason. I really think that best scenes are when the two of them are squaring off at one another, but these scenes are really far and few between and the rest of the movie just limps along in mediocrity. This was Jackie Gleason's final movie and I think he gave a great performance. He was always a far better performer than the quality of the movies he was in. Tom Hanks was fleshing out his career at this stage with a number of forgettable movies like this one. Remember, this was during his stint of movies like The money pit,Volunteers, and The Burbs. NTC was no worse, and not a whole lot better, but, just like Gleason, Hanks gives better performances than a number of the movies he has been in.IN Conclusion See this movie but concentrate on Hanks and Gleason. "}{"Title":"Filled with good intentions","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In this dramatic comedy Tom Hanks plays David a successful and very happy advertiser working on a big project when suddenly his world falls apart when his mother (Eva Marie Saint) separates from his father (Jackie Gleason) ending their long marriage and leaving to him many questions about relationships and family matters. This guy realizes that he and his grumpy old father has, like the title says, nothing in common. And now David needs to find a good balance between his career, a devotion with his parents and some possible love relationships.This was Tom Hanks first attempt in a more serious film, he was very fresh in the success of Splash and wanted a serious role without losing his comedian moves. The screenplay didn't help him much because created something in the between that took too long to develop, be interesting, be funny and serious at the same time. The story is good but it never reaches the perfect potential, it's a almost get there movie. It is effective on the drama level, in the comedy sometimes works (the 2001 A Space Odyssey reference used when David mets his new office was hilarious), other times it is very difficult to follow the proposition of the writers and director Garry Marshall. I enjoyed the conflicted drama between Hanks and Gleason and Saint; the reason of why David's parents didn't work out and some family secrets were presented in a good tone, nothing so melodramatic and the result in the ending was very satisfactory and kind of surprising I must say. I won't tell much but the things between the couple gets unsolved and that works brilliantly here because it was a realistic alternative, very surprising and escaped the Hollywood happy cliché. On the comedy side one of the biggest moments here is when Hanks presents his final advertising project along with his colleagues creating a interesting and original presentation where he read the presentation cards explaining the commercial and his colleagues start singing/dubbing all the characters of it. Hanks was good, Gleason in his final film role was very good (towards the ending mostly) and Eva Marie Saint is always a pleasure to watch her (her only scene with Gleason is touchy). The movie also includes Tuesday Weld, Barry Corbin and Hector Elizondo in effective supporting roles. The soundtrack is very 1980's and good to hear it, featuring two main songs (one performed by Christopher Cross and other by The Thompson Twins) and many other good songs. Just because it's not so great that doesn't mean you can't enjoy it. Despite the fact that it was a box-office failure and the ratings here are so low, this underrated movie deserves a better view. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Tries to do too much","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Nothing In Common is one of several '80s movies Tom Hanks made after the success of Splash but remains fairly unknown today. After seeing this movie, I think I know why. The movie doesn't seem to know what it's about. Is it an examination of the advertising business? Is it about a man who has a kind of adolescent personality who is forced to grow up? Is it about the problems an estranged man and his son have when they are forced to be together? Is is about the effects of divorce on a pair who have been married for many years? Is it about an elderly individual who suddenly has multiple crisises thrust upon him? The movie tries to cover ALL of these themes (and more), and even though it runs a lengthy 118 minutes it ends up being unsatisfying. (There are signs that the movie ran even LONGER, but was cut down in the editing room. Gleason, for one thing, only makes a few brief appearances in the first hour.) It's not a terrible movie - Hanks (an actor I normally dislike) gives a good performance, and the movie does remain weirdly watchable enough that you'll watch it to the end to see how everything is wrapped up. But when you consider all the talent in front of and behind the camera, you can't help feel some disappointment. "},{"Title":"A conglomeration of film themes saved by Hanks & Gleason","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not the best film from either Hanks or Gleason, but definitely not the worst either. Suffers from an indecision over whether it needs to be a comedy a drama or a sappy love wins over all things movie. Still, the humor is timed perfectly by Hanks, and Gleason, well, how can anyone ever say his timing can be off. He is truly the great one. The script is rather pedestrian and predictable, but still fun to watch. Eva Marie Saint is very good as the pathetic woman only now coming out of her shell. Hector Elizondo is as fine as you'll ever see him. The ending will jerk a few tears, and rightfully so. Pathos and laughter are mixed into a script that unfortunately wants to do all things for all people. Without Hanks or Gleason, this would have been flushed before it hit the screen. "},{"Title":"Good movie.","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Someone mentioned about last night, which they also hated, well its the opposite for me. I was around the ages of the main characters when both these came out and liked both of them. In this movie, you sorta see the early goofy (but very Funny) Tom Hanks doing his transition to the more serious Hanks as the movie goes on. And pretty much was his last real comedy role. Hanks does his usual funny shtick and it works well. And Gleason is great, and sad as an aging ex great sales rep, trying to hang on to his cust. as a changing world leaves him without a place. And the divorce of Hanks Parents thrown in sorta makes this a bittersweet comedy. Overall, its a good movie. "},{"Title":"This early Hanks gem is also a fitting swan song for Gleason","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you have not yet seen this terrific movie I suggest you try to find it at a video store near you immediately.After Hanks showed us his excellent comedic chops in Bachelor Party and Splash, he finally shows us what's to come in this wonderful drama (in which he also maintains his great wit). What truly sells this movie for me is the performance of Gleason after working in some incredibly dismal pictures in the years preceding. He finally shows that he still had the ability that he showed in his early work, and that he wasn't just picking parts for a paycheck.Don't pass up an opportunity to see this underrated 80's gem, especially if you're a Tom Hanks fan that is just starting to find some of his early works, or just to see Gleason's terrific swan song.  "},{"Title":"Memories","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie along with Field of Dreams really hits home with me, due to me losing my dad.  Both of these films dwell on the idea of trying to make peace with a distant father.  Tom Hanks and Jackie Gleason worked very well off each other.  They were very believable.  It made me think alot of my relationship with my father and how distant we really were.  I loved him...but he just kept his distance.  This film just makes you think about the fragility of life and how short it can be.  It also foreshadows how much potential Tom Hanks has as an actor.  Yes, it has it's comedic moments...but most of it is very serious and thoughtful. "},{"Title":"Must be Tom's best movies!!!","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This must be Tom's best movie! I must say I have seen this film like 20 times and still it moves me like hell! Finally it came on DVD and that is exellent!!!!!!!!!!! This film got everything I love in a movie, amd more?!See it! Love it!pero "},{"Title":"A star in the making","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In this movie, Tom Hanks shows what he will go on to be as he matures in his craft.  As he matures as a loving son, you can watch his eyes to learn what he is going through and becoming.  He shows that the star quality and work ethic existed long before most people recognized him for what he is a WONDERFUL, FULFILLING ACTOR.  I did not like many of his early movies until, after falling in love with him in The Green Mile, I went back and watched them with open eyes.  This movie gives glimpses of what is to come.  Thank you, Tom Hanks, for being such a giving actor. "},{"Title":"The First Film That Really Showed Tom Hanks' Unlimited Potential","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tom Hanks had been around for a few years before Nothing in Common, but it was this film that really showed how great he could be as an actor.  He stars as a high-class advertising executive whose life is turned upside down when his elderly parents (Jackie Gleason and Eva Marie Saint) get divorced.  While Saint adjusts and becomes happy with her life, it seems that Gleason just becomes more angry.  On top of this, his health quickly worsens.  While Hanks is working with Barry Corbin and daughter Sela Ward on a big advertising deal, it seems that Gleason's diabetic condition is becoming a real problem.  Gleason has basically upset everyone so much that everyone has given up on him and do not even know about his condition.  Hanks proves to be the only one that Gleason can count on in the end.  The relationship between Hanks and Gleason makes Nothing in Common a somewhat forgotten treasure from the 1980s.  Tom Hanks proved that he could handle delicate material and even mix it with smart comedy.  All the players are great as well.  Along with all the aforementioned actors, Hector Elizondo and Bess Armstrong do good work as well.  The screenplay is solid and the direction is focused throughout.  4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Underrated Last Film of Jackie Gleason","Date":"4 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Nothing In Common is one of those underrated 80s films that is forgotten but had plenty of heart. It is a favorite movie of mine.The film, released in 1986, was not a great financial success, but it became more popular as Hanks's fame grew. It is considered by some to be a pivotal role in Hanks's career because it marked his transition from less developed comedic roles to becoming a leading actor in more serious stories, while many critics also praised Gleason's performance, which was his last movie. The original music score was composed by Patrick Leonard. The film was marketed with the tagline On his way up the corporate ladder, David Basner confronts his greatest challenge his father. Happy-go-lucky advertising executive David Basner, who recently got a promotion at his Chicago ad agency, returns to work from a vacation. He is utterly carefree until his parents split up after 36 years of marriage.Out of the blue, he must care for his aging, bitter father Max (played by Gleason), as well as be there for his emotionally fragile mother, Lorraine (played by Eva Marie Saint). To add insult to injury, Max has just been fired from his 35-year career in the garment industry.At work, David is developing a commercial for Colonial Airlines, owned by the rich and eccentric Andrew Woolridge. A successful ad campaign would likely promote David to partner in his company. David develops a relationship with Woolridge's daughter, no-nonsense Cheryl Ann Wayne. His father is well aware of David's playboy nature. Asking at one point if his son is in bed with a woman, Max adds Anybody you know? The parents begin to rely more and more on David, calling him on the phone constantly. His mother needs help moving to a new apartment. His father needs to be driven to an eye doctor. Lorraine needs to be rescued in a bar after going out on a date with another man, having become frightened when he tried to kiss her goodnight.David's mother then confides to him that Max cheated on her and humiliated her. An enraged David goes to confront Max. Their argument ends with David saying Tomorrow I'm shooting a commercial about a family who loves each other, who cares about each other. I'm fakin' it. The next day, David is distracted by the deteriorating relationship with his dad and it affects his work. As a peace offering, David offers to take Max to a nightclub to hear some of the jazz music Max likes. It is there that David accidentally discovers a secret Max has been hiding diabetes. His foot is gangrened.Max must go to the hospital. While awaiting surgery, he and Lorraine share their thoughts about their life together, with Lorraine condemning him for doing what he did to himself and to her. Max sobs over his mistakes once he is alone.At the agency, Andrew Woolridge insists that David go to New York with him to promote his new ad campaign. David refuses, saying he wants to stay with his sick father. Woolridge complains that it's unnecessary. David tells him off and is fired.The next day, David accompanies his dad to the operating room. His boss Charlie assures him that he will personally smooth things over with Woolridge, so David should take some time off.Max loses two toes. When he goes home from the hospital, David pushes his wheelchair. Max admits to his son You were the last person I thought would come through for me. Even though I consider this film forgotten and underrated, it is available on DVD. It is worth the $5 for the DVD just to see the genius of Jackie Gleason one more time... "}{"Title":"80's cheeze ball .....similar to About Last Night.......","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I liked some parts of this film mostly because of its Chicago location shots, But I thought the film's production values were very low budget for a Hollywood film. It really looks reminiscent of a made-for-TV movie. The overlaid 80's Casio keyboard soundtrack for example, made this film seem (well what it is) very very 80's cheese. Watching it i couldn't help think immediately of About Last Night a GREAT film! How can two films both shot in Chicago, the same year (1986), and both films a Tri-Star production look so completely different!?! In a nutshell my favorite actor in this film was Eva Marie Saint who indeed gave a saint of a performance - The scene of her talking to her husband (Gleason) in the hospital, spilling her guts What Happened to us Max? I cared, I know I cared and Max's reply was a self-centered cold, Bullshit. God I felt her pain. It ripped my heart out. Don't rent this film but if it comes on TV on a Sunday afternoon you may get thru it but then go out immediately and rent About Last Night to cheer you up. This one is a BIG DOWNER. "},{"Title":"What a disappointment !!!","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie had every reason in the world to be a major hit. I, for one, was extremely disappointed. The main problem is that is was difficult for me to like either character. Max (Gleason) was just a mean, nasty old goat, and David (Hanks) was so obnoxious and self-absorbed it was unreal. And this business of him being such a major stud, (First he beds down a stewardess he meets, then later while he's working on the airline account, he manages to nail the owner's daughter, played by Sela Ward.) I'm sorry, I just ain't buyin' it. The only likable one in the film is the mother (Eva Marie Saint), but she appears only sporadically, and she isn't the focus of the plot. I eventually became a Tom Hanks fan after films like Philadelphia and Forrest Gump, but for several years I was leery of anything with him in it, because of this film. "},{"Title":"I didn't see the whole thing...","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...and I don't think that I needed to. What I saw went nowhere. If Nothing in Common was supposed to be a jab at the corporate world, then it didn't work. If it was supposed to be a look at relationships, then it didn't work. If I had seen this when it first came out, then I would have thought it unfathomable that Tom Hanks would ever win even one Oscar, much less back-to-back Oscars. How could Garry Marshall, having created something so great with Happy Days, create something so idiotic with Nothing in Common? As for Jackie Gleason, I heard that The Honeymooners was actually a rather cruel show, so it's not really any surprise that his role here is a piece of drudgery. And how could a magnificent actress like Eva Marie Saint get herself mixed up in this crap? The only reason that I stopped short of giving this movie just one star was the presence of Tom Hanks and Eva Marie Saint (plus Hector Elizondo), who can make almost any movie seem really good. But even here they have trouble doing that.Oh, and in case Eva Marie Saint is reading this Happy Birthday, Eva! You were one of my grandfather's favorite customers in Superdrugs down in Los Angeles! "}]