[{"Title":"Visually stunning hypnotic nightmare!","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Despite it's uninspiring title, Ken Russell's Gothic is actually an intriguing, and uniquely inspiring piece of cinema. Mary Shelly's Frankenstein is one of the stories that has helped to shape horror cinema, and so the story behind it is guaranteed to interest horror fans. This film isn't exactly the story of how the story came to fruition; but rather a compilation of ideas surrounding what could have happened (but quite clearly didn't). The film takes influence from the enigmatic Lord Byron more than anything, and it's always him that springs to mind as we watch the small cast delve into their imaginations, culminating in an orgy of sex and violence. The story is simple, and focuses more on imagery and the ideas behind what is happening on screen. We follow Percy Shelly and his wife to be, Mary; along with her sister Claire, who travel to the self-exiled home of Lord Byron. While there, the four of them; along with Byron's biographer, decide to indulge in the art of making up ghost stories. However, the fun gets out of hand when the quintet begins to believe that they have actually created a monster.The film has a very 'intellectual' flavour, but the fact is that there isn't a lot below the surface of this film. Gothic, to me at least, is a visual treat rather than food for thought - with Ken Russell's imagery providing more than any deep and complex substance. The imagery is stunning, and fits into the film very well. Russell's sets compliment the story excellently, and the atmosphere in which the film takes place is more important than the story itself. Lord Byron's house is almost a character within itself, and when combined with the actual characters; Russell has provided horror fans with a very surreal film indeed. The cast is excellent. Films with a small cast rely more on their actors, and this film certainly doesn't fall down in that respect. Gabriel Byrne leads the cast, and does an excellent job of holding the film together. Julian Sands, Natasha Richardson, Myriam Cyr and Timothy Spall, who all portray their characters excellently, join him. On the whole; I can easily see why people dislike this film; as it's somewhat messy, and doesn't adhere to common horror standards - but if you like your horror different, this is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Outlandishly Far Gone","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"29 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As this film seemed to be the first film (that I could find anyway) to describe how Mary Shelley came up with the idea for Frankenstein (published in 1818), I must give some consideration. However, the pains the film goes through in depicting a drug-induced, nightmarish landscape of horrors, is too far gone.Laudenaum, a popular hallucinogenic drug during the 19th century, brings to life the imagination of five manic individuals Lord Byron, his physician Dr. Polidori, Percy Shelley, Mary Shelley, and Claire Claremont (Mary's half sister). When Lord Byron challenges them all to come up with the most horrific tale they can muster, each cultivate his/her own macabre web of self-torture. This film, in an attempt to show the frantic workings of the mind, comes off as merely comical at times. Some of the scenes, which are intended to shock and convey horror, seemed to simply repel. Gabriel Byrne aptly plays the decadent Lord Byron, but his character is overly vicious and twisted. Julian Sands plays Percy Shelley, who is like a lunatic pedant at best. If you can figure out one thing he says, as he seems to spout non-sensical intelligence (if there is such a thing), then kudos to you. Natasha Richardson does well in playing Mary Shelley, although the described free love she was supposedly a participant in I think was a bit of a stretch in this movie and could have been left out.I must admit, for all the reviews I read of the film, I expected more of a punch and more of a meat-and-potatoes thriller story. This film did little but disorient using a sexually-hedonistic Rubix cube. Perhaps that was the director's intention, but the film did little in translating its horror and madness to its characters. Thomas Dolby's score just grates the disorientation further into the bone.I will give the director credit for doing his homework in researching the odd amount of death that seemed to riddle Mary Shelley's biography. The marriage of Frankenstein's creation to this aspect as being nothing ironic is quite clever. All in all, I just think a better job could have been done with a brilliant idea. And somebody please give Julian Sands a role where he is not a blithering crybaby! 4/10 "},{"Title":"Evocative and nightmarish-like retelling of the creation of a literary classic","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It must be said, I love the work of Ken Russell. If he were of any other nationality or generation he'd be subject to a veritable tome of critical analysis; with amazing films like Elgar (1962), The Debussy Film (1965), Women in Love (1969), The Devils (1971) and Savage Messiah (1972) all standing out as some of the most radical, imaginative and visually impressive feature films of the last fifty years. Too often his excesses got the better of him, as in films such as Lisztomania (1975), The Lair of the White Worm (1987) and Salome's Last Dance (1988), but despite the overall quality of those films, the results were always interesting and visually unforgettable. Gothic (1986) has much in common with the latter collection of works, being somewhat messy and decadent whilst still trying to remain somewhat conventional in its approach to character and narrative. It is this aspect of the film that is the weakest, with the story and the characterisation often feeling somewhat weak or unformed, particularly in the first half. However, once the film gets going - and the wild images and hallucinations begin to accumulate - Russell's energetic style and talent for creating outré and unforgettable visual compositions and ideas really begins to take off; creating a film that is fascinating and open to deeper interpretations regarding the character of Mary Shelley and the unfortunate circumstances of her life that may have led to the creation of her classic and iconic horror story, Frankenstein.Naturally, the roots of the film are based in fact, taking place in June of 1816 - the year without summer - when the five central characters met at Lord Byron's Villa Diodati by Lake Geneva. From here, the film creates a fictional back-story to the wet and windy night that would give birth, not only to Shelley's Frankenstein, but also Polidori's celebrated novel, The Vampyre. What follows is a bizarre and overwhelming example of pure visual storytelling, which is all the more impressive when you take into account the obviously limited budget. However, if you can overcome this aspect - as well as the rather poor performances from Julian Sands as the exaggerated Percy Shelley and Myriam Cyr as Mary's half-sister Claire Clairmont - then the film will reward with a truly astounding final act filled with Russell's typically surreal and lurid imagery, an escalating sense of fever-dream-like horror and exaggeration and the three fine performances from Gabriel Byrne as the seductive Lord Byron, Natasha Richardson as the tortured Mary Shelly and Timothy Spall as the beleaguered Dr. John William Polidori. The tension is also heightened by the choice of location, with the film taking place almost entirely within the Byron estate, and almost entirely at night; although there are two separate framing devises, one of which takes place in the present-day and helps clarify some of the scenarios depicted in the film's aforementioned final act.These don't necessarily add much to the story - though neither do they detract - simply giving a certain sense of context before Russell gets on with the mind-blowing imagery and finely tuned atmosphere of eroticised dread. Some have likened the film to Dario Argento's classic supernatural thriller Suspiria (1977), with the use of Gothic locations, bold colours and a self-consciously visual approach to storytelling. These similarities stand, though you can also see the film as an extension of the earlier Altered States (1980) and Crimes of Passion (1984); both in certain thematic preoccupations, and in the actual visual presentation overall. The film works simply because of the intensity of the images, but ultimately going deeper than even that; tying the whole thing into the character of Mary Shelley and her own sense of personal tragedy. It gives the film that much needed emotional quality, helped along by the fine performance from the incredibly young Richardson in one of her first leading roles. She's complimented well by Byrne, who takes the role of Byron entirely seriously, even when spouting some incredibly pretentious dialog and attempting to seduce every character in the film. Nonetheless, the intensity of the role shines through and really establishes the character, with his fears and weaknesses going towards the creation of his own personal nightmare that will reverberate through time.The film suggests that by raising the spirits of the dead you fate yourself to an inescapable evil. This is reflected by the tragic circumstances that surrounded the characters - hinted at in that tour-de-force final - and their eventual fate as documented by history itself. It's very clever once you get past the awkward, slightly giddy and anachronistic-like feeling of the first few scenes and really get into the horror aspect and the more much rewarding sense of human interest. Naturally, it won't be to all tastes, as the factors that Russell tends to highlight in his work - religious symbolism, garishness, sex and sensuality, brutality and anachronistic humour - will obviously cause problems for viewers looking for a more conventional horror story. I liked the break in convention, though. After all, there are plenty of horror films that regurgitate the same old stock tactics and scenarios. Gothic goes for a different approach; one that is more eccentric, single-minded and unique, layering the fact and fantasy elements of Stephen Volk's imaginative screenplay with a lurid and sensational approach to the visual telling of the story, rife with his usual themes and obsessions. If you love Russell's work, and appreciate interesting and unconventional cinema, then Gothic is well worth checking out; if not for the bizarre visual aspects and exciting, nightmarish final, then certainly for the nicely judged performances of Richardson, Byrne and Spall. "},{"Title":"One of the most interesting horror films ever made!","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"25 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I've only seen two of Ken Russell's films (Gothic and Lair of the White Worm), but if they are anything to go by, he is one of the best horror directors of all time. It is so nice to see someone going against the mould and not making predictable slasher films or Hollywood 'Sixth-Sense' style horror-thrillers.It is about the weird night that Mary Shelly and her poet brother spent with Lord Byron, which supposedly inspired her to write Frankenstein.It is filled with hallucionations and erotic weirdness which bridges it much closer to the work of David Lynch or Cronenberg than to the traditional horror film.I absolutely loved this film and can't recommend it enough. Even if you hate it, you can't deny that it's an experience! 5/5  "},{"Title":"Do What You Want!","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I guess if you were Ken Russell in 1986, riding a crest of weirdity, you can do just about anything you want. I think that Russell was the first really wacko film director I got to know. I hadn't watched anything of his for a long time. This is one of those things that allows this director to take complete license. You have true historical figures who come together in the house of Lord Byron, a really colorful character. The lives of these people come out of boredom. They are misunderstood and a bit spoiled. So, according to Russell, they sit down one night and begin to tell their best horror story. This leads to a series of debauches, hallucinations, whatever. It is filled with images and sex and masochism and anything that the director could throw in there. Now, because you are producing in an accepting time, you can get away with all that. I guess I would watch this again, knowing what the whole of the thing presents, but when you play by no rules other than to do what you want, the results are like throwing paint on a canvass. We get a lot of paint, a lot of color, but no motif. So, while I thought this was a real head trip, I'm not so sure there is much coherence or even meaning to it. "},{"Title":"One of the best works of Director Ken Russell","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Films like Gothic, directed by Ken Russell, will not be to most people's taste. Russell is noted for a skewed view of life with very twisted imagery, such as his invariable trademark snake that slithers around in all his films. In this particular film he has devised a story that touches on reality in an unreal way as he brings the famous night that Percy Shelly, Mary Shelly, he half-sister Claire, Lord Byron and Dr. John Polidori spent together that brought about two of the great horror stories of all time about as a result. Between debauchery and Opium laced nightmares this could have been very much what it was really like as this quintet of famous or rather infamous people got together and brought the birth of a new kind of literature, years before Edgar Allen Poe began his writing. Polidori's The Vampyre which for many years was attributed to Byron was the forerunner and inspiration for Bram Stoker's Dracula. Of course, Mary Shelly was to go on and write Frankenstein. This is how it could have happened. This feature is intense and not for everyone. Definitely not for young people. But a true intellectual's horror tale. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Film","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is the type of film which makes you fall in love with movies. Ken Russell is a master filmmaker and one which always captivates, delights and challenges the viewer. I was lucky enough to catch him in Philadelphia in the 90's where he was given a filmmaker award for excellence in film. He's as interesting, humorous and intelligent as his movies.Other films by him I highly recommend WOmen in Love (1969), Lisztomania (1975), Altered States (1980), Salomé's Last Dance (1988), The Lair of the White Worm (1988), The Rainbow (1989) and there are probably many others - including his work for British TV - but I've yet to see them yet unfortunately.Gothic is a film which will enthrall, engage and frighten the viewer with excellent acting from ALL the actors - support and lead. Sad that this was Richardson's first major film and we have been denied the grace of viewing any future projects from such a wonderful actor.I highly recommend Gothic to any serious film goer. This is the type of film which will make wish to research further information about the main characters. Mary Shelley is brought to flesh through Russell's excellent direction and Richardson's beautifully nuanced intelligent interpretation. "},{"Title":"Leeches and Intellectuals","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" GOTHIC is a seductive and fascinating study of the four principle players in the turn-of-the-century origin of at least one, if not two, of the principle monster icons of popular culture thevampire and the Frankenstein Monster. But despite the incredible (and true) historical significance of the writing challenge, to produce a ghost story apiece worthy of these literary personages, Mary and Percy Shelley, Lord Byron and Polidori, the film is brilliant in its fictional depiction of people whose minds are brilliant enough, creatively, that their ideas become tangible forces, released, and uncontrollable.The chaotic structure of GOTHIC is excellent, while the interplay between the actors is fabulous. GOTHIC's intellectual hysteria creates an atmosphere where ghosts and demons gain power and autonomous life from their creators, showing the formulation in Mary Shelley's mind of the Frankenstein story, and the tragic consequence of both the story and the real lives of Percy Shelley, Byron and Polidori. Well worth experiencing. "},{"Title":"Even more intriguing than the story of Frankenstein itself!","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I didn't quite understand this film the first time I saw it.  It was like a mass of confusion, but after watching it a few more times, I understand why it seemed as such.  It can be difficult to tell what's real and what's just a hallucination (or a ghost).  Gothic is definitely a thinking person's horror film.  These people (Mary Shelley, Lord Byron, etc) were definately ahead of their time and very strange for lack of a better word.  I was never a big fan of the story of Frankenstein, despite being a horror movie fan, but this film reeled me in to wanting to know more about Mary Shelley and the bizarre lifestyle of her and her friends. How true to their actual lifestyle this film actually is, I'm not sure, but it makes Mary Shelley's masterpiece make more sense.  As for the film Gothic itself, words are hard to describe it as it is hard to understand it.  But once one does get it, it is far more intriguing than Frankenstein in my opinion.  With the insanity, freaky images, and the insight into the lives of these famous literary people, I would highly recommend this film to intelligent people who like horror films.  It may be far from the best film ever made, but it is excellent for people with a mind.  And as I tell people who haven't seen it, 'this movie will make you never want to do drugs again'!  "},{"Title":"Style at the expense of substantive storytelling","Date":"25 December 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Gothic, directed by Ken Russell, is a rather interesting film that deals with, among other things, the dark side of creativity and imagination. More specifically, it's about the night when Mary Shelley came up with the idea that she would later turn into the novel Frankenstein. By and large, the performances are quite good, although I didn't really care for Julian Sands. However, the story was almost non-existent and ephemeral, existing merely to have a bunch of people go around saying stuffy lines and get scared out of their wits by creatures borne of their imaginations. Granted, some of these sequences and images were haunting and surreal, but it all added up to a lot of style with very little substance. As far as the score is concerned, I thought that the work Thomas Dolby did was impeccable as far as its musical quality, but some of the cues didn't really fit (to me) with this kind of period piece. The story takes place in the early 19th century, but a lot of the music sounded very 1980's with synthesizers and programmed drums. It's a score that I'd buy, but I'm not too sure that it completely fit the film. From a technical standpoint, I thought it was very well-made, i.e., it was well-lit and the shot composition was varied. There were also some Dutch angles that accentuated the disorienting feel the filmmakers seemed to be going for. Overall, if you're looking for a well-told story that has characters you care about and identify with, this might not be the best choice for you. However, if you like heavily stylized and surreal horror, this will probably suit your fancy. "}{"Title":"Ken Russell meets the Mother of Frankenstein","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I saw this some twenty years ago, and haven't seen it since. It is a very particular vision of the famous night when Lord Byron, Percy Shelley and Mary Shelley spent a night in a country estate in Switzerland and decided to see who wrote the scariest story. Mary Shelley, of course, wrote Frankenstein out of that night. There are other movies on this subject - I think Roger Corman made one. Gothic is what one expects from Ken Russell - lurid, grotesque, hallucinatory, over the top. It hasn't been seen a lot since then, it hasn't become one of his classics, but it is a good film for those who like this sort of thing. And there is the addition of seeing the then young and upcoming English actors playing this - Natasha Richardson (as Mary Shelley), Gabriel Byrne (Lord Byron), Julian Sands (Percy Shelley), Timothy Spall. The scene that have stand most in my memory Myriam Cyr's nipples turning into eyes. "},{"Title":"Shelley gets loaded with Byron!","Date":"28 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Historical accuracy moves over to make room for dramatic license in this extremely bizarre re-imagining of the weekend Mary Shelley first brought Frankenstein to life (as it were!). Although, to be fair, there isn't too much about the novel at all.Byron (Gabriel Byrne) invites Mary, her then future husband Percy (Julian Sands) and her cousin Claire to spend the weekend with himself and another friend of his, Dr Pollidore (who also went on to write a Gothic horror) at his estate in Geneva. After much drug-fuelled recourse, dodgy parlour games and sexually liberated liaisons it becomes apparent that the ever omni-sexual Byron has questionable motives and is basically trying to fire-in to all the guests! This brings about an adequate amount of paranoia,jealousy and arguing amongst everyone which inevitably turns into soul-seeking, psychotic breakdowns and eventual emotional ennui. Presumably it is in this state Shelley went on to put pen to paper.The cast are solid in their roles and Byrne is thoroughly convincing as the foppish predator. Russell delivers this movie with complete frankness and is somewhat mercenary in his reshaping of the facts to suit his own ends. Never one to shirk from the difficult often shocking subjects, he manages to turn an otherwise average script into a sexually charged hallucinogenic nightmare. While not exactly deserving of the horror label it has been tagged with, Gothic is an interesting foray into the dark abyss of the director's mind. "},{"Title":"Not a Masterpiece, But a Very Good Film","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Gothic is a wonderful mess of a movie, combining period costumes and detail with hallucinogenic, drug induced sequences. Focusing on the famous night when Mary Shelley first conceived of Frankenstein, Ken Russell's film builds on this foundation to create an in many respects psychedelic examination of its main characters, Mary Shelley, Percy Bysshe Shelley, Lord Byron, and Claire Clarmont. Through the bizarre visions of that night, we come to understand the personalities and lives of these figures.These character studies are furthered by excellent performances. Gabriel Byrne is excellent as usual, while Natasha Richardson is good in her debut role of Mary Shelley. However, the true stand out of the piece is Miriam Cyr as the troubled Claire Claremont, stealing many scenes from her better known co-stars.In many respects, the film is incoherent, and will be difficult to follow if you do not pay attention. (Some familiarity with the historical figures discussed also helps.) However, Ken Russell specializes in cinema as experience and spectacle, and carries the whole project off to great effect. "},{"Title":"Byron has a Lou Reed problem, but what the heck!","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Bit of a bizarre summary, but, like Reed, Byron is persistently seen as a one-dimensional dark character. It's what people want him to stand for, and, like LR, Lord B did his best come out as the Haunted Soul.And though, as a Byron fan, I cherish this movie along with the much weaker Byronpic Remando al Viento (Gonzalo Suarez, 1987), Gothic makes this capital mistake. Well, it's not a mistake as much as a missed opportunity. Only an constipated intellectual would object to Gothic's Byron portrayal (or to the Amadeus-Mozart) - nothing wrong with that. It's just that it would have been much more interesting to have a 'new' view on Byron, different from the same litany we've had to hear for the past 200 years. But!But, the thing that does it in this one is the casting! The actors are simply great. Julian Sands IS Shelley (although maybe with some slight overacting). Same for the others (Timothy Spall!). Gabriel Byrne does a terrific job as the Lord himself and even manages at several points to squeeze in some glimpses of Byron's vulnerability (eg when Mary rejects his avances). He makes the tragic Byron come alive, and not just the dark dangerous madman. However, he's too old. And I'm not saying this out of puristic concern. It's just that the partly 'self-created' nature of Byron's theatrical tragedy would have come out better if he'd been portrayed as the 28-year old he was at the time (Byrne was 10 years older and it shows). From the looks point-of-view, Hugh Grant was better casted in Remando al Viento, though his acting was terrible (or, 'Grant-ish') and at no point did he manage to portray the subtlety in character that Byrne gave Lord B.Russell had the great idea not to try and portray a significant part of Byron's life, but rather to focus on the atmosphere that was about in naive early-19th-century Europe awaking to romanticism. A bit unfortunately, Russell focused on the hallucinogenic parts of the Geneva-nights (who would have expected anything else from him?) - and misses out on some of the other aspects of that era that formed the Byron character. Of course, when you set the movie in one single night, you have to invent something to keep the action going - Byron eats, drinks and tries to write some verses is not exactly a plot.Anyway, cool movie, but also a missed opportunity. Maybe make another Byron movie with exactly the same cast? (you'd be surprised to see what they can do with make-up these days) I see it at least 5 times a year. More for Byron fans however. "},{"Title":"You'll Need Drugs to Appreciate It...","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ...which undoubtedly explains my lack of appreciation, understanding, or any positive feeling I might muster against this extraordinary piece of rubbish. I love Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, the Frankenstein films(for the most part), and history but this film has virtually nothing to do with any of that. It looks like some guy on a big acid trip got a camera and some far-out crew and made this film coaxing some over-the-top performances from what normally would be a great cast. Yes, many will say I lost the point. I didn't get what director Ken Russell was trying to do. His vision is lost on me(thankfully I might add). The best part of this film is the beginning prologue and end epilogue of a tourist group in Switzerland seeing the place where Frankenstein was born. Pity, we had to endure the bit in the middle. The film lacks cohesion so to give you the story would virtually be impossible but here goes five people(Lord Byron, Percy Shelley, Mary Shelley, some other girl, and Dr. Polidori)are vacationing in the Alps and taking part in all kinds of perversions that would make the Marquis de Sade quite happy. You might have been taught in school that they had a contest and each set out to write a ghost story. Here there is little screen time devoted to that. What we do get is intellectually pompous drivel devoid of any real substance - substantiative or artistic. The cast drives around like mad with Julian Sands parading naked on a roof top and looking more like an inmate of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest rather than a great 19th century Romantic poet. Gabriel Byrne is sadistic as the great Byron. Timothy Spall is mad and disgusting as Polidori. Only Natasha Richardson give a somewhat subtle performance - if you can call it that for it lacks any direction at all. Ken Russell has always been intriguing as a director and if you are looking for something off the beaten track - this road is spotless and free of conventional transportation. Sometime; however, I would rather take the road more traveled. "},{"Title":"Ken Russell Fans Revel&#x85;Others Say Bring a Barf Bag","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Director Ken Russell's Films are Nothing if Not Hallucinatory Hubris, Visually Stunning Excesses of Something Out of a Nightmare or Drug Induced. He Usually Ignores the Winds of Caution and Throws it Out and Makes Some Sensitive Viewers Throw Up, or At Least Throw Up Their Hands.Russell is Not an Easy Take, Not a Friendly Filmmaker and has Many Detractors. This One is No Exception. Bringing to Life, Stillborn Some Say, a Night of Real Life Eccentrics Like Byron Shelley, Mary Shelley, and Dr. Polidori.It is a Wild Weekend with Enough Bizarre Occurrences and Beholding Behavior to Fill a Gothic Novel. Hardly Any of it is Real and Comes from the Fertile Imaginations of the Party Goers. The Cast is Wonderfully Weird with Gabriel Byrne Leading the Pack of Misfits with Timothy Spall, Julian Sands, and Natasha Richardson. Thomas Dolby Provides the Intentionally Anachronistic Score.Overall, There is Nothing Quite Like a Ken Russell Film and His Fans will Probably Adore this One. Others Not So Much. It's Not Made for the Mainstream Who are Quick to Point Out How Much They Hate Him.It's Fascinating, Fun, Horrifying, Disgusting, Decadent, and Delightful. Especially If You Like to Wallow in the World of Drugs and Misanthropic Madness. "},{"Title":"Stylish and Opulant","Date":"23 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Ken Russell hit his stride as a visualist in the late 80s with his sexual horror romps Lair of the White Worm and Gothic. Gothic covers the story the Romantic Poets Lord Byron & Percy Shelley, Shelley's wife Mary as well as their companions and the evening that lead to the creation of Frankenstein and the Victorian vampire tale. Russell uses an 80s MTV aesthetic combined with lavish period set pieces and bizarre horror elements to create a rock star world that the poets would have surely be drawn to if they had lived 150 years later. On top of this Russell successfully integrates Henry Fuseli's ( an early love interest of Mary Shelley's mother) painting masterpiece The Nightmare into his film. This piece of art caused such a sensation when unveiled in 1782 that it can really be considered the first great horror franchise so it's very cool to see it come to life on screen and such surrealism sets Gothic apart from Haunted Summer and Rowing in the Wind.... 2 pretty good contemporary efforts that also cover Byron and Shelley's Swiss exploits. "},{"Title":"It was a dark and stormy night.","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Fierce and flamboyant film director Ken Russell takes the viewer for a weekend in the country with some literary notables in Gothic, a nightmarish orgy of blood and thunder based in fact. It is nothing new for Russell who unlike like any other director took factual historic accounts of lives of the famous (Mahler, Tchaicovsky, Isadora Duncan) and applied audacious compositions that some might say bordered on character assassination. Given Byron's temperament I'm sure he would have approved.Lord Byron (Gabriel Byrne) has the poet Shelly (Julian Sands) , wife Mary (Natacha Richardson), and half sister sometime lover Claire down to the Villa for a weekend of sadistic parlor games challenging the status quo and their sanity with ungoverned imagination and confession. Accomodated by a violent storm the five scurry wildly from room to room to roof hallucinating and acting out monstrously. The weekend is framed between two eras fitted into brief prologue and epilogue, centuries apart with inquisitive tourists checking out the grounds and listening to the same gossipy chatter of the guide. Within this framework we are barraged with relentless scenes of shock and awe as each character confronts and is confronted with mean spiritedness and cruel reality. Russell in typical form offers up some incredibly potent imagery with copious amounts of blood and sexual depravity as well as appearances by living gargoyles and leeches. He allows no respite between opening and finale as the dark humor he skillfully applies in other films is so dark as to be invisible here. Byrne provides the character of Byron with a a perverse twinkle in his eye while half sis Claire played by Myriam Cyr remains semi demonic throughout. Sands idealistic Shelley counterpoints Byron nicely and Natascha Richardson brings a balance and touch of sanity to the group as Mary Shelly, even as she endures a night of terror and memory. Fifth wheel Dr. Polidori played by Timothy Sprall conveys a magnificent repugnance. With Byron's well documented esoteric lifestyle and the fact that Mary Shelley claims to have been inspired on this night to write the book Frankenstein Russell's wild style is a good fit to fill in blanks. Watching it for some may be an ordeal but I'm sure Lord Byron would have been impressed with Ken's kindred spirit. "},{"Title":"Poets are the acknowledged strange beings of the world","Date":"6 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have read some, quite of lot, of the viewers' critiques before watching this movie again, from start to end, and form a final opinion. I did see the movie, which I have seen whole or in fragments previous times and some things became clearer to me.You have to know enough about the background of the story and the heroes to understand the plot. Otherwise you will think that they are a bunch of raving maniacs. I happened to be interested in the Romantics, thus I knew a lot about the stories generated from the time spent in the famous villa. There the most famous novel of Mary Shelley, Frankenstein was conceived. I had read the novel in the English language with a dense introduction that was describing the preoccupations of Shelley's circle, the infatuation of the age with the newly discovered electricity and the belief that it could generate life. Also I knew about the intricate relationships of the characters involved.If someone without this background tries to understand what the movie is about, he will be disappointed unless he has such a fine artistic sensibility and general education that can fill the gaps of the ignorance of the facts and emotions surrounding this coterie of quite exceptional people.All the information relevant is contained in the dialogues and images but unless you knew that before you would be unable to make the relevant connections or understand why the characters behave in such a manner, why and what they speak about and the whole purpose of it all.The actors are good I think for their roles. Gabriel Byrne has the latent evil touch and subdued lasciviousness that we attribute to Byron, Julian Sands is truly, the Mad Shelley, as he was called by his fellow schoolboys when at Eton, Timothy Spall gives a grotesque image of Dr. Polidori, which is perhaps unavoidable given the fact that tradition has so much focused to the personalities of the two great literary men that his reputation has been eclipsed, therefore a normal appraisal is perhaps impossible. Myriam Cyr as Claire Clermont follows the conventional interpretation of her character as a sensuous girl attracted by the fame of the poets and lacking herself the depth and gravitas of Mary Shelley. Natasha Richardson is the most normal character among the protagonists and has a fine sequence of scenes, near the end, where she sees as if a prophetess the ensuing fate of many of the characters, which latter developments validate. The other point I wanted to make about Claire Clairmont is that when she is not portrayed as a slut with cultural pretensions, she is shown in a condition of animalistic primitivism or as possessed by demons. Dr. Polidori is also a buffoonish homosexual who eyes both the great poets. It is clear that because Claire Clairmont and Dr. Polidori were the ones of the company that did not achieve literary fame, because the were not the literary monuments the other two and to a lesser extent Mary Shelley later became, they have to suffer in the hands of posterity when a director has to cast their roles so as to fill the required quorum along with the great ones. Not only life but also posthumous reputation is unfair....Sound and visual effects are adequate and achieve surprise and fear, especially the first time the movie is watched. A lot of demons and related creatures occupy the screen. One though must not blame the director for overdoing it because those elements formed the staple iconography of the so called Gothic atmosphere and the diaries of the heroes contain references to hallucinations and the like, perhaps because of drug taking, or just because the symbiosis of some of the most active and strong imaginations alive during that particular time.The best word that I can use to describe this movie is uneven. It has good actors, it is supported by sound and scenic effects, it has costumes that look authentic but at times it becomes disgusting, chaotic, devoid of a real plot and radiates hysteria. There are attempts towards sexual explicitness, though by today's standards not so offensive; it must have been for the eighties though...I was interested in the movie because I am very interested in the Romantics. Otherwise it can be seen as a story of rich people indulging to their decadent appetites for sex, drugs, aimless philosophising and self-absorption, reminding one of a company of people devoted to Marquis de Sade's idea of pleasure(graphic illustrations of his books are page-turned by Mary). Mind you, if tabloids had existed during that time the story would have been a scoop. It might even hit YouTube. When famous people follow their fancies or get their kicks, it is always different from simple plebeians.... Apart from the literary fame of the characters, which in their lifetime was actually secured only by Byron, Shelley and even more Mary Shelley were to be vindicated by posterity; and Shelley was actually more famous-that is- notorious for his unconventional sexual mores, his atheism and his political radicalism, rather than for his verse, is this a story actually worthy to be made to a movie? I can not give a definite answer. Would such a story of drugs, free love (actually sex), hallucinations and sheer self-absorption be of interest to anyone? But of course it produced Frankenstein the most famous of Gothic novels &#x85;. I do not think that all this creativity was portrayed in the film. It focused more on the bad, mad and dangerous to know aspects of the characters. In that sense I do not think it does justice to what happened in the villa of Geneva and mainly to what was produced. Not all hedonists produce novels of enduring value. Stressing on the eccentric aspects of the lives of the characters the film has betrayed their literary significance and succumbed to sensationalism and cheap thrills. "},{"Title":"It didn't ask to be born.","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Was this a story of Mary Shelly's inspiration for Frankenstein. It could be, but that is not what makes it interesting.It is not your usual horror film. It is more for those who dwell in the surreal world fueled by opiates.Shelly (Julian Sands), Mary Shelly (Natasha Richardson), and her half-sister Claire (Myriam Cyr) travel to Lord Byron's (Gabriel Byrne) estate where his biographer (Timothy Spall) is staying. They enter into a realm of drug-induced fantasy, where they conjure up their greatest fears.It was a mess, wandering all over the place, but it certainly kept my interest. "}{"Title":"Okay Horror Flick With Some Creepy Moments!","Date":"30 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Ever wonder what Mary Shelley was thinking when she wrote Frankenstein? Well, this semi-entertaining horror flick tells an interesting story about the night that Mary Shelley came up with one of the most popular monsters of all time. However, the story in which this movie tells is completely false, however, it is still an interesting tale. Gabriel Byrne gives a pretty well-done performance as the mysterious Lord Byrone, and I have to admit that the plot was pretty good, too. Yet, some parts of the film were just plain boring, and some of it didn't make too much sense, which was why I only gave Gothic six stars. All in all, the movie was not that bad, there were some tweaks here and there. Check this one out if you're a fan of the horror genre, or if you like Mary Shelley's Frankenstein! Rated R for Violence, Sex, Nudity, and Profanity.Grade D+ "},{"Title":"What movie would Lord Byron have made if he were still alive ?","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Or if he were really a vampyre, as suggested in Tom Holland's THE VAMPYRE. During this terrible night in Geneva, the most inspired gothic spirits of Europe will challenge themselves to the writing of an horror story. The winner will be the one who would create a story so frightening that it will become true in the others' minds. In essence, it will give birth to two major works of English litterature, Mary sheley's Frankenstein an Polidori's VAMPYRE (which seemed to be very much taken from Lord Byron's life). The atmosphere is heavy and the prestation of each of the actors remarkable. You would believe you were back in the old days, in the presence of Lord Byron and the Shelleys. I would like to make a point escpecially on Gabriel Byrne's play as a dandy and, perhaps, vampyre. There are lots of hints at Frankenstein (with Shelley naked under the rain shouting Lightning is the force of the universe), at the vampyre myth, and at Shelley's obsession about worms, and so on... All in all, for an experience in fear, but not horror, we are held in good company, not to say the best.  "},{"Title":"pretty disturbing film","Date":"17 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Ignore all the negativity in writings about this film, unless you are hoping for some sombre biopic, then you will surely love this all sex and violence interpretation of what might have been the night three writers were so inspired. Usually the night is usually noted for giving us Mary Shelley's 'Frankenstein' but seemingly both Byron and Shelley were also fired up after this night of all nights. Visually as you would expect from Russell it is absolutely sumptuous and startling and with the surprisingly effective score from Thomas Dolby, this is one fantastic ride from beginning to end. Not too much to stop and think about but be assured this is a pretty disturbing film with all the participants encouraged to let out their inner demons. Great turns all round with Gabriel Byrne and Natasha Richardson being particularly effective and Timothy Spall and Myriam Cyr, particularly disturbing. Sensational. "},{"Title":"Utter confusion!","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie gets a 10/10 for the sheer creativity and weirdness! I rented it for the ever-wonderful Julian Sands, who plays Shelley. Wow, I got quite the surprise while watching this one! It actually is really scary at some points. I nearly jumped out of my seat when I saw Kiran Shah (who was a size double for Frodo in Lord of the Rings) sitting on Mary's stomach. It's so unsuspected, even though it's on the cover of the movie box.This film is all over the place and quite disturbing. Thomas Dolby (She Blinded Me With Science) provides a great, if somewhat out of place, score.Trust me, you'll feel like you've been on an acid trip after watching this one! "},{"Title":"The Night Modern Horror was Birthed","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I saw this film the day-after Halloween, 1986, and went-back for another-watch. This is one-of Ken Russell's better 1980s-films, and it exudes a sensibility for decadence that I love. If you really do feel a soft-spot for horror, this is going to be the best film-about that amazing-night at Villa Deodati in 1816, when Lord Byron, his Physician-and lover John Polidori, and Mary and the poet Percy Shelley made a wager as to who could write the best ghost-story. This film is about that night, and the people who birthed the modern-horror genre. Poe would cement it shortly-afterward. With luscious-cinematography, and an eye for the Romantic, Russell captures-the-essence of where Mary Shelley's Frankenstein came-from, as-well as the genesis of the Vampire-as-seducer that was Byron. Ironically, Lord Byron never wrote his story, nor does it appear did Percy Shelley. Nearly-all of the people from that night were dead within-ten-years, nearly all died-young. Russell almost-suggests they unleashed-a-curse that fateful-night, yet he also undermines-it intentionally, showing us that the seeds-of-destruction were already present in Byron, Percy and Polidori.Fitting to a Ken Russell-film, we are regaled-with lots of sexual-expression, and insanity! To say this film is intoxicating for lovers of the Romantic would be euphemistic--it is sensual and free, totally-unapologetic for its' excesses. It is a genuinely-creepy film, with a great sense and love of the unknown; a terror, more-than a horror, as much of the film is the build-up, with occasional-revelation that is horror. So-many images from this film will haunt you for years, and many of them include the still-born children of Mary Shelley, the genesis of her creature. Horror is only horror if it is about the concerns and fears of our own-lives, and this is why these stories continue-to-resonate today. With genetic-engineering becoming a reality, we can see that Mary Shelley's work also constitutes science-fiction, it is visionary. She would survive both Byron and Shelley, to be haunted by her dead-children and lovers, an eternal-story itself. Starring Gabriel Byrne (Byron), Julian Sands (Percy Shelley), Natasha Richardson (Mary Shelley, and Timothy Spall (as Dr. John Polidori), it's unlikely there will ever be a finer-tribute to these creators-of (and inspirations-for) modern-horror.Note The Pioneer-DVD is shoddy. It's simply OK, and was taken from a VHS-master. I saw the film in the theaters, and it was definitely matted to be 1.851. It might-be that Lion's Gate owns it now in their Artisan-acquisition, but don't bet-on-it. They seem-intent on botching-it for the fans. "},{"Title":"The Power of Imigination","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" On a dark and stormy night, in a remote, but lavish country estate, in an equally distant Victorian mansion there resides the charismatic, but often eccentric, Englishman, Lord Byron (Gabriel Byrne). Staged for an exercise in humanistic logic, scientific philosophy and creative writing, he gathers an odd assembly of thrill seeking Bohemian characters. Among the notables, are poet Percy Shelly, his author wife Mary, his personal physician, and of course their host, Lord Byron. Beginning with a blasphemous premise that they are imbued with the power to create life itself, Byron suggests they abandon their earthly inhibitions of morality and civil conviction and drink a concentrated draft of Laudium laced wine. The terrifying after effects manifest themselves in the literal passages later found in the poetic works of Percy Shelley or his wife's most famous novel Frankenstein. With a storm raging high above them, the group evokes sacred beliefs, sacrilegious rites and amoral concepts which create a frightening spectral atmosphere that nearly consumes them. Anyone seeking the foundation of the most popular Gothic monster ever created, should view this film. **** "},{"Title":"A Very Good Movie, However It's One Of The Weirdest Movies I Have Ever Seen!","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This was a very good movie, however it's one of the weirdest movies i have ever seen. I'm not gonna even try to explain the plot, it's too hard, there's a lot of really , really messed up images, and lots of creepy atmosphere. This is quite underrated, and has been unfairly panned by a lot of people, it's always interesting, always fascinating , and it has a couple of really cool twists as well. The Direction is very good. Ken Russell does an excellent job here,keeping the pace excellent and creating lots of creepy atmosphere, great use of the rain machine, also giving us some messed up images, to go along with it, plus the set pieces, and the use of colors were both great!. There is a little bit of gore. We get a skinless corpse, severed head, hand stabbed over and over on a nail blood, bloody dead baby, eyes on someone's Tits (you heard me), someone drinks a glass with leeches in it (Very gross) and other minor stuff. The Acting is wonderful and over the top!. Gabriel Byrne is wonderful here, he is creepy as always, intense, and very likable!. Julian sands gives a fantastic performance, here he is also intense, and watching his mind go crazy was a treat!, plus his chemistry with Natasha is so on!. Natasha Richardson is great here, she is beautiful on top of things, and gave a very good performance!, plus she was very likable. Myriam Cyr, is very good here, she creeped me out in several scenes. Timothy Spall, delivers a very OTT Performance, but it worked for the film. Overakk i highly suggest you give this one a chance! ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Romantic Zeitgeist at its best!!!","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Next to the brilliant making of this movie and five actors who obviously like the plot, their roles and the director(?), this movie is one of the best in showing the way of living in the romantic era. ... No not showing!! It LIVES it!!! There are so many details in costumes, dialogues and situations which are typical for this period in the early 19th century, that only someone who loves the romantic era could build such a work of art!!!Movies like Sleepy Hollow or Interview with a Vampire are beautiful and sweet!!!  But it's a TODAY-view!! They are not really romantic or gothic but stereotype (Anyway!! I like them!!)Besides all that, it is interesting that this night described in Gothic which really happend, was some kind of birth of modern horror!Mary Shelley wrote Frankenstein, we all know!!  But Polidoris Story The Vampire he wrote under the impressions of that night became a very famous gothic-novel of it's time. It is suggesting, that even Bram Stoker read it later on before writing HIS famous vampire-novel. So two of the basic horror-myths (Dracula and Frankenstein) had their roots in that night!!Ken Russel is well-known in showing us historical themes (like The Music Lovers, The Devils, Lisztomania etc.)!! Gothic is less bizarre than the others movies. But it has been the right decision, because now the story and the actors have enough place to build a kaleidoscope of romantic and gothic visions and situations. It is the story that fascinates and not only the way of telling it!Watch it!! Enjoy the dialogues!!  Is it E.A.Poe, is it Ch.Beaudelaire or Byron or Shelley themselves?? No it is just a screenplay!!For me it is 10/10!!! "},{"Title":"Absolutely terrible film which makes no sense whatever anyone says.","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Gothic is set in Geneva at the Villa Deodati where English poet Lord Byron (Gabriel Byrne) lives in a self imposed exile. Percy Shelley (Julian Sands) his lover Mary Godwin (Miranda Richardson) & her sister Claire (Myriam Cyr) all turn up wanting to spend some quality time with Byron & have some fun, Byron invites everyone in & says they are welcome. Over the course of that very night lots of strange things happen which I'm at a loss to explain & the film itself doesn't do a very good job either...This British production was directed by Ken Russell & is a film which almost defies logical explanation or any reasonable critique of it, I don't know what Kenneth was on when he made this but it must have been strong stuff & it's no wonder he's been relegated to appearing on Celebrity Big Brother & making home films which no-ones ever seen. The script by Stephen Volk which takes itself extremely seriously is a strange beast to say the least although one has to bear in mind that what ended up on screen maybe isn't what he actually wrote as many things can happen between writing a script & the finished product, if this finished version was representative of his script though one has to wonder how this piece of crap ever got financed & who did he think this mess of a film was going to appeal to? Certainly not your average horror film fan that's for sure. The basic plot about the the events which lead up to Mary writing Frankenstein & Byron's doctor John Polidori (Timothy Spall) to write The Vampire could have been decent but it's totally lost under loads of pretentious art-house visuals which are far from impressive. As a whole Gothic is bizarre, weird & just totally out there unfortunately it's also pointless, boring, crap, rubbish, meaningless, empty, unsatisfying & what really kills it is that it provides zero entertainment value, yes it really is that bad. It's not even historically accurate, did you know it was actually Byron who visited Shelley & not the other way round as Gothic would have you believe? Well now you do. I pretty much hated this film from start to finish.Director Russell is in total over-the-top mode here with some strange imagery, unfortunately it's not very striking & it just all comes off a weird & pointless. The whole film is quite abstract & surreal, in fact it's maybe the Salvador Dali of horror films! Just when you think it's settling down into some sort of proper story as Claire admits that she's pregnant with Byron's child or when they hold a séance around an old skull it goes nowhere & ends back up with some more strange scenes which makes no sense. Although the visuals are strange & weird I don't think they are particularly stylishly filmed or constructed which doesn't help. The film as a whole is quite tame, the nudity isn't excessive & there's no gore or violence to speak of.Technically the film is alright, the location used was Gaddesdon Place in Hamel Hampstead in Hertfordshire which is in good old England & the house in the film just feels very empty & basic although it's obviously of the right period & looks the business. It's generally well made with decent production values throughout. This has a good cast with Byrne, Richardson, Spall & Sands but they ham it up & put in pretty bad overwrought performances.Gothic is a film which I personally hated, I'm positive it has some fans out there but most film-goers will find it an absolute mess. In fact I'd struggle to even call it a proper film it's that bad, who in their right mind actually green lit this piece of crap & how did Kenneth manage to convince anyone to finance it? "},{"Title":"Free your mind!","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" No wonder that a lot of reviewers didn't like the movie. This Ken Russell's interpretation of that famous summer nights in 1816 is quite unusual...but it has sense to me.We have to keep in mind the turbulent times in which these people lived (Lord Byron, Percy Bysshe Shelley, Mary Shelley, John William Polidori and Claire Clairmont), full of war conflicts, loss of family members (Mary Shelly lost 3 of her children), important economics debts...It is therefore not surprising that this issues leads them to visit Lord Byron in Villa Diodati (Lake Geneva, Switzerland) and release their worrying state of mind reading and writing horror stories.The movie is an hallucinatory trip through fantasy, mystery, literature, eroticism, visions...all spiced with psychedelic moods. Music, camera and photography are set in terms to increase this perception.Not for everyone.Just for open-minded movie goers8/10 "}{"Title":"Bizarre Film The Night Mary Shelley Wrote Frankenstein","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well, I don't believe anyone can actually say what happened the night Mary Shelley wrote Frankenstein - and I DON'T believe it's what happened in this bizarre film. Looking at through the eyes of it's just Hollywood cinema it's an entertaining horror film.Drugs and alcohol?... well I'm not sure that is what spawned Mary Shelley's book. I tend to think the fact she knew people in 'high places' and overheard some amazing conversation about the future of medical science is what spawned her imagination and the book Frankenstein. Intellectual conversations are the likely reason for the book.Over all, this is good, fun horror film, even though I highly doubt it's accuracy. It is quite possible that drugs and alcohol did play a small role but I can't say for sure but I can say it made for an entertaining horror film.8/10 "},{"Title":"Haunted Summer Is So Much Better","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Gothic is the earlier of the two films on the subject of the 1816 meeting of Shelley, Byron, Polidori and the half-sisters Mary and Claire. Gothic simply seems to lose all its substance underneath overly exaggerated style. I found no reason to like nor to care about the characters, even though the cast is certainly an illustrious and capable one.Haunted Summer gives a much more nuanced look at the lives, loves, and tragedies of these pivotal persons. Gothic has far too much running about in madcap antics with very little focus on what actually drove these people to become who they were -- or to end the way they did. I only own this DVD to use as comparative filmography. As such it is a fine example of how even the most competent actors can not save a film. "},{"Title":"Like Lisztomania, quite difficult to rate","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Not a terrible film, but not one of Russell's best. It is very easy why one would be fascinated or dumbfounded, because it is a very good example of being a fairly unique film but a weird one at the same time, so you're not sure what to make of it(again very like Lisztomania). To be honest there's not a whole lot to add that hasn't already been said. The story is very jumpy and chaotic that it is not very easy to follow, sometimes in the middle verging on incoherent. There are a few dull stretches in the middle too, and the ending feels forced and structurally at odds with the rest of the film. Gothic can feel all-over-the-place tonally too, the subject matter- a good idea by the way- is relatively serious but is performed in a camp, theatrical way so it is not easy to take things seriously, considering that this is Ken Russell we're talking about that may have been the intent. There are not many directors quite like Ken Russell, and he is certainly an interesting one but also can resort to excess, and while not as badly as Lisztomania and the Richard Strauss documentary Dance of the Seven Veils this happens in Gothic. His touches do fit well generally within the decadent atmosphere but they are not always tasteful or relevant, sometimes overwrought, and they do swamp what's going on. Most of the cast are very good, taking on a characteristically(of Russell that is) theatrical approach, though Julian Sands' performance is a mix of soppy and over-exaggerated and Myriam Cyr's inexperience does show. Of the performances, Natasha Richardson for me gave the best performance, she was the most subtle actor in the cast and she does it with skill and allure. Timothy Spall is a total sleaze and so much fun to watch and Gabriel Byrne is mysterious personified. Some of Russell's excesses aside, Gothic is a well-made film, as Gothic as the title suggests and has the right amount of grandiose and decadent, which suits the tense and imaginative atmosphere to a tee. The photography was fine as well. Thomas Dolby's music score pulsates with eeriness and energy and not in an over-bearing way. The script doesn't always find the right tone, but I personally can't deny that the campiness was fun to watch and hear, even more so when the actors were uttering it with the amount of relish they did. The prologue at the beginning was beautifully done, it looked beautiful and had a real sense of atmosphere. On the whole, not an easy film to rate but while interesting and with a fair bit to recommend it was personally one of Russell's weaker films. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Confusing, border line ridiculous but a good try at a good story","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When I first saw this movie and I saw great names such as Gabriel Byrne and Natasha Richardson, I was desperate to watch it. The movie starts off sensibly boring but gradually becomes weirder as these slightly eccentric brits swallow one too many glasses of wine and too many shots of laudanum. The movies seemingly obscene script and confusing sub-plots are however beautifully portrayed by acting greats Byrne and Richardson. Julian Sands, though again playing the tedious blubber baby also delivers a superb performance as the naive and idiotic Shelley. After the first half an hour of blood, sex and drugs, the fast forward button became a good friend as mind numbing scenes of supposed physcotic-bending acts rolled across the screen. Overall the script and screenplay is rather disappointing, but the brilliant actors breathe life into a car-cash of a movie. "},{"Title":"That Fateful Night in July, 1816","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Gothic takes the viewer back to the evening of July 16, 1816, when Percy Shelley, his at-the-time mistress Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin (later Mary Shelley), her step-sister Claire Clairmont, Lord Byron, and his physician, John Polidori met at the Villa Diodati in Geneva for dinner. The night turns into a twisted, haunted evening of nightmares and ghost stories. Ken Russell's depiction of that night is fairly accurate--entries from the journals of Mary Shelley and Claire Clairmont describe many of the events included in the movie, such as the seance and Claire's epileptic fit. Obviously, much of the movie is a dramatization of what happened that evening... but then, you never know. The ghost stories are said to have been the impetus for Mary Shelley's novel, Frankenstein, and because of this, that night in Geneva has been the source of much intrigue for readers of Mary Shelley. Haunted Summer, a 1986 film about the same evening, is said to be much like Gothic only toned down (I haven't seen it... yet).  "},{"Title":"Mad, Bad & Dangerous","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Mad, bad and dangerous to know, was used as a description for Lord Byron, one of the main protagonists in this wonderfully bizarre film from Ken Russell. The description could have been equally applied to Russell, who directs this tale based on the conception of The Frankenstein novel during a laudanum enhanced visit to Byron's continental home, by Mary Shelley and her brother PB Shelley. Visually it is stunning and the soundtrack by Thomas Dolby is one of my favourites. Ken Russell was one of the true mavericks of British Cinema,who pulled no punches, so I can appreciate that he is very much like marmite. I would say this is one of his better films that will stand the test of time. "},{"Title":"A phantastic phantasmagoria fusing Fuseli and Freud","Date":"4 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Ken Russell's Gothic has a title both redolent of itself and the literary genre whose birth it charts. The renowned English poet Percy Bysshe Shelley (Julia Sands), his soon-to-be wife Mary Godwin (Natasha Richardson), and Mary's highly-strung stepsister Claire Clairmont (Miriam Cyr) travel to the Villa Diodati in Switzerland to be house-guests of the infamous exile Lord Byron (Gabriel Byrne) and his fawning physician Dr John Polidori (Timothy Spall). After an evening of excess imbibing laudanum and reading ghost stories to combat the boredom due to being kept inside by a lightning storm, all five denizens of this house of horrors (the Universal-esque title House of Byron would have been just as apt) must contend with nightmarish hallucinations and come face to face with their innermost terrors.As a literary biopic, viewers may find Russell's trademark auteur-ial flourishes offputting, but they are well suited to the subject matter and the larger than life grotesqueries of the characters themselves. Gabriel Byrne portrays the club-footed and lascivious Byron with great relish, and is reminiscent of the gentlemen who essayed the role in the opening prologue to The Bride of Frankenstein. Spall is twitchy and nervy as Polidori, barely suppressing his homosexual lust for his devilish master, and conflicted with the Catholic upbringing that teaches him such feelings are evil. Polidori would come to chart his leanings, and his tortured feelings for Byron, in The Vampyre in which the Western world's first literary bloodsucker Lord Ruthven is a thinly-veiled portrait of the poet.Julian Sands (the Warlock himself!) and Miriam Cyr give a good acquittal of themselves as a soppy and foppish Shelley and the hysterical Claire respectively, but the showpiece of the film is in my opinion the performance of the late Natasha Richardson as the nascent Mary Shelley, whose nightmares of her stillborn child and yearning to bring it back to life give birth (pun intended) to the legend of Frankenstein. The sequence in which Mary sees a grotesque version of herself - looking spookily like Erica Blanc's succubus from The Devil's Nightmare - nursing a baby's skeleton in a crib stayed with me for a long, long time (perhaps i shouldn't have been watching this at eight years old..?). "},{"Title":"Missed opportunity, becomes just decent","Date":"4 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Gothic is the perfect example of a missed opportunity that turns out quite unsatisfactory.**SPOILERS**Arriving at the Villa Deodati at Lake Geneva, Mary Shelley, (Natasha Richardson) seeks shelter from a storm while owner Lord Byron, (Gabriel Byrne) offers her the house until she is ready to leave. Along with other guests Shelley, (Julian Sands) Claire Clairmont, (Myriam Cyr) and Dr. Polidori, (Timothy Spall) they decide to play games to pass the night away, and after finding a book on German myths and legends, none of them find much entertaining branding them too dull and non-scary, offering each other the opportunity to craft their own stories and present it to the others. As the nature of the house begins to take it's toll on her, she begins to conjure up a story about her greatest fears, which she soon believes is coming to life and haunting the estate, while the others there are also trapped by their own visions and desires as well.The Good News There wasn't a whole lot to this one. The sheer oddness and nastiness of the film's imagery makes them impossible to forget, as there's the Knight in the living suit of armor with enormously-armored strap-on, one's forced stigmatizing by smacking his hand against a nail, servants are found milking goats and shelling peas, one of the most grotesque and stylish abortion sequence, and the visions of the creature from a famous Gothic painting coming to life, which is actually, a very effective and creepy scene that delivers the lone shock in the film, to name just a few. Others scenes are just as good, where the doctor starts another gets naked and is covered in mud, dripping with spider-webs and eating live rats. Another scene where one of them is in their bed who's awakened by a strange noise and there's something at the window, but we're not quite sure what since it's obscured by the style of curtain it has. The main thing, though, is the rather fun and creepy hide-and-seek game that's played. During the game, she finds a snake, the suit-of-armor and other discovers what appears to be an 80s-style robotic dancer hidden away in a room that's simply perfect for this type sequence, and the main part where they come across all the servants screwing around the mansion. It's all quite fun and enjoyable. There's also the film's only other good point, the Gothic atmosphere on display. All of them are dressed up in exquisite gowns and dresses, the house is a gigantic Gothic mansion that plays up the atmosphere with the best of the genre and is delivered in full-force that has plenty to feel great about and creped out by, the hallmark of the era and one of the best features of the film. These here are what make the film work.The Bad News This was a pretty problematic film that had a couple of major flaws. The fact that it's so hard to understand what's going on in here is the biggest flaw. It is virtually impossible to distinguish what is happening at all, since this one is so concerned with getting the weirdness scenes that nothing else becomes a concern. It's a huge mess of a film, mainly consisting of spouting assorted psychoanalytical mumbo jumbo, running around like idiots and stripping off at every available opportunity. None of this is as interesting as it sounds, because it's not all that interesting to watch these kinds of scenes at all, and all of it is populated by this going on for most of the film. This sort of activity takes up the beginning two-thirds of the film, making it feel like something that feels important but instead none of it is all that important and it just comes off as boring and uninteresting. That it allows the film to go all over the place with it's plot makes them all the more troublesome, since it makes the scenes feel all the worse for wear when it's nothing but boredom as well as the complete confusion at what's happened. That there neuters the film more than anything else in here, and causes this one to be so lowered. What's even worse is how much this cancels out the film's good points, since they force so much of the god stuff out the window by being so dull and not all-that-impressive when these cancel the other parts out.The Final Verdict This one should've been much better but the fact that there's so many flaws here really makes that difficult. Give this one a shot only if you find these kinds of films interesting or want to see how the story came about, otherwise ignore this one and go for something more energetic.Rated R Language, Nudity, Violence, a sex scene and drug use "},{"Title":"A bit of a mess, overall","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A bit of a mess. It is supposed to be a semi-historical look at a wild, opium-fueled night of hallucinogenic terror with Percy and Mary Shelley, and Lord Byron, and a couple of others, that eventually inspired Mary Shelley to write her iconic novel Frankenstein. It has been a long time since my last English lit class, and I have forgotten almost everything I knew about Byron and Shelley. I do remember Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, though, even though it's been 20 years or more since I read it. This film is like so many drug movies, where you do not know what is real and what is hallucinated. I suppose that is the point, since the characters don't know either, but it is very hard to translate to film and still be interesting. (Drug-taking is generally a very individual sort of thing.) And Ken Russel never holds anything back, and he doesn't do so here, either. Most of the actors held up quite well, although it is hard to judge an acting performance when the material is so unusual. Natasha Richardson, Gabriel Byrne, and Myriam Cyr (with whom I am unfamiliar) were all able to make their parts believable, at least as much so as the script allowed. Can't say the same for Julian Sands, though. He always seemed like an actor, and never really inhabited his character. Myriam Cyr had a few nude scenes, but they were all highly un-erotic. Hard to say whether to recommend this movie. Yes, is you are a Russel fan, are like the unusual. "},{"Title":"Almost liked it","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The opening where Shelley and his party arrive at Lord Byron's was excellent... the music, the photography, the misty locations... everything was perfect. Seemed to be the set-up fpr a great movie. The perfect flick to stick in the VCR every Halloween.The ending was also very well done... seemed like the end of a really great creepy movie. The perfect movie to stick in the VCR every Halloween.Unfortunately, the rest of it was a mess. Ken Russell did what he does best. He went way over-the-top. About fifteen minutes into the film, he was dangerously close to crossing the line. So, he crossed it. It was too much! Overblown, overdone. Then, it seemed maybe it would get good again... nope. Then, it got even more overblown and overdone.But, it's Ken Russell. I do believe there's a good director in there somewhere. This movie indicates that. Too bad there's no one there to edit his work or help him focus more "}{"Title":"The Best film that I have seen in a very long time.","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one of the best films that I have seen in a very long time. Having come across the film purely by accident (it was on a blank tape that I was going to tape over, what a travesty!) I was mesmerised by the sheer brilliance of not only the script, but also the acting. Having been a BIG fan of the Gorgeous Gabriel Byrne for a long time, I found a film that tested his acting ability a long time before ''The Usual Suspects.''! A group of people are in a house one night and through drinks and goodness knows whatever else, they embark upon a mission the cunjour the spirit into the bodies of one of the women. What entails is an hilarious journey into exorcising the demons. It is brilliantly scripted film with an excellent performance from the truly wonderful Timothy Spall (Auf Wiederzehn, Pet)as a member of the group who harbors homosexual feelings for Gabriel Byrnes-his flambouyancy is met only with John Inman in ''Are You Being Served''! Instead Byrne's character turns his affection to both males and females in what is an extremely sexually fuelled meeting. The ending is truly wonderful. An entirely unsuspected finale. You will be held in suspense from the opening titles to the closing credits. A fine film- miss it at your' peril! "},{"Title":"Not timeless....","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I did not like the movie but will not give it a rating. Why? Because I saw the movie in 2014 and I have changed since I watched horror movies in the eighties. I feel that I would have liked the movie then since it was the way they made horror movies at that time and I really liked them.I have that with many of the eighties movies. Also with the older Vincent Price movies of which I know they were very good at their time. So it is not the movie that is bad but me who has changed. Therefor no rating even though I did not watch the movie till the end. )By the way I do not consider the change good or bad. It just is. Not that long ago I saw Terminator 2 (1991) again. I remember leaving the theater in '91, so impressed with the special effects that I thought that this could never get any better and now I had a feeling pff, primitive special effects. That's change for ya... "},{"Title":"Strange To Say the Least","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Gothic (1986)** (out of 4)Interesting take on how Frankenstein came to be from cult director Russell. The bizarre Byron (Gabriel Byrne) invites friends Shelley (Julian Sands) and his wife Mary (Natasha Richardson) over for what will turn out to be a strange night with one nightmare after another. This British production draws people in as it promises to show how Mary Shelley created her famous story but this here pretty much never happens. I knew enough about the film going in to know not to expect any type of biography or true-story take on the actual events. With that said, this movie is a pretty confusing mess from start to finish and I'm still not quite sure what it was trying to do. Heck, I'm really not sure if Russell knew exactly what they were doing except for trying to create something very bizarre. If the entire plan was to do that then they've pretty much succeeded as this is certainly a very strange movie. The final thirty-minutes goes off-the-wall in terms of weirdness. This is when all the characters really go overboard with one strange fantasy after another, which includes a strange creature living in the castle's basement, dead babies, weird orgies and this here isn't even half of it. We even get a very memorable scene where a woman's nipples are actually her eyes. It's these strange moments that make this film worth viewing but I think most people are going to hit the eject button during the first hour. The first hour is pretty hard to sit through as we basically get our characters going into one long speech after another and when they're not talking they're just screaming at the top of their lungs. The film pretty much left me bored for the first hour and when I wasn't bored I was trying to backtrack to try and make sense of what was going on. There's no doubt Russell has a certain style that he brings to the film and it's atmosphere is right on the mark but you still have to have some sort of plot. Byrne, Sands and Richardson are all fine in their roles. "},{"Title":"Ken Russells Gothic 1986","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Superb film great sound effects and also the plot was very well done. The acting by all who played the part done it very professionally well done to Ken Russell. I have tried to find a decent copy of this film on video for years now since it was released here in Australia on ROADSHOW HOME VIDEO.I love this film and i will try my hardest to find one one day.10/10 for this very well done film and i will always love this film till the rest of my life.Someone please release it on DVD here in Australia or even the video release again. "},{"Title":"The Nightmare Comes To Life","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I love the history behind this film, about the late-night horror stories the English authors really did tell. I also liked the idea of The Nightmare (A.K.A. The Incubus) by Henri Fuseli playing a major role in it. Dark and creepy. Still one of my favourite films to date.   "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie once a long time ago and, although it completely horrified me, I was mesmerized. It was so memorable.Recently I watched it again, and it still remains dark, macabre, terrifying, and utterly bizarre. But, regardless of all that, I like it!  It's truly a roller coaster ride, but you'll never forget it.  Some people may find it sick and twisted, maybe a little long, but I loved it.  The actors were amazing. That's all I can say.Also, Thomas Dolby's music really makes an impact.   "},{"Title":"Ok, I loved this movie","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Gothic hasn't been received very well by most people but I absolutely loved it.  The plot is about Mary and Percy Shelley coming to the home of Lord Byron.  They get tripped out on drugs and spend a hallucinatory night wandering around throughout Byron's home.  I loved Gothic's intensity as well as the intellectual flavor.  The moments of horror are fun and the movie reeks of a certain deranged intelligence.  Several points in Byron's life are also brought up and one would have to know a considerable amount about Byron in order to understand them all.  I appreciated these moments because they were presented without insulting the audience's intelligence.  The filmmakers ask the audience to allow itself to be sucked into the conversations and moments of crazed debauchery without apologizing or supplying reasons as to why any of this is happening.  The movie wants you to assume that these are very intelligent and talented people who's thoughts spill out when drugs are on hand.  I found this more intellectual approach to the drugged up concept to be much more refreshing and entertaining then the common stereotype of blitzed people just laughing stupidly before passing out while playing some music.  Gothic also has some great visuals and the music nicely conveys the awkwardness of the situations.  A very, very fun diversion for those intelligent people who want something different.7.5/10   "},{"Title":"An Interesting Twist on the Bride of Frankenstein?","Date":"16 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Story of the night that Mary Shelley gave birth to the horror classic Frankenstein. Disturbed drug induced games are played and ghost stories are told one rainy night at the mad Lord Byron's country estate.When you have a horror film directed by Ken Russell, starring Gabriel Byrne as Lord Byron, Julian Sands as Percy Bysshe Shelley and Natasha Richardson as Mary Shelley, you expect a certain level of quality, or at least entertainment. And I think this more or less hit those marks.For me, the most troublesome part was the poor quality DVD. Maybe there are good ones and bad ones, but the one I had was pretty fuzzy -- not unlike a VHS transfer. This is the sort of title that Shout Factory could do wonders with. "},{"Title":"A personal conundrum","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Gothic is one of those perplexing movies that put me into a conundrum. The director, Ken Russell, a director who had an affliction with the Gothic romantic literature of the 19th century and put these things into film format in the 1980's, poorly films it in my opinion. But at the same time I love romanticism and the poets involved, and for that reason I can understand what's going on and what they are doing, but if I were not versed in the minds of these poets, as would be the average viewer, I would not find myself as understanding of the film. The problem with the film is that it reduces you to make up facts with your own imagination, without giving you a proper foundation in who these poets are, as they are complex characters full of vibrant imaginations of their own. Russell, I feel, was most likely doing this for the psychological effect of placing you in the eyes of the childlike idealism and imagination of the poets you are witnessing on screen. It is to be assumed that these acts in the film, as they happened, are also very spontaneous and random to the poets&#133;it's the animal soul if you will, instinctive. You come on a seemingly irrational journey with them and take things in a very haphazard way. This style of filming and seeing the picture is very much like the poets minds themselves, very random, emotional, and romantic, and this is a good way to go about things, but the problem with doing this the way Russell did, is that you don't realize that this is the what's going on. He just tosses this obscurity in your face, and leaves you with no reason for it, you are blindly left to your own imagination, which, for the most part, is an error.I am sorry to say that I don't think many people are intimately familiar with the writings, thoughts, and values of poets like Percy Shelley and Lord Byron, and you almost have to be to understand the logic of the film and the complexity of the events you see unfold on the screen. I don't doubt the ability of the average watcher&#133;or maybe I do&#133;the point exists regardless&#133;.Russell tried to film an obscure narrative so as to put the viewer into the minds of the poets&#133;.and in this reviewers opinion he does a poor job at it. In my personal viewing of this movie for the first time I knew little of the poets so I felt that the film was extremely strange and random, though I didn't care I was 16 and just liked anything that was obscure. When I watched the film later after diving headfirst into Romanticism I knew the film much better. But in the end of my second viewing I still felt it was very poorly done, but I at least understood the narrative second time around. It's very poorly crafted by Russell who seems to have tired to craft some sort of personal and obscure narrative of artistic merit, which he most surly did not. I also feel the same about the Lair of the White worm, his butchered experiment of Bram Stoker's novel. I love experimentation and obscure films in general, but this is just a failure on all ends. Recommended to fans of romanticism and to non-fans who understand what is currently considered socially esoteric behavior, but both of you be warned, this movie is empty.  "},{"Title":"Not the usual visual orgy from Russell, but still as bizarre!!!","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film deals with Mary Shelley and all those other rich pompous twits at a villa one night.  I found the film to be rather intriguing, and it did have some decent effects, though it does get quite bizarre at times.  It's not Ken Russell's usual touch, like with The Devils or Crimes of Passion but it's still decent.  "}{"Title":"just say no","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Percy and Mary Shelley visit Lord Byron's Swiss retreat to stimulate their calloused nerve ends in a wild orgy of free sex, laudanum, and the sort of Freudian psycho-sexual hallucinations only true poets can conjure. All for nothing, since in his attempt to duplicate the unbridled amorality of the evening director Ken Russell throws in everything except a reason for making the film in the first place. Supposedly Mary Shelley was inspired afterward to write her novel 'Frankenstein', a fact simply mentioned in passing after everything is revealed to have been nothing but a collective bad dream. Like its characters the film is self-absorbed to the point of unintended parody, with lots of florid emoting, profound dialogue, and nauseating, drug-induced imagery meant to either shock or titillate the viewer. A generation (or two) ago it might have been considered a 'heavy trip', but in these jaded days the strongest reactions will likely be fatigue and embarrassment. A bad dream is, after all, nothing but a bad dream. "},{"Title":"Fear and Loathing in Villa Diodati","Date":"20 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Gothic is a loose interpretation, very loose as a matter of fact, of the night a young Mary Godwin spent with her husband-to-be Percy Shelley and her half-sister Claire at the Villa Diodati and what transpired that inevitably became the inspiration for the creation of the Frankenstein story. The Villa is also home to the romanticist poet Lord Byron and his assistant Dr. Polidori who himself would go on to write Vampyre among his works.With any Ken Russell movie you need to expect some very bizarre scenes and Gothic is probably his strangest and most incoherent yet. I'm a big fan of Lair of the White Worm which stays on point throughout the film so I know Russell is capable of doing so but this is just a mess of a film with odd scenes mixed with inane dialogue. It was difficult to determine why the guests were acting so strange. Were they under the influence of hallucinatory drugs? Was the ghost real? Did they summon their fears into existence like gods? Who the hell knows as every scene is one of the cast running and screaming like a goof from room to room like every episode of Scooby Doo. And what the hell was up with the Villa anyway? Mechanical women and an oddball collection of helpers? Was Byron Willy Wonka for crying out loud? Speaking of Byron, Gabriel Byrne really channeled his inner Caligula as he subjects his guests with various tawdry games all the while trying to screw anything with a heartbeat. I would be surprised if one the snakes made it out of the Villa without get groped by this bisexual Dracula look alike. Some of the effects were interesting like the incubus that appears on top of Mary, Claire's breasts with eyes, and the Ken Russell signature scene of an entity trying to assault a woman with an enhanced member. One of the first performances by the late Natasha Richardson who does a fairly good job as the only semi-sane person in the Villa. Gothic's frenetic pace, cumbersome dialogue, and constant homoeroticism eventually wore me down. This film did inspire me to stop huffing chemicals. "},{"Title":"Interesting failure","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  GOTHIC is definitely best seen through either an alcoholic stupor or mind altering drug binge. Russell was past his best at this point and the night of nights that allegedly had Mary Shelley up way too close and personal with Lord Byron and which according to legend, gave birth to the FRANKENSTEIN tale, is indeed a tale of twisted emotional instability.Viewers seem to resolve themselves into two camps. Those who view Russell's work as being alongside the Gospel according to Matthew and those who never subscribed to THE EMPEROR'S NEW CLOTHES pitch, whatever the bait. What GOTHIC does achieve is a slide-show of thought provoking images, that ultimately doesn't add up. Interesting early work from Byrne who paints a tortured and flawed Lord Byron who would have probably traded his literary creativity for a night with someone like Ken Russell. "},{"Title":"Great idea, horrible result","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie stunk. I saw it when it came out in '86 and still remember it as the most horrible movie I ever saw. (The Virgin Suicides gave it a real run for its money, though.) I suppose fans will say I didn't get it, but I think it was just bad.I think what bugged me about this movie so much is that the idea is a good one. To see it brought to life with so much BAD dialog (and these were literary greats!) and SENSELESS grotesqueness was a huge disappointment. An example below with a very minor spoiler.*VERY MINOR SPOILER* When Shelley sees his wife crawling around on the basement floor naked, covered in filth, and clutching a dead rat in her mouth he intones, with terror in his eyes, This is madness! She hates rats! Ugh.Sorry, fans. I give it a 0/10. "},{"Title":"Gothic?!","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This ranks as one of the worst films I've ever had the misfortune to watch.The subject matter is something I find fascinating, a period when the two greatest Gothic characters were conceived and this is the best they could come up with to bring this time to life?! I thought more of Natasha Richardson and Timothy Spall than to stoop as low as productions of such poor quality.If a subject interests you enough that you would make a film about it why would you do such a horrendous job of it?! The first thing you notice is how terrible the soundtrack is. Even by the standards of 1986 the music sounds like cheap, out-of-date electronics all of which fail to capture any mood in the film.It soon follows that you notice how terrible the performances of the 'actors' are with everyone but Richardson over-acting and 'hamming' up their parts, making them all seem overly eccentric.If you have the chance to watch this film don't bother! Read Mary Shelley's 'Frankenstein' in stead. It'll take a lot longer but will be a far less waste of your time than this film. "},{"Title":"Gothic love","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" gothiclover dot c o m needs your support! For exchange, we provide you various services, from friends making to dating arrangement, based on our tens of thousands members!hope to find goth friends there wish you a happy day gothiclover dot c o m needs your support! For exchange, we provide you various services, from friends making to dating arrangement, based on our tens of thousands members! gothiclover dot c o m needs your support! For exchange, we provide you various services, from friends making to dating arrangement, based on our tens of thousands members! gothiclover dot c o m needs your support! For exchange, we provide you various services, from friends making to dating arrangement, based on our tens of thousands members! "},{"Title":"no es bueno","Date":"18 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Should have been a comedy poking fun at the British class system, instead it's an all too earnest film about important historical personages. Tries to be dark and mysterious but the movie only achieves hokey and lame. Tries to invoke the heady words wrote by Byron and Shelley but the dialog comes off forced and overly fanciful. All the acting is so operatic, unnatural, rather than adding to character it makes everyone's performance appear hammy. The movie tries to display the free-love orgies Lord Byron and his pals supposedly engaged in, but tragically becomes the funniest part of the film. Just a lot of silly talk, uninspired nudity, and junior-high school haunted house quality horror. "},{"Title":"Atypical Ken Russell","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Just watched this on DVD for the first time since I saw it back when it came out on video.  The full-screen transfer did not help.  The trademark Russell lunacy was there, but the script was disappointing, and the film comes off as choppy and inconsistent, too concerned with being poetic and artsy-fartsy to allow any viewer identification with the characters.  I agree with an earlier comment that the film would make a good anti-drug campaign.  Not much repeat viewability in this one, but I'd recommend it to someone caught up in the mystique of Byron, Shelley and company.  I gave it a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Awful representation of some of the greatest characters in history!","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was so exited when i first heard about this film as i am such a big fan of Percy and Mary Shelley and Lord Byron. This film though was a total let down, casting was awful! Non of the actors seemed to have studied their characters and completely over acted making the film unwatchable at times, also the actors where obviously to old (Mary Shelley was meant to be 17 at this time!) and often some of them spoke you could not ascertain what they were saying as it was all mad ramblings.The supposed melodrama and shocking Gothic elements of the film were comical. The direction and script were terrible at best. The story line that supposedly showed the characters drug induced debauched lives was over the top and boring in its bad representation. The homo-erotic elements and free love were insipid and unneeded in how they were shown.I was very upset overall with this film definitely a 1/10 for this pretentious and awful unwatchable spectacle! "},{"Title":"Campy, disgusting attempt by Ken Russell to shock our senses...","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  1st watched 9/12/2003 - 3 out of 10(Dir-Ken Russell) Campy, disgusting attempt by Ken Russell to shock our senses as much as possible.  This film is based on a night where Mary Shelley got her inspiration for the novel, Frankenstein.  The way this night went for her I would think that she probably wouldn't want to take opium anymore, and wouldn't want to have to re-visit her fears enough to write a novel about her fears.  And I believe, that's what makes this movie un-believable. Some fine british actors are put through this mess where most of the time they're asked to act out of their minds, which they do.  The direction also is very shoddy because actors are moved from one scene to another and have a totally different perspective when the scene switches.  Scary this is not, creepy it definetly is but it's still not a very good movie. "}{"Title":"The sleep of reason breeds monsters -- in directors.","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A great situation. Here are Byron and his girl friend Camille, Shelley and his wife, or rather his girl friend, and Dr. Polidori. All come together on a haunted evening and agree to dream up ghost stories. Poor Polidori tried, but his effort stank. Byron put in a bit more effort and talent and incorporated it into the introduction into a later, longer work. Or was that Shelley? I get them mixed up. The most important thing to come out of that summer was Mary Shelley's Frankenstein or The Modern Prometheus. Well, it's understandable. It was a time when science was flexing its technological muscles during the industrial revolution, and theology was coming under rational scrutiny, which is always bad for theology. Within a few years there would be a virtual revolution underway. Andrew Dickson White's The Warfare of Science and Theology in Christendom, Madame Blavatsky, a kind of séance movement, in which lots of celebrities joined, including Sir Arthur Conan-Doyle and Houdini's widow. The question at the time wasn't so much, What can science do? as, What can science NOT do? It is utterly fascinating to wonder what went on during that summer. Lord Byron was a manic-depressive (vide Touched With Fire by Kay R. Jameson). Shelly was effete and almost a semi-mystic. Camille, I don't know anything about. Mary Shelley was the daughter of William Godwin, who had been inspired by the French revolution to write Enquiry Concerning Social Justice in 1793. He was kind of a pre-Marxist and believed the world was moving towards a perfect condition in which government would be unnecessary. (He got most of his notions from the Marquis de Condorcet who, ironically, was hiding from the revolutionary extremists who wanted to cut off his head for advocating such counter-revolutionary ideas as the abolition of the death penalty.)It's a terrific situation, and Ken Russel, through an excess of self indulgence, doesn't get the job done. What we see is at the same time boring, shocking, and irrelevant. I won't go on about this. The acting is okay, but everything else except the sets and photography are dismissible. The party guests drink wine laced with laudanum, an opiate, and then have horrifying hallucinations. When was the last time an opiate user experienced anything but pleasant, imaginative reveries and transient euphoria? Russel has people crawling around in the mud, eating rats, doing the vampire thing (how did that sneak in?), arguing and fighting with each other, and not having a good time at all. Jeeze, I'd never go to a party like that. (Been to too many already.) Natasha Richardson looks good and acts good, as always. I don't know why, with her talent, she didn't move farther up the ladder. Perhaps it's because she is merely attractive instead of drop-dead gorgeous thanks to fabulously expensive dentists. She put in a turn on one of those Jeremy Brett Sherlock Holmes series that was truly memorable. Sands looks properly wimpy as Shelley, a monstrously talented poet with colossal legs of clay. Nobody seems to know much about Camille, so it's okay that she looks like one of those black-and-blue Tijuana hookers with slightly jellied flesh. Actually I wouldn't mind biting her throat with my incisors myself. But, all seriousness aside, this is a ghastly movie. It's not fun at all. Boiled down, it's hardly a narrative, but rather a succession of increasingly revolting images -- of cockroaches, blood, rats. A bit of orgiastic sex might have saved it, but there's very little of that. I can't imagine to whom this movie is designed to appeal. What does the word depraved mean? "},{"Title":"Party over at Byron's place, but bring your own monstrous hallucinations!","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The pivot character in this undeniably odd horror movie is no less than Mary Shelley, but avid fans of her legendary story won't see their Frankenstein-hunger stilled, as this is a largely FICTIONAL (let's not forget that) recreation of the night that leaded her inspirations to invent the story. On paper this is one of the most genius ideas for a movie ever &#150; it even got copied twice &#150; but that doesn't necessarily mean it resulted in a great movie. Quite the contrary, Gothic is sadly disappointing and pretentious film. You always know to expect a little pretension and a lot of eccentrics in Ken Russell's movies, but here he goes over the top a little too much. Lord Byron and his personal physician Polidori welcome Shelley, his fiancée Mary and her little half sister (I think) Claire in an impressive Swiss mansion. They don't really plan on doing much, apart from eat & drink a lot, experiment with all types of drugs and play games that'll mess up their minds for good. Byron's place is filled with artsy gimmicks (women statues with eyeballs on their breasts!) and pretty soon his guests are submitting themselves to all kinds of weird acts, like dancing on the roof naked in the pouring rain, watching eerie paintings come to live and spotting nasty leeches in the dining room. This is all a lot less exciting than it sounds, mind you, and the only thing that held my attention was the constant search for elements that would eventually feature in Frankenstein. The nightmare &#150;and hallucination sequences are far too messy; not petrifying or disturbing, just very confusing. The decors and costumes admittedly are breathtaking, but I'm sure they would have reached a bigger effect if the story had been more coherent. Ken Russell constantly aims at atmosphere of sexual madness, but he only occasionally succeeds in this and then still it's largely thanks to Gabriel Byrne's excellent performance. Byrne makes the most of his weak lines and he provides his Lord Byron character with an effective mysterious aura. The other stars are good as well and they ALL deserved a better script. Particularly the last twenty minutes are terribly lame and I think even Russell himself had lost all interest by that time. Not really recommended. "},{"Title":"This movie sucks","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ...you didn't need to waste all of that time typing it out.  It could have easily been summed up in three words )  However I see the good people at IMDB have made it to where posts MUST have for lines, so I guess it would have taken FOUR words...like soTHIS MOVIE SUCKS BADLY!Enjoy! "}]