[{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sorority House Massacre isn't too bad at all, but there is nothing original or fresh about it either. The basic plot is the same as Halloween (killer from an asylum escapes in search of his sister) and borrows a little from Nightmare On Elm Street (lots of weird nightmares about the killer). The nightmares don't really add much to the film, so I think it would have been better if they had been left out. The build up to the climax is a little slow, but once the action kicks in there are surprisingly a few tense moments, such as when the killer tries to climb in through the window.Overall, Sorority House Massacre is just an average slasher flick. Watchable, but not very original. Also not very gory, so gore-hounds should look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good!","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I had resisted renting this for a long time, expecting something very typical and stupid. And in some ways, it was pretty campy (watch for the dress-up session!) but once the horror gets started, it gets pretty good.Beth, a girl plagued by obscure but genuinely creepy nightmares, moves into her new sorority, just when most of the girls leave for Memorial Weekend. She stays back with three others, who, that night, are joined by four guys for a night of fun. Seems pretty typical, right? Yeah, I suppose. But it does get good.Through some study on the dreams, and memories, Beth realizes that this is the house she used to live in until her brother killed the family and attempted to kill her. And, surprisingly, it's not one of those what a coincidence! things when the crazy brother escapes the local asylum. It seems as if the the brother and sister have some connection in their dreams, and he knows she is at the house. So he breaks free (pretty easily) and goes on a hunt for her, but only after wreaking havoc in town, stealing a car, and breaking into a hunting store to get a knife and kill the owner.It's nighttime, and it looks like Beth's dreams are becoming reality. They even find a hidden knife under a brick in the fireplace that she thought she imagined. Then the brother gets there, and the fun begins.It's not stalk 'n slash, though, except for a few. Three guys are killed off, and then, when making out with her boyfriend, a girl is killed in a tent, and her boyfriend buck naked, escapes, gasping, Some guy just killed Tracy! Okay, so it is pretty campy, especially because he remains naked for a few minutes before miracuously finding some (girls?) pants in one room. Then the surviving four realize that they are trapped...with the killer...in the house....Very good from there. The characters are likeable, and the killer is very twisted. It's great when he sees each of his victims as a family member he killed, right down to the end of the climax, which ends so well with Beth saying something like, Get away from me, you sick son of a b*tch! when she finally finds a knife while he is pulling her towards him.Overall, an innovative movie, if you can look past the many stereotypes, and the cheese. The acting isn't terrible, and the characters become likeable, especially the last two girls. Definitely check this out, just for the really great horror towards the end.  "},{"Title":"If it were gory, it would be ace. Unfortunately...","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'd read a lot of harsh reviews of this one before I sat down to watch it, but of all the criticisms, the only one that I felt really applied was the lack of gore. Apart from that, I liked a lot of things about this one. The thick layers of mid eighties cheese for one thing, as well as the utterly generic plot gave me a warm, comforting been there, done that but just keep coming back for more feeling. I found the dream sequences kinda fun and intriguing, even though they had a lot of unused potential. The acting was pear for this sort of movie, ie. not great, but fortunately not grating. Plus there was a little bit of mindless nudity, which did make me briefly grin. What elevated this film above being wholly ordinary for me though were the frequent moments of suspense, and cool, if never very bloody killings. The lack of much blood annoyed me, as gore was clearly a necessary part of the film that just seemed to have been left out, but even without it, the killer set about his business with an almost Michael Myers verve and dedication, which meant for some good excitement, especially towards the end. That about sums it up, as far as I can remember. Definitely recommended, mostly to eighties slasher fans who don't mind there being not very much gore. "},{"Title":"Sorority House Massacre","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Beth(Angela O'Neill)has been battling recurring nightmares since moving back to her sorority after her beloved aunt passed away. There's a man who has just murdered an entire family and seems to be coming for her. Director Carol Frank juxtaposes Beth returning home to her sorority with a man named Bobby(John C Russell)trying to free himself from the cell of a psycho ward. What does happen over time is that Beth will find that the images that occur in her mind and dreams(not just that one recurring nightmare, but various images of Bobby trying at her with a long curving knife)are repressed memories from her childhood resurfacing because they are awakened as she comes to the sorority which was once that very home Bobby killed in. Bobby will break from his cell when he attacks a nurse and return to the scene of the crime to finish what he started..killing Beth, the one that got away. But, other sorority friends of Beth's will unfortunately bear her burden as they fall individually to his twisted wrath once he takes from a hardware store a knife he used to kill the owner.Energetic photography, potent nightmarish images of Bobby and his mean blade in Beth's mind, and a likable performance from cute O'Neill as heroine Beth lend a helping hand in another of those run-of-the-mill college slashers where young adults are simply enjoying life until they walk unknowingly into the knife of a sicko. There are jump-scares aplenty, over and over. The film pretty much is predictable and the screenplay provides ways for Beth's poor college mates to perish. This has those wonderful 80's items we cherish, the lousy fashion, lots of posters of musicians hot at the time, and those glorious hairstyles. The film also shows lots of cleavage..nearly all the females(..but, Beth, of course, who appears to be the pure virginal innocent)show their breasts. The boyfriends are all goof balls(and most of the gals,as well)so that might be another reason to check this slasher flick out. Just don't expect originality, because this sticks pretty close to formula except the added angle of repressed memories. "},{"Title":"Derivative, but not the worst of its type.","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Mad killer escapes from an insane asylum and goes after his sister (does this remind you of anything?), with whom he shares an unexplained telepathic link. This film is not too bad of its type, but it's just too derivative of both Halloween and Nightmare on Elm Street (there are many ominous dream sequences). The main heroine is fairly engaging, but the rest of the characters are almost indistinguishable from one another (and the men are badly acted, too).    (**) "},{"Title":"Not too shabby....there are worse ones than this.","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a Roger Corman film so I was expecting some awfulness to it (ie Planet 9 from outer space). However, it was a surprisingly good slasher film. Yes, there are a lot of Halloween (the brother/sister), Friday the 13th (couple making out outside) and Nightmare on Elm Street (dreams ) references,but it had its own take and story to tell. It would have been better if they were twins and had a connection that way...Maybe, not. The acting was better if not the same than one would see in any other slasher film. The hospital staff was portrayed as decent and real unlike the portrayal in Friday the 13th Final Chapter. The dining room and nightmare sequences are probably the best. "},{"Title":"sit back and enjoy","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I found this to be a pretty good movie.  The scene with the dolls at the kitchen tables is one of the more memorable horror scenes for me.  It gets to be a bit campy, but it is a generally good movie.  There is horror, laughter, and as with any good teen horror...naked women.  While it is taking a lot from Halloween I still find it to be a good watch and would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"not a bad low budget movie","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  this film isn't that bad. about 10 years ago i couldn't sleep at night an this movie came on like at 3am an i loved it an for years I couldn't remember the name of it an recently I finally figured it out an so i went an bought it for 10 bucks it's not as good as I thought it was thenbut I still like it only complaint is it's too much like slumber party massacre 2 but this one is better an makes more sense "},{"Title":"So clichéd, so 80s, so awesome","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" My friend and I got together and we were looking for a movie on satellite. Return of the Sith? Nah, too long. Sideways? Nope, too heady. Sorority House Massacre? Charge my card immediately!! Throw this movie in with cheesy, 80s horror flicks. Other films like Slumber Party Massacre come to mind. All are pretty much knockoffs of Halloween, the godfather of modern slasher flicks (I don't think Psycho was, for it was of an earlier generation). But it's all there, the bad 80s hair and outfits, actors that can't annunciate, and a killer that doesn't die, even after repeatedly being stabbed, punched, and hit with a shovel. This guy must be made of steel.If the girl having visions about murders in her dream isn't a complete ripoff from Nightmare on Elm Street, nothing is. True, this freakish girl doesn't die in her dreams but everyone around her goes by the wayside. I'm surprised she wasn't subjected to more abuse, as she really was weird and had an eerie resemblance to Kyle McLaughlin.Not to say I expected Shakespeare when I watched this rubbish. Bad acting was expected, some mindless T&A to go with several dead bodies, and that's what I received. The money shot occurs when the murderer is coming after the sorority girls, falls two stories off a ladder, then is able to spontaneously crash through the window minutes later. Even Altman couldn't pull that one off.So ya, this is your basic 80s slasher flick. Not necessarily funny but mildly amusing. Make sure you watch it with a friend and crack jokes through it's entirety. And if somehow this movie scares you, get a cigarette and a shrink. "},{"Title":"A lot less T&A than Wynorski's nightie slashers, but a lot more story and suspense (hmm, tough call...)","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  (**1/2 out of *****)This is the only movie in the slasher-slashes-girls-in-their-nighties series -- which includes the Slumber Party Massacre movies and Jim Wynorski's Hard to Die (he also directed the sequel to this one) -- that stands on its own.  It has nothing to do with the others, and, storywise, it's better.  Angela O'Neill plays a traumatized college girl who has sleeping and waking nightmares about a madman who murdered his family, except for one sister (guess who it is), twelve years ago in the house that is now O'Neill's sorority house.  When she and three of her sorority sisters are left alone for the weekend, her dreams come true when the same nutcase escapes from the mental hospital and comes back home to finish the job.  I'm not gonna lie to you -- this is far from great -- but, it is surprisingly suspenseful in parts, the characters are fairly likable, and, unlike most of these other movies, the script does a believably good job of keeping the girls trapped in the house.  There is a silly dress-up montage (including the obligatory topless scenes), the obligatory false-scare climax (including a totally unnecessary final murder that ticked me off), and lots of scenes of knives going into stomachs and backs.  Otherwise, the T&A is not as rampant as in the other nightie slashers, but the story is (slightly) more rewarding.HIGHLIGHT  One sorority chic and her boyfriend are fooling around in a tent in the backyard when the killer ruins all their fun by slashing up the tent and stabbing the girl right between the -- well, not the eyes -- and her boyfriend ditches her and runs, screaming and buck-naked, back into the house. "}{"Title":"REALLY BAD!","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  one night when i came across this movie in blockbuster i picked it up knowing that i would probably get a bad horror film. but i thought it would be bad in a good way. i should have known not too rent this, horror films were great from 74-84, but anything after that for the most part sucked. there are so many things that made this movie bad, too many too name, but i'll name one. this is the biggest Halloween rip off i ever saw. killer breaks out of a Psycho ward, and goes after this girl and what we find out is that her familly was killed by her brother and now he's coming for her. if that's not a Halloween rip off i don't know what is, if you wanna rip off Halloween that's fine it was a great movie, but atleast do a good job. i almost past out so many times durring the movie, it's so boring i can't think of one thing good to say about this movie at all i give it 1/10, and i give it a one only cause they riped off a classic horror film so atleast the makers of the film have taste "},{"Title":"So Ridiculously Cheesy That it's Awesome!!!","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is the kind of bad 80's slasher flick that I love. It hit every cliché in the book (killer locked in an asylum and breaks out to go after his sister that he tried to kill a long time ago.) It is very clearly a rip-off of Halloween, which is one of my all time favorite movies. Maybe that's why I liked this so much. The only thing that was a little repetitive was the dream sequences. As a young girl, Beth escaped her brother Bobby who killed her family. Now, years later she joins a sorority. Bobby breaks out of the asylum and goes after Beth to finish the job. He'll kill anyone who gets in his way. If you love campy corny cheesy slashers from the 80's, you'll definitely love SORORITY HOUSE MASSACRE!!! "},{"Title":"Contrived Roger Corman-produced slasher is better than it should be","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sorority House Massacre follows Beth, a college coed who is spending Memorial Day Weekend at a sorority house with several sisters who want her to join. The house seems strangely familiar to Beth, and a series of dreams and bizarre visions link her to a madman who is dead set on nabbing her in the house.In some ways a Halloween ripoff of the highest order, Sorority House Massacre takes the blueprint of Carpenter's classic and bases itself on the precise premise without an ounce of shame. Madman breaking out of a psych ward, shots of a group of girls walking through the tree-lined suburbs to class (except here the location is unabashedly California, and the girls college students). While some people have ripped this film for its shameless imitation, genre fans are more likely to appreciate the funky weirdness the film has to offer.There are tinges of a psychic thriller set inside the slasher framework here that are handled surprisingly decently; lots of talk of ghosts, dreams and psychology, and brainwave connections make for some inventive plot fixings. The flashbacks and Beth's bizarre visions of the villain are edited and presented in a startling fashion, and somehow manage to be mildly creepy. The film is much less gory than the title would suggest, which is another reason the film falls in line with a psychic thriller perhaps more than a straightforward slasher. The performances are ho-hum at best, but for a low-budget late eighties horror flick, they are completely respectable. Overall, Sorority House Massacre is a heck of a lot better than it should be. It is contrived and at times silly, but there are some genuinely startling on screen encounters with the villain, and the film is engaging in all of its hokey eighties corniness. The obnoxious late- eighties Saved By the Bell wardrobe and California atmosphere is also another amusing point of interest. 6/10. "},{"Title":"If You're A Massacre Fan , Then you Know You Gotta See it....","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Them '80's......they had all the best titles for the slasher movies. This is just another drop in the bucket for any slasher fan. Basic story borrows from Halloween and Slumber Party Massacre at the same time. The new girl in the local sorority house is having nightmares of a killer. Soon a maniac is stalking and killing her friends. I guess if you watch it empty-headedly, it's not too bad. There's a splash of blood here and there, a shocker conclusion, a twist in the middle, and some okay performances from the leading ladies. Better then most of the slashers that were coming out in '86. Still, it's pretty mediocre horror viewing. For slasher fans, watch it once, and I'm sure you will have had your fill. Sorority House Massacre 2 is much more zanier. Two stars. "},{"Title":"A B list classic that's fun a feel good slasher with a story, and blood and no special effects!","Date":"30 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The more I watch movies that are associated with Roger Corman the more I like them he's the king of B list short cheap low budget films that entertain. I love for one that Roger did not use any special effects as today's film world is to overblown with CGI. And these pictures do have somewhat of a story despite the blood and gore that is the theme with skin and death. This title Sorority House Massacre is a tale of a young girl Beth who has visions of the past and when in sunny southern Los Angeles when away at college with her girlfriends she starts to feel strange with this particular house as it has a haunted past. Thru the dreams of Beth she remembers a lot as a connection and past will be learned. This is a film of nightmares and stalker type fun with blood gore as young ladies are a gore target one by one. Really a B list classic that does entertain. "},{"Title":"For Slasher film fans only features Style over  Gore","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Beth (O'Neill) visits her new sorority house and gets a familiar and scary vibe from it. When she was very young it was her family's house. Her older brother Bobby (Russell) murdered her entire family and was put away in a mental home leaving her as the only survivor. No, it's not Halloween time, but the maniac escapes and goes back home to kill his remaining sister and any nubile Sorority girl who gets in his way. Borrowing heavily from John Carpenter's Halloween, delivers mostly what you expect a slasher movie with some Elm St. dream sequences for good measure. To be fair, the movie is at least competently made and first time Director Carol Frank manages some decent moments of suspense and some old fashioned stalk and slash. The movie is ripping off everything it can but manages to be entertaining in a cheap way. Relatively bloodless, this movie delivers a few nasty knifing s but no new ground is broken. Slasher fans might enjoy a cheap thrill from this one. "},{"Title":"A decent slasher.","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sorority House Massacre does have some things going for it, although in the end it doesn't stand out from other slasher offerings during this time. (Not that some aficionados of the genre should mind all that much.) It's got blood, and it's got some breast shots, but it might not be exploitative enough to suit some tastes. What it does have is some good atmosphere, and occasionally it's slicker than expected, with a particularly tense scene involving a ladder. The nightmare sequences are reasonably well realized, and the girls in the story are not quite your typical slasher movie airheads. That doesn't mean that the dialogue isn't groan inducing at times, or that its delivery is any better. Still, when we watch something like this we come to expect a degree of crudeness and cheesiness, and this movie does succeed in that regard; it's even got a requisite dopey 80s style montage.Troubled girl Beth (Angela O'Neill) comes to visit her friends at a sorority house, while being plagued by visions of a stone faced psychotic creep, Bobby (John C. Russell), who'd murdered his family and has been locked up in a mental hospital. Naturally, the creep escapes, and Beth and her friends (and their boyfriends) will eventually be terrorized and slaughtered.There are enough amusing, titillating, and suspenseful moments to make this palatable viewing. Writer / director Carol Frank, in her only feature credit, does keep the story moving, and like so much of the Concorde catalogue, it clocks in at a very trim running time, in this case 74 minutes. The music by Michael Wetherwax is quite good and there are some efficient prowling camera sequences.If one simply can't get enough of this sort of thing, they could do worse than Sorority House Massacre.Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"Halloween's Not So Good Twin","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A little girl's brother kills the whole family but her (she escapes by hiding in the basement). He is committed, and she grows up with a new family, eventually going to college, where she joins a sorority. Due to a memory block, she doesn't remember that the sorority house was her childhood house. Her brother senses her presence in the house and escapes so he can finish the job he was unable to complete. The whole story of this movie is all too familiar, being a die-hard fan of the Halloween series I felt like I was experiencing déjà vu. With that being said, it was not a bad movie. It had pretty decent acting, and the story is also good but not original. The killer reminds you a lot of Michael Myers. And this has gotten lots of controversy. Story 4/10 - The story is not at all original and is greatly influenced by John Carpenter's Halloween.Picture Quality 7/10 - For its time, it is a well shot film. Acting 6/10 - Actors and actresses do a somewhat believable job.Characters 6/10 - The main girl is well developed, but all other characters lack development. The killer is way too much like Michael Myers, but does have some separating features such as talking.Sound 5/10 - Sound quality is good, they do not do a very good job with the soundtrack and effects.Overall Rating 5.6Scare Rating 2/10 "},{"Title":"I remember lime Jell-O","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Beth spends the weekend at a sorority house with some of her girlfriends. Unfortunately, she has no memory that this was her house when she was little and not only that - her brother slaughtered their entire family there! Of course, this is the weekend that bro decides to escape from the looney bin, steal a station wagon, and enjoy some sister bonding time (sound familiar?). Beth is having some pretty serious freakouts, too. The lime Jell-o line in the summary is from a hypnosis scene, BTW. Anyhoo - the girls' equally dumb boyfriends show up and they get in a series of ridiculous situations so that they can be killed. And since it's an 80s slasher, we need boobs, so there's a trying on clothes while bad sax music plays scene.I love 80s slashers. I really do. So I'm probably being a bit too lenient with Sorority House Massacre, even though it's a blatant ripoff of dozens of Greek house massacre movies and Halloween. It's not good, but it has a certain dumb charm to it in a way. Still, I'll probably never voluntarily watch it again and I can only recommend it to 80s slasher completists like myself. "},{"Title":"Somewhat bland and uninteresting","Date":"17 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A college student moves into a sorority house. Her psychotic brother escapes from the asylum where he has been committed, then descends on her new home and starts hacking his way through her house mates.This slasher film is almost completely devoid of interest. It seems to derive its ideas from Halloween (1978) and A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984). From the former the basic storyline is taken and the latter provides the idea of a killer inhabiting the heroine's dreams. I'm not really saying that something totally derivative is automatically a bad thing. Sometimes more of the same is perfectly acceptable. No, the problem here is that movie is very dull. We have the usual assortment of knuckle-headed teens and a boring killer who is as inhuman as usual. It's too safe for its own good. It's not especially gory or sleazy. It's just bland; a coffee table slasher. Seemingly it spawned a sequel so I guess it has its advocates. I suppose fans of 80's slashers might get a kick out of it. "}{"Title":"so bad it's good","Date":"26 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is so bad - that it's actually entertaining. If you love the 80's - the bad hair, the bad clothes, the bad acting - then is for you. The lead actress - she certainly wont be accused of overacting - she literally had just one facial expression no matter what was happening. I watched it all in disbelief. The scenes in the mental clinic were a joke. I literally thought they were kidding. I am so sorry that this review has such a negative tone - but I just had to write this - even if nobody ever reads it - I will feel as though I have helped humanity a little bit. Easily one of the worst slasher movies I have ever seen. So of course I want to see it again. "},{"Title":"Despite being mildly entertaining, this slasher has no edge","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" By 1986, the slasher craze was basically at a point where originality was out of the door, and rehashing old plots was the way to go. Four years after Slumber Party Massacre, and three after The House on Sorority Row, Sorority House Massacre is another college-girls and boyfriends being stalked by a maniacal killer with a sharp object. Carol Frank, writer/director, tries to add a semblance of authenticity to the table by introducing psychic connections, but that plot ultimately ends up being a direct Halloween rip-off so unfortunately, the story here fails.However, we're watching an 80's slasher flick, story is not important here, we want the T&A, stalking and slashing! Alas, this is mostly missing as well. I mean, there are a couple of standard flashes skin, and splashes of blood here and there but overall the movie lacks any interesting kills or suspense.There is plenty of fun to be had though, with a hilariously out of place montage where the girls try on a bunch of clothes, and some fantastically bad acting sure to delight lovers of bad cinema. Sorority House Massacre is very short, barely clocking in over 70 minutes, so at least Frank understands the intended audience. And really, you can tell the movie is striving to be good and looking for love, unfortunately it will be loved for the wrong reasons. It is hard to glance over the horrid dialogue, and the ease at which someone can escape a psychiatric institution.Would I recommend this movie? Absolutely! It's short and for the most part bad enough to be very entertaining, and if you are a slasher enthusiast, you could do worse than Sorority House Massacre.1/5 "},{"Title":"Sorority House Halloween on Elm Street.","Date":"10 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The plot of Sorority House Massacre is routinesome girls are having a party,some of their boyfriends crash it,most of them get killed by an escaped killer who can't be bothered with any sort of costume.Carol Frank's sorority slasher rips-off Halloween,Slumber Party Massacre and Nightmare on Elm Street as the main character is having nightmares about the knife-wielding murderer,who is actually her brother come back to stalk and slash after escaping from a mental hospital.The killings are mostly bloodless but still vicious stabbings.The characters are likable and there are some effective suspense set-pieces.If you are in the mood for some silly 80's slasher you can't go wrong with Sorority House Massacre.7 knives out of 10. "},{"Title":"Paper Thin Plot","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I know that horror films have a big suspension of disbelief and major plot holes are the norm, but this film takes the cake. Basically the plot centers around the fact that a college student has a mental block about the killings of her family members and the fact that the sorority house where she is now living is the place where the killings took place (nevermind the fact that a sorority would buy a murder house to begin with, thats far fetched enough). Amnesia is one thing but its plain ridiculous that one cant remember something that life changing even when they were 5 years old. Besides my main gripe with the horrible plot, the kill scenes looked extremely cheap and fake (knife goes in chest, a little blood, if any comes out, no closeups either). If you are looking to see this in a quest to see all the college genre films out there, go for it, but if you are looking for a good horror or slasher film, just stay away.  "},{"Title":"Low Budget, Low Quality Horror Flick","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Beth moves into a sorority house where a family was once killed.  Soon the killer returns to continue his bloody rampage and murder a bunch of screaming sorority girls and their boyfriends.  The killer is a lot like Micheal Myers without the mask.  He has a big knife, he is a heavy breather who doesn't say much, and he likes to stand in shadows a lot.  He does, however, have a much faster pace.  Extremely low budget, acting is nothing special, cinematography looks like something a kid could do, but with a running time of 1 hour and 15 minutes not a total waste of time for slasher fans.* out of **** "},{"Title":"The only massacre is the genre","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  For a slice n' dice flick set in a sorority, we get very little naked co-ed, pretty tame FX,  and for being made in 87, we get clothes from 84-85, no attempt to lighten it up with a  few laughs, the false thrills of the obvious boyfriends coming over to see the girls, etc  are laughably predictable, and as another astute reader noted, they watch TV when the  power is out? 90-odd minutes of my life, wasted. Where's Jamie Lee when we need her? "},{"Title":"kind of dull if you ask me - spoilers","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  To start with Beth has way too many flashbacks. There are too many coincidences. I found it really boring watching everyone run from this guy. They didn't really play up his anonymity, which is one of the key elements to a good slasher flick. The least scary kind of slasher movie is the kind about the escaped mental patient. Unless, of course, he's wearing a mask of some sort, concealing his identity. Otherwise, you basically know all there is to know about the killer and immediately lose interest. It's better to not know some things about the killer.The only things I liked about this movie were the killer's inability to recognize his own sister and the fact that all the girls decide to watch TV while their power is out. "},{"Title":"Put this back on the shelf and take the sequel.","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Background  I love B-movies.Unfortunately, this B-movie fails on several counts.First, very little T&A, though it does deliver a minimum level of T.Second, an annoying and ongoing series of dream sequences.  These do not advance the plot one bit, though there IS one satisfactory FX that is dream-based.Third, no slashing.  This is supposed to be a slasher movie, but the prop guys could apparently find only one decent prop weapon  a knife with a blade that retracts into the handle. SO....everybody gets stabbed.  That's right...if the insane killer is going to get you, he's going to have to stab you.  He can't slash you, strangle you, impale you with a fireplace tool, or run a drill through your head.  It's stab, stab, stab all the way.  It's rather boring. ******Minor Spoiler!!!********OK, I'll admit that ONE victim has his head smashed against the wall, but that's only because the killer hasn't gone to the local hardware store yet to get a knife.  From that point on, it's knife, knife, knife.******End of Spoiler**********My advice is that you put this back on the shelf at the rental store and take home Sorority House Massacre II.  Now THERE'S a B-movie to be proud of!!* out of **** "},{"Title":"Enjoyable 80's slasher fare","Date":"19 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Troubled young college student Beth (a solid and sympathetic performance by Angela O'Neill) has a strange feeling about the sorority house that her friends reside in. Her pals dismiss her warning about a knife-wielding killer. However, Beth proves to be right after psycho Bobby (a creepily intense portrayal by John C. Russell) escapes from a mental hospital and heads straight to the sorority house so he can embark on a murderous spree. Writer/director Carol Frank maintains a swift pace throughout, draws the characters with more depth than usual, generates a reasonable amount of tension, and delivers a satisfying smattering of tasty gratuitous female nudity as well as a sufficient helping of bloody violence. Moreover, Beth's various dreams and visions provide a sizable jot of eerie and unsettling surrealistic oomph. The actresses are quite pretty and personable Wendy Martel as sweet psychology major Linda, Pamela Ross as perky ditz Sara, and Nicole Rio as bitchy party gal Tracy. Michael Wetherwax's spirited hum'n'shiver synthesizer score hits the shuddery spot. Marc Reshovsky's slick cinematography makes good use of a prowling hand-held camera and offers plenty of strikingly offbeat visuals. Recommended viewing for slice'n'dice fans. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Slasher films from the eighties are my favorite, they just don't make them like this one anymore.Four sexy sorority girls and their dumb boyfriends (really dumb) are stalked by one of the girls' crazy brother. This is fairly bloodless and not that original, but it has something it appeals to me, I don't know if its the lead actresses (they are quite good) or the background music or the dream sequences. The first time you watch this is a lot of fun to guess who will be the next one to die, fortunately, the dumb boyfriends are the first to get killed, leaving us with three of the terrified girls (in little clothing, bra-less) trying to get away from the killer. "}{"Title":"Yet another sucky horror film that takes place in academic settings","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  SORORITY HOUSE MASSACRE just doesn't live up to its sensational title. Films like SLUMBER PARTY MASSACRE and this one have pretty much turned the word massacre into a joke. Except for the two first Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE films, if there's a movie with the word massacre in its title, it's gonna suck. And this one is no exception.Bland setting, stupid story, bad acting from plain actors, and tons of continuity errors make SHM barely watchable. The idea of student returning to the same house where her family was killed when she was young (with the student having a psychic bond with the killer) is simply too stupid for words, so I'll leave it at that.What's remarkable is the fact that they actually made a couple of sequels. I just can't believe it. And I won't be watching them. There's nothing remotely interesting about SORORITY HOUSE MASSACRE.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good of its kind","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sorority House Massacre (1987) C-74 min. D Carol Frank. Angela O'Neill, Wendy Martel, Pamela Ross, Nicole Rio, John C. Russell, Marcus Vaughter, Vinnie Bilancio, Joe Nassi, Mary Anne, Gillian Frank, Joseph Mansier. Surprisingly good of its kind, this slasher flick, one of many MASSACRE films of the 80s, has more character development, symbolism, and backstory than it has any business having. A college student pledging for a sorority spends the weekend in the sorority house with her future sisters, sensing that her psychotic brother is coming after her. Guess what happens next. Lines like `Hold on, where's my brain?' make this film an Oscar contender (*sarcasm alert*). For slasher fans and horny guys looking for lots of big breasts and erotic butt shots. RATING 5 out of 10. RATED R for graphic violence, grisly images, profanity, sexuality, nudity, adult themes.  "},{"Title":"Massacred with laughter","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sorority House Massacre just has to be the most hysterical slasher movie of the mid to late 80's even though it was never intended to be this way! I watched this with some friends and we cried our eyes out laughing. It failed to be scary on every level, in fact the only scary thing about this movie was the girls hairstyles and the conversations about their clothes, boys and food that was supposed to carry the film along. If a guy had made this movie he would have been shot by feminists for stereotyping teenage girls. As it stands, the woman who directed this and the producers who handed over the money for such tripe should be executed for squandering!! Still, I'd watch this movie again and again, it's as good as any horror spoof even though we're not supposed to snigger when one of the girls gets butchered and her stud boyfriend runs into the house naked except for some sneakers and cheesy white socks, sprouting, in a deep jock voice with twitching eyebrows Some guy just killed Tracy...Classic!!!! "},{"Title":"A Forgotten 80s Slasher... A Gem? You Decide!","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A little girl's brother kills the whole family, but she escapes by hiding in the basement. He is committed, and she grows up with a new family, eventually going to college and joining a sorority. Due to memory loss, she does not remember that the sorority house was her childhood home.Thank you, Roger Corman, for producing this cheap attempt at a slasher, cashing in on a craze at the time. You are a producing genius.I am more than a little confused by the trying on the wardrobe scene. Did it help the plot? No. This seemed like an excuse to play bad music for a minute and show three girls in various stages of undress. While (for good or bad) nudity is a crucial part of the slasher, this pushed the concept of gratuitous to new levels.The film was written and directed Carol Frank, assistant to the director of Slumber Party Massacre. Clearly that film's influence on this one is obvious, if for n other reason than the title. And Frank has done little else in the world of movies... very mysterious. (For what it is worth, this film is more than good for a first time director... the potential for a career was certainly there.) The lead actress, Angela O'Neill, is unknown to most people, but she is actually now a success in Hollywood -- in the arts and props department. She has worked on such films as American Beauty and Apollo 13. If this film did nothing else for the world of cinema, it launched O'Neill's career, and has benefited us all. "},{"Title":"Well Acted, pretty girls and boys, lots of  screams!!!","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I really like this film, people will hate me for saying this, but I like it better than Halloween, don't ask me why?, I just do. I really liked the four main sorority girls, so much that it hurt when they got killed, the boyfriends I really didn't care for, anyway, this has a little blood, boobs, lots of screaming and running around, and even a little graphic violence. Its a fun film... "},{"Title":"Too many flashback scenes.","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  During spring break, the few remaining members of a sorority house are attacked by a psycho, but looks like he is the brother of one of the sorority members. Film is entertaining and cheesy like many chillers in this genre, but the film has way too many flashback scenes to pad out the running time to 74 mins. By the way, the girls in the film look good naked.  6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is by far, the best thing that ever happened to me. It changed my life in ways I cannot explain in writing. The intricate plot lines and tight family values make it a real home-run when it comes to movies my family and I enjoy watching together. I always become choked up at the tearfully reminiscent quality of the sorority lifestyle, as I can relate to it. The only problem I could pick out was a brief nude scene, involving women changing into each others clothing. I just make my kids close their eyes, so they can enjoy the rest of the films beauty. All in all, if you have to pick one movie to watch for the rest of your life, you will not go wrong with this delightfully heartwarming tale of love, loss, and acceptance. "},{"Title":"Scary movies on a budget... yep, this is one of them!!","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Make no mistake, when buying budget horror dvds, you are going to end up with budget horror. There, simple! However, most often these budget titles are no so much horror as farce, not so much scary as spoof.Sorority House Massacre is a budget film for sure, but refreshingly has some elements of horror and suspense. The bad guy is bad, the good girl is good. And some of the 'action' is credible.Maybe the plot-line has been used before, and it's improbability could seem tiring. Maybe the diversion of the Sorority House, chock full of nubile women who change their clothes every so often is laughable rather than erotic or compelling. The characters are a bit stiff, even before any are murdered! Grieving, shock , and any other necessary emotions are minimal. But the overall task of the film, the creation of suspense, the feeling of horror, is definitely smouldering away in there... and might just serve it's purpose for budget movie buyers. Another thing I liked was the credibility of the murders and fatalities. People are being attacked and are dying. There's no martial arts, very little wild thrashing about or incessant screaming, no long drawn-out fight scene, no falling over mortally wounded, only to rise up again and defeat the menace using both the severed arm and the decapitated leg. Praiseworthy, to be sure, surprise, scream, stab, dead. Brilliant! OK, so I'm not going to tell you that this is a highly under-rated film, which needs watching carefully in a darkened room for the best effect. It's just a film, a kind of horror, typical of it's era. But it's watchable. It's not a total waste of time a space... only a partial waste!! Not Hollywood at it's budget best, but definitely not it's worst. I rated a 5 "},{"Title":"Not original, but bizarre and down-to-earth","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" SORORITY HOUSE MASSACRE (1987)starring Angela O'Neill, Wendy Martell, Pamela Ross, John C. Russell, Nicole Rio, Joe Nassi, Marcus Vaughter, Vinnie Bilanco.plot As soon as Beth (Angela O'Neill) enters her new sorority house, her nightmares begin. Beth soon realizes that her horrible nightmares are linked to her past and to an escaped mental patient (John C. Russell). Even as she tries to ignore her dreams and have a weekend of fun with Linda (Wendy Martell), Sara (Pamela Ross), Tracy (Nicole Rio) and their boyfriends, the crazed killer drops in on the party with his knife!the good This film is really not original at all, it steals the storyline of HALLOWEEN and HALLOWEEN 2, but tries to keep it a mystery.One of the great things about this film is the nightmare sequences. They're almost as bizarre as a David Lynch film, you'll see.I also appreciate that there were no character stereotypes, they were all pretty down-to-earth with the exception of one bitchy girl, but I know bitches like her so it's all good.the bad The unoriginality did bother me a bit, I wish they changed the story a little.The killer was also very corny, all he wore was a black shirt and black pants that failed to freak me out. He was just a guy, with a knife. "},{"Title":"For some reason...","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I did not find this movie very exciting at all.  This means that I really did not like this movie.  I bought this movie on VHS hoping helplessly that it would be good, but try my luck, it just wasn't.  The sequel is way better than this piece of crap.  Now this movie is definitely on DVD but I wouldn't buy it if I were you.    "}{"Title":"Slick chiller is a cut above similar college slasher pics","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Beth (Angela O'Neill) is planning on joining Theta Omega Theta sorority. But the moment she enters the house, she has horrible nightmares and visions of a knife-wielding stalker.  While most of the other sorority girls are away for Memorial Day weekend, Beth and three others, Linda (Wendy Martel), Sara (Pamela Ross), and Tracy (Nicole Rio) stick around to plan a get-together with their boyfriends.  Through a hypnosis experiment conducted by psychology major Linda, the girls discover that when Beth was a child, she lived in the very same house.  She was also the only one to survive when her older brother Bobby (John C. Russell) knifed her family to death.  Well, Beth and her new sorority pals find this out too late as Bobby returns (after escaping from an asylum) with a knife.  His visit leaves The Theta House stained in blood and the girls screaming in fear.  Made by Roger Corman's Concorde Pictures, Sorority House Massacre works due to a capable director and a young and attractive cast.  The girls' aren't just bimbo victims;  as played by O'Neill,Martel, Ross and Rio, they are characters the audience will start to care about just as the terror unfolds.  Atmospheric photography also adds a nice menacing touch to the proceedings.  This film is a great double bill with 1982's The Slumber Party Massacre (Sorority director Carol Frank served as a production assistant on Slumber Party). However, don't be fooled by the dreadful Sorority House Massacre 2, an in-name sequel only that uses awful silicone-enhanced actresses, flashbacks and endless T&A scenes to try and tell it's alleged story.  "},{"Title":"Lacks anything original at all","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well what I can say about Sorority House Massacre well one thing I Can say is that there isn't a single original thought or idea put into This movie whatsoever, for a start it blatantly rips off the story lines From far superior slasher gems such as (Halloween and Slumber Party Massacre), which isn't a bad thing if it's done right and well in this Movie's case it's not.We even get the main heroine having the old routine nightmare visions Of the killer, another tired and tested formula, this could have Worked if it wasn't for the lack lustre performances and mediocre death Scenes, where I think the director was trying to go for mood and Tension rather than gore, with the victims being stabbed in the back or The stomach, but just doesn't succeed and all of which pad out the Running time in this muddled mess, this movie just tries too hard at Copying Halloween and just doesn't succeed definitely suffers from some Pedestrian direction and a full screen transfer that gives it a real 'Made for TV' look. The films quest to be taken seriously isn't helped Either by some dodgy acting and an unconvincing killer.All in all a complete rip off from other movies and it's obvious why The slasher boom started to die down by the late eighties and this Doesn't help at all. "},{"Title":"College Girls Go Running","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In what is deemed as somewhat of Halloween rip-off, Sorority House Massacre is Carol Frank's first project as director, and her last to boot. While her credits in the film industry are minuscule, she completed work as an assistant to the director of The Slumber Party Massacre, released in 1982. Frank must've been impressed by the film's output because here we have another Slasher that features sorority girls frantically trying to escape a knife-wielding killer in their night gowns.Beth, after the death of her aunt, moves in with her sorority girlfriends. She's been suffering from chronic nightmares that seem to hold no relevance to her existence; the elements include a menacing male killer and a mysterious house that she's never visited. Beth's friends attempt to dissect these dream sequences &#x96; meanwhile, a dangerous patient escapes from the local mental ward. His goal? To bring death and destruction to the unsuspecting troupe of young women. Readers should be advised that this film is commonly confused with The House on Sorority Row, with good reason of course. Slasher films can be broken down further and categorized into neat little compartments and in this instance, witnessing college girls get bested by a maniac is practically a sub- genre of its own.Here we have all of the most common mainstream 80's elements you can think of &#x96; and much to your 80's-driven satisfaction, wrapped up in a video montage that features the girls trying on clothes. While the music plays on, almost as if it was ripped straight from a sitcom of 25 years ago, they model brightly-colored dresses, outfitted with shoulder pads, complimented a step further with pictures of Dee Snyder from Twisted Sister on the wall. It's probably the most cheesy and out-of- place montage you'll ever see in a horror film&#x85;not only is it ridiculous but the editing for this particular sequence is absolutely shocking in how pitifully it's done &#x96; like watching an episode of Charles in Charge while huffing a cheap can of Krylon.This film desperately wants you to love it, and I have to admit, it does have its charm. I was never really one to praise a film for being charming on account of how bad it is, however; lines of dialog within are too horrid to recount. The act of being thorough with reality isn't really a priority of Sorority House Massacre especially if you consider a scene in which an institution orderly enters the room of the uncontrollable maniac with headphones on. He is swiftly dispatched of. Why, if this man was filled with rage and anger, would they not warn the rest of the staff? Why would another employee carelessly stroll into his quarters woefully unprepared? What nonsense. The reason that Sorority House Massacre is compared to Halloween is mainly because of the story &#x96; we have a young woman who has an odd connection to the male killer &#x96; a killer who's been locked away in a facility for 15 years. His weapon of choice is a knife and his propensity to outlive mortal wounds is reminiscent of Michael Myers. People make the mistake here, though, in just assuming that the director wanted the madman to be indestructible; I don't think that's the case. I wouldn't be surprised if this title was influenced by the John Carpenter classic, but I can't say it's a rip-off&#x85;it's too convenient. It's worth noting that this film spawned two sequels &#x96; Sorority House Massacre 2 and Hard to Die, both released in 1990. I won't be covering these follow-up films in this review, however, so you can exhale with relief.So&#x85;what's the word, hoss? Should you strut down to your local video store, rummage through the Netflix archives, or scan torrent banks to scout this movie out? If you care to take note of this film's release, 1986, you should know what to expect in terms of a Slasher film. Aside from the more well-known titles that offered a refreshing take, flicks this late in game regurgitated old ideas. If you've been on a long journey to complete the quest of tracking down every 80's Slasher, like I have, you might want to add this one to the list. It's not original and it's only entertaining in the way of it being humorously bad; certainly not a serious investment but one worth a look for a completest. "},{"Title":"movie massacre","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well well, people warned me not to watch this one. But I had to. I had seen the trailer on youtube and thought, worth watching. But I can tell you that, if you watch the trailer then you have seen the whole movie. Again made as a reaction on Sleepaway Camp and other female flicks and even made at the end of the slasher era it is clear why that scene crashed into oblivion. Nothing really happens, except for the fact that the killer survives almost everything, falling from a window, being hit on the head,...must be an ode to Halloween, but there it worked, here it doesn't. The killings aren't gory at all let's even say, they aren't bloody at all. It's obvious that it was a low budget horror. Look at the girls, not attractive at all. The clothes are worse and the hairstyle is worser. Okay, what makes a slasher is in it, some nudity and first person shots but still it is missing suspense. It could have been much better if the red stuff was flowing. All I can say is that it is indeed a massacre! "},{"Title":"Bland, boring and features very little good moments","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sorority House Massacre is a really troubled slasher with a few good areas.**SPOILERS**Visiting some friends, Beth, (Angela O'Neill) finds that Linda, (Wendy Martel) Sara, (Pamela Ross) and Tracy, (Nicole Rio) are moving into a sorority. When they get settled in, she begins to start having weird visions and dreams of a psychotic figure threatening and torturing her. As the others laugh it off to her new surroundings, they invite their boyfriends Craig, (Joe Nassi) Andy, (Marcus Vaughter) and John, (Vinnie Bilancio) over to help them with a special school project they've signed up for. As night falls, they suddenly start to disappear around the house, and it soon becomes apparent that a serial killer has been stalking the group, and that a deadly secret from the past has allowed for him to select the location, forcing them all to run for safety.The Good News This here wasn't that great, and only had a couple of good points. One of the main ones is that, when it finally gets slash-happy at the end, it's entirely watchable. There's a large amount of stalking and chasing, which are the strong points. The chase across the house reveals plenty to work with, from the attack in the bedroom to the frantic search through the living room and kitchen being the big ones. There's even some good moments from the end of the backyard encounter all the way to the pretty creepy basement encounter that brings up the whole plot in great detail that makes it seem like it's new and different when it's really not are some of the best points drug up during these moments. The house itself is fairly inventive and allows for some really nice scenes to come about through the placing of the action. The only other point of note is one really cheesy scene where a couple are making out inside a tent outside the house. The girl gets killed so the guy, butt-naked, wearing nothing but trainers runs into the house and begins spouting one of the most hilarious lines ever. It's quite cheesy, and really applies in the situation, making it all the better to appear in such a cheesy film. Otherwise, that's all the film has going for it.The Bad News This one actually has a couple of pretty big flaws. One of them is just that very little actually happens for the first three quarters of the film, and then most of the kills are crammed into the final quarter. For the rest of the film we're given plenty of uninteresting scenes of girls talking, girls dressing up in each other's clothes, some more girls talking and some guys talking to the girls, resulting in a film that is quite boring for most of the time. These belong elsewhere, least of all in a slasher film, and they're so aggravating and unimportant to the film that even appearing in the film results in a film with an incredibly slow build-up for no point and makes for a really dull period. These should've been trimmed down and made even less significant than what they really are. Even worse, there's a couple of problems with the ending. When the psycho finally turns up at the house, the so-called massacre is nothing more than a series of below-average kills done very quickly, all with the same pitiful knife. There is very little blood involved and there is no creativity to the killing, making the killer as boring and unimaginative as the kills, which is pretty hard to achieve. The last big flaw is the incredibly clichéd appearance of so many different parts of the film. The opening is a direct rip-off from a very famous slasher, the not-so-shocking twist revealed at the end is cribbed directly from the particular film's sequel, and as a whole it feels very much a retread. Overall, it's a really lower slasher.The Final Verdict With more problems than good points, this one falls down the rung of the slasher genre and as a whole is really underwhelming. Check it out for hardcore slasher fanatics only, or are in the mood for cheesy fun, otherwise there's far better ones out there more deserving.Rated R Violence, Nudity, Language and a mild sex scene "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I must say, I liked this movie. It had okay acting and good scares. I would recommend it.10 out of 10.Fans of Horror Movies like this should Check out Puppet Master, Skinned Alive, Sleep Away Camp, and other Full Moon Pictures flicks. For other recommendations, check out the other comments I have sent in by clicking on my name above this comment section.  "},{"Title":"Might be one of the worst B-slashers ever made","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  And I don't mean that in a good way.  100 % Dullsville all the way through.  The film doesn't contain anything worthy of my interest.  Even the chicks aren't good-looking!  So when they get naked, it's like, Who cares?  Plus, I assumed since the film is titled Sorority House Massacre, it would be about a bunch of GIRLS being stalked by a psychotic killer, and not a bunch of girls AND THEIR BOYFRIENDS!  That totally destroys all the homo-erotic undertones.  There's no moments of humor.  The acting is mediocre, which is worse than bad in the case of a film like this, because I can't be impressed by the acting, nor can I laugh at it.  There's a nifty scene involving the girls trying to escape from the bedroom window with a ladder, and the killer is waiting on the other end.  Not exactly a Hitchcock moment, but it was pretty exciting and that's the only reason I'm giving the movie a score of 2.  This is definitely not the trashiest B-slasher ever made, but it's definitely one of the most boring!  And in a genre like this, being trashy is not a sin.  Being boring--major sin!!!  PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE AVOID THIS MOVIE AT ALL COSTS!!!!My score  2 (out of 10)       "},{"Title":"Better than a lot of 1980's slashers.","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" An escaped mental patient grabs a knife & terrorizes some pretty college girls & their boyfriends on campus. Why? because as it so happens, one of the girls is his sister, who managed to escape his rampage years earlier after he went crazy & did in her parents & siblings with a big knife. The incident winds up terrifying her so much, she can't really remember a thing from that night, but recounts it while under hypnosis, that one of her sorority sister's performs on her, after she has several scary nightmares & hallucinations of him. But wouldn't you know it, as it turns out, the sorority is actually the house her & her late family lived in & where the murders actually took place, many years before it became a sorority house! Armed with the knife he did his family in with & hid under one of the bricks in the fire place, before he was caught, he dispatches the girls & their lust crazed boyfriends one by one, until only he & his sister remain & he's determined to finish her off, a job he attempted to do years earlier. Sound familiar? Take away the sorority setting & SORORITY HOUSE MASSACRE is a complete rip-off of HALLOWEEN! The film is slow at times but nonetheless, it's not all that bad of a slasher flick, in fact this is a re-review of the film, since I saw it again after having not seen it for many years, while the film still was no great shakes, it wasn't as bad as I remembered it being & compared to a fare amount of other slasher films of it's type, it was at least a cut above most of them. The cast is okay, but nothing great & the direction is great at times, but bland in others, in terms of gory thrills, there's barely any gore on hand or creative kills, but at least it doesn't skimp on the nudity, so most horror fans won't find the film to be a total loss. True, it offers nothing new to the genre & has hardly any suspense or any memorable kills & adds characters that we could care less for, but it's not all that bad & is quiet amusing at times. The film reminded me of the SLUMBER PARTY MASSACRE films as well (The sequels rip them off even more!), but this was nowhere near as fun or entertaining as that film. Die hard horror fans will probably want to take as look at it, again it isn't one of the better slasher flicks to be released during the era, but it's pretty watchable for what it is. Followed by an in name only sequel, SORORITY HOUSE MASSACRE 2. *** stars "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Lame homage to Slumber Party Massacre finds the remaining members of a sorority during spring break being stalked and slashed by one of the member's brother. Tries for thrills and chills, but comes up empty handed. Slickly made thriller which tries to throw in some characteriztions and logic, but has way too many flashback scenes just doesn't make the cut, despite plenty of violence and T&A. Rated R; Violence, Nudity, Profanity, and Sexual Situations.  "},{"Title":"I'll put whatever I like about this movie! It's grim!","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Yes, yes, yes. Everybody has seen the amazing 'Dead Before Dawn' in which a serial killer is being hunted. The characters like Dermot O'Morgan and Inspector Buckley are fab. BUT, this movie completely mimics other movies like 'Halloween' and 'Friday the 13th'. Can it not think of a plot for itself. An escaped lunatic, (Halloween) A house full of young girls (Slumber party murders) and a weapon shop owner being stabbed. (Dead Before Dawn) The owner just won't die! He gets stabbed and then takes about 15 minutes to fall on the ground and say 'ugh!' Yes, the movie is crummy. Only stabbings as killings and no suspense or fun. It's just boring! 2 out of 10. "}{"Title":"ANOTHER SORORITY HOUSE KILLER!!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Another one of the span of sorority killings during the 80's. many have come but most fall short in quality. This falls very short in quality. It's just another slice and dice teenage movies made for thrills. Once the movie starts and you get into it you begin to unravel the plot pretty quickly and then it's just a matter of time before the some teenage killings and some sex like all horror movies need to have. If you want a cheesy marathon put this somewhere near the top along with Madman, Choppin mall, The Forest, The Mad Butcher and Clownhouse. "},{"Title":"Who needs a plot when you already have an appealing title?","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sorority House Massacre is a teen-slasher as eighties as they come! Academy girls with humongous hairdos and bad dress codes, accompanied by dorky-looking boys trying to get into their panties! All brought together in a sorority house during a lonely Fourth of July weekend while an escaped lunatic is trying to break in to settle an old score. It nearly is the same storyline than a thousand other horror films but this particular movie is even shameless enough to borrow elements from the two most eminent slashers in cinema. The killer is hunting down his youngest sister who was the sole survivor of his initial rampage. Mute and seemly emotionless he goes straight to her&#133;Did I hear someone saying Michael Myers?? If that isn't enough, our heroine also suffers from terrifying nightmares which makes her somewhat look like a lost cast-member of Nightmare on Elm Street. Okay, I can't be too harsh on fun thingies like this and it's generally known that 80's horror rarely is top notch cinema. Still, I'm disappointed that the makers of this didn't pay a little more attention to the actual murders. This kind of films can only distinguish themselves from the rest by showing creative bloodshed and flamboyant butchering, but Sorority House Massacre only features tame and uninspired killings. We need more blood! Despite the promising sounding title, you shouldn't count too much on gratuitous nudity, neither, as the rancidness is limited to one unnecessary dress up party (by the way, why are all the popular and sexy coeds named Cindy?) Come to think of it&#133;there actually isn't one good reason why you should see this film. Except maybe that I have to admit it has a good tempo and reasonably good acting by the lead girl. Even though every situation was déjà vu and every plot twist was repetitive, Sorority House Massacre certainly isn't the worst film in its kind. "},{"Title":"Really Bad Slasher is One Cliché After Another","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sorority House Massacre (1986) * 1/2 (out of 4) Really bad slasher has a new girl moving into a sorority house when she starts to have nightmares about some unknown man killing a family. Soon this unknown man escapes from a mental hospital and sure enough he heads to the sorority house where he starts killing the girls and boys there. SORORITY HOUSE MASSACRE features just about everything you'd want from a slasher but even its clichés are clichés. I remember renting this movie as a teenager, you know, back during the years when if a movie had nudity or violence then it was cool in my book but even this one struck me as being bad back then. I think there are just so many problems with this sucker that when viewed today they're even more clear. For starters, the entire film seems as if it was being made by someone who didn't like the genre and was just doing the thing because they were offered a job. I don't know a single thing about writer-director Carol Frank except that this is the only time she worked under these titles and it really does seem as if she didn't know anything about making a movie so she just watched other horror films and tried to copy them. The end result is a deadly dull affair that even at just 76-minutes seems way too long and stretched out. The really annoying way the film flashes from the sorority to the mental hospital didn't work and there certainly weren't any scares here. At least the director did realize films like this needed nudity so we got some of that and the death scenes at least featured some blood. The performances are what you'd expect from a film like this and the story really isn't anything to write home about. Believe it or not, this boring mess was actually followed by a sequel, which is one of my favorites of the genre. "},{"Title":"A predictable, tedious and unsatisfying slasher pic.","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Not to be confused with the earlier and slightly better The Slumber Party Massacre, with which it shares several similarities (a house full of teenage girls, a psycho killer, a virginal heroine, the word 'Massacre' in its title), Sorority House Massacre is yet another routine 80s stalk 'n' slash thriller, with a little Nightmare on Elm Street dream nonsense thrown in to try and spice things up a little.It doesn't work!.When the most horrific thing in a scary movie is the awful fashion sense of its characters, then you know you've picked a real turkey; admittedly, the extra large shoulder pads, baggy checked trousers with extremely high waist, and nasty perms are all fairly amusing, but they do not make up for this film's inability to scare, its lack of gore, or the complete absence of a decent plot.The derivative story sees Angela O'Neill as Beth, the new member of a sorority house where it is rumoured that a lunatic once murdered his entire family. This being a cheesy 80s slasher flick, those rumours eventually prove to be true&#151;well... almost Beth turns out to be the only survivor of the massacre, now all grown up and lacking any memory of her childhood trauma. Worse still, her brother&#151;the killer&#151;now seems to have a psychic connection with Beth, knows that his lil' sis is back 'home', and wants to finish the job he started 14 years ago. Escaping from his asylum with ease, he makes a quick stop at a store to pick up a hunting knife, and then hot foots it to the sorority house, where he begins to hack up the girls (and their boyfriends, who, this being a cheesy 80s slasher flick, drop by to party).Taking an absolute age to get going, with far too much time spent on mundane chit-chat between the girls, and on Beth's dreary nightmares (caused by her psychic 'link' with her brother), this film has a real problem with its pacing. A little welcome nudity helps a tad to keep viewers from nodding off completely (although none of the girls could really be classed as total babes, they do have nice jugs), but it's left way too late before big bro' finally gets into full-on killing mode. The deaths, when they do arrive, are uninspired, consisting of one tedious, unconvincing stabbing after another, leaving one longing for something a little more creative (is it too much to ask for our killer to make an effort?).By 1986, absolutely tons of slasher movies had already been and gone; this one added nothing new to the genre, whilst making a complete hash out of the stale elements it borrowed from its predecessors. "},{"Title":"Another 80's slasher & this one is worse than usual.","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sorority House Massacre starts as Beth (Angela O'Neill) arrives at her friends sorority house to stop over for the weekend to see whether she will join the house, herself, Linda (Wendy Martel), Sara (Pamela Ross) & Tracy (Nicole Rio) all intend to have heaps of fun over the forthcoming weekend. However things take a turn for the worse almost immediately when Beth starts to suffer from graphic & terrifying dreams & hallucinations. Meanwhile in a nearby mental asylum convicted mass murderer Robert (John C. Russell) manages to escape thanks to some (very) slack security procedures, unknown to the girls Robert brutally murdered his entire family in they're sorority house except his sister who hid from him. Can you guess who his sister is? Can you guess what Robert intends to do & what happens during the remainder of Sorority House Massacre? Of course you can, it's hardly rocket science is it?Written & directed by Carol Frank Sorority House Massacre is one of the lamest, poorest & rubbish 80's slashers money can buy & only really succeeds in confirming that a woman can make a horror film every bit as bad as a bloke. Where to start? Basically this is one massive dull, unoriginal, routine, bland, forgettable, boring & just plain bad waste of celluloid, it's as simple & straight forward as that folks. On a personal level there is nothing that I enjoyed about Sorority House Massacre, it's full of clichés, annoying teenage character's, lame death scenes, bad dialogue, situations & happenings that make no sense plus it's extremely slow & boring. It takes itself far too seriously like the filmmakers thought they were making something profound & meaningful, hey guys you weren't. There's a whole sub plot thing about being psychically linked which was as interesting & plausible as it sounds, basically not very. Sorority House Massacre is the sort of slasher film to give slasher films a bad name as if the slasher sub genre didn't have enough of one already, I can't remember enjoying any single aspect of this film. At all.Director Frank doesn't do much to liven the film up, it doesn't have much in the way of style or visual quality & it's very, very dark. The entire film is set in one house & I just have to ask how many times can you have your character's run up & down the stairs before it begins to get tiresome? There are so many things that I didn't like about this film I could go on all day long but I think you get the idea, I don't like Sorority House Massacre at all. Forget about much gore, every person who is killed in this film is dispatched the same way. Everyone is stabbed, there's no variety to the murders & there's a distinct lack of exploitation & blood. There's a bit of nudity but if that's what you want go hire some porn out.Technically Sorority House Massacre actually isn't too bad & could even be described as being quite well made, it's just a shame the film overall sucks so bad. The acting was neither here nor there, average at best.Sorority House Massacer is yet another cheap low budget piece of crap from executive producer Roger Corman's New Concorde Pictures, I sat there openly willing it to finish I was that bored. Total crap & I just about hated every lame boring minute of it, there are loads more much better slasher films out there for anyone to be bothering with such a crap film such as Sorority House Massacre. One to avoid. I'm not sure why but a sequel Sorority House Massacre II (1990) turned up a few years later, I've seen it & yes it's an improvement but not by much. "}]