[{"Title":"Just in case...","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"39 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't normally bother to write comments like this but I was shocked by the other reviewer's perspective. I think perhaps he likes things spoonfed to him. Regardless, this is a fairly obscure film. It's Argentinian. It's a so-called art movie. It doesn't feature any well known actors. The plot and many of the scenes were reproduced in the recent Hollywood version. Several other scenes have been lifted wholesale and used in other Hollywood movies. That alone suggests that the movie has merit (particularly in terms of story and direction). Over and above that, the acting is very good, and the pace, while slow, builds inexorably. There is no succinct resolution to the plot. That is the point. You have to think for yourself and it is a deeply thought provoking story. I think the central theme is a meditation on thought defining reality and seems to reference the Buddhist belief that our lives are a creation of our minds. But like any good work of art there are many layers open to interpretation. There are no overt references but this being an Argentinian affair, the tone of the movie reminded me of Jorge Luis Borges and Adolfo Bioy Casares. It's philosophical, and quite surreal in places. Some of the scenes are straight out of a Goya painting, and some of the camera motions are so graceful- almost imperceptible sometimes- that I thought of Kubrick. There's an awful lot going for this film. I don't want to ruin the story for anyone but I do rate it very highly. "},{"Title":"Intelligent film, sadly plagiarized","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"29 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For those of you who have seen K-Pax, please watch this one.  In 1986 Eliseo Subiela made this intriguing, intelligent film dealing with the human condition and its contradictions.  It has long been known to spanish-speaking audiences, so it's a shame to see a pale copy like K-Pax being lauded (or at least being credited with the idea). "},{"Title":"Moving and Fiercely Intelligent","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" An outspoken, gifted stranger suddenly appears at an insane asylum, claiming to be from another planet. Each day he stands in the open yard facing southeast to receive telepathic messages from his home. His presence has a profound effect upon the psychologist who is treating him for his delusions. But is the patient REALLY delusional? Or could his extraordinary story be quite possibly true? That is the crux of Man Facing Southeast, a remarkable apologue from Argentina concerning sanity and madness, Heaven and Hell, faith and incredulity, presented with unmitigated perspicacity and intelligence. The film never talks down to its audience, and its message is delivered with a clarity that is both subtle and stunning. Warm, touching, and inspirational, it is firmly entrenched in my personal Top Five Favorite Films of All Time list. Apparently first-time viewers should be certain to rent or purchase the subtitled version and NOT the English-dubbed version. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie, especially if taken in historical context","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think that the question, Is he really from outer space? is irrelevent to the movie--what matters is that the man, Renates, is completely foreign. It's not a feel-good movie, it's a thought-provoking movie, one that brings up the question, why is compassion so foriegn to us, and why do we fear the compassionate?  Those with power (the doctors) are so afraid to lose that power that they force their subjects into a forgetful stupor and deny their humanity--just as the military under Videla and the junta tortured over 30,000 people only two decades ago.  This film is a brilliant commentary on human nature and modern Argentine history. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film, as long as you see the subtitled version","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Man Facing Southeast is a very good, deep, thought-provoking film. Beautiful, stark visuals, music, and good acting all work to create a very intense and utterly mesmerizing atmosphere. But don't bother renting it - as far as I know only the dubbed version is available on video. With dialogue that takes itself this seriously, it takes extreme skill to keep it from being merely pretentious and ridiculous - a skill which the dubbers completely lacked. Thus a great, serious film is turned into one of those completely unwatchable abominations where you don't know if you should laugh or cry. "},{"Title":"A thought provoking and entertaining film","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Today nearly everyone is familiar with holograms; three-dimensional images projected into space with the aid of a laser. As a result of their research with subatomic particles, some scientists now believe that the universe itself is a holographic projection and that all things are infinitely interconnected at a deeper level of reality. Rantes (Hugh Soto), an extra patient who just shows up at a mental hospital in Buenos Aires, would probably agree. In Eliseo Subiela's science fiction thriller, Man Facing Southeast, Rantes tells Psychiatrist Julio Denis (Lorenzo Quinteros) that he is a projection who has been sent from another planet to study humanity and help the suffering. He claims that man is in the prehistory of holographic projection and that his notions are delusionary. Rantes spends many hours simply standing in the courtyard-facing southeast, ostensibly transmitting and receiving messages from his home planet. He seems to have all the normal attributes of a human being but tells Dr. Denis that he does not have any human feelings. Though Denis concludes that Rantes is insane and treats him with drugs and counseling, he becomes increasingly fascinated with this strange individual who appears to possess extraordinary abilities.  During their talks, Rantes articulates his thoughts about the human condition with amazing insight, telling the doctor that the patients are the sane ones since they do not subscribe to the blatant stupidity of so-called normal people. He tells Denis, Your reality is terrifying, Doctor. Possessing a charisma that attracts other patients to him, the skeptical Dennis compares Rantes to a Christ figure and remarks that he himself has become the Pontius Pilate in this story. The situation gets more involved when Denis falls in love with Beatrice Dick (Ines Vernengo), an attractive woman who visits Rantes in the hospital, claiming that she met him at her church. Their deepening relationship culminates in a concert in the park where Rantes, suddenly infected by human feelings, takes over the orchestra and conducts Beethoven's Ode to Joy as the audience and hospital patients' break into a Dionysian dance. When the episode is reported in the newspaper, the doctor is called to task by his superior and told to increase Rantes' medication. Denis, becoming increasingly isolated and depressed, agrees but begins to question the entire psychiatric establishment. Man Facing Southeast is a thought provoking and entertaining film that examines the values society uses to judge those that are different. Though Rantes claims he is unfeeling, the contrast between his level of awareness and the closed-minded psychiatrists can perhaps stand as a metaphor for the leaders in today's society and those that are being led. Is Rantes a madman, a robot, a Christ-figure, an extra-terrestrial? Are the greatest virtues of mankind love, compassion, and justice rational or irrational? This haunting Argentine film allows the viewer to provide the answers. "},{"Title":"YOU BET!  THIS IS A WINNER!!","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this film.  Not just because I'm an (ex-)Argentine but because it just works.  It is delightful, thought-provoking and bittersweet.  The same themes we loved in One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest, the destruction of innocence, the quashing of independence/individuality and the gray, foggy area of mental illness-- are all present in this fine film.  Alas, most American viewers will not be familiar with the fine cast but no matter.  This is a film that should be watched and enjoyed.  You don't have to stick into a Hollywood pigeonhole to appreciate the fine artwork.  It will leave you with that same wistful feeling that have done so many other films touching on the institutionalizing of mental patients-- with the possible exception of Harvey. "},{"Title":"Very good movie.  Look beneath the surface.","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Those who complain about this movie being depressing and full of unanswered questions miss the point.  An intelligent viewer must look beneath the surface; there's a clever story and a set of plot twists that await whomever is willing to make the minimum effort required to do that.The movie keeps the viewer's interest by using a series of cinematic devices and by raising questions.  The important ones get answered all right, while some unimportant ones are left open.  Subiela himself admitted later that there is no real reason for Beatriz's changes of shoes, or for the blue liquid coming out of her mouth.  But the central theme remains that of a man that approaches sainthood (note the numerous parallels with the story of Christ) by just doing what is logical---not out of any belief from a contrived moral system.  "},{"Title":"Moving and thoughtful","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes it does.My first thought was that if they meant to picture a financially struggling institution, they did a perfect job it looked so real with its dirty, cracked walls, plain furniture and doors in dire need of painting that it brought up my childhood memories about the hospital I've been in in the eighties.I watched this movie in Spanish with no subtitles, so I don't know the dialogues, but they must be well good if they are half as good as the nonverbal parts, and there were so many great scenes with no words. My favourite one is when Rantes slides the plates in front of that poor hungry family (and you could see the mother really put her children first, they all looked better then herself), and his eye-communication was the icing on the cake.Or when he walked past the security guard when he slipped out of the institute at night &#x96; he timed it so perfectly that he could be confident enough not even to need to rush much, and I liked the music in the scene as well.I was very impressed with the acting throughout &#x96; of course Julio was bored and Rantes was unemotional for a reason. All the more uplifting the moment of Rantes and Beatriz starting to dance to the Ode of Joy was (and another music I like).The boarding of the patients was outrageous &#x96; I can only hope it wasn't based on reality. Judging from their appearance, patients of various severity of disorders seemed to be dumped together, possibly having a bad effect on one another, their clothing was insufficient, they were fed from dogs' bowls, instead of the staff it was Rantes who noticed when they were cold, needed attention or more to eat, and he was all right exactly to the point until his treatment started. The procedure of turning this bright, well-meaning person into a mental and physical wreck was very well pictured and heartbreaking to watch.One consolation for the similarities between the K-PAX movie (which, unfortunately, had parts added or altered from the book it was based on to make it similar to MFS, but its atmosphere is still different enough &#x96; especially regarding the state of the hospital and the way patients were treated &#x96; that it is worth watching) and this one is that it's good advertising for it. I only heard about, bought and watched MFS because it was mentioned in the K-PAX reviews, which is a real shame because it's better than the K-PAX movie (I gave it six stars in my review), and as good as the novel.The scenes with the coffin and the brain are much slagged off as unnecessary but I think they couldn't have been better calculated. Handling of the bodies and the brain only turns rough after we learn Rantes is to get medication, and so the scenes give us an idea how he would end up &#x96; just after he washes the brain down the drain come the injections and wash all the thoughts out of his brain.But I think the disfigured faces suddenly popping up much earlier, after the scene of Rantes and Julio talking outside walking down stairs were completely unnecessary. The only part I hated &#x96; minus 1 star for including this regurgitated, cheap crappy horror-movie scare tactic trick in this great movie. "},{"Title":"A thought provoking movie","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the movie that brought recognition for the first time to Eliseo Subiela.  Many times described as ET for adults, that cliche is both accurate and misleading. As I write this, a movie with an identical premise is being advertised in the States (K-PAX).  I hope lawyers have a field day. The mysterious patient Ramses, who has suddenly appeared in this Argentinian clinic, is convinced to have come from another world.  Capable of rational thought and of an apparent high IQ, a doctor begins a treatment to cure him from his dellusion.  But does he need to be cured?  Isn't the doctor more insane that his patient?  Haven't we forgotten what it means to live and enjoy life? The movie moves slowly, but keeps itself interesting.  The dialogue is sometimes too academical to be believable (even in Spanish), but its intentions are more powerful than the presentation. Except for Beethoven's Ode to Joy sequence, the movie is not very cinematic, but once again, it never feels to drag. The depiction of the asylum is also one of those you won't see in your typical Hollywood movie as we see how the dead corpses of the inmates are carried over to be used for medical studies.  "}{"Title":"The invention of Morel was quite right!","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Outdating an old and odd theme such as in Adolfo Bioy Casares' novel The invention of Morel is one of the most important achievements of this fantastic and frenetic movie. I saw it for the first time when I was at High School, over here in Mexico City, and I thought it was so complex even tough its simplicity. This is one of those movies you can see several times, and you'll always find something anew and odd within the fantastic Rantez' story. I think I liked so much because of the range of equality between the novel and the movie, even tough is not strictly an adaptation. I couldn't recommend this movie to anyone who does not comprehend this not a simple story -in the Aristoteles lines-up- Is a fiction among others. Is a kind of magic! An you need to be full of will to get trough. "},{"Title":"Leaves Questions Unanswered","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of my criteria for favorably rating a movie is that it does not attempt to answer every question it poses. This movie leaves the basic question of the mental patient's (Rantes) origin unexplained. The plot is a fine vehicle for examining society's definition of sanity. The performance of Hugo Soto as Rantes is exceptional. The other members of the cast play their roles with sensitivity. The film was shot on location at a mental institution and the inclusion of patients in the supporting cast lends an unmistakable authenticity to the production. Unfortunately the English language dub version is disjointed and this detracts somewhat from this otherwise remarkable movie. "},{"Title":"Face towards it","Date":"31 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hombre Mirando al Sudeste is firstly quite a mesmerizing film; it seemed to take me about a third of its actual length to watch. This is doubtless owed in part to the very committed performances of Lorenzo Quinteros and Hugo Soto in the lead roles as well as to the often subtle, slightly distanced direction. Mainly, though, I think it's because the writer and director Eliseo Subiela makes the daring decision to set us a mystery (Is this patient in the mental hospital really the alien from space he believes himself to be?) and then as good as telling us that the mystery will not be solved because there can be no satisfactory solution.This ambiguity becomes a quality of the film, as the potential-alien Rantes makes several observations about human society that raise questions - often quite big questions - rather than dictating answers. Why DON'T we give up our jackets when we meet someone colder? Why don;t many of us act to stop ourselves being unhappy? How do we determine what beliefs constitute the insane?If one takes it on its level for the questions it wants to raise and appreciates it for its poetry it will well reward a viewing. "},{"Title":"A Passion Play - The Destruction of Innocence","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is powerful and heart rending. I first saw this movie before I became a psychiatrist, and it remains one of my favorites. When I was in training, I showed it at our Friday Night Movies with the Residents. It evoked disparate comments about the psychiatrist and the main character. It made everyone think and rethink their interpretations. It reminds me of Gabriel Garcia Marquez' One Hundred Years of Solitude because it has so many elements of Catholicism melded with South American mysticism. There are several stills that are imprinted on my brain. I have two tapes of it, one dubbed and one the original with English subtitles. I rarely watch the one with subtitles because I do not want to wear it out. I hope it is released in DVD soon because it should be shown to everyone who is training to be a mental health professional. It teaches one not to be too sure of their ideas. And not to be too certain they have analysed things correctly, or maybe, that analysing is not the compassionate way to treat patients, or people. "},{"Title":"A truly unusual film","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a film crying out for DVD release (unavailable on any format at the time of writing).  One of those gems of movies that appear on TV every so often in the early hours, this story of a mental patient who may or may not be an alien visitor manages to charm whilst side-stepping Sci-Fi cliché.Although similar in subject matter to films such as Terry Gilliam's excellent The Fisher King, this is equally successful in it's own, subtler way.  An excellent film, worth staying up late for should you ever see it materialize in the TV listings. "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever subtle and complex.","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw the Spanish-language, English-subtitled version for perhaps the 3rd time.  I first saw the film in a Spanish literature class about 8 years ago.  It is truly una maravilla.  The story of a man who voluntarily commits himself to an insane asylum, meanwhile claiming confidentially to his caseworker that he's really an alien from the future come to observe us, defies easy description or explanation.Among the more interesting features of this film is the dawning realization that the psychiatrist is less sane than his patient, who may or may not be alien.  And that the alien, who claims to be incapable of feeling human emotions, actually feels them more deeply than his cold-natured psychiatrist.If you can find this film in its subtitled version, and it's tricky!, don't miss it! "},{"Title":"General overview of Hombre Mirando al Sudeste","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I viewed this movie as part of a class assignment and found myself completely lost in the story line to it.  Fortunately, there was no dubbing in of the American voices in the version that I saw, so I had no problem with that.  The plot of it amazed me in ways that no American movie has ever amazed me before.  The general cinematography was amazing.  Everyone should see this movie, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Brilliant and wonderful","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was shocked by the first commentary I read about this movie. Man Facing Southeast is one of my favorite movies of all time. The first time I saw it, I watched it through, and then RAN to my phone and demanded two of my closest friends come over to my house immediately to see it. They did, with much grumbling about not being given any notice, etc. But they arrived, and both of them, one an Israeli, the other a fellow from Japan, agreed wholeheartedly with me... The movie IS brilliant and they were glad I dragged them out of their homes to come see it. All three of us have gone on to see the movie again (and again and again) and have other people watch it with us. I have yet to hear one person say anything that wasn't a glowing report. The comment made that the movie didn't answer the questions it posed, is just ridiculous. THAT is one of the movies strong points. There are no easy answers at the end of it. It's up to the viewer to decide or not decide (if one doesn't NEED that easy ending) what really happened. Words I would use to describe A Man Facing Southeast, would be, Brilliant, Original, Sensitive, Compassionate and of course... EXTRAORDINARY! The movie is a rare find and an enthralling piece of work. I can't say enough good about it (obviously). Also, I did not see the dubbed version. I saw the subtitled version of the movie and would suggest that others do the same. Dubbing a movie rarely does anything except make the narrative of the film, irritating. Perhaps the only exceptions being some of the modern martial arts films coming to the U.S. from China. Anyone reading this commentary, Man Facing Southeast is amazing and wonderful. SEE IT! You'll be glad you did. P "},{"Title":"Superb, Thoughtful SF Without SFX","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A man breaks *into* an insane asylum he says he's a space-alien observer with mystical powers, and figures he'll save everyone the trouble by cutting to the chase.  An exhilirating meditation on the fine line between divine inspiration and madness, clearly influenced by Philip K. Dick's autobiographical last novels (_VALIS_ and _The Transmigration of Timothy Archer_); Subiela makes this explicit by naming the lead female character Beatriz Dick. "},{"Title":"10, 10.","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an extraordinary film and seems to remain in my top 3 or 5 for life. If you believe in humanity you will adore it - the way it should be. A man that behaves in a manner in which humans are supposed to - mysteriously shows up in a mental ward and all there are terribly enthralled and inspired by his Energy. I was too. There is a touch of sci fi in it which is quite interesting. K PAK was an EXACT rip off of it. Just a lot of water added. Super cheap POOR version. I respect Kevin Spacey a lot and all I can say is, he must have been really broke at the time or his ethics are not what I wish them to be. I even own the poster for MAN FACING SOUTHEAST. At the time it was dubbed 'The E.T.for Adults.' It is an easy and pedestrian description but they are not entirely wrong. I wish more Americans saw this. Argentinian. Rent or buy. Indy category if you still have a video store - support it. "}{"Title":"an alien among us","Date":"3 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A mysterious intruder arrives in a Buenos Aires insane asylum, ostensibly just another madman who claims, with unnerving sincerity, to be a holographic image projected from another planet. His mission (so he says) is to study the superweapon with which mankind threatens the cosmos not The Bomb, but simple human stupidity. It might sound familiar, but don't mistake this modern Passion Play with science fiction. The film instead presents an intriguing philosophical dialogue between the 'madness' of the title character and the troubled sanity of Dr. Denis, a lost soul himself after serving too long the needs of the mentally ill. If there's a fault to the scenario it would have to be the lack of ambiguity about the stranger Dr. Denis remains skeptical, but the audience is never in doubt of his otherworldly origins. A little ambivalence might have added some dimension to the sanity/insanity debate. The uneasy mood of the film was achieved by shooting it (in subdued shades of color) within an actual mental institution. "},{"Title":"Slightly disturbing insight into human behaviour.","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie at a lecture in MIT and the person giving the introduction said that the film had been criticised in Argentina for being too sad. I have to say that I did not find it teribly sad but very disturbing.It is set in a mental hostpital but the audience is constantly trying to figure out who are the crazy ones. The main character Rantes is a complex and very rational character compared with his doctor who is predictable in his behaviour and very irrational. The film strongly makes the point that more humans are like the doctor over the patient but it is obvious that the patient is a much more desirable character. The music added a lot to the feeling of unease I felt watching it. By the end the sound of the sax seemed almost seedy and back alley like the soundtrack to some graphic pornography with very low production value. And the scene with (i think it's) Beethovens 9th symphony (the same one as was used in A Clockwork Orange) was amazing.The one complaint I would have about the movie, and this could be a spoiler coming up, is that I don't think it was neccessary to show Rantes as having telekinetic powers. It gave the game away far too early and just confused me. It all seemed a bit too convienient.  "},{"Title":"Yes, a memorable film indeed","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can see by previous comments that others have noted the elevated quality of this film, a rare type of film, one that lingers in your mind long after its viewing. I saw this film well over 10 yrs ago and would love to see it again. But I don't know if it will translate well in the English language as one recent viewer intends to do. Why do films need to be repeated? Many remakes have died a quick death and tarnished the vision of the original. Better to savour the experience of the original.  "},{"Title":"Man Facing Southeast","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is undoubtedly one of the best foreign films I've ever seen. All the elements the cast,plot, cinematography, etc are quite remarkable.It is particularly thought provoking in its treatment of ideas concerning psychiatry and religion; science-fiction/metaphysics.I would really like to see an English version made. However, I don't think it would work as a direct translation.Unfortunately, there are too many people who cannot appreciate a movie in a foreign language with subtitles - who will be missing a truly worthwhile film. "},{"Title":"Subiela is always surprising!","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Little Miracles, Man Facing Southeast, The Dark Side of The Heart 1 and 2 are to me really amazing, specially because it is obvious the budget is too low and even though, the movies are deep, disturbing, intriguing, and yet, easy to understand (not without thinking)... Subiela is one of the few directors I can tell I've liked all what I have seen of them (Kubrik might be another, and maybe Lynch), but the only Latin one. The main question about the movie is what if? What if Rantes is really what he says he is? What if the doctor is the crazy and blind one? What if the other interns of the mental hospital can see what is for real, just as all the crazy people in the world? And, there are a lot of Why's also. Why do the doctor kids like Rantes so much? Why Beatriz is always changing her shoes when nobody looks at her? Why Rantes, even though is so cold loves the music so much, and for moments, makes him act as a real human? The details (something that I start to consider typical in Subiela are what make the movie so unique. Rantes could stay as someone totally crazy if we would not have the benefit of the doubt when we see him use his mental powers, and by the other side, the photo that Lorenzo (the doctor) finds in Beatriz's bag that is at least 10 years old, makes us think that they have not exactly just arrived to the planet. But again, why is Rantes so important for the rest of the interns in the hospital, and how does he get there? And how would his sister Beatriz find him if it would not be telepathy? There are two very shocking and extremely great scenes to me The first one is when Rantes directs the orchestra playing Beethoven 9th Symphony at the same time that the interns in the hospital are celebrating -whatever they are celebrating-; and the second one is when Rantes is laying on the bed, medicated, and mutters Dr, Dr, why have you abandoned me?... just as Jesus said when he was crucified. Such a great metaphor. "},{"Title":"The poetic convergence of madness and genius","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Man facing southeast is a complex metaphysical film that defies the conventions of uninteresting simple-entertaining cinema. The very first thing that interested me about the film was the form in which the dialogue was delivered the internal monologue of the doctor. The sweet combination of his voice and the words he utters is extremely poetic imaginative, intellectual, painful and truthful.A most memorable quote If I speak the truth outside, they'll bring me here. The truth is too sophisticated for the rational man. Rantes, the great master is, to me, a representation of holy martyrs. However, I think that his martyrdom was in fact his downfall In my eyes he was a warrior, a revolutionary&#133; and his death should have been much more poetic or tragic&#133; instead his death was simple and pathetic. I once read a book called El caballo de Troya (The horse of Troy) and the author claims it is based on real events, some call it science fiction, others call it nonsense&#133; In the book he speaks about Jesus being an extraterrestrial who was concerned with the state of the world. He speaks of angels as other extraterrestrials, and as the eclipse during the crucifixion as being a great spaceship revolving above the sacred cross of Jesus. Whether this film was influenced by this book or not it irrelevant; what is important is the fact that Rantes represents a holy figure. As already mentioned, his healing powers, his meek personality and his powers of telekinesis are parallels to the powers of Jesus. On the other hand, the fact that he has sacrificed everything that he had and was not concerned with the material world is very similar to the actions of the Buddha during his great departure from his kingdom. Lastly something that really interested me was the blue liquid that emanated from the woman's mouth The doctor mentioned that she could have been an epileptic; however, it is known that in ancient tribal societies the western disease known as epilepsy is revered and considered a gift, which elevates the sufferer to the position of a Shaman. According to the Shamans, the thin layer they must cross to travel between the worlds is a blue-mirror substance. Thus, the film interested me very much because of the religious and mystical interpretations I drew from it.Returning to the poetic magic of the film, it was extremely interesting to have found similarities in Eliseo Subiela's work and the work of the three greatest writers of Latin America Jorge Luis Borges, Gabriel Garcia Marquez, and Octavio Paz. What is more interesting, however, is the fact that these three poetic visionaries are extremely different and that their interest and impact in film could be seen as a massive reason why Latin American films are either linear and dramatic, complex, poetic and surreal or a mixture of both. Octavio Paz is Mexico's finest surreal poet he stands on the edge of liquid mental imagery, collectively or objectively impossible to understand&#133;. An anthropologist of subjective power. On the other hand, Garcia Marquez is the master of magical realism the charismatic genius of dramatic and romantic narrative stories; the other side of the spectrum. And in the middle sits the blind Argentinean Tiresias whose poetic prose is a labyrinth of surreal narrative. Also, while Paz and Marquez were very political writers, Borges stood outside the perimeter of Politics and concentrated more in his artistic and personal visions.In the film Rantes attempts to teach the blind&#133; he speaks a truth that is greater than the capability of comprehension of the others. Thus, it was, in a way, his fault that his truth was understood Perhaps he needed to create an archive of his ideas&#133; teaching, and having his students teach others. This idea takes me to a quote by Marquez Most important is the creation of a Latin American film archive. I coined the phrase, we're working for oblivion We're not achieving anything by teaching kids how to make films, if what they do doesn't last twenty years. What already exists is going to come to an end, nobody's going to remember what we did. The idea of the Foundation is to preserve this (Page 2). It is therefore that I find this quote both paradoxical and important as a parallel to the film itself Because the film is not that old, yet it is almost an impossibility to find&#133; and because the attempt of Rantes to change the world was his very own destruction. The world will change if we plant seeds&#133; Cinema will remain pure and exist as long as we understand its capability and realize that something beyond the boundaries of bullshit Hollywood exists, waiting, quivering&#133; something explosive, powerful and poetic that needs to be discovered True Cinema!. "},{"Title":"Intriguing sci-fi suspenseful","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was a really suspenseful, weird, intriguing movie. Its has a great scifi touch, where you're posed with the possibility that the patient might be an alien. The best part is when the doctor says that he begins to feel, to feel anger towards the human world because we do not take care of our people. I must admit I didn't enjoy the ending, i was left with unanswered questions. It was really cool, I have the feeling the book is better, but I haven't read it.  "},{"Title":"A movie you will never forget","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For me this is one of the most beautiful and powerful movies of all times; not only because it brings awareness in our hearts but also it is a movie that speaks for love, courage, understanding and forgiveness....it is a true gift for all.In fact my husband, Jason Laskay, loved this film so much when he saw it back in 1985, that he persuaded and purchased the English language re-make rights and has written a beautiful adaptation for the American and foreign market place. If anyone reading this will like to support this venture, please send us an e-mail.I recommend this film 100%, and definitly suggest watching the original version in Spanish with subtitles. FORGET THE ENGLISH OVER-DUBBED VERSION!Sincerely,Monica Laskay "},{"Title":"One of the best foreign films I've ever seen","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is undoubtedly one of the best foreign films I've ever seen. All the elements the cast,plot, cinematography, etc are quite remarkable.It is particularly thought provoking in its treatment of ideas concerning psychiatry and religion; science-fiction/metaphysics.I would really like to see an English version made. However, I don't think it would work as a direct translation.Unfortunately, there are too many people who cannot appreciate a movie in a foreign language with subtitles - who will be missing a truly worthwhile film. "},{"Title":"Poor dubbing--should have been subtitled","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The story in this film was fascinating; the English-language overdubbed dialogue was poor. Either the translators did a poor job or perhaps the original script did not lend itself to the ratings this movie have received. "}{"Title":"Flawed Masterpiece","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A mysterious man appears voluntarily in a lunatic asylum and one of the doctors becomes fascinated by him and his supposed delirium which may or may not be fact.The man claims to be from outer space on a research project to study humans who's scariest attributes are stupidity and irrationality. For him, it is perfectly logical to be kind and giving to people in need, to listen, to enjoy life, etc. He soon becomes a Christ-like figure for the insane and the needy and he has many fascinating dialogues with the doctor where they spar The doctor struggles with his own skepticism, his disillusion with his profession, his sadness, humanity's flaws and the gnawing knowledge that the man surely must be crazy, and the patient weaves a complex and consistent background on his alien culture and thoughts, while criticizing humans for their blindness. It doesn't help us to decide either when the man displays telekinetic powers.Soon, the man makes too much noise and the asylum's director decides to act. Then the man comes face to face with the dangers of humanity's folly and pride and the doctor finds himself between a rock and a hard place, like Pontius Pilate.That's the plot. My personal opinion of this movie is that it's fascinating, everyone should see it once, but it's seriously flawed. I had a slight issue with the obvious fact that he claimed he had no feelings but reacts impassioned to music and once or twice flies into a rage when he rants about humanity. But this only proves that he is merely an insane human. Or does it?But more importantly, I have a problem with this naive idea that rationality automatically means kindness. It depends on the goal. How does one conclude that being kind to everyone is the most logical behaviour? This is too simplistic. What about moral conflicts? What about self-neglect? What about people that abuse your kindness? What if your goals are simply to achieve pleasure? What if your only goal is to make Germany a prosperous and powerful country again after WWI? I liked the themes. I liked the intelligent dialogue. I loved the use of music. But I can't help but feel this wasn't thought through enough and that the movie is taking an easy and lazy stance on good vs bad and preaching overly-simplistic morality. "},{"Title":"Interesting film marred by poor voice overs.","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a fascinating film--the story was captivating. Sadly, this very good movie was ruined by poor quality dubbed voices. I am sure much was lost in the translation. Moreover, they were taped in studio with very poor acoustics, the echo was more than audible. "},{"Title":"One of the most depressing movies I've ever seen","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A few scenes of real visual poetry, like when the alien & his girlfriend at the classical music concert get up & start dancing, & pretty soon the whole audience follow suit.  Except for one shot, they're careful to leave it up in the air whether the guy's really an alien or not. But the ending's a complete bummer, especially for me having known people on psychotropic drugs.  I'm planning to steer clear of the new remake K-Pax.  Whether it sticks to the original or not, it'll be depressing either way.  "},{"Title":"not so exciting to watch.","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I read the summary, it sounds exciting, about aliens, etc.The one that I watched was voice translated in English. The scenes are not new, it is always those few places through out the movie. And the actors are not nice to look at for a long time, either. )And at the end, I still was not sure if the guy was actually a lunatic or actually come from outer space. What about the woman who visited him? "},{"Title":"Commercial trash","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's amazing how this film seems to appeal to American audiences. I always thought it was just commercial trash, leaving little or nothing worth to the viewer -nothing but the old question Could it be true?. Maybe the actors, the surroundings, or who knows what else, seems exotic and attractive; in fact, Argentine public has never had a truly high opinion of Subiela as a film maker. "}]