[{"Title":"Highly-Charged Jason, Highly-Charged Movie","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"33 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" From its spectacular, squirm-in-your-seat opening to its exciting finale, Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives delivers. Still haunted by his killing of the masked maniac two films ago, our hero Tommy Jarvis (Thom Mathews) ventures to Jason Voorhees' grave just to be sure he's really dead. When a lightning bolt strikes the metal fence post Tommy uses to puncture the corpse, Jason is resurrected (remind you of someone?) and ready to hack his way through another terrified group of campers and innocent bystanders. But with no one ready to believe that Jason is indeed back, it again falls to Tommy to put evil in its place.The Friday the 13th series got back on track with this installment following a Jason-less fifth entry that remains a bitter disappointment for many horror buffs. Director Tom McLoughlin struck a magnificent balance between breathing a new life into the franchise and maintaining the look and feel of what fans have come to expect. The picture is fast-paced, smart and, at times, legitimately scary. Jason suddenly seems more evil and terrifying given his newfound strength as a member of the Walking Dead Club. McLoughlin's oft-praised attempts at humor are rarely successful, but at least he chose (wisely) not to mock the zombified star, as the most recent Jason films have.Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives is not Hitchcock, but it is a highly-entertaining effort that never once reveals its low-budget limitations. Horror fans and those looking for a good scare will be pleased. "},{"Title":"Jason really LIVES...","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"38 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  With the exception of part 9, ALL of the Jason movies just keep getting better!  In my honest opinion, this sequel comes in third as far as Jason sequels go (pspart 1 will always rule) and this sequel comes in right after parts 2 and 4.  Part 1 is simply a classic.Director/Writer Tom McLoughlin has literally recreated Jason after the turn of events in part 5, replacing the character's once-human figure from parts 2-4 with a better, more menacing, grosser, unkillable, zombie-like figure. In this installment, it seems that Jason has stopped chasing his victims and has become a little more quiet and subtle about his kills.Most of all, McLoughlin really makes Jason Live in this movie.  Jason thrives!!  McLoughlin, in my opinion, has directed what is probably the most scary Jason of them all.  I've seen them all a hundred times, and I still jump when he appears in the window in front of Sissy.  The acting is extremely acceptable from its predecessors, especially the roles of Tommy Jarvis (Thom Matthews) and Sheriff Garris (David Kagen).  Even the camp counselors liven up their roles a bit.  Though it was inevitable for them to be slaughtered, I still thought that it was cool that I still remember their characters.  There is just something about this one.  Jason Lives has an excellent story line that delivers, however, the gore is relatively low at certain times, but McLoughlin never fails to bring it all back with shots of that very very bloody machete of Jason's.This sequel contains many of my favorite death scenes so far in the series. What McLoughlin did in this movie that previous directors didn't was he actually made Jason unpredictable.  I mean, you KNOW he's gonna kill the counselors, but you don't know when or where. I absolutely LOVE that feeling of uncertainty.  McLoughlin has Jason lurking out of windows, behind doors, and the scariest part is when Jason is unknowingly in the motor home as the teenagers pull away from camp.  There is also a lot of the usual CH CH CH HA HA HA and deep black darkness to enhance Jason's (CJ Graham's) menacing figure.For once I didn't want any of the characters to get killed.  I enjoyed all of their roles.  I especially didn't want Paula (Kerry Noonan) to die, and her responsible, soft-spoken, motherly role had me rooting for her to be the lone survivor.  That was a first for me...except for Chrissy in part III I never really cared much for the campers.  However, my hopes were mutilated in the cabin when Paula dies probably Jason's most notorious kill to date. My God, that cabin is bloody!Overall, I recommend this installment to any hardcore Jason fan.  It is a real horror movie, this time it's for real.  Rent it, buy it, do whatever! It's great!   Jason Lives...he breathes...he can never die  "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE, I LOVED IT!!","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Finally, a decent sequel has come out to make Friday the 13th a respectable horror. This is due to a good storyline, good effects and also because one of my favourite actors is the main star in this movie. I thought Thom Mathews was wicked in Return of The Living Dead, and he is just as good playing Tommy Jarvis in this sequel.Especially like the cool Alice Cooper soundtrack at the end, and well, as for Jennifer Cooke, the girl who plays Megan.....she is just gorgeous. If I would have been Tommy, I would have forgotten about Jason and spent the rest of the movie trying to chat her up. Total babe.Cool film, my rating, 9/10 "},{"Title":"Every installment gets worse than the last one. Except this one.","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"32 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The movie starts off fairly well, relatively speaking. Tommy Jarvis has grown up into a young man and returns to Jason's grave, unable to go on living unless he can completely verify for himself that Jason is really dead. On the other hand, digging up Jason's grave and essentially freeing him (since Tommy doesn't believe that Jason can be killed) doesn't exactly strike me as the best course of action. What was he planning to do, collect Jason's teeth and go check his dental records? At any rate, at least there is some thought put into an interesting way to bring Jason back to life, at least long enough to kill enough kids to fill up another movie.Tommy digs Jason up and then stabs his decayed corpse with a nearby fencepost, which is promptly struck by lightning thus bringing Jason back to life. It was earlier in this scene in the movie that someone utters the line, Some folks have a strange idea of entertainment, which I had planned on using as the summary line in my review. Sadly, I logged on to the IMDb and the first thing I noticed was that I was not as clever as I thought. It is, after all, one of the best lines in the movie, since it is such a tongue in cheek jab at the movie's biggest fans.During the paintball scene that soon follows, I was immediately struck by the intelligence of the characters. I really appreciate that this movie has people in it who are boneheads but they're not stupid. These are regular guys with undeveloped intellects rather than the typical horror movie moron, one of the worst things to ever see in a horror film. Or any other film, for that matter. It is a great scene when Jason gets his hands on a machete, for example. One of the boneheads in the movie, Burt, is shot by a woman during the paintball game, after which he proceeds to hack away at the trees around him, and check this out. He curses to himself that she shouldn't have been out there in the first place, she should have stayed where she belonged (presumably the kitchen), etc. This is a development of his character as well as the revelation of a deep character flaw that allows the audience to enjoy his death even after learning something about who he is. When was someone invented as fodder ever given that depth of character? Never!Sure, we hardly learn about his childhood and his dreams, but the point is that he ceases to be nothing but some poor sucker to get hacked up in a creative way by Jason. Then you have the other guy who loses his gun. Again, a lesser horror film would have had him lose his gun through some monumental act of paralyzing stupidity. In this film, he's just an office geek who isn't used to handling guns. He thinks he's in a warzone but he is just out of his element, and Jason is closing in to remind him of where he belongs. These are some of the best characters ever put into the Friday the 13th series.Granted, the movie does have its share of lame goofiness. The cemetery man (that's a good movie, too), for example, at the beginning responds to Tommy's request to dig up Jason with something like, Dig him up? Does he think I'm a farthead?! Huh huh huh! but the characters clearly have the most depth and meaning that we have seen in the series so far. The dumbest characters in the movie are the cops, which I'm sure has some sort of hidden message (which Hitchcock would have appreciated, no doubt), and there is also a clever scene involving the TV. One of the kids staying at the camp (oh, I forgot to tell you, they've changed the charming name of Camp Blood so that they can operate as a summer camp) one night swears that she saw a monster. The counselors tell her that it's okay, it was just a bad dream, but she insists that it was real, just like TV. Hear that, parents? Don't let your kids watch too much TV or they'll grow up and watch movies like this!Besides that, the little girl's name was Nancy. Could this be an homage to Nightmare on Elm Street?There is an interesting plot structure that involves the police thinking that Tommy is doing the killing, which ties in neatly with their status as the dumbest guys in the movie. This is leaps and bounds better than the sequels that preceded it (and light years better than Part VIII!!), there's even some good direction. The shot of Jason standing on top of the burning motor-home is one of the best shots thus far in the series. If you're going to watch some Friday the 13th movies, definitely don't miss this one. It's easy to get tired of the same old thing by this point, but this one is worth skipping ahead to see. "},{"Title":"Jason belongs in hell, and I'm going to see that he gets there.","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part 6 Jason Lives is almost a straight-up comedy.  After five movies I suppose they just gave up on trying to scare people.  The director and screenwriter have definitely planted the tongue firmly in the cheek for this installment.  An example of the humor can be found when Jason decapitates three people in one foul swoop.  There are a ton of little comedic touches like that which push Part 6 into horror/comedy territory.  Return of the Living Dead alumni Thom Mathews has taken over as Tommy and does a fine job.  Sadly, this is the last we'll see of Tommy and I believe that is a mistake.  The character of Tommy Jarvis almost gives Jason a reason for killing.  When they lose Tommy, the lose any meaning they may have had.  Oh well, I should save those complaints for Part 7.  As far as Part 6'es go, I enjoyed this one. Best kill The sheriff being bent backward. "},{"Title":"My favorite Friday movie","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love the Friday the 13th series, and after watching them all countless times over the years I have to say that Part 6 is my all time favorite, plain and simple, it is just awesome. Tom McLoughlin (he did another favorite of mine, One Dark Night) does an excellent job directing and really piles on the atmosphere (the opening shot of the misty forest is creepy) and Thom Mathews is the best actor to play Tommy because he is very heroic, attempting to save the lives of those around him and trying to kill Jason once and for all. Jennifer Cooke is appealing as the blonde (aren't they always blonde?) lead girl and CJ Graham's Jason is, plain and simple, awesome. Full of thrills, action, humor, gore murders, and Jason, what more could you ask for? This one is the best, no doubt about it.  "},{"Title":"Jason's back...and I'm glad","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jason gets revived by a lightning (hmm...that's original) and wakes up really angry and a lot of innocent bystanders get to feel his wrath. It's up to Tommy Jarvis (again) to take a stab at disposing of Jason.After the horrible 5th entry this one comes as a real treat. Old Jase is back and the Friday series are back on. Little more humor this time around, which annoyed many but I dig it. The movie's brutal and very violent but not as gory as the first four films and that's a miss. The music is pretty good, with that Alice Cooper song in the end credits a nice touch.All in all, a solid Friday sequel which knocks the socks of part 5 and entertains fans of the series. "},{"Title":"Another Jason Movie...","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'm very glad they decided to stop messing around and finally make Jason a super-natural being!  He was pretty much just a hard-to-kill human in parts 2,3 and 4 (and Jason wasn't even the killer in parts 1 and 5).  So they finally decided to make this guy truly unstoppable!I wouldn't say this was a very mind stimulating movie.  This film was made purely for the fans!  There is no real rhyme or reason to the film, it's just Jason running around killing people.  I guess that's cool if that's what you want.The cast was surprisingly good, some of the acting was sub-par, but what can you expect from this sort of movie?  There is one cast member that I think really deserves some notice, Jennifer Cooke, a fine actress and quite the looker too.  It was also a pleasant surprise to see a younger Tony Goldwyn (Ghost, Kiss the Girls, The 6th Day) in a very small role in the film.I didn't think this installment was anything spectacular, but it had some good stuff in it.  Like I said above, the story is for the fans, so don't expect anything special.  If you liked the previous Friday the 13th films, then go ahead and give this one a shot.  If you didn't like the previous films, don't even bother.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Respectable Installment.","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives starts off pretty interesting. Tommy Jarvis, who is now all grown up, goes back to Jason's grave one stormy night to make sure the maniacal murderer is really dead and that he has no chance of coming back. He opens the coffin, and stabs Jason with an iron fencepost, which is then incidentally struck by lightning, which somehow revives Jason's body. Now Jason is back, alive as ever, and he continues his rampage of teenage slaughter in the forests surrounding Camp Crystal Lake.I really enjoyed the opening of this movie. At least the writers made an attempt to revive Jason in a interesting way, rather than just have him randomly come back to life for more murders. Jason was presented as a more supernatural presence in this movie, which should've been well established way earlier, because no average human could survive all of the severe battle scars he's taken throughout the series. I mean sure, it is your run-of-the-mill Friday the 13th sequel, but this one at least tries to be something a little different, putting interesting spins on things. There were also some pretty inventive murder sequences too, which isn't uncommon in this series. The director keeps Jason lurking in the shadows throughout the film, having him pop up all over, which, while a little unbelievable, is also pretty effective and good for a couple of scares. It's still a pretty silly movie in it's essential form, but all of these movies are, really, but this one manages to have a lot of strong points and not too many weak ones.Overall, this is one of the better installments of the Friday the 13th series. And if you compare this to the pointless fifth installment, this film looks like cinema gold. While most of the other sequels are just cheap recycled stories of the other movies, at least Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives offers something a little fresh in the dulling series. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Jason Voorhees vs. Tommy Jarvis the final round","Date":"4 December 2014","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This part is one of my personal favorites. It has less suspense, that is true, but offers a lot of other things to enjoy. First of all, Jason Voorhees is back &#x96; and he's on the road of revenge again. It is interesting that Jason Lives strictly follows the classic plot structure (which was introduced in the very first part of Friday the 13th), but at the same time film manages to incorporate new elements into the basic story. This is possible mainly because of returning of Tommy Jarvis, who is now actually steals the show sometimes. The subplot of Tommy and Jason's clash is the basic story driver here, and it's working pretty good to keep your attention. Secondly, most of death scenes are remarkable for one reason or another Jason is on the killing spree, and there will be no mercy for anyone who tries to stop him. Thirdly, this part has a very catchy soundtrack, including not only Harry Manfredini's famous tunes, but also some portions of good old 1980's hard rock (most notable song is, of course, Alice Cooper's He's Back which plays during the end titles). So, I could say, this is a perfect example of a slasher flick from golden age of such films. Take your popcorn, open your Pepsi and have fun. Camp Crystal Lake is open again. "}{"Title":"An Excellent,Thrilling And Entertaining Sequel. One Of The Best Films In The Friday The 13th Series.","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday The 13th Part VIJason Lives is an excellent and thrilling sequel and is one of the best films in the series that is filled with great atmospheric direction,a good cast and a memorable score and soundtrack. All of those elements make Jason Lives my favorite movie in the series and a classic in the Friday The 13th franchise.Friday The 13th Part VIJason Lives finds Tommy Jarvis(Thom Matthews)is still haunted by the events in part IV and V wants cremate and burn a dead Jason Voorhees(C.J Graham)at his grave site but things go wrong when Jason is brought back from the dead by a bolt of lighting and is ready to kill again at his old stomping ground Camp Crystal lake(renamed Camp Forest Green). With the help of feisty Camp Counseler Megan Garris (Jennifer),Tommy vows to destroy Jason once and for all.Friday The 13th Part VIJason Lives is a brilliant Friday The 13th sequel and is one of the best and better films in the franchise that was my introduction to Friday The 13th and Jason Voorhees and to this day remains my favorite Friday The 13th film. After the unintentionally hilarious Friday The 13thA New Beginning left a bad taste in Friday fans mouths,Jason Lives was seen as a return to form for the series and has become a fan favorite since it's release in 1986. What makes Jason Lives very entertaining and memorable is the way writer-director Tom McLoughlin approaches the material giving the series a shot in the arm giving fans a movie that is stylish and atmospheric as well as very explosive and thrilling with intensity and fun. And while Jason Lives has most of the trademarks that are associated with the Friday The 13th series and other Slasher movies there are thing Jason Lives that feels fresh and creative with an energy and pace that never stops until the very end. One of the things that makes Jason Lives such a great sequel is the Humor that is hilarious and nonstop with lines and characters that are funny which makes JL light but not too light. The Humor and laughs are also funny because the pop culture references and self aware thinking that the characters have which predates the Humor and style that Scream(1996)would do 10 years later. Although the film is funny there is a creepy and intense atmosphere with white hot suspense that hangs over the film with fog,dark clouds,rain and wind which is a homage to the universal Horror films of the the 1930s and 40s and when Jason is around the atmosphere is more intense. Where most characters in Friday The 13ths and other Slasher films are lined up to be killed and slaughtered the main characters in JL are likable and memorable to the point we feel bad for them when things start to go haywire. What's interesting about JL is the fact that little kids are at the camp which raises the stakes of the movie even higher because when you watch the movie you will wonder would Jason go after the kids? Watch the movie and find out. By the sixth film in the series Jason not only became a Horror icon but also a pop culture icon and antihero and with Jason Lives Jason is the star of the movie. When Jason comes back from the grave he is stronger and more powerful than he was before because guns,knives or any other weapon will stop him from killing people in a brutal fashion. While Jason in 2,3 and 4 was running a lot in Jason Lives he is in some cases a Zombie who walks really fast and no matter how far the victims run Jason will catch up with you. The blood and gore are on full display here with Jason doing what he does best and that's sneaking up on his victims and killing them in gory ways with some of the biggest body count in the series and while the blood and gore is light compared to some of the other films in the franchise the red plasma is still there. Jason Lives is Jason at his brutal and bloody best. The ending in Jason Lives is amazing and one of the finest endings in the entire series with tons of thrills and excitement with a few surprises that will stay with Friday The 13th fans. An incredible ending.The cast is wonderful. Thom Matthews is terrific as Tommy Jarvis with Matthews bringing the right emotion to the role. Jennifer Cooke is wonderful and sexy as Megan Garris,a camp counselor and sheriff Garris' daughter that helps Tommy. C.J Graham is outstanding and menacing as Jason Voorhees and is a great precursor to Kane Hodder's Jason. David Kagen is fantastic as Sheriff Michael Garris,a tough sheriff with a heart of gold and Megan's Father. Renee Jones(Sissy),Kerry Noonan(Paula),Tom Fridley(Cort),Nancy Mcloughlin(Lizbeth)and Tony Goldwyn(Darren)do fine jobs as the other camp counselors. Vincent Guastaferro(Deputy Rick),Courtney Vickery(Nancy),Darcy DeMoss(Nikki)and Ron Palillo(Hawes)give good performances as well.The direction by Tom Mcloughlin is amazing and stylish,with Mcloughlin always moving the camera and giving the movie an atmospheric and stunning look. Great direction,Mcloughlin.The score by Harry Manfredini is sensational,creepy,intense and is one of the best scores in the series matching the tone of the movie perfectly. Incredible score,Manfredini. There is also great Rock songs in the movie from Alice Cooper(He's Back-The Man Behind The Mask,Teenage Frankenstein,Hard Rock Summer)and Felony(Animal).In final word,if you love the Friday The 13th series,Jason Voorhees,Horror films or Slasher movies in general,I highly suggest you see Friday The 13th Part VIJason Lives,an excellent and thrilling sequel that is one of the best films in the franchise. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"The last of the passable Friday the 13th's","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When I first saw the poster for the film, I was excited. It is a great atmospheric poster with its dark colours and the mask emanating light from it. I was also excited about the title. Jason Lives, that means that they are bringing him back to life and Roy will stay dead. Now, if only the film could have been as good and creepy as the first four, it would have been a great film. As it stands, this isn't as good as the first four but it kicks the hell out of the last three. So what we are left with is a passable entry in the series.Jason comes back to life via Frankenstein tactics, which should make him even more powerful. And there are scenes in here that would support that theory. One being when one of his victims is bent over backwards and gets snapped in half. So his brutality is still alive and kicking quite nicely. But what this film is missing is the feel and the texture of the first four. And to be honest I can't really put my finger on it, but there is just an intangible missing from the sixth episode that was so prevalent in the first four. It's strange though, this film does a lot of things right. It has Jason lurking mysteriously in the background and it uses some decent shots. But it just wasn't that scary. It was entertaining and humorous and that is fine, but I don't want to see a funny Friday the 13th, just as I don't want to see a funny Nightmare On Elm Street.The way Jason is killed in this one is actually quite good, because we are now starting to get into the folklore of Jason. What makes him tick and what can kill him. Having Tommy research the method of death is a good way to go. It's just too bad that they didn't just leave it alone after that. Or better yet, if they actually wanted to make a Jason Goes To Hell, have them go back to their roots and use the techniques that scared us back in 1980-84. Because now Jason is just a pale replica of what he once was. He hasn't quite eroded in this one, but he is coming close.Friday VI is not a bad effort, it just could have been so much better. But hey, we will always have the others on tape. "},{"Title":"brilliant sequel, brilliant soundtrack, brilliant massacre","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" this is undoubtedly my favorite Jason movie, and I consider it even better than Graduation Day! The first thing that makes this movie is the humor. it is not overused like most people would do to it for this kind of film, but Tom Mcloughlin knows what we Jason followers like and he delivers an excellent sequel. then of course, since its Friday the 13th, why not have some great kills? Well, this movie has just that, but it works, and it doesn't seem forced, like Jason has to kill him because he's a 2-D character that we don't want haunting the script. nope, all the characters are actually kind of likable, and for once, I felt that we weren't overpopulated with horny adolescents. Jason slaughters them, sure, but this time, he's killing counselors. I mean yeah, maybe that Hawes fella was a bit goofy, but he got one hell of a way out, so if you think about, you almost sympathize with these victims, rather than just Jason, but as always, you side with the Big J and just have fun. its a tradition. Characters are developed and this is actually my favorite part of the film. the funny characters. now, atmosphere. is it scary? well, thinking what i said about humor, you might think this one is one to skip if you looking for a good scare, but there is a very intense scene with Jason getting ready to take out camper Paula by redecorating the cabin with her-Jason loves red. but, the door blows open, Paula goes to close, nothing happens. its actually is pretty creepy in its own right, and for that I really love it and congratulate it. Another strong point is the score. no Harry Manfredini this time round, just Alice Cooper! yeah, my favorite song of his, it really does kinda put you in Crystal Lake. The acting is superb. the best for all Friday sequels ( I love John D. LeMay and Steve Williams in JGTH, but everyone here is great) they are believable and I don't think I've latched on to a horror victim like this before. i am emotionally attached to this movie, its wonderful. One thing that would have made this the best film ever http//www.youtube.com/watch?v=fIMj_tYfzsc hehe "},{"Title":"The greatest!","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the greatest Friday the 13th film ever!Jason lives!I have seen the first 8 films of this series and in my book,part 6 is by far the best!My review contains spoilers but I won't spoil the fun for you!I was growing tired by the slice of stalk-and-slash that was being given to me by the first five parts.I wanted something to change.Jason was just another Michael Myers rip-off.And in part five,guess whatJason wasn't in it!No way!There is no Friday the 13th If Jason is dead.Mercifully,the producers resurrected Jason in a wonderfully atmospheric opening sequence.Jason became an unstoppable zombie and thanks to writer-director McLoughlin I didn't have to wait for an hour or so to see Jason in action!This is both fun and looks good!Sadly though the MPAA came crashing down on horror movies that year.That's why much of the expected gore is missing.Still,there is an awesome triple decapitation scene,dismemberments and an underwater climax.A much-needed supernatural element was introduced to the series and also a weird side of Jason was unveiled(watch the scene with the little girl).The songs by Alice Cooper were incredible!This is the film in which I actually brought myself to like Jason.He became the indestructible monster I thought he was before I started watching the series.There is absolutely no match for him now.And I think that Freddy Krueger will be looking like yesterday's leftovers after Jason is done with him in the upcoming Freddy versus Jason.Oh,If you see him coming,get away If you can!Just keep on running,run as fast as you can!He's a dangerous,dangerous man!And he's out tonight!And he's watching you!And he knows your house!No,don't turn out the lights...Yeah,'cause he's back!He's the man behind the mask!And he's out of control! "},{"Title":"An Average Installment...","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives is a good instalment, which goes back to the roots of what the Friday the 13th series is all about. However, this is so similar to some of the predecessors that it practically recycles parts of the story and plot. That aside, Friday the 13th Part VI does deliver the gory goods and also provides plenty of black humour, which opens instantly, with a James Bond parody in the opening credits. Inventine gore and death is once again present in this sequel, ranging from a triple decapitation to somebody head being smashed into the metal side of an RV. Part VI does contain some of the least interesting characters out of the series, in my opinion, save the paint-ballers maybe. Scenes alternates from where they take place; the woods, the lake, the cabins, in a motor home, in broad daylight and in the dark. This variation provides interest because we see and feel that Jason can still get you in the middle of the day. The script is what you would expect, pretty average. The acting is on good form, especially from Jennifer Cooke. Jason does indeed live, but this premise certainly isn't the most liveliest. "},{"Title":"Underrated Tongue-in-Cheek Entry","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Some may knock this one for the humor, but that's what makes this one unique. I mean, it's as if the makers of the film knew what we wouldn't admit to - the 5th film was a mess and the series wasn't top-notch to begin with - these movies, at times, can be inherently silly.I don't watch these movies thinking that they are the best examples of what can be done with horror. So, why take it so seriously? The first two films were straight up trying to be frightening, but part 3 and beyond...I have much love for these films and this one features better than average acting, some solid humor and Tom McLoughlin did a great job directing this one. Dig that James Bond-style opening! "},{"Title":"The best of the series","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I grew up fearing these movies in the 80's, but now in college, they've developed cult status galore.  All of the films are obviously low budget films with horrible acting and very little style or panache to fill in the gaps between deaths.  But we all know what kind of movie this is before we watch it anyway...we watch these movies because, let's admit it folks, cheap scares and a high body count that we all find ourselves counting provides us with wonderful entertainment.  This one is actually well done in my opinion. It has good horror elements and plays off the comic relief well, though, maybe a little too much so.  This is one of those popcorn munching films you have to rent with a room filled with people just so you can laugh at it's stupidity...but the great thing about this film is that it succeeds in letting the viewer know that it is making fun of itself.  After part five (which I will say wasn't as bad as most people say it was, but by no means was a GOOD movie at all either), the producers needed to revitalize the series, and they did so successfully.  For anyone checking the Friday films, definitely get the first one first, but the order in best to worst of the series is 6,4,1,7,3,2,5,8,9.  Definitely worth the 99 cents it costs to rent this slasher flick. "},{"Title":"Easily the best in the series up until Freddy vs. Jason.","Date":"31 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" And it pains me to say that, considering that Kane Hodder is my favorite Jason, and he didn't show up until the horrifically below-par Part VII. But as far as Friday the 13th films go, Part VI takes the cake as the best.The first thing they did right was bringing back Jason, and by that I mean the REAL Jason, not some copycat killer like in the fifth film. Adding in Thom Matthews of Return of the Living Dead fame as Tommy Jarvis was also a nice touch. Determined to destroy Jason Voorhees' (C. J. Graham) mortal remains to ensure that he never comes back (yeah, right), Tommy and his friend inadvertently wind up actually facilitating the exact opposite of what they intended when a stray lightning bolt strikes the iron prong Tommy impales Jason's body with in a fit of rage, resurrecting the mad slasher for another showdown with promiscuous and/or intoxicated young people.What follows is the best-scripted film in the series up until Jason's future showdown with Freddy Krueger, as he returns to what he does best, procuring himself a machete and inflicting his brutal revenge on just about everyone he meets. The nice thing about this movie is that while it's an old formula that kept getting recycled, the victims in this movie weren't nearly as obnoxious as they were in both previous and following films (the same can be said of Part VIII). Furthermore, the film manages to poke fun at itself to the audience's amusement while at the same time being faithful to its series. The final showdown between Jason and Tommy is quite entertaining as well.It's hard to bring originality to a film series that is beating a dead horse - and even harder for a slasher film series, which are notorious for beating a dead horse in the first place - but Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives succeeds. If you're a slasher fan, don't miss it; you probably won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Funny Horror-Movie!","Date":"11 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Tommy and his friend went to the cemetery and look after Jason Voorhees if he is dead, but Tommy wake Jason up and Tommy and his friend would the best to Jason stay in his grave.A horror-movie which is well-done, but Friday the 13th - Part 6 Jason Lives is not so good as the first Friday the 13th-movie.A violent horror-movie and a well-done movie and good actors. It is also beautiful nature and views in this classic horror-movie.A actress acts very well and that is Jennifer Cooke. This Part is sometimes very funny and that is good in your life! Recommended strong!Friday the 13th-Part 6 Jason Lives is a funny horror-movie and I like funny horror-movies!I give Friday the 13th-Part 6 Jason Lives 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"The best one, along with part 2","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" first off, i'm not sure if there's spoilers, but I figured i should probably check the box anyways. Wow...this movie actually had me getting nervous at points. The only other horror movies to do that were Halloweens 1 and 2. that being said, jason is at his best here (i've seen 1-6 and jason x, will watch 7 and 8 probably tomorrow (i have the box set)). They actually show him before he goes to kill people instead of just showing his hand and the weapon or whatever. Honestly, that bugged me. but it was executed very well in part 2. every second of this movie was awesome. From the opening with jason's grave, to the ending battle against Jason at the camp, I was glued to the screen. I only looked away once, and that was to shift positions on the couch. The plot was well done for a movie of this style, and as annoying as the cop was, i didn't want him to die, unlike in part 5, which had a superb start but the rest....*fart noise* Tommy, along with Ted from part 4, and the red haired kid and the lead girl from part 2 is one of my favorite characters from the franchise. Many creepy moments in this movie, such as when Jason is watching the girl (megan, is it) walk through the cabin and he follows her, and many action moments, such as when he busts through the door and when he causes the RV to crash. The characters were also extremely likable, from the first few seconds I saw the dude with the ripped jeans and earrings (I don't remember his name) I liked him, and his little speech about the Indians cemented him as my favorite character in the movie...his early death didn't really help much though. And, I couldn't stop laughing through the entire paintball scene with that nerdy looking guy in the hat.While most of the other Friday films just introduced the character then killed him/her off right away, this film actually took time to develop them (not enough time for some characters, but they did good considering its a Friday film) The fact that there's a Camaro helps too. they are cool cars I recommend this movie to anyone who wants to see a good slasher. "}{"Title":"Friday the 13th Jason Lives Goes out on Top and is the Best One Yet! From a Grand Entrance to a Crowd-Applausing Finale Jason Lives Never Outstays it's Welcome!","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Background Friday the 13th The first film in the series and kick-started the slasher sub-genre and even created the term! The killer in this film was Mrs. Voorhees who was seeking revenge against the camp counselors for her sons death, Jason, he supposedly drowned in the lakeFriday the 13th Part 2 The second film in the series and one of my personal favorites. Jason is the killer in this film and he seeks revenge against anybody who ventures into his territory for his mothers deathFriday the 13th Part 3 Jason kills again, picking straight up where Part 2 left off. Awesome flickFriday the 13th Part 4 Jason kills again, picking straight up where Part 3 left off. A little overratedFriday the 13th Part 5 Jason is not the killer in this film instead it is a paramedic who seeks revenge for his sons death. UnderratedFriday the 13th Part VI Jason LivesTommy Jarvis and his friend go to the cemetery to cremate Jason. When Tommy pries open the coffin and stares at Jason's body a fit of rage overtakes him and he precedes to stab Jason repeatedly with a metal pole. Suddenly lightning strikes it and Jason is brought back to life! He kills Tommy's friend and tries to kill Tommy, but Tommy escapes and heads to the police station to warn them about Jason. They don't believe him and he is proclaimed mentally unstable and is locked up. Jaosn regains his hockey mask and heads out on another killing spree. Together with the help of the sheriff's daughter Megan, Tommy and Megan must stop Jason at all costs.The Good PiontsThe direction is the best the series has ever had and the director knows his craftThe director also wrote the screenplay and he proves he can handle the stalk and slash well and has created a screenplay that has all the slasher elements you could wantThe added humor is great and a change of pace for the series, but it didn't transcend into Freddy Kreuger type humorThe acting is above par and almost every cast member proves that they have talent hidden under their pretty facesThere are some great action sequences like the beginning, the 2 car chases (and no, Jason does not drive a car), and the ending are all great action sequencesThe paint ball scene has to be mentioned because it is a ingenious concept and it deliversThe characters where all likable enoughThe music receives an update and is far more creepyThe makeup effects are great and better than last timesThe Bad PointsDespite a few logical errors, nothing!ConclusionThis is the best in the series and deserves a look by anybody interested in the slasher sub-genre "},{"Title":"One of the most entertaining, funny, fast-paced of the Friday the 13th series.","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" An troubled young man by the name of Tommy Jarvis (Thom Mathews). Who's convinced himself that the only way, he could destroy the body of Jason Voorhees. Who's been Dead & Buried for years, which Tommy wants to burn his body for cremation. Although Tommy bought a friend (Ron Palillo) along to help him but once they dogged up his body and open his grave. Then unexpectedly lighting hits Jason's body and brought back to life a la Frankenstein mode ! Now Jason is back to his old style by killing people, who are in his way and going back to Camp Forest Green (formerly known as Camp Crystal Lake).Written and Directed by Tom McLoughlin (Date with an Angel, One Dark Night, Sometimes They Came Back) made an surprisingly entertaining sequel to the seemingly endless Friday the 13th series. Which the script is well written with clever funny dialogue. McLoughlin's style is certainly has an good Gothic atmosphere and it's also tongue in cheek. Which does make the die hard fans of the series happy to bring back Jason in a fun, humorous way without losing his sadistic killing ways. This sequel also has one interesting plot hole (Something was mention by a character in Friday the 13th Part 5) and Mathews' best known for Return of the Living Dead Part 1 & 2. He also replaced John Shepherd from the fifth film. Which Mathews and the supporting cast are likable in the movie.DVD's has an clean anamorphic Widescreen (1.781) transfer and an fine-Dolby Digital 2.0 Surround Sound. DVD's only extra is the original theatrical teaser. The DVD Box Set of Friday the 13th Series has an intriguing and fascinating commentary track by the director, interviews with the cast & filmmakers and deleted alternate death scenes. This one is remember for it's rock songs by Alice Cooper, high body count and an young Tony Goldwyn (Best known for playing villains in high profile films like Ghost, The Last Samurai and The 6th Day) as one of Jason's victims. One of the best sequels of the slasher series. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Entertaining","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Tommy returns to the grave to make sure Jason is dead and accidentally brings him back to life. Now it's up to Tommy to stop Jason's mindless killing and put him back where he belongs.My opinion OK this movie is a DEEP sequel and to tell the truth it isn't expected to be Great or even average to that but to my surprise I actually enjoyed this film more so than I did the first. The death scenes were sorta clever and Jason to me looked at his best. The 1st scene was a little stupid though coming back through lightening get real. From then on was kewl and Jennifer Cooke's performance was pretty good as well. I wish they showed her boobs though but sadly they didn't have any cleavage in this film . I know shocking isn't it.Also the way they killed Jason was pretty original. Having little kids there made it even better. Although this is the best in the series in my opinion its still just another Friday the 13th sequel there nothing special about at all and to tell the truth it had it shouldn't have ever been made just like all the rest of the F13 films after part 3. To tell the truth like Freddy said in the features on the DVD Jason is very boring and slow. He just walks *Hack hack* and then your dead hes not ruthless as most call hes teddy bear compared to the other killers and how they torture their victims.People really like Jason for some reason I don't know why but I can't stand him I'm more of a Myers fan thank you very much. Although I don't like Jason this film wasn't so bad. "},{"Title":"Tastefully done","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I think in the Friday the 13th film's this one was done very tastefully done. The story between Tommy and Jason came to a climatic end and as well as put Tommy's character to a rest he finally beat him at his own game. As well all the Friday the 13th films had a lot of T&A in them as for this one did not it was good to see someone as a director who could grab your attention with out flashing a naked women in your face( Don't get me wrong a naked women is a great thing). Sure not the scariest of all the movie's but still a hell of a lot of fun to watch with your girlfriend or just alone. I give this movie A 8 out of 10 for it did lack gore hope u agree with me and those who do agree with me Thank u, those who don't Thank u for reading this essay "},{"Title":"Vorhees, Jason Vorhees","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Director Tom McLoughlin got it right here, part 6 of the Friday the 13th series, properly titled Jason Lives is a fun movie. From the opening we are brought back into the world we remember from parts 1 through 4, before the opening credits, the film lives up to it's title, as Jason is alive, and well. When Jason walks out ala James Bond, you know that the movie isn't going to take itself seriously and lets the audience laugh along with the screams, as it borders parody at times, but keeping with the true spirit of the series. Probably the most popular of the films with non-fans of the series next to part 7 (fan favorite) because of all of the film's poke at horror films in general. "},{"Title":"one of the top 10 best F13's","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  About a month ago a friend of mine loaned me a copy Friday the 13th part 6 and to tell you the truth i am not a real big Friday the 13th fan but I must say the producers made something worth wacthing because after number 5 paramount needed a movie like this to bail them out after running a foul With Friday The 13th Part 5 but this movie has everything Plenty of Gore,Comedy,and a first ever music video without that weird violin crap so let me tell you should rent this one out of any of the sequels but i do sugesst that you get the first 4 to understand this. 5/10 in my vote  "},{"Title":"Okay Sequel","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  6th Friday the 13TH movie is just an okay entry, there is almost no really gory moments, it seems watered down.  Hero of the last two movies, Tommy Jarvis, digs up Jason to make sure he's really dead, but a bolt of lightning resurrects him, and he returns to his murderous ways.  Can Tommy stop him?  Tries to be funny, but it's really not, and the open ending is kind of a drag.Friday the 13TH Part VI  Jason Lives is Rated R for graphic violence and some gore, sexuality, and for language. "},{"Title":"part 6 is scarier then the first 5","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is a very scary movie. It is scarier then the first 5 Friday the 13th movies. It is one of the scariest movies made before 1988. There scarier movies. Friday the 13th VII the new blood is scarier. Friday the 13th VIII Jason takes Manhattan is also scarier. Jason goes to hell the final Friday is also scarier. But still his is a very scary movie. It has a great story line. Great acting. Great special effects. If you like scary movies. Then you will like this movie. Jason is a zombie so I consider this horror fantasy. It as a great soundtrack. The soundtrack was made by Alice Cooper so it has to be good. This this movie. It is a great movie. Very scary. "},{"Title":"Go ahead Thom Mathews!","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Mr. Mathews  Though you had no other acting career, I thank you for being in this, the best of the Friday sequels by far, as well as your stellar performance in Return Of the Living Dead, and to a lesser extent Return II.  You have definitely made most 80s horror fans' hero list. Yes this movie is the best of the Jason sequels by far (though we all have high hopes for Jason X).  Why, you ask? 1.  The opening scene at the grave is not only spectacularly eerie, but it ties in with the Feldman cameo in the dream sequence in part 5 in a weird way.  Nice.   2. Jason's wormface is one of the best makeup jobs in the series. 3. The whole subtle idea that the town changed its name to Forest Green to rid itself of the stigma of Crystal Lake is just beautiful.  This much attention to that kind of detail is just not found in this series. 4. Don't know if you guys noticed, but this is the only film in the series that really takes advantage of the camp idea and actually has the children in attendance during the killing spree, thereby heightening the emotional empathy.  Beautiful scene when he walks through the cabin. 5. The paintball scene - though the characters are way overdone, that's some nice killing. 6. The people in the Bug - more nice killing. 7. The end - nice effort at making us feel like maybe, just maybe this time Jason would be held for good - especially since logic on that subject had been blown to bits by the three before that feature Jason.    "},{"Title":"Tommy as Jason forgotten?","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" At the end of part 5 Tommy succumbs to his delusions of Jason while in the hospital after killing Roy and rescuing Reggie and Pam. During this scene his hallucinations return and the final shot in the film is of Tommy in Jason's mask About to stab Pam with a kitchen knife while she looks out a broken hospital window.When I saw that ending I thought, well, OK Jason has become Tommy now, but the moment I started watching this Film it was as though part 5 had been completely forgotten. Tommy is even back in the state asylum which he had been transferred out of. These Films started to go downhill after part 4 and all of it's wonderful cinematography, gore, and setup. "}{"Title":"A Film To Live By 5","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ha, Ha! I wish this was all I had to write about this film because those two words explain the film thoroughly. This is a hilarious comedy under the charade of a horror disguise. After the mess that was The New Beginning Jason had to evolve if he was to survive in the late eighties and a comedy was the best way to ensure this. All of the horror element beats are replaced with side splitting punch lines. Tom McLogoulin new exactly what he was doing. Seeing his previous horror effort One Dark Night shows that he can mix comedy and splatter together in a refined meeting of greatness. This film is one of the best in the series just because it's different. All the films before this and after take themselves seriously but this does not and it is magic. I would be afraid to see what a director would do with this style today. They would probably take an opportunity to make fun of the fans. But when this was made it was chance for the fans to laugh with the film, not be laughed at and that is what the studios are missing today. Only a couple of the Scary Movie films have marginally reached what this film did in black comedy. I love this movie and I love the guy who plays Jason in it. C.J Grahme is a master in the suit, though not the best (Kane Hodder holds that title) Grahme still rocks the man behind the mask out in this installment. I hope he returns to the role someday. The music in this one is the best in the series. Alice Copper did the soundtrack and his theme song The Man Behind The Mask is the standard by which all other Jason soundtracks should be judged. Watch this movie. You will love it!!! "},{"Title":"Jason lives and the body count continues.","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Tommy Jarvis (Matthews) is now a messed up teenager when part VI begins. One storming night, he manages to talk his friend Allen (Ron Palillo) to accompany him to Jason's grave. In a hope to clear his head once and for all and end his nightmares, Jarvis must prove to himself that Jason is indeed dead. They dig up the grave and Tommy stabs the dead corpse with a metal fence post. Before you can say Frankenstein, lightning strikes the post and bang! Jason lives just like the title says. The rampage begins all over again with Tommy having no luck convincing the local sheriff (Kagen) that Jason is back and on the war path. The body count starts as Jason makes his way back to Crustal Lake just in time to see a new crop of camp counselors who are actually taking care of real campers this time. This marks the first time in the six film series that actual campers are on the grounds. Part VI, with its Frankenstein opening has a lot of energy and the storm provides realistic atmosphere. Director Tom McLoughlin adds a much needed sense of humor to this chapter and the film more than delivers on the body count fans expect. The characters are paper thin as usual, because if one of them were to think for two seconds the movie would end. There are a few jump scares that work and some solid gore as usual and a high body count. For those looking for more of the same you'll get it, if you're looking for something new? Look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"The last watchable movie of the franchise Jason at his most brutal, but also his most comedic","Date":"7 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Surely anyone spending the time to read this has probably already seen this movie, or at least others in this famed series. This particular installment is surely better than Part V (not a big accomplishment), but marks the last of the series that I can stomach to watch. Parts I-IV are absolutely classic and crucial slasher/horror films, but after that things get a bit hazy.On the bright side, Jason Lives features Jason at his absolute most brutal and ruthless, throwing girls through windows and tearing off body parts left and right. The reincarnated/zombie back-story is more than just a bit over the top, but the part is well played and Jason is somehow even less human than before. There is blood just about everywhere in this one, and the body count is very high. I love the couple in the beginning trying to scare the killer off when he stops their car. Hint IT DOESN'T WORK!The downside however is the ABSOLUTE OVERUSE of comedy relief. Even Mr. Voorhees himself gestures and behaves comically a couple times and that I just can't bear to watch. Tommy Jarvis seems to be based somewhat on Ash from the Evil Dead flicks in this movie with his attitude and one liners, but Megan is nigh-unwatchable due to her horrible overacting and poorly executed intentional childish attitude.I almost would say this movie should be avoided due to it's constant terrible humor, but it does have some great kills, and every fan of the series is mainly into those anyway. Again, as stated earlier, DO NOT venture past Jason Lives, or you will regret it. "},{"Title":"Not Your Typical Friday the 13th Sequel.","Date":"27 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie was great, I was surprised, this sequel revived the franchise. I was disappointed with 3,4, and 5 it just didn't have it like 1 and 2 did. In the opening scene the movie gets you hooked with a very exciting opening; without going though the previous movies. I just thought it was a waste to take 10 minutes or so to catch the viewer up on the previous movie. I thought the cast did a great job, they all worked together, to produce one hell of a sequel. My favorite character was Sheriff Garris, his character was great. I also liked the fact that more than one survived Jason's wraith. I didn't think Megan would be the one to save the day, though. I thought it would be Sheriff Garris that would end up saving Tommy. That would have been some kind of bond, since Garris couldn't stand Tommy at first . Those two were at each other's throat in the beginning. The ending was great and Megan was the biggest surprise to me; and THX to Megan, Tommy survived. This film had it all the excitement, gore, and humor. I was really impressed with this one,a great job done by all. As for the sequels that came after,sorry but they just couldn't compare 2 Jason Lives.THX, Kris L. CocKayne "},{"Title":"Funny, Awesome","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I orignally wrote a review thinking this was number 5. But yeah, this one is probably, next to 2 and 3, the only good sequel. It has a good horror line. It actually builds suspense. There is only one gory scene, but besides that it is good. The plot involves determinded Tommy Jarvis going to Jason Voorhees grave to make sure that he is dead with his friend. Upon digging up the grave, lighting his a metal pole Tommy shoved into Jason and shocks Jason to life. Jason gets up and kills Tommys friend by pulling out his heart. Tommy drives down to the sheriff's office to warn the sheriff. Meanwhile Jason kills a couple. Bla Bla Bla. The paintball scene is pretty cool. It enjoyed the credits. The acting is alright. But yeah, good sequel.Overall 6/10 Acting 4/10 Writing 4.5/10 Gore Score 5/10 "},{"Title":"Good Stuff","Date":"11 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the Friday where things get a little silly, and that isn't a bad thing. As a matter of fact, they do such a good job at over the top stupid in this one that it's a damned good thing.Tommy Jarvis, who's recovered his sanity, (partially, he is still a mental patient), sets out with a friend to dig up Jason's body and cremate him. Tommy believes that this will destroy his evil once and for all and free Tommy for a normal, happy life. Well that last part's just speculation on my part as he doesn't actually say that, but the part about ending evil is solid.So he gets stuck into Jason's corpse with a big long piece of metal which is truck by lightning and revives Jason who dispatches Tommy's friend and then, in a piece of film making worthy of Scorsese, the camera zooms in on Jason's eye and we see one of the greatest opening credit sequences ever! Jason, channeling James Bond, walks suavely in front of the camera, pulls out his machete and slices down. Kill me now, my life is complete! This is the greatest moment in movie history! Seriously, it's pretty funny stuff from here as Jason goes on a tongue in cheek murderous rampage, killing some truly stupid people, many of whom are quite funny. And Tommy saves the day, ending the rampage he in fact caused.There is a sex scene in this, but I can't remember any nudity. Anyway, fun movie which put some life back into Jason, and this is the movie I always think of when people ask me about the Vorhees character. Good stuff. "},{"Title":"Great made-for-TV movie    -spoilers-","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Before Britian actually caught up with America and got a thing called Satellite TV, the only Friday the 13th movies to actually be shown on any of the 4 channels we had, was this instalment and Jason Takes Manhatten.....this really does say something because of all the entries, these two are the least brutal, the least scary and don't seem to garner up the same hatred and disdain as the other entries do. This film is still a great Frday the 13th movie and is far from the worst, but this film lacks from the real feel of a Friday movie....they're more tongue-in-cheek, less on-screen violence and a more coherent Jason. In this entry Jason appears more co-ordinated than before, he even seems more human and seems to have more intelligence. His clothes are a little cleaner and less ragged, his trousers even to hint at a nice pert bum and he even seems to be a little more aware of who he is and what he's doing, yes this might add something different, but it also takes away the real nastiness that Friday the 13th used to bring. Although heavily cut, the movies' kills are not all that spectacular, some are inventive, but in order to boost the body-count a lot of the kills are quick, dull machete kills. Another thing that takes the feel away from the other movies is the fact that many of the characters are not connected to each other so it's hard to get an atmosphere going of a camp in peril......the cast of children give the film a softer feel too..hence why this is the entry that is shown on British TV the most....a nice change for a Friday movie...but one Friday comedy is all we really need....keep them horror movies....not comedy-horror movies.... "},{"Title":"The beginning of the zombie Jason!","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Tommy Jarvis returns to Jasons grave to make sure the mans dead. He digs up the grave and stabs Jasons corpse with a fence pole multiple times. All of a sudden a lightning bolt hits the pole and brings Jason back to life, putting on the hockey mask and reeking terror at Camp Crystal Lake ounce more!Before Jason Lives, Jason was a human being. When he was killed in the Final Chapter, he was forgotten in the next sequel because he was still in the grave. Now this film brings to life the Jason we all know, the zombie Jason with the moldy face and rotting flesh with blood everywhere and such. This seems to be the last good Friday the 13th film till Freddy Vs. Jason came along. In this film, Jason is played greatly by a good actor. Jason now has a tool belt and gardening gloves, gay?, and his old hockey mask that Tommy drops the mask into the grave. Jason brings the slaughter back with chopping heads, snapping bones, crushing faces, and putting his arms into peoples chest. The plot is the same, Jason is alive and wants to kill, the acting is good, and the film is bloody with the usual Friday the 13th affects. Good film, 7 out of ten. Recommended for Friday the 13th fans. "},{"Title":"He's Back!!!!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday The 13th PT 5 tried to do something different by having someone else be the killer instead of Jason.But since most fans didn't really like that, and there is still money too be made on the Friday films Jason makes his return.Tommy is back for the third and last time to do battle with Jason. This time Tommy is played by Thom Mathews.I would say about two years have passed since PT 5, Tommy is still not over the events of PT 4, when he first came across Jason. Tommy and a friend go to the cemetery to where Jason is buried, Tommy wants to make sure Jason is really dead. When he gets there he digs up Jason, and guess what? yep you got it Jason is resurrected.Camp Crystal Lake has once again been re-opened .But now it's called Camp Forrest Green. And Jason makes his way there.For the first time in a Friday film kids are at the summer camp.Tommy heads to Camp Forrest Green to Warn of coming danger. But of course nobody listens to him till it's too late.Jason now played by C.J. Graham is now the powerful Jason that can't be stopped, he no longer has that human side. But C.J. Graham did a good job in the role.As the movie goes on Jason like he always does kills everything in his path, not much of a plot here but what Friday film really does?Tommy tries to stop Jason once and for all with the help of Megan(Jennifer Cooke)Director Tom Mcloughlin did a good job, and Friday the 13th Pt 6 stands on it's own, it continues the story of Jason but more comedy is added.I give Friday The 13th PT 6 Jason Lives 7/10Next too Cory Feldman, Thom Mathews made a great Tommy much better then the guy in pt 5 "},{"Title":"Very Very Good","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  How many sixth installments of a film series turn out to be brilliant? Not too many in my opinion; however Friday the 13th Part VI is very good indeed from the opening scene in the graveyard to the 'final' battle with Jason.(POSSIBLE SPOILERS) Tommy Jarvis is back played by Thom Matthews. Tommy Jarvis was the guy who had killed Jason in part four, got stalked by some guy dressed as Jason in part 5 and in this movie he was trying to exorcise Jason Voorhees once and for all. But things are never easy and Tommy ends up upsetting the local sherriff and getting into trouble with the law whilst people dismiss him as a crazy kid.C.J. Graham played Jason Voorhees in this film and did a great job. His bodily expressions were very good in this movie and Jason was very very imposing in this film. Of course, there was the usual slashings and killings in this movie.I have no trouble recommending Friday the 13th Part VI to anyone. Check it out. "}{"Title":"The first time I've truly enjoyed a Friday the 13th movie","Date":"31 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Following the backlash from fans at the previous instalment's omission of Jason Voorhees as the killer and the general awfulness of the film as a whole, the series took a new direction thanks to the efforts of director and writer Tom McLoughlin. Jason Lives is the first time Jason has been recognised as a supernatural force (which would explain his refusal to die after being disposed of in a manner of gruesome ways previously) and one of the earliest examples (perhaps the first example?) of a horror movie being so humorously self-reflexive, long before the post-modern horror boom in the 1990's following the success of Scream (1996).A year after A New Beginning (1985), Tommy Jarvis (Thom Mathews) and a friend drive to Jason's grave in the hope of burning the body to rid Tommy of his recurring nightmares. When Jason's rotting corpse is uncovered, Tommy loses it and repeatedly stabs and kicks the lifeless monster. Inexplicably, a lightning bolt hits Jason, reanimating him into an unstoppable killing machine. After his friend is killed, Tommy flees to Forest Green, re-named from Crystal Lake to try and rid the town of the stigma of Jason's previous killing spree's. Believing Tommy to be a psychopathic loon after he breaks into the sheriff's office making wild claims, Sheriff Garris (David Kagen) imprisons him. But his daughter Megan (Jennifer Cooke), believes him and decides to take matters into her own hands.Despite treading very familiar ground to the movies that came before - the film is again little more than an endless series of disposable characters being cut to bloody pieces - Jason Lives is the best in the series thanks to McLoughlin's obvious talent for comedy. Even going as far as breaking the fourth wall, the characters talk as if they're aware they're in a horror film before being massacred, the best of which is three bickering corporate types on a paintball bonding activity having their heads lopped off in one swing. For once, we have a memorable hero thanks to Mathews' performance, repeating his lovable lug-head shtick from The Return of the Living Dead (1985). It's far from perfect, but it's the first time I've truly enjoyed a Friday the 13th movie.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Big mistake  on Tommy's  part!","Date":"3 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" On the fourth installment, Tommy Jarvis(Thom Matthews) have slain his nemesis, Jason Voorhees. But nightmares of the attacks continues to haunt him. After spending time in an institution, he goes on a quest to bury his pain once and for all. Accompanying him is fellow patient, Allen Hawes (Ron Palillo, Welcome Back,Kotter's, Horshack) to see the corpse of Voorhees. Not only does Tommy want him dead, he wants to have him cremated. Unfortunately, he didn't count on rain in the forecast. Or even a storm. After stabbing the corpse with the fence post, a bolt of lightning strikes it, causing Jason to be much more powerful. Now you've done it. He goes to the local sheriff to warn people, but he ended up getting locked up in jail. While warning falls on deaf ears, the body count gets bigger and bigger. Only the daughter, Megan (Jennifer Cooke, Elizabeth on V) is more helpful to Tommy. After springing him out of jail, she goes all the way to help Tommy stop Jason. The sheriff does learn the hard way about Jason. I was shocked when he folds the sheriff. And the other fashionable kills he displayed are quite unique. Getting a new machete was the main weapon of choice for Jason. It was an improvement from part 5. Watchable to say the least. 3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Not bad (spoilers ahead)","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Usaully by the time a movie series gets to number six; they're all out of fresh ideas. Not in this case. Jason is now in the 'living dead fraternity' as he is brought back to life by everybody's second favorite nutcase in the f13 series; Tommy Jarvis. And who doesn't love the James Bond spoof at the beginning. The best thing about this movie is that it doesn't take itself too seriously. It spoofs itself with several in-jokes. Still it is a rather enjoyable installment of the series. "},{"Title":"Good Old Spooky Fun!","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Jason series has gone through its share of ups and downs. Most of the sequels rank somewhere in the middle. But, right in the mix, Part VI is hands-down the most fun. The story Tommy Jarvis (the Corey Feldmen character in Part IV and the troubled teen in Part V) has finally decided to end the nightmare once and for all. In an awesome opening scene (on a dark and stormy night, of course) Tommy and a friend drive to the cemetery where Jason is buried. Upon digging it up, Tommy angrily desecrates the body. But wouldn't ya know it, because of that dark and stormy night, some lightning gets channeled into Jason. Now with recharged batteries, the man in the mask rises from his tomb to wreak terror and bloodshed on the quiet town once more. So now, Tommy and a few friends try to put Jason back into his grave. But things aren't gonna be quite as easy, since Jason's more powerful than ever and the police are hellbent on placing the murders on Tommy. Overall, it's a brilliant and witty entry. Worth tracking down for some good old spooky fun! "},{"Title":"My favourite Friday","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Not everyone would agree with me that this is the best of the (bad!) bunch, but then I'm a sucker for putting a little humour into these sorts of films. Yes, the psychotic killer &#x96; Jason Voorhees &#x96; is finally back after the misfire of a film that was Part 5... and he's now undead. This means that he's more of the 'Jason' we know and love.However, the film-makers have gone for a more 'tongue in cheek' style to the film. I enjoyed it. Even though I enjoy the whole Friday 13th franchise, I have to admit that I think it's a little daft and ripe for adding a few black comedy moments. 'Part 6' continues the tale of Tommy Jarvis (survivor of parts 4 and 5) and he's back to take on Jason (even if he is sporting a third face!). Now it's sort of like 'Scream' in that it's a lot more 'knowing' and parodies itself. Plus it has less characters than Part 5 (which had waaay too many) so it can concentrate on the important ones.Yes, the same 'if you have sex you die' rule still applies, but the kills are more imaginative than they have been before (especially in parts 1-4) and the humour also shines through in that. I enjoyed it, yet a lot of people still disagreed with me.Basically, if you don't mind black comedy mixed with horror then you should enjoy this. However, if you think horror should be played straight, or that they should have kept the Friday 13th franchise as dark as parts 1-5 then you might want to skip this one and go straight to chapter 7.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Jason Lives...Again, and one of the best of the series.","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" By now, you know the routine. Unfortunate campers are mince meat for the notorious serial killer who stalks the grounds of camp Crystal Lake, and Paramount pictures is once again able to capitalize on the never ending pre-adolescent fascination with graphic murder and heartless retribution. This entry in the series was probably our most favorite due to several factors that set it apart from the others. 1986 was the year, and its predecessor A New Beginning was somewhat of a disappointment for fans due to an unexpected twist in the storyline (the killer was not Jason, but a vengeful paramedic??) This time Jason is back, and there can be no doubts to his identity.Our story starts off as Tommy Jarvis, (now a grown adult) is unsatisfied with the fact that Jason is gone for good, so he returns to his grave to finish the job which results from a lightning strike that apparently resurrects the maggot ridden zombie Jason making him stronger and more ticked off than ever. Now, Tommy (played by Thom Mathews of Return of The Living Dead) must prove Jason's existence and clear his name with the help of the Sheriff's likable pretty daughter all while Jason's angry corpse violently disposes of sex-starved vacationers, weekend warriors, lawmen and passers-through alike.This has an exciting and fun opening sequence including an excellent beginning credits James Bond-like montage, good cast that has fun with it, innovative killings, and a twisted sense of humor. C.J. Graham's Jason is a good one and a sympathetic lead role and satisfying climax make this a worthy sequel. Highlights include fist through the gut, impalement by iron shank, arm ripped off, triple machete slice, broken bottle through throat, double machete stabbing, face through wall, Rambo knife through skull, neck snapping, dart through forehead, crushed skull, and a cop broken in half...Some folks have a strange idea of entertainment. "},{"Title":"Really Awful!","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have to start by saying Jason Voorhees died drowning as a child, the killings at Crystal Lake were done by his mother who died in the 1st film and will be referred to as either Jason, The Killer or Hockey mask.This film is similar to part 5 in that is doesn't start with a recap of the previous films and has a new actor playing Tommy. We are supposed to assume this follows on from part 5 as he is being taken by a nurse to destroy the corpse of Jason. Clearly this nurse doesn't know he escaped hospital in the previous film and doesn't question why Tommy has the proper Jason mask (which he didn't have, he had Roy's mask with the blue stripe so they made a mistake already).The lightning hitting the metal fence rod is VERY unlikely (so another mistake and the plot derailed from this point).1st dead is Allen Hawes The Nurse. tommy drives to the local sheriff in Forest Green (formerly Crystal Lake!) and admits to grave robbery and is put in jail. The next people we see are 2 camp councilors on their way to Camp Forest Green and run into Hockey Mask, 2nd dead is Darren the male councilor. 3rd dead is Lizabeth the female councilor.We are then introduced to a group of kids working at Camp Forest Green who come to tell the Sheriff (he is Megan's father) that the 2 main councilors are missing.This is the 1st Friday movie where The Killer has actually been seen in daylight. Filling the standard role of Crazy Old Man (there's one in every part) is Martin, The Cemetery Caretaker. Megan implies today is Friday The 13th (so his 1st 3 victims were all killed on Thursday 12th, the WRONG DAY, IDIOT!) and a bus full of kids arrive at the Camp.We are then introduced to Larry & Stan who are paint balling in the woods of Forest Green, I assume the guy with the machete who is 4th to die is the Bert that Larry & Stan were talking about. Larry, Stan & the unknown female executive are 5th, 6th and 7th to die. (We never see if Roy dies) Tommy decides to go check the cemetery as the police are escorting him out of the county and he is captured and driven out of Forest Green by the sheriff & Rick, his deputy.Right, the young adults working at the camp are Cort (the buff huge ego guy), Megan (the sheriff's daughter), Sissy (the feisty black girl) and Paula (the Molly Ringwald lookalike). We then meet Steven & Annette picnicking in the forest and Martin is 8th to die. Steven & Annette are 9th & 10th to die.Paula & Sissy go to check out a scream which turns out to be young Nancy (who thinks the monster was real, like on TV and deserves to die for saying that). Nikki (the girl Cort was screwing in the Winnebago) is 11th to die & Cort is 12th to die (pretty stupid of The Killer as he was driving, and where DID The Killer get that tool-belt he was wearing?). Deputy Rick finds the bodies of Darren & Lizabeth and The Sheriff leaves Megan alone in the jail to go join Rick.Tommy phones there and Megan goes to join him. By this time The Killer has reached the camp. Some limbs of one of the paint ballers is also found by Rick. The Killer cuts the camp phone lines (pointless as The Sheriff's office is empty anyway) & Sissy is unlucky 13th to die. The Killer scares Nancy (carrying Sissy's corpse past the cabin window) & Megan & Tommy are corralled into a roadblock and caught by her father.Nancy finds The Killer's machete and takes it to Paula who takes her back her cabin. The bodies of Cort & Nikki are found and Tommy is finally given an alibi by Megan. Paula finds the phone out and the machete gone and is the 14th to die. (There are now NO live adults at the Camp to protect or watch the kids). Megan tricks Rick, frees Tommy and locks Rick up so they can escape to banish the soul of Jason.Tommy does at least admit Jason died in Crystal Lake (In 1957 he says) and they intend to banish The Killer by sending him to the same place and fate. The sheriff and 2 other cops arrive at the camp to check things out. The Blonde Cop is 15th dead & the dark hair cop with the mustache is 16th dead after trying to comfort Nancy.The Killer is shot 6 times by The Sheriff (and had been shot by the dark hair cop at least 5 times) and runs into the woods as Megan & Tommy arrive. Tommy goes to the pier (finding the dead blonde cop) leaving heavy chains in a boat. Megan's voice attracts The Killer and The Sheriff attacks him (unarmed! idiot!) and is 17th dead for his troubles. Tommy ties the the chains on a huge rock & waits for The Killer who goes for the kids, spares Megan and goes out to Tommy wading into and under the water (which according to Tommy's theory SHOULD have killed him there and then). Tommy sets fire to the water (with gasoline) and fights with The Killer who jumped onto the boat.Tommy gets the chain tight around The Killer's neck as the boat sinks and is strangled underwater, Megan dices The Killer with the boat propeller and he is 18th dead. Megan brings Tommy ashore and gives him CPR meaning Tommy Jarvis has now survived 3 movies. The film ends showing the chained body of Jason with an eye open so the undead is still undead and Tommy's idea failed. A weak ending. "},{"Title":"Worst F13 sequel to date.","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the wit that many viewers have mentioned, this tops Part 5 as the worst sequel yet.At the very least, Jason is present in this one, but he's such a weak character here, it doesn't make a whole mess of difference.  In fairness to our favorite slash-mongrel, the MPAA can be faulted for making Jason seem weaker, all of his kill scenes were toned down due the infamous cut-requirements of the MPAA, the worst enemy of the FRIDAY THE 13TH franchise.  This stands with Part 2 and 7 as the most heavily cut of the series.With no truly graphic gore, no plotline (no plotline in an F13? No way!), and the first (and only) F13 to be devoid of any nudity (!), it makes you wonder why Paramount thought this tripe would sell in the first place.  No wonder the fan outcry was so strong in response to the MPAA's dastardly rating methods.  Paramount should have had the decency to give its money-making gore machine better for its loyal fans.  Instead, we have the same sliced up version available on home video.* out of ****. "},{"Title":"The best one in the franchise.","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is simply great they bring Jason from the dead and just have fun with him from the start of the film until the end. They also give it a proper story which makes it even better and more fun to watch they still have great kills in the film and some of the best. So it's nice to see that one of these films stand out as a great film because most of these films suck.So the story is the final of the Tommy story he tries to kill Jason and finish him off once and for all but fail and Jason is awoken and kills the other guy with Tommy. Tommy then goes to the police and the sheriff doesn't believe him until Jason starts killing the teens at the new camp which was re branded after the killings of the other films and ultimately the film ends with Tommy killing Jason by drowning him under water.So the film is one i would say you should watch and if you just want to watch one Friday film do it watch this one. "},{"Title":"Jason reinvented...","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have fond memories of this movie from way back in my early teenage years. I remember watching it many times on VHS back then, and I still find it enjoyable and entertaining today. Especially since I am a huge fan of the Friday the 13th movies.This movie took Jason and turned him into so much more than what he had been in previous movies. Why? Well, he was buried and dead, then unearthed and came back to life more menacing than ever. And this movie started the gradual decaying state that Jason took on in the following movies.In this sixth movie, Tommy Jarvis wants to permanently destroy the body of Jason Voorhees and with it the cause of his nightmares and mental torment. But you can't keep Jason down and he is brought back to life by the force of lightning, wrecking havoc and death to all in his path.There are many memorable death scenes throughout Jason Lives Friday the 13th Part VI, and it will more than keep you gorehounds happy.The cast in the sixth movie were well-cast and the actors and actresses did good jobs with their given roles. Thom Mathews and Jennifer Cooke did well in the lead roles. And while C.J. Graham is no Kane Hodder, then he still did a very memorable performance as Jason. The movie also has good performances by David Kagen and Ron Palilo. It even has Tony Goldwyn in it as well.Jason Lives Friday the 13th Part VI stands as one of the best additions to the Friday the 13th legacy.And you can watch this sixth movie again and again, if you can manage to elude that oncoming machete. "}{"Title":"I'll order up some body bags........","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's been two films since Tommy Jarvis killed Jason Voorhees, but the intensity of the experience has landed him in a mental institution. To end his torment, Tommy escapes from the hospital and heads to the graveyard where Jason is buried, intending to dig up the body and cremate it. But, before this occurs, a freak electrical accident resurrects Jason from the dead, and the terror begins again............There are two types of people in the world. Those who prefer the movies before part V, and those who prefer the absurdest, bonkers sequels that were parts VI to VIII. I fall into the latter camp, and although I think there are some fascinating elements to the first four movies, they are way too serious considering the subject and the character of Jason.Understandably, there are very few people who prefer the later movies to the first four, but this is when the makers decided to forget plausibility, to forget the fact that Jason is still killing for his mother, and instead go for laughs, go for nudity, and most importantly, go for some wonderful kills.It all starts off seriously enough, with poor Tommy trying to end his mental torture by completely vaporising Jason from the face of the earth. Then Jason gets struck by lightning, and he does some weird James Bond barrel walk, and it just gets better as the film becomes more self aware of the ridiculousness of it all.As stories go, it's nothing spectacular, Tommy resurrects Jason, and inadvertently becomes the prime suspect of all the killings, and from there on in, it's pretty much business as usual. The Sheriff doesn't believe a word he says right until it's too late, said Sheriff has a a daughter who falls for Tommy, and there are a bunch of kids who are getting up to a bit of cheeky cheeky, who really shouldn't be, because you know what?Jason doesn't care for any of it, or anyone.There are certain points in the film where if Jason had a voice, he would says some cracking one liners ala Krueger, for example, the scene where the guy shoots him with the paint-ball gun. Jason just looks down and then looks at the poor guy as if to say 'Really?', these are parts of the film that make this franchise arguably the best horror franchise of the eighties.And the funniest part if the film, the part that makes it one of the best sequels in the franchise, is the scene where the Sheriffs daughter tells the children to get under the bed, and it looks like someone is just throwing mannequins on the floor.It's censored within an inch of its life, but it only adds to the enjoyment of a wonderfully bonkers film.A must for fans of eighties horror. "},{"Title":"meh","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" None of the Friday the 13th movies are brilliant, people who criticise them should stop and remember that yes these movies are bad but what do you expect with b-movies? They're not meant to be Oscar winning material.My favourite Friday the 13th movie is pt2 but this comes a close second. I have the DVD version of this film and was disappointed by the lack of extra features. There is only a teaser trailer, but the picture and sound quality is very good. The beginning scene in the graveyard is very creepy, and when they do a close up shot of Jason staring at the viewer it scared the hell out me. Thats what surprised me, as Jason Voorhes doesn't usually scare me. But this time he did. He's not so scary in the rest of the film, it was just the graveyard scene. The movie had some funny moments too, my favourite being the paintgun scene, a lot of people thought this part was silly, but its actually quite amusing. The acting isn't great but who cares? It doesn't spoil the film at all. The music by Alice Cooper is great, i especially loved the closing song 'The Man behind the Mask'. There is also some eye candy for the girls Thom Mathews, Tom Fridley, and for the boys Jennifer Cooke. Overall a fun movie thats entertaining, funny and has a great soundtrack. "},{"Title":"One of the best entries in the series","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Attempting to disprove the Jason legend, Tommy Jarvis inadvertently revives him and sets him out to continue his rampage against a group of clueless teens preparing a summer camp session and forces him to try to stop him.Frankly this one was one of the most underrated efforts in the series. One of the better qualities here is the high amount of action found throughout here, which not only gives this one an unbelievably exciting pace but gives this so much to like. Starting off with the fantastic opening sequence where Jason's resurrection in the cemetery with the grand Gothic action of the metal rod and the lightning bolt, the attack on the campers on the shortcut in the woods and the car-chase through the woods leading the police back to the graveyard all manage to give this some highly exciting scenes along the way here. Other fine action scenes here include the camper attack where he takes out the couple in their RV before a fantastic crash along the highway, a second fairly exciting car chase with the police that also manages some fine humorous moments as well, and the final battle at the lake is one of the better confrontations in the series not only for doing the gender switch of the guy rather than the girl but the brawling on the boat and getting dragged down to the bottom requiring intervention anyway makes this a lot of fun and only adds to the action. That's not just for the rather enjoyable slasher moments here, as those makes this one even better by featuring some great parts here with him stalking the group of paint- ball players in the woods, the attack on the campers in their cabins as he picks them off in some really chilling scenes where they have to keep the safety of the children accounted for as the discovery of the bodies is made, and the wiping out of the police force at the camp makes for a series of great kills as the numerous bodies pile up rather quickly, allowing for some truly fun stalking scenes as well. The after-affect here of all this is that there's such a great body-count of dozens of deaths here and it's filled with some clever, unique kills here. While also packed with some fine humorous moments and a fun, striking-looking Jason, there's enough to like here that makes this one enjoyable to be able to hold off the one big flaw in this one. What really causes this one to come down somewhat is the rather lame plot here of the police to be wrong throughout here merely to be shown up later because Tommy has to be proved right, which really flies in the face of true police behavior. Almost all of their encounters here are meant to have him be right at the expense of the rational way most police conduct their business, especially at the beginning as the sort of story told should warrant an investigation into the claims rather than throw him in jail and then hold that over him the entire rest of the film. It's a little troubling, but it's the only flaw here.Rated R Graphic Violence, Language, a brief sex scene and some drug use. "},{"Title":"A Great Friday the 13th Movie","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After Friday part 5 was a commercial failure, fans screamed out for the return of Jason (the REAL Jason)and the answer came in the form of a Frankenstein lightning bolt. This one movie changed Jason for life by making him a zombie and separating him from the slew of slasher villains(namely Michael Myers).The films starts off with Tommy Jarvis digging up Jason's corpse and preparing to burn it, but out of nowhere a lightning bolt strikes Jason's corpse. Jason has now been reanimated, Tommy's worst fear. Tommy runs to the police, but unfortunately for him Sheriff Garris ( David Kagen ) knows that Tommy as spent time in a mental hospital. Thinking that Tommy is crazy, Garris locks him up for the night. The next morning, His daughter Megan and some counselors show up, hoping that the police will know where some of the friends are, not knowing that they were killed by Jason the night before. Megan takes an interest to Tommy, which leads to her helping Tommy in his quest to stop Jason. The thing that gives this movie an advantage over most installments of the franchise is has a bit more plot than your average Friday the 13th movie. This movie does not have an amazing story by any stretch of the imagination but it is nice to see some effort put into the story, rather then just go with  Jason's on the loose . The thing I like most about the narrative is that the director (Tom McLoughlin) makes his characters self-aware , a decade before Scream did this. In order to fit this happy-go-lucky slasher flick Tommy Jarvis (Thom Matthews) is altered appropriately. Tommy had a serious case of P.T.S.D in the previous film, but that all changes. Tommy is now just guy with some issues. Tommy's nerdier aspects are changed too, like his love of making masks and special effects. These changes make Tommy less complicated and interesting, but I personally like Thom Matthews as Tommy. Matthews has this kind of charisma that makes for an entertaining performance and he has good chemistry with Jennifer Cook as Megan. Megan is a little different from the usual Friday The 13th final girl. The usual final girl in a Friday film are mature and not heavily involved with someone, the exception being Amy Steel's Ginny Field. Megan is more assertive and outgoing then the others before her, and is definitely not mature. Sheriff Garris is almost a secondary antagonist in the film. He is always locking Tommy up and all together, just making stopping Jason more challenging. He does do the logical thing for a person in his position to do though, like when he locks up Tommy for grabbing for some guns. Would you let a guy you know has mental issues go and grab a loaded gun? Or when he fires his gun at Jason, sees they have no effect, and instead of just standing there like most slasher film characters, he makes a runs for it. Now about Jason Voorhees, the REAL Star of the movie. While Jason does not change much physically except for a rotted head, he does get this bad ass utility belt which makes him a horror movie Batman. Some people complain that Jason is too zombie like but I think this is a fine as Jason still gets the job done and he has never been the fastest killer around. It became a problem in later sequels when Jason can punch off heads or twist head around with a push. Speaking of the kills, they are not as over the top or creative as the kills in the previous films and pretty light on the gore and that can sometimes be a deal breaker for slasher films for some people. Also this film has no nudity, something that all the others have. The films score is made by Harry Manfredini and is not the usual Friday the 13th theme. The usual themes in the previous movies are here, but there is some new additions. One particularity memorable theme is the one that plays as Jason dawns his hockey mask. The new themes had some freshness to the series, which was really needed at that point. The film also features a few songs by Alice Cooper. There is a particularly good song  The Man Behind The Mask  that was made for this movie, that is really fitting. And finally at the end of this film Tommy Jarvis chains Jason to the bottom of Crystal Lake, bringing the series full circle. There is a cut ending where Jason's father is shown and it is hinted that he would make an appearance in the series. It sucks that this ending was cut from the film because if Jason's father had made an appearance in a sequel with Thom Matthews as the lead, this could have actually created a story in the series. Unfortunately Paramount took the easy way out and this did not happen. All and all this is a great slasher movie and easily one of the best of the series, if not the best. It sure as hell is my favourite, and I would recommend this movie to newcomers to the series (or the first one) even though it is the sixth installment, because in the Friday the 13th franchise almost all of the movies are the same. Although this movie lacks any actual horror, it is still an entertaining and great sequel.Worth a watch for slasher movie fans7.5/10 "},{"Title":"A step-up from Jason 5","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, JASON LIVES is not as good as people says it is.Friday THE 13th - PART VI JASON LIVES does resurrect Jason Voorhees, which is amazing. But this film does not even have the same feel of the first four films, or even the fifth film for that matter. It is low budget like the rest, but it seems more sophisticated and humorous.Friday THE 13th films aren't supposed to funny and smart at all. They are supposed to be gory, scary, messy and gritty horror fun. Something about this frustrates me the wrong way about this one.Tommy Jarvis accidentally brings Jason to life while trying to dig up his body. Eventually, Jason starts killing some random people in the area and the keystone cops automatically blame Tommy. Meanwhile, a group of young camp counselors are setting up for the kids. Jason, of course, attacks the camp and kills some more people in the process.I will explain the things I like from this film. I like it goes back to the camp setting. The first two were about camp counselors getting killed by Jason. I like the spooky atmospheric scenes with the woods. And I like the music and visuals in the film and the original theme composed by Harry Manfredini.The things I don't like about this movie is that it is over-hyped as one of the best Jason movies, better than the first 4 Jason films according to some people. It does not have the feel of a Friday THE 13th film. The officers are as stupid as hell in this franchise. And why in the hell did they change the camp from Camp Crystal Lake to Camp Forest Green? Also, the one thing I don't like is the Zombie Jason, he is just way too over-creepy for this film and I think there are some good parts in the film, especially the kill sequences that Jason has in this film.Overall, this film is a step-up from the previous installment, but definitely not as good as it is said to be, but I can still watch it on Halloween month.4.5 / 10 "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The previous film was good, but it got you questioning a little whether the real hockey mask, machete wielding psycho killer was involved or not, but this sixth instalment gets things back on track by bringing him back properly. Basically Tommy Jarvis (Thom Mathews), from the previous two films, has returned to the grave of killer Jason Voorhees (C.J. Graham), he still suffers from hallucinations of the night he killed him as a child, and other visions. Tommy wants to be certain that Jason is dead for good by cremating his body, once the coffin in unearthed and the corpse is unleashed he stabs the body in anger with a metal fence post, all the sudden in the stormy weather, lightning strikes the metal, this revives the body of Jason to become an undead walking zombie. Tommy runs in terror and tries to warn Sheriff Garris (David Kagen), only to be shunned, Camp Crystal Lake was renamed Forest Green because the townspeople do not want to associate with the previous history of the killer, now considered urban legend. At Camp Forest Green, kids have arrived ready for outdoor adventure, teens running the camp, and hanging around for their own reasons, including sexual, are the Sheriff's daughter Megan (Jennifer Cooke) and her friends Sissy Baker (Renée Jones), Cort (Tom Fridley), Darren (Ghost's Tony Goldwyn), Lizbeth (Nancy McLoughlin) and her sister Paula (Kerry Noonan), and Nikki (Darcy DeMoss). Tommy is escorted out of town and told that he should leave and not return, or face arrest, Megan finds him attractive and seems willing to help him prove his claim that Jason is back from the dead and is on the rampage, still killing pretty much anyone, in a vengeful mode, for the death of his mother. Jason's killing methods include punching a heart out, impaling with the metal rod that resurrected him, killing four in a paintball game for their equipment, crushing a skull, ramming a bowie knife into the skull, stabbing the throat with a broken bottle, a head twisted clean off and many more. Tommy is implicated for the killings perhaps once or twice by the sheriff, of course he realises the truth too late, Tommy is convinced he can exorcise back into the lake, where he was drowned as a child. In the end Jason, who was stalking the camp huts, where the children were sleeping, is lured into the lake by Tommy, they struggle on a boat, but with a chain wrapped around his neck to a boulder, Jason is dragged underwater, he is not drowned but it seems he cannot get out, he remains a prisoner at the bottom of the lake, for now. Also starring Vincent Guastaferro as Deputy Rick Cologne and Ron Palillo as Allen Hawes. Jason was unstoppable before, but now being a zombie it seems his is indestructible, and that is exactly what you want, he continues his high kill count with another bunch of inventive and grisly deaths. The opening of the film has Jason imitate the James Bond opening credits gun barrel, there are other witty moments along the way, the slight storyline continuing helps it flow, and the song He's Back (The Man Behind the Mask) by Alice Cooper playing in the end credits is really catchy, this is certainly one of the most memorable of the sequels in the franchise, an entertaining horror. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Easily the best of the franchise","Date":"20 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Friday the 13th series has a lot of movies under it's belt. Most range from bad enough to be good or entertaining despite it's flaws while some titles fall into just plain bad territory (A New Beginning, Jason Takes Manhattan and The Final Friday.) But for the most part, this franchise has been surprising competent for the number of films it's put out. It's ratio of good to bad entries is about 9- 3.Jason Lives however, is easily the best standalone film of the series. (I'm not counting Freddy vs Jason because it's a crossover.) It pretty much sets the standard that a Friday the 13th film should strive for.The plot is pretty standard fair, Jason running around in the woods killing teenagers and tertiary characters while a pair of moony-eyed protagonists try their hardest to stop him. What makes this movie unique is that it's the first one where Jason is undead. Making him nigh-invulnerable to conventional weapons and totally impervious to pain. He shrugs off gunshots and stab wounds, smashes his way through walls and tosses people around with relative ease. Jason becomes a sort of hulking, lumbering Frankenstien-type monster. Probably why he was revived with a lightning bolt in the intro.Complete and total '80s slasher cheese, this movie is an absolute blast for people who enjoy these kinds of films. This movie in particular features a touch more comedy then previous entries. Lots of goofy '80s comedy stuff and clever little one-liners. But the funniest moments in this movie, surprisingly, come from Jason. His dull, blank reactions to everything around him are hilarious. His slow head turns, his blank stares, his long pauses. It's like he's constantly saying Are you serious? in his mind before he kills someone.But what really surprised me is that I ended up liking the other characters in the movie. The protagonist, the love interest, even the one character I really hated got a great moment near the end and I actually felt bad to see him die. This movie hits the mark perfectly. It's everything a Friday the 13th movie should be. If you're only ever going to watch one of these movies in your life, this is definitely the one. But you really can't go too wrong, so long as your one movie isn't The Final Friday.8/10 - The most Friday the 13thiest Friday the 13th movie ever made. "},{"Title":"He's back, the man behind the mask!","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There aren't very many series where you can say the sixth movie is the best of the series, but Friday the 13th is one of them. Returning from Part IV and Part V is the character of Tommy Jarvis, along with Tina in Part VII, the only majorly likable main protagonist of the series. Attempting to gain some closure after the toll Jason took on his life, he goes to Jason's grave, but accidentally ends up resurrecting him, and after his return from the grave, Jason rampages across Crystal Lake (renamed Forest Green by the locals).The opening scene of the film is incredibly atmospheric, something you won't find in too many horror films today. None of the slasher elements are sacrificed for this atmosphere, they're blended perfectly. Some of Jason's very best kills are showcased in this film. A lot of great comedy is also prominent (a strength Friday the 13th films tend to have), and part of that comedy is very self-aware, though not as extreme in its self- awareness as horror films like Wes Craven's New Nightmare or the Scream series.It can be fun to watch this in black and white, the cemetery and the woods look great, and it helps that most of the film is set at nighttime. Alice Cooper's song The Man Behind The Mask is the perfect song to go with this movie, summing up the plot and including the series' trademark  chi chi chi ma ma ma theme, it le's you know what to expect when watching this movie, and it most certainly delivers the goods. "},{"Title":"Jason resurrected, Part V abandoned","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" They have basically ignore Part V where Tommy Jarvis becomes the new Jason. In this one, Tommy escapes from an institution and tries to destroy Jason Voorhees' body. When he digs up the body, a lightning strike resurrects Jason and he's up to killing again. Tommy tries to warn the sheriff, but the town wants to leave its past behind. Nobody believes him, and the sheriff locks him up.This movie accomplish one thing. It brought Jason back. He's now solidified as the emotionless unstoppable killing machine. The detour in Part V has been completely abandoned.There isn't much originality left. It's just killing for killing's sake. A lot of the kills are too random. People shows up. People gets kill. It's barely watchable. The addition of the little kids is pretty good, and had some real scares. Ultimately killing a bunch of no names isn't that compelling. "},{"Title":"Of Course He Does!","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Part VI begins with Tommy Jarvis(played now by Thom Mathews) driving with a friend over to the cemetery where Jason is buried(Too bad he wasn't cremated after all...) in order to dig him up, to make sure he is dead(!) This proves to be a disastrous mistake, as a sudden storm generates a bolt of lightning that revives Jason's corpse, and, after killing Tommy's friend, returns to Camp Crystal Lake to resume his murderous ways, where(of course) lots of people(from weekend warriors to summer camp counselors) await.Series went full-on supernatural in this one, as now Jason is an undead monster who can't be killed by normal means, and Tommy desperately tries to convince police that he isn't insane. Lots of humor in this one, which only cheapens an already shaky premise into self-parody, though there is at least the appropriate song He's Back playing at the end. Otherwise, a waste. "}{"Title":"Excellent Horror Movie! This one Excels!","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As most of my generation that grew up in the 80's we grew up with some of the greatest iconic horror villains of all-time, Freddy Kruger, Michael Myers and Jason Voorhees. I have always been drawn to the Friday the 13th series over all others. These movies are some of my favorites of all-time.I am also a bog believer in that in a horror series the original does not and is not always the best in the series. This is the case with the original Friday series. Jason is Friday the 13th so in saying and knowing that it takes away the importance and value of the Original film released in 1980. No kids or young adults are/were going to be scared to camp out in the woods or go to summer camp in fear of little old Mrs. Voorhees. This film is excellent in that from start to finish it is entertaining. The music in this movie is also the best of the series IMO. The opening title starts with wind blowing then fades to a dark sky with lightening. Then it shows a lake with trees, very eerie and creepy. The theme is incredible. Tommy Jarvis is played by Thom Mathews and he excels. This is a very iconic film and one of if not the best in the series. CJ Graham is the most imposing Jason ever at about 6 ft 6. Hodder might be the best but Graham looks incredible on screen with his movements and stalking. Alice Cooper delivers he's Back (the man behind the Mask) as the most well known and successful song from the series. This one from start to finish Delivers!! I Highly Recommend "},{"Title":"It's... not the worst one","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The name of the camp has changed, but otherwise the plot diverts not even slightly from the formula established in the previous five films, all of which are empty experiences. This time round Jason's corpse is struck by lighting and revived; no such luck for the film, which drags itself lifelessly from one bloody set piece to another before collapsing at the feet of another 'surprise' ending. It's not saying much, but to be fair this is one of the better entries in the series thanks to sparks of goofy imagination in the death scenes (such as a head punched through the wall of a mobile home like something in a 'Tom and Jerry' cartoon). That's a dubious recommendation to be sure, and besides, the film's propensity for unfunny comedy and excruciating dialogue ('Aren't you the kid whose mother and friends were killed by that maniac?') more than balance out any minor entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Jason lives -  but who brought him back?","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" FTT 6 Jason lives does take a deviation form the first 5 parts - and I do appreciate some part of it. It is not as vulgar as the predecessors.Tired of the hallucinations of Jason, Tommy decides to dig open his grave and see for himself that Jason is dead, and then burn it. Well, he does dig it open, but accidentally breathes lifer into the corpse, and now Jason is back, and with double the vengeance.The film's music is perhaps the best part. Tommy Jarvis is the best actor, this film is not explicit, and otherwise it moves along the same lines of the predecessors - gory murders. Seriously, not even a child will be scared of this.Lemme see FTT 7! "},{"Title":"Great Installment to the Friday the 13th Franchise","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Fans were awaiting the return of Jason, and he arrived with a bang. After seeing Friday the 13th Part 5 New Beginning my expectations were lowered, and with the announcement of Part 6 I was a little skeptical. However, upon viewing I can safely say that Jason Lives is a solid entry in the series. This is accountable for five major reasons...1) Atmosphere The foggy, dimly lit, spooky scenario is perfect for Friday the 13th. I also love the huge amount of leaves constantly blowing in the strong wind.2) Kills The murders in Part 6 are great, I quite like when Jason bends the sheriff in half. Also, there is a lot less cut-aways and Jason always has new inventive ways to annihilate his victims3) Acting The acting in this installment is better than the others. Thom Mathews is way better playing Tommy Jarvis than the mute from Part 5. The supporting actors are all good, and the combination of Tommy's seriousness and Megan's playful attitude are a great mix.4) Direction Tom Mcloughlin did a great job blending humour with suspense in this film. There is a lot of good camera work and creepy lighting.5) Humorous Attitude Part 6 really understood that the seriousness of the early movies was getting old, so this on decided to go the more comedic route. Thats no to say no other movie had done that, but this one brought it back after Part 5. In conclusion, this little horror flick is a fun title to have in your collection and my favourite Friday the 13th movie, along with Part 4. "},{"Title":"Back in action, and supernatural from here on in","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part Six Jason Lives is important because this is the turning point when Jason finally becomes a beyond the grave terrifying monster with practically supernatural powers. As the latest Tommy Jarvis states He's back and stronger than ever. You actually do notice a difference between Jason Voorhees #2-4 and the Jason of Part six and that's significant. His strength is terrifying and brutal and makes his kills a little less original but far more brutal. The film makers actually try and explain why and how he's returning this time and even sort of where this new brutal Voorhees gets his strength from. I also think this is one of the better endings to the films. Instead of killing this creature which after six films, and multiple years you'd think someone would think of an alternative. While finally Tommy Jarvis does, however short-lived his solution may be.Thom Mathews takes over the role for the third and final time as Tommy Jarvis. Mathews is good, much better than John Shepherd in A New Beginning was but still not as good as Corey Feldman in Final Chapter. Mathews is stronger in the role, and more leading man quality but still doesn't quite fit the bill. Jennifer Cooke is our scream queen this time around and she is quite good in the role. She's the defiant Sheriff's daughter, and she has a sexy spark to her character. I mean given they don't give her a lot of depth but she does well with what she's given. David Kagen is also good as her father and the local Sheriff. I think he comes across as a little bit campy from time to time but in a film like this that always works. And then of course you have your host of victims each with a little bit of personality but nothing that will ever catch your eye. Jason Voorhees this time around is played by C.J. Graham, his only acting credit besides one other film. He probably had a blast playing Jason this time around with his brute strength and new found post-dead persona.Tom McLoughlin takes the helm of directing and co-writing this instalment and its worth mentioning that he went on to direct the Friday the 13th TV Series as well (though it had nothing to do with the film series.) McLoughlin clearly appreciates the series and wants to it justice. For me the opening scene of this instalment was one of the most memorable. I remember seeing it as a kid at my Grandparents place but that wasn't allowed to see the rest. And as I said the ending I thought was at least unique and led easily into the next film which some consider the worst of the series but I whole heartedly disagree. This is a must in the series of course and gives almost a reboot to the character. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives","Date":"16 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, it's not as good as everyone says. Friday the 13th Part VI does resurrect Jason Vorhees, which is great. But this does not have the same feel of the first four films, or even the fifth for that matter. It is low budget like the rest, but it seems more sophisticated and humorous. Friday the 13th's aren't supposed to be funny and smart. They are supposed to be gritty, messy, gory horror fun. Something about this rubs me the wrong way. Anyways, the plot... Tommy Jarvis accidentally brings Jason to life while trying to dig up his body. Yeah. Eventually Jason starts killing some random people in the area and the keystone cops automatically blame Tommy. Meanwhile, a group of young camp counsellors are setting up for the kids. Jason of course attacks the camp killing some more people.Things I like about this one. I like that it goes back to it's roots with the camp setting. The first two were about camp counsellors paying with their lives for being negligent. I like the spooky atmospheric scenes with the woods. And I like Thom Matthews as Tommy Jarvis. There's just something that is wrong about this one. It's over-hyped as one of the best Friday's, better than the first four according to some even. It doesn't have the feel of a Friday film. The two officers are the most annoying people in the franchise next to Ethel's screaming son on the motorcycle in Part 5. They continuously blame Tommy despite blatant evidence pointing to someone else. And they changed the name to Camp Forest Green? After reflecting a bit here, the biggest problem for me in this is Jason. I don't like Zombie Jason compared to human/backwoods Jason. He moves slow and everything just like a zombie. He was much scarier when he was a psychotic, disturbed human who could run after his victims. He isn't scary at all in this. There are some good parts like the creepy wooded scenery and that one kill where the counsellor gets pulled by Jason through the window. It's a step up from the fifth installment, but definitely not as good as many give it credit for.6/10 "},{"Title":"A decently fun film!","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As one of the longest running horror franchise in movie history, there really isn't much left up the sleeve of the Friday the 13th series to scare us with by the sixth installment. So, they decided to focus less on horror and a little more of fun. The results are not too bad, as far as sequels go.Determined to make sure Jason is dead once and for all, Tommy Jarvis (played by Thom Mathews) digs up his body with the intent to cremate him. Instead, he accidentally reanimates Jason and the killing spree begins again. Can Tommy stop the now-undead murder machine, or will the local Sheriff (played by David Kegan) and a town that wants to move on from the horrors of Jason Voorhees end up getting him, along with all of them, killed in the process? Right off the bat, if you are expecting straight-on horror from this outing, you are sure to be disappointed. Writer/Director Tom McLoughlin opts to take things a bit less serious than past chapters of this saga have been, adding in an element of humor to the mix and toning down on the graphic gore (although, personally, I think we could have used a little bit more of the latter). It's a formula he would use in many of the horror works he'd do after this, for both the big screen and the small one. While in less capable hands such things usually become a train wreck, McLoughlin never lets the humor stray too far into goofy slapstick and utter parody. There are a few of the in-jokes and camera mugging moments that are groan worthy, but overall the humor never totally overpowers the more horrific aspects of the film, as has happened in other attempts like this.The cast, which is mostly a who's who of television roles, does an overall solid job with the material they are given, with Thom Mathews and David Kegan the real standouts. Mathews does a great job of making you feel for Tommy's plight, while Kegan's sheriff is a great foil to Tommy. Jennifer Cooke (who fans of the 80's television series V will remember) is sexy, but never in a trampy way. In fact, there wasn't really anything in the way of nudity in this film, unlike so many others of its kind, but I never even missed it, as I was just having a lot of fun watching things unfold.In a lot of ways Jason Lives Friday the 13th Part VI was one of the earliest films that help to bridge the gulf between horror and humor, that many others would follow for the next couple of decades. And while those efforts are certainly a mixed bag, I think they made it work well enough here to make an enjoyable little popcorn horror-comedy, provided you don't think about the actual plot too much. Die-hards of straight-laced horror and gore, as well as this saga's previous chapters, will probably not find this film to their tastes. But for horror buffs who can take their scares a little less seriously, this film is a great way to kill an hour and a half and have some fun doing it. It's a fairly enjoyable sequel to this franchise and certainly a decent horror-comedy in its own right. "},{"Title":"Does he think I'm a fart-head?","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Wow, a lot of new stuff in this one. You have the new Jason, who is now some sort of lightning-powered zombie that can take even more physical abuse than before. He can't be bothered with running anymore, but obviously he still keeps up with his victims because that's just movie magic. C.J. Graham plays him very well by the way, Jason's actually sort of menacing for once. Then you have the summer camp itself, which for the first and probably last time in the series' history features actual children. It's fun to see that parents don't judge a camp just because its counselors get hacked to bits every time it re-opens. There are also some attempts at humour woven in, and most of them are really quite funny. I especially liked the Bond-parody in the credit sequence, misplaced but hilarious. Furthermore, Jennifer Cooke is easily the hottest main girl this franchise has ever had, so that's kind of a plus too. A very inventive entry, not the best one but it's pretty close. "},{"Title":"Let sleeping dogs lie.","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Here, Tommy from Part 4 decides, years later, to 'make sure ' Jason is really dead by digging him up and sticking a metal pole thru him. Naturally, the pole is struck by lightning and Jason comes back to life and a new rampage begins. There's a few changes to the formula in this one Firstly, Jason is now a super strength, indestructible zombie type, his running days are long over. A lot of the action is taken away from Camp Crystal Lake as Tommy has various run-ins with the local Sheriff trying to persuade him Jason is real. Therefore, the idea of being claustrophobically trapped in CCL is lost in this one. Instead we get a hackneyed 'race against time' sort of thing where Tommy is trying to save the newly arrived kids at the camp and few counsellors. So we get Jason making his way there, leaving behind an OTT body-count while Tommy has to give the Sheriff the slip/bust out of the jail etc etc.Anyway, from reading some occult books (seemingly mid-film) Tommy decides that to kill Jason they need to drown him in the lake where he originally drowned as a young boy. Hmmm, hang on a minute - didn't Jason not drown at all? But anyway, Tommy manages to chain him to a rock and leave him at the bottom of the lake, with his neck chewed up by a boat propellor for good measure. Of course, at the very end we see Jason's eye is open, paving the way for part 7. This film has a different mood and tone than 1-4, probably due to the slight change of plot/location. Saying that, the earlier films were hardly 'The Shining' in terms of atmosphere so that's not a great loss. The body count is a bit OTT with extra characters appearing and being killed in the same scene, as if they had a stock of death scenes on the shelf to use in this franchise and just edited on in here and there. There's a bit of humour in this one and a few references to the conventions of earlier films and this genre; the drunken grave digger, some cynically wise cracking kids, the cynical authority figure etc. Anyway, a few changes to the formula, but the end result is still the same, a 'paint by numbers' slasher film bereft of real horror, tension or scares best enjoyed for laughs, and despite the high body count the actual gore is quite scaled down. Part 7 followed, which was passable, as apparently no one thought to remove the body from the bottom of the lake after Part 6. It was downhill from there with the 'original' (pre Jason X)F13 films tho with 'Jason Takes Manhattan' taking place 90% on a boat and the truly awful,'Jasonless'(rip off of 'Shocker' and 'Fallen' with elements of the equally bad later Halloween sequels ) part 9. Anyway, it's unfair to judge these films against 'real' films so I'd say that this one is probably one of the 'best' of the sequels and is passable'ironic' entertainment. "},{"Title":"A Great Jason Flick.","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK, so Friday the 13th has not been known for particularly great and compelling movies. But I really feel that Jason Lives proves the critics wrong about the entire series. OK the movies starts off with the only teen to appear in more than two films Tommy Jarvis, he's driving around and tries to cremate Jason, big mistake! Jason begins to get up (after being hit by lightning.) And bing boom bam, it's the basic Jason formula. Kill, rip, stab, repeat. OK, so you've obviously gotten used to this, Jason kills the kids who have sex, drink, blah blah. The real great part about this series is really the establishment that Jason actually has a weak spot. Up until now it's been hitting Jason in the face with an ax or a machete. But now Jason becomes an even deeper character.But enough of that! Jason continues to kick teens around like the little children they are. Oh and of course the old gravedigger. Jason continues to stay in Tommy's mind, Tommy is jailed for being disruptive and causing havoc. It then comes down to a final showdown at the camp where Jason nearly drowned many years ago. Jason goes (and this surprised me...) and kills the Christian, peppy, la la girl. Not only kill, but he massacres her (including being thrown through a window.) Jason finally fights Tommy, Tommy takes Jason to the lake (lures) Jason eventually is put underwater and has his eye cut out by a motorboat propeller. (A fact which every director since has decided to ignore for some reason.) This to me is the one Jason movies that if I had to choose to represent the ENTIRE series, I'd pick. Good kills, actual character development, and just Jason in general being kick ASS! The only real problem is that again the director decides to stick with the same formula. It can get very tiresome, very quickly. Still an awesome movie and I would recommend this 100% "}{"Title":"One of the best horrors I've seen from the 80's.","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" From the start in the graveyard, this movie has very few slow moments or times where it lets up. The acting of all characters is surprisingly good and at times deliberately funny. Thom Matthews and Jennifer Cooke really filled their parts well. The lighting throughout the movie, by night, is perfectly balanced and far exceeds the standard as given by Parts 2 & 3. This film never lets up action-wise either.C J Graham has really defined a new Jason in a very menacing, intimidating and ultra Powerful way. That scene where the camper overturns and he climbs out onto the top of it unscathed while it's surrounded by flames is just one example of how awesome a being he has become. The eerie musical scores for scenes like this really do the film justice as well. In general, his reactions and his movements are absolutely perfect to the tee. C J Gramham has really nailed this one. It's a pity he never did Jason again. I also liked that you see Jason a LOT in this movie. It really helps you identify with the main character of the series while it takes away from none of the suspense. The death scenes are well varied and some are well devised.The plot and the flow of the story shows that the director really knew what he was doing. It's very coherent and easy to follow. The ending couldn't have been better. Jarvis set up the trap so well! But even then, Jason was one tough cookie to kill! Even with Megan's help! It's not long drawn out and its just done so well.So, all in all, it really has the elements in place that all the other movies should have.Try and check it out when you can! "},{"Title":"Jason keeps on living.","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jason Lives is one of the best of this series. Long before Scream director Tom McLoughlin spoofed horror movies, before it was popular. With the Frankeinstein way of bringing Jason back to life, to the opening sequence that mocked James Bond. After A New Beginning the Friday series needed a positive entry into the series to stay alive. Part 6 was scary and very enjoyable. Jason was better and meaner than ever before. This was also the first Friday film to introduce Jason as a zombie back from the dead. We all have to remember by the time this series reached part 6 it was not about a great storyline or anything else any other movie must do before being made. Friday the 13th can break any rules people pay to see Jason slaughter people nothing else. I believe Part 6 is where all that started. Part 6 might not have been the number one movie at the box office, but in 1986 its total when have been around $34.2 million which is pretty good for a series that at that time was only at part 6. Thank god there have been many more. Jason is our 21st century Frankeistein. "},{"Title":"Jason Lives. No I'm serious. He lives.","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I can't believe I'm saying this, but I really liked this movie. Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives is the sixth Friday the 13th film. It starts off with Tommy and a friend driving to a graveyard getting ready to get rid of Jason's body. Tommy accidentally brings Jason back from the dead, and Jason goes on his fifth killing spree. Tommy alerts the police, but they think he's crazy. They lock him up while Jason's out there killing people left and right. Tommy eventually gets out, and goes to Camp Crystal Lake to take down Jason. I don't think it would be a spoiler if I told you Jason dies, but since I'm afraid my account could get deleted, I'm going to check the spoiler box. Jason Lives is a surprisingly good horror sequel. It's a Must-Rent for any Halloween party or horror movie marathon that you're having. I give Friday The 13th Part VI Jason Lives an 8/10. Very good movie. One of the best horror movie sequels. It falls into the category of Scream 2, Saw II, and Halloween II, which are all good horror sequels. "},{"Title":"Friday The 13th VI Jason Lives Is A Good Horror Movie","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was having a Friday The 13th movie marathon like a week ago but i went on holidays so i am going to watch the rest of the movies in the series over the next 2 days and comment on them.So this is the 6th movie in my Friday The 13th movie marathon.The plot for this movie is about how Tommy Jarvis goes back and digs up Jason Voorhess grave to see if he is dead but in doing so he accidentally brings him back to life.And then Jason Vorhees gos home to camp crystal lake and once again there are some people there for him to kill.This movie has to be the most fast paced and action filled movie in The Friday The 13th series.And there are a few good kill scenes in this movie and the best two are1.When one of the characters in this movie is playing paint ball and he has got a machete chopping the trees in front of him and then Jason grabs the machete of him and throws him against a tree.And he gets impaled in the head with a tree branch And then as Jason looks at the machete the mans arm is still attached to the machete and it is a bit funny.2.And a few minutes after that scene happened Jason jumped out of a tree and decapitated 3 of the people playing pain ball at the same time.Over all this movie is good and there is only one thing wrong with this movie and the thing wrong with this movie is how in the start of this movie Jason gets brought back to life by getting struck by lighting 2 times and even though Jason is like a supernatural person the lighting would not bring him back to life.My rating for this movie is six out of ten. "},{"Title":"Best of the entire series....nuff said!!","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Where can I even start with this one. First of all the graveyard resurrection scene was amazing. If you don't think the lightning reanimation was one of the best moments in cinema history, than you have problems. Just add these elements Super-hot Jennifer Cooke(I was eight-years old when this movie came out, and you can safely say she made puberty start a little early that year.)/ a beefed-up 1977 stirrup-shifted Camaro(need I say more)/ actors who could actually..get this..act!!(an amazing concept for this type of film)/ a great ending(the fiery lake was rockin')/ and an RV with a chrome shifter, blaring out Alice Cooper!! If that's not enough to make you want to see this gem, than I have nothing more to say to you. "},{"Title":"The beginning of the end...","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Many people dislike Friday the 13th. Many find the series stupid, not scary and consider it mind-less entertainment. I believe that's because they have not seen the previous 5 movies. Part VI is were the now considered classic Jason clichés(unstoppable, mindless zombie who can walk faster than you run) was created.The story Tommy Jarvis, the boy who killed Jason in Friday the 13th The Final Chapter, has decided to destroy Jason's body in order to stop the nightmares that haunt him and face the demons of his past. He must have the worst luck in the world because, as he impales Jason with an iron stick, a thunder fall as and brings back Jason in a Frankenstein-homage scene. Now that Jason is back as a zombie, it's up to Tommy to stop him... Bad news is that nobody believes that Jason is now a living dead, and Camp Crystal Lake has been opened again under a new name, so Jason has a lot of work to do.This movie follows Tommy's attempt to finally kill Jason, but it gave me the impression that the movie was done with the purpose of pleasing Jason's fans who were disappointed with Part V. Unlike previous movies, where Jason was the hidden killer, here he receives a lot of exposure and has the highest body count.This movie may help to illustrate the evolution of the slasher genre through the 80's. The movie is more campy & funny and less scary & gory. Gone is the suspense of both Parts 1 & Miller's 2-3, and gone are the realistic gory killings of previous movies. Jason goes over-the-top but at the same time tones down the graphic violence of the killings.Support Character Megan plays the sheriff's daughter who is more concerned in getting in Tommy's bed than with Jason's Legend. She is probably a reflection of that long gone age that were the 80's.Direction is fine, lighting is just fine... neither good nor bad, just the usual 80's slasher. Since Jason became supernatural the series went downhill and it's no surprise why the Friday series lost it's impact and ended up battling the other used to be good franchise in Freddy VS Jason.Good slasher, probably the last good Friday movie, but don't expect too much.A solid 5/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Horror Film of its time!                                       10 out of 10","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is an excellent progression for Jason! if you were to put all of the films together and watch them all up to this point... none of them lead up to the real Jason Voorhees that everyone knows! (Machete, lethal, huge, and not able to die) this movie is the start of Jason's for say... re-knewel as the king of the Hockey mask himself... it wouldn't be the same if everyone were to watch Freddy vs. Jason and then go and rent Firday the 13th because its not the same Jason that they think of! this film portrays Jason and basically casts his shadow on the true Lethal Hockey Mask slasher... Jason VoorheesThe only thing that made me mad is at the end of A new beginning... Tommy looks like he kills the counselor... and in this movie he talks and is like a good boy! WHAT HAPPENED? I thought that Tommy was gonna be the new Jason or something... but no way Jose' they had to bring Jason back! and i'm happy they did because i missed him! DIDN'T YOU?LONG LIVE JASON VOORHEES "},{"Title":"One of the better Friday the 13th sequels","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" No, this one doesn't have Corey Feldman in it and it doesn't take place at a halfway house but its still pretty damn good. This one probably has the best opening out of all the movies in the series. And it actually takes place during summer camp, unlike all of the rest. Tommy Jarvis (previously played by Feldman) returns yet again to fight off Jason after accidentally bringing him back to life. Oooh, spooky. And yet again Tommy is played by a different actor, making things only a little confusing. But after part V, I'm sure the audience doesn't really expect much. If I could wish for a few more elements in this particular movie, they would be... MORE SEX, DRUGS & ROCK N ROLL! "},{"Title":"Finally Another Good Sequel Since part 2 and 3","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday The 13th Part VI Jason Lives is my personal favorite out of the whole series, Jason was back with his Machete and Hockey Mask and even the acting is pretty good Anywho is the Plot Tommy Jarvis is released from the mental institutions in which he has spent most of his adolescence. Along with his friend Allen Hawes, Tommy goes to dig up and cremate Jason's corpse. But when he pierces Jason's chest with an iron fence post, a bolt of lightning resurrects him. Jason quickly takes out Allen with a fist through the chest, and when Tommy flees Jason heads for the renamed and reopened Lake Forest Green.Tommy enters the Forest Green Police Department and demands the help of the Sheriff. But when Tommy tries to grab a shotgun to take matters into his own hands, the Sheriff Garris has Tommy thrown in jail. Meanwhile, counselors Lizabeth and Darren are killed by Jason on their way to camp. The next morning, Garris' daughter Megan and her fellow counselors Sissy, Paula and Cort visit the station. Tommy warns them of Jason's resurrection before the Sheriff escorts him towards the town limits.Back at camp, the counselors prepare for the coming campers. Meanwhile, Jason picks off five survivalist gamers in the woods. On the way out of town Tommy makes a break for the graveyard to prove Jason's not in his grave - but the caretaker has covered it over. The officers continue their escort, but when their out of view Tommy turns right back around towards the town he's always known as Crystal Lake.That night, Cort heads off for a tryst with a girl named Nikki. Jason cuts the power to her RV and boards as they drive away. He slams Nikki's head through a wall and stabs Cort in the head. When the police discover Lizabeth and Darren's bodies, the Sheriff suspects Tommy. But Megan isn't convinced, and when Tommy calls the station she answers and makes plans to meet. At camp, Sissy is killed as Megan and Tommy try to evade the police. Tommy is thrown in jail despite Megan's alibi for him. Jason uses camp counselor Paula to repaint one of the cabins in blood red, and Megan busts Tommy out.The police make their way to the camp, and officers Thornton and Pappas are killed before the Sheriff comes up against Jason. Megan and Tommy arrive at the seemingly serene camp, but soon find Paula's remains. Sheriff Garris is killed trying to keep Jason away from his daughter. Despite Megan's protests, Tommy goes out on the lake alone and calls to Jason. . .Defiantly a Great and Worthy Sequel this defiantly brought the series back to life i recommend this to all Horror fans. "},{"Title":"One of the best in the series and by far one of my favorite movies.","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jason Lives is by far one of the best in the series. Tom Mcloghlin brings an interesting direction to the film. And unlike Jason X he stays true to the fans and all that is great about Friday The 13th. And i,ve been a friend of the Friday films since i could walk and this was the first one i saw and is just as good as the fist four films and in my book this and the whole other parts of the series are my favorite movies of all time. Oh and if you like the Friday The 13th films you might wanna check out these other great horror titles Phantasm, Nightmare On Elm Street, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Evil Dead and Saw. And if you liked my comment check out what i have to say about many other great horror films. "}{"Title":"Appropriately Titled","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Here it is the sixth installment of the F13 franchise, which is appropriately titled Jason Lives, and yes, after his absence from part five, Jason IS back, very much alive, and right from the start he is slaughtering his way towards a newly opened summer camp. The camp in question has been renamed Lake Forest Green, with the intentions of burying the stigma of Jason Voorhees and his Camp Crystal Lake blood baths. I have to say that I genuinely enjoy this one. I would recommend it to anyone and it is one that I watch any time I am having a Friday marathon.To start I admire its simplicity. We have our central character Tommy Jarvis(back for the third time with the third different actor but oh well) who has been released from an institution and, along with his doomed buddy Allen Hawes, has traveled to the Eternal Rest Cemetery to cremate Jason Voorhees. Fortunately for us fans Jason is resurrected, Tommy gets put in jail and is unable to convince everyone to run for their lives, and the rest becomes a simple yet surprisingly creepy eighty minutes.Now, besides Tommy's character we also have a small group of camp counselors instead of the usual group of 8-10 pointless minor characters who are not in the film long enough to notice. This approach gives the film a more ominous feel to it because these characters are alive through most of the story, giving their inevitable death more impact than usual. Still the body count isn't small because there are also several other characters(Jason fodder)who we come across that we know right away are probably going to get splattered(i.e..the triple decapitation and the drunken cemetery worker Martin). And its always interesting in these films to find out which female will be the last one standing because in this one we have Megan, the risqué Sheriff's daughter who likes to flirt with Tommy while he waits helplessly behind bars, and then we have Paula, the goody-goody counselor who has a real likable quality going for her and would have been the last one standing under any other circumstances(like if this were the original Friday and Megan wasn't so gorgeous). Unfortunately for Paula, she ends up getting killed in one of the more memorable death scenes of this sequel, which leaves an entire cabin soaked in blood(sort of exaggerated but still creepy).The story is decent and Simon Hawke's movie tie-in is even better. I like the idea of putting Jason down in his original resting place, which makes for an awesome climax. The woods surrounding the camp provide a creepy backdrop for the setting, as well as the score from Manfredini which is always top notch. Jason(played by CJ Graham)seems swifter in this one and likes to stalk more. There are also high counts of children in the movie(none of them harmed thankfully)adding more tension to the plot. These are all great additions to the series.There is also a great scene where Nancy, one of the little campers, sees Jason carrying a headless counselor past the cabin windows so she rises up in her bed with a PRICELESS look on her face! She then goes to warn the last remaining counselor who ultimately dismisses it all as a big joke claiming that the other counselors are just trying to scare them even though the little girl is holding a blood-soaked machete that she found outside.Overall I rated Jason Lives 8/10 because it is less over the top, if you will, and is a little less obvious than some of the other sequels. This one relies more on the thrill of what you DON'T see. For example, there's a scene where a couple become temporarily stranded in their RV and while they are outside inspecting it the camera lingers in on the foggy woods and one of the characters says, Nikki, somebody's out there. What if it's that guy Jason? It was kind of chilling...In my opinion Jason Lives is a very good entry in the Friday the 13th saga. The Alice Cooper songs are fabulous, especially The Man Behind The Mask which plays when the credits roll. Watch it....if you dare!!!! CHCHCHHAHAHA!!!!! 8/10. "},{"Title":"The best in the series!","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" These movies have always been favorites of mine. They are silly and over the top and they are more equated with an amusement park ride than any other films. That being said, Part 6 is my favorite of the bunch. Why you ask? Because this one is where Jason ceases to be just some guy who is really tough to kill and takes him rightful place as an UBER-ZOMBIE. This is also the Friday where the people making them finally got that there is a specific audience for these films and we don't really care about good acting or great storytelling. We go to these movies for one simple thing, to see Jason hack, slash, maim, and dismember as many foolish campers and Crystal Lake locals as is possible to squeeze into 90 minutes.If you are of the ilk who likes this type of film, Jason 6 is among the best of the bunch. The plot is irrelevant, the bodycount is good (clocking in at 16 deaths), and Jason makes use of some interesting tactic to dispatch his victims. One other notable addition to part 6 that wasn't really implemented in other Jason movies, is a real sense of humor. There are some small but great moments where you can't help but at least chuckle. As i mentioned earlier, this is a movie for the fans. Simple as that. If you aren't into these kinds of films, you will hate it. for those of us who are into these movies this one is a super fun ride that delivers what it sets out to. Non-fans need not apply. "},{"Title":"Best in Series!","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know why but this one is the best in series! I truly enjoyed it along with Alice Cooper song on closing credit... After lame F13/5 this was a huge step forward and it had that 'positive fresh start' thing surrounding him! I mean after first installment - every sequel was average, mediocre slasher in conclusion with confusing fifth where you are left scratching your head in disbelief...What'ta Hell?!. Who could expect that after so lame conclusion in F13/5 could get any better - And then its really gets better with opening grave, lightning...and Jason Lives! Action starts and it doesn't end until Alice Cooper sings Man Behind The Mask (great song!)...It really had that breeze of fresh air to the series! How sad they couldn't keep up with that level on further sequels!I recommend it just in case you forgot how good slasher looks like!  "},{"Title":"Zombie Jason....","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was recently hit by a big nostalgia trip and having bought the first films of this series on VHS cassette, these had to be seen as well. They've mostly just been collecting dust in a box but watching them again have me lots of thrills... Normally I'm a bit harsh in my reviews but I really have a soft spot for this series along with the Nightmare on Elm Street series.. These films were important in the task of introducing the horror genre as we know it - wannabe followups like Scream and all the other BS cannot follow this, trust me...if you love horror but for some reason missed these films you are in for a treat!I remember this, part 6, as one of the films I like the most. I prefer Jason in his most zombie like behavior and this is the first of the films where he does that. He is digged up in the beginning, lightning resurrects him and there you are. Immortal killer on the loose - not a very nice situation, is it? haha.. Anyway, this is very much how I prefer Jason - no doubt about that....the less expressive, the scarier..It is not movie art, granted, but it is great entertainment, especially if you saw them as a kid.....  "},{"Title":"Great entry to the series.","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  None of the Friday the 13th movies are brilliant, people who criticise them should stop and remember that yes these movies are bad but what do you expect with b-movies? They're not meant to be oscar winning material.My favourite Friday the 13th movie is pt2 but this comes a close second. I have the DVD version of this film and was disappointed by the lack of extra features. There is only a teaser trailer, but the picture and sound quality is very good. The beginning scene in the graveyard is very creepy, and when they do a close up shot of Jason staring at the viewer it scared the hell out me. Thats what surprised me, as Jason Voorhes doesnt usually scare me. But this time he did. He's not so scary in the rest of the film, it was just the graveyard scene. The movie had some funny moments too, my favourite being the paintgun scene, a lot of people thought this part was silly, but its actually quite amusing. The acting isnt great but who cares? It doesnt spoil the film at all. The music by Alice Cooper is great, i especially loved the closing song 'The Man behind the Mask'. There is also some eye candy for the girls Thom Mathews, Tom Fridley, and for the boys Jennifer Cooke. Overall a fun movie thats entertaining, funny and has a great soundtrack. "},{"Title":"This One Is Good","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The only thing that I can say about this part of the friday the 13th series is that it's a good one.  The way that Jason is brought back to life and everything is pretty cool.  Some of the killings are pretty neat and the graveyard attendant is funny. "},{"Title":"Die yuppie scum!!!!","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" By the summer of '86, this series was getting a bit tired, so it's obvious that the makers of this film tried to spice things up with mixed results. This has always been one of my favorite episodes of this oft-bashed series. Let's take a look at the highlights, shall we?The opening sequence with Jason being rejuvenated by not one, but two bolts of lightning was pretty neat. Loved Tommy's pal's line My heart can't take much more of this! Very prophetic. That's the thing that really stands out with this film. They tried to make it funny with more than a few one liners and sight gags. Most of them hit the mark. It's a good thing there are a few laughs, because the rest of the script is AWFUL! One of the worst lines of all time is when the Sheriff tell his deputy to Hit the noise and the cherries! (the siren and the lights) before they take off into hot pursuit after Tommy Jarvis. Bad, bad, bad!Another thing that sticks out is how the film uses Jason. Not only does he kill off the usual teenage camp counselor types, but he also butchers a fair amount of yuppies. Look at some of his victims He finishes off a yuppie couple driving a VW bug. They are obviously a city couple who has no idea where they are going out in the woods. The guy tries to pull what looks to be a starter pistol on Jason. Needless to say, that doesn't work. After he is killed, the woman actually tries to pay Jason off with some cash and an American Express card. Ha Ha! Next, Jason mows down a bunch of yuppie paint ball players. (Three of them in an amazing triple decapitation). Then Jason kills a yuppie couple enjoying a bottle of wine and an intimate encounter on a blanket. The guy is dressed like Don Johnson in Miami Vice. (short sleeved jacket and all) The two try to escape Jason on a Moped! As if! Anyway, Jason serves as a social conscience in the film, by ridding the woods of any yuppie that tries to pollute them with their warped ideals and fashion.some other observationsI liked the soundtrack a lot. It had a couple of cool Alice Cooper songs. The film was shot in Georgia, so the soil appears reddish in color. Some pretty decent killings take place. The film's pace is a little off kilter. It kind of drags in the middle. There is a wonderful nod to the James Bond films in the opening credits. Anyone familiar with those films will spot it in an instant. Over all, this is probably my fourth favorite of the series behind 1,2, and 4 in that order. I never paid much attention to the ones after this. They all appear to suck.Oh, by the way, that Jennifer Cooke is a hottie! I wonder what she's up to now....6 of 10 starsSo barketh the Hound. "},{"Title":"Next to the epic, Friday The 13th Part III, this is one of the better entries in the Friday epic!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Next to the epic, Friday The 13th Part III, this is one of the better entries in the Friday epic! The producers had to improve on Part V, so they traded in some of the grue of the earlier sequels and concentrated on laughs and well placed sight gags. The action takes place some time after Part V as Tommy escapes from the institution and digs up the rotting corpse of Jason Voorhees, guess what happens next? No need to answer as ol' Jay goes on a rampage the likes of which this series had never seen before or since. Also, Jason is no longer in the shadows of Camp Crystal Lake, he is allowed alot of screen time and is given a personality, complete with head twitches and gestures, something that would be improved and expanded upon by Kane Hodder in future Friday installments. A good way to spend a rainy day or a dark night in front of the tv, now go rent! "},{"Title":"Next to the epic, Friday The 13th Part III, this is one of the better entries in the Friday epic!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Next to the epic, Friday The 13th Part III, this is one of the better entries in the Friday epic! The producers had to improve on Part V, so they traded in some of the grue of the earlier sequels and concentrated on laughs and well placed sight gags. The action takes place some time after Part V as Tommy escapes from the institution and digs up the rotting corpse of Jason Voorhees, guess what happens next? No need to answer as ol' Jay goes on a rampage the likes of which this series had never seen before or since. Also, Jason is no longer in the shadows of Camp Crystal Lake, he is allowed alot of screen time and is given a personality, complete with head twitches and gestures, something that would be improved and expanded upon by Kane Hodder in future Friday installments. A good way to spend a rainy day or a dark night in front of the tv, now go rent! "},{"Title":"Great revival!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing the terrible part 5, I must say this is one of the best Friday movies made.  Plotholes?  Yes.  Acting?  Not the best, but not the worst either.  Overall, a pretty good cast in this one.  Believable?  No, but it's a horror film--you expect that anyway.What makes this film so good is how the series suddenly jumped into modern times.  It seems like parts 1-5 were stuck in the 1970s in terms of environment, music and budget.  This one brings the series up-to-date with a great Alice Cooper soundtrack and a much larger budget.  They also did a great job marketing this film on MTV before its release.I won't give anything away here, but C.J. Graham (Jason) is definately one of the top 2 Jasons (other than Kane Hodder, of course.)  He finds numerous unique ways to slash his victims and also plays a very good bad guy.  In a way, he's much more smooth than the other Jasons.  This one also creates a lot of suspense for the viewers, especially the ending sequence.All in all, if I had to compare this with all the others, I would say this the best Friday sequel out of the ten of them.    "}{"Title":"the best in the sequence","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film was the best in the sequence... no doubt. Unlike the other sequels this one had a scary atmosphere, great scenery (and to me, it should have been the first one)and a pretty good hero. I rate this movie ********* out of ********** "},{"Title":"The best F-13 film to date","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  F-13 'Jason Lives' is the best Jason movie to date. This one has it all...the best script, dialogue, characters & music. Most of the songs are performed by the shock master himself, Alice Cooper. The movie picks up years after part 5, where a older Tommy Jarvis goes to the cemetery that Jason is buried at. He wants to see with his own eyes that Jason is 'truly' dead. But a accident happens, & Jason comes back to life...again. Tommy tries to warn the local Sheriff, with no luck, so he must stop Jason. The movie returns to the camp environment, where the film had strayed away from. The movie is strong from start to finish, & you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Jason gets stylish","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best Friday the 13th film! I was not expecting much after the disappointment of number 5, but was pleasantly surprised by what I saw.Jason finally becomes cool in Number 6. The potential was there in the earlier films, but he has always been essentially a clumsy big guy who manages to kill people by pursuing them relentlessly. In six, he gets some style, the triple decapitation is awesome as is the first counsellor's death! The story line is cohesive, but not ground breaking, but hey its a Friday the 13th film!! But the scenes with the kids add a new dimension to Jason's character The acting is ok, with a stand out performance from CJ Graham who's Jason is brilliant! Overall, if you are a fan of the series then you won't be disappointed and even if you are not a Jason fan, you will enjoy this offering! "},{"Title":"Jason is back and he is cool","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, okay.  There is no real point ragging on this genre because we all know what to expect.  If you don't like these type of movies (ie horror movie sequels) then hey, don't watch them.  That said, I love this movie. In my opinion it is the best Jason sequel and one of the better horror movie sequels ever.  Friday the 13th was starting to get stale, trying to stretch the concept a little too far towards unbelievable and to remain serious (number 5 anyone? what was with that?).  So what did the writers do?  They worked out what was cool about the movie series and served it up.  Jason is undead, so have some fun with it.  And this movie does, from the James Bond style intro to the imaginative death scenes.  This one gives the viewers something to cheer about, and for the first time we are cheering for Jason. How annoying are the camp counsellors?  C'mon Jason, kill that Cork guy, and kill him well. The Winnebago sequence is an absolute winner. C.J. Graham is a great Jason, and really gave Kane Hodder (an absoute champion) a direction to take him for the subsequent sequels.To wrap up this movie saves the series. Sure, it ain't gonna win an academy award, but it is great for a late night, a few beers and some mates.Haven't had Jason X in Australia yet and I am hanging for it! "},{"Title":"SURE HE'S ALIVE! JASON IS BACK!","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Some people say this is the best Friday the 13th movie. Others say it's the best sequel to the original. Critics find this movie hilarious and effective for the horror genre. -minor sPoiler- If it's the best or not, this movie has legendary moments for the Friday the 13th saga. The first 15 minutes of the movie... can be compared to the awesome opening scene  in  Jason Goes To Hell. The first scene in the movie is a full moon, then we got a creepy road that leads to the graveyard. The next scene  Tommy Jarvis (the only existing heroe -besides Jason- in all of the Friday the 13th movies) makes his appareance. He returns to Camp Crystal Lake (now called Forest Green) because he thinks that Jason is still alive. With all the bad luck in the world,  Jarvis and his friend dig in Jason's grave where they find a corpse with maggots, that's Jason. When Jarvis is convinced that Jason is dead, and after impaling Jason's dead body a stick pole,  a lightning thunder hits the stick provoking a lightining explosion and as a result Jason awakens from the dead. The now resurrected Jason kills Jarvis friend, but failed in killing Jarvis. Tommy escapes from the graveyard and that's when Friday the 13th part VI starts.**NO MORE SPOILERS**I won't give away more of the plot because I bet that you know it.This movie is entertaining, it has funny moments, great killings, and Jason looks cool!!. This movie is scary and hilarious at the same time, it's that kind of movie that you won't be bored to watch it again and again. Jason Lives! and expect to have a great time watching this movie. Possibly the 2nd. best in the Friday movies. "},{"Title":"not the best... but the second","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good Friday The 13th. It is not the best, but it is the second best in the series. The first being part 8. CJ Graham was a awful Jason. Tommy was okay.This is still a good movie, but I wouldn't recommend it highly. "},{"Title":"Awseome!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  One of the better friday the 13th movies. Some Counselors hang out at a summer camp until tommy jarvis (corey feldman in part 4), says that jason is alive.  No one believes him, not even the police.  There are also some funny parts in the movie.Rated R for strong violence, and language. "},{"Title":"This is the one to see.","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This one is the best of them all, it shows the fury of Jason in wonderful detail.. Enjoy! Best kills, best looking girls, best awakening. Go see it now! "},{"Title":"This is one of the better Jason movies.","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason Lives is easily one of the best Friday movies. This one still has Tommy Jarvis (the kid who killed Jason at the end of part 4) now as an adult who is troubled with the possibility that Jason isn't dead. So he goes to Jason's final resting place and digs up the coffin to confirm that Jason is really dead. In the process of Tommy's digging up Jason, a bolt of lightning brings him back and the blood bath is under way. This is usually the same old plot many think (Jason coming back to life again and again and killing everyone in sight.)But part 6 actually has somewhat of a good plot for a slasher movie. The actor who plays Jason does a good job portraying the killer, and the rest of the cast is pretty good too. This is one of the few slashers that tries to add a comedy element to it and is successful. Some may be weary to see another Jason movie especially after the awful part 5, but Jason Lives is one of the best in the series. Fans of the Friday movies should see this if you haven't already it's a good movie. "},{"Title":"Simply the best Friday the 13th !!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This one is just what i had expected from the five previous films. Jason is back. Electricity resurrects him (somebody said Frankenstein?)and the boy who killed him in the final chapter starts the chase again. Nothing new, but it's funny, scary... and it has a story (not just body counting)!!  "}{"Title":"Jason LIVES!!!!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  JASON LIVES is considerably one of the best in the FRIDAY THE 13TH series. I admired the creativity in this sequel, I really do. The film makers were able to provide Jason all his weapons in one scene, and that was something different from the other series (where we see Jason picking up an instantaneous choice of weapon). In JASON LIVES, Jason is armed and dangerous, he carries with him a bunch of weapons on a belt. What I thought was the spotlight of this movie, was the 3rd appearance of Tommy Jarvis (How we get to see the result of his conflict with Jason Voorhees) and Jason's selection of weapons (a weapon per victim). This sequel is actually cooler than scarier, and the Chi-chi music really does work out in certain scenes. Rent it, or buy it. It is worth your time to view JASON LIVES!9/10   -1 for the time wasted by the scene where Tommy tries to push the rock onto the boat at the climax. "},{"Title":"A noteworthy Friday the 13th sequel","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I consider Jason Lives to be a very noteworthy entry in the Friday the 13th saga. This sixth installment in the series is particularly significant for Alice Cooper's contribution. He made three songs for the film's soundtrack Teenage Frankenstein, Hard Rock Summer, and He's Back (The Man Behind the Mask). Thanks to this sequel, Alice Cooper made a triumphant return to the concert stages in 1986 (after a long hiatus). Getting back to the film itself, when announcements were initially made that there would be a Part VI, some wondered how Jason would return from the dead. This was especially understandable to those who saw Part V A New Beginning, because of a scene in that film where the mayor claims that Jason was cremated, making Jason's revival impossible. But at the beginning of Part VI Jason Lives, his corpse was dug up; in other words, he was actually buried the whole time! What this means is that the mayor was either misinformed or lying to dispel rumors.In any case, beware JASON LIVES! "},{"Title":"still kickin'!!! Jason  is  back!","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason Lives is a great horror film... From the beginning to the end, every Friday the 13th fans will love this sequel. This movie should be considered as Friday the 13th part II, completely avoiding part II, III, the final chapter, and the lame part V.This 6th installment in the Jason saga is a total surprise, it has gore mixed with humor making it one of the best horror movies of all time. This movie will make you laugh, and maybe scream, what else do you want in a movie ???!!!! The shocking intro, and the end are pure gold in the Jason movies. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED FOR HORROR FANS!!! "},{"Title":"The Mask is Back","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, here we go.  This is perhaps the best Friday film made.  It portrayed Jason as a force to be reckoned with, and who is here to stay.  After part V, we NEEDED VI, just to give us faith in the hockey mask again.The only thing wrong with V was the lack of Jason, which was a bad move on Paramount's part.  Granted, they were trying a new slasher for the film, even trying to make Tommy, the Corey Feldman character from part IV, the role of slasher, but that just didn't cut it with the fans. Now, Jason's back where he belongs, and this is the first movie of where the Friday series where things start to get great.  For one thing, Jason is scarier now, because he no longer needs to worry about bodily harm, therefore making him unstoppable.  The soundtrack has just the right tweaks to make it chilling, and the loop in the story about Tommy being the killer made this more than just the typical slasher movie, but giving it a subplot, and believable characters.  AND we finally get to see something that camp Crystal Lake never had in the movies...KIDS!  Helps make things believable, and the scene where Jason looks at the little girl in the cabin, without making a move to harm her it just wonderful, showing that maybe he isn't as cold hearted as people think, or that he really is just a boy inside a man's body.A great movie in many ways, and I love it...to death! "},{"Title":"It will always be Crystal Lake","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Let's give this movie a hand. It saved the series, after 5 you would think it was all over, but then Jason Lives came out. Bravo!! This was excellent, it reminds me of the original it's got that creepy feeling to it, it's not just slash and screams. You actually feel scared watching this. Also I have to add this, read the Maltin summary about this movie, He actually gets paid to write that, I bet he has never even seen this movie. Well, that's okay I always do the complete opposite of what critics say anyway. Most of the time they don't know what they're talking about. "},{"Title":"A real tret! The best Friday sequel made","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok...what makes this movie so good is it's mixture of action, comedy, horror, & yes, even romance. It has it all. This is why this is the best Jason movie since the first one. A grown-up Tommy Jarvis, who has been mentally messed up by Jason, goes to his grave site to see if the 'Big J' is actually dead. What happens is a disaster! When Jason is brought back to life, he begins his reign of terror on the familiar grounds of Camp Crystal Lake, now renamed Camp Forest Green. But it's all the same to the hockey masked killer. A great movie from start to finish, plus a great '80s soundtrack, featuring several tunes from shock-rock king Alice Cooper. Rent it today! As of 09-25-01, this classic comes to DVD. "},{"Title":"He's back!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I think this movie has a different feel to the other friday movies,I'm not sure what it is-maybe its that theres a mixture of comedy and horror.My favourite thing about the movie is the cheesy song at the end by Alice cooper.always raises a laugh amongst me and my friends.I also think that Kane Hodder portrays Jason best,oh well nevermind at least in this one Jason gets his own special dedicated song-He's back he's the man behind the mask,and he's out of control.....and out of touch with the other Friday movies. "},{"Title":"It's hard to decide!","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's hard to decide which of the Friday the 13th movies was best, this one or part 8.  This was my first Friday the 13th movie to catch a glimpse of and it scared me some, of course, I was a young kid back then.  Tommy Jarvis is so into destroying Jason's body that he and a friend dig up his body and Tommy stabs the corpse with a fence post and lightning strikes it and Jason is revived.  It had some great action in it and some good humor.  Also, the surviving chick in this movie is actually hot, unlike the others with the exception of parts 3 and 7 when some ugly hoe would kill Jason.  It was exciting from beginning to end and for all of you who believe that Friday the 13th sequels stink, here's a good one for ya. "},{"Title":"The title says it all...","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Yep... After being brutally killed in self defense at the conclusion of the Final Chapter (Part 4), and existing only as a haunting image in the New Beginning (Part 5), Jason comes back. But at least something HAPPENS to make him come back... he doesn't just crawl out of the grave on his own. Tommy Jarvis, the hero of the previous two installments, goes to visit Jason's grave, to make sure he's dead and gone. He gets the shovel, and... whoops! almost slipped into SPOILER territory! Let's just say that Jason gets a charge from life in this scene!Tommy witnesses Voorhees' resurrection, and tries to alert the authorities, who won't listen, because it's common knowledge that Jason is dead. So, unencumbered by the lawman, Jason sets out to do what he does best, slaughter teens (and a few adults for good measure as well.)This movie does not take itself seriously, from the James Bond spoof opening, to the comments made by the kids actually attending the camp, to the graveyard worker who looks at the open grave and says... well I don't want to spoil it, but it is clever and funny. The finale is also rather cool, and the soundtrack by Alice Cooper certainly kicks things up a notch.A recommended entry in a series that was really showing it's age by this time.  "},{"Title":"Good but not bad =)","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This part looks more like a daycare center for little baby girls, all the blood and gore is gone! But a little blood and gore is still there, though.It´s a good movie... vote 5 of 10.see it. "}{"Title":"No","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Aren't we all a little tired of the Frankenstein approach at bringing back villains.  I know I am and this is one of the worst Fridays (along with 8) in my opinion.  I think that it would have been a lot cooler if Tommy would have opened the grave and found Jason alive, covered in scars from their battle at the end of The Final Chapter.  It would have helped portray Jason as an indestructible evil.  Brought back by lightning, that's just way too overdone. "},{"Title":"The Golden Standard For The Slasher Genre","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Let me start off with this; the Friday the 13th film franchise is my 2nd favorite film series of all time, second only to Star Wars. Admittedly, it DOES have some pretty bad entries, but it's better and stronger entries can work as horror films, satirical self parody, and even surprisingly good character study. With that being said, Jason Lives Friday the 13th Part VI is not only the best film of the Friday the 13th series, but the best slasher movie of all time and one of my top 50 favorite movies of all time.This movie makes the brilliant decision of taking a more satirical, comedic tone rather than take itself 100% seriously, and it's a smarter film for it. The dialogue, the behavior of many of the characters and even some of the kills give off the impression that this movie knows the clichés of the genre, and it has a LOT of fun making fun of them. Other films have repeated this self-satirical slasher tone, most notably Scream, but Jason Lives perfects it with some truly laugh at loud moments (Namely the tree kill, farthead and seen enough horror movies scenes)The acting is phenomenal from all involved, easily the best the series has had to offer. Thom Matthews is an extremely likable and compelling lead as Tommy Jarvis. He gives a touch of insanity to the character of Tommy Jarvis, and makes the wise decision of making him a good combination of fearful and emotionally fragile yet heroic and proactive in his mission to save Camp Crystal Lake from the notorious Jason Voorhees (Who is more evil than ever in this installment, even threatening the lives of children attending Camp Crystal Lake for Summer break) Tommy's arc from the weak, scared victim of The Final Chapter to the courageous, self-sacrificing, noble hero of Jason Lives is told phenomenally, almost like Luke Skywalker's transition from naive farm boy to Jedi Knight in the original Star Wars trilogy. It took 3 films for Tommy to finally face his fears, but in Jason Lives, he is finally prepared, and it's pretty badass. Jennifer Cooke does a fantastic job as Megan, creating an extremely charismatic, likable character. She's just as proactive and courageous as Tommy and arguably more intelligent and an even better leader. David Kagen does an excellent turn as Megan's father Sheriff Garess, giving off an intimidating yet still tongue and cheek performance that fits this movie's tone perfectly. In fact, almost all of the characters here are fairly likable and easy to root for. None of the teenagers are people who I want to get killed, they're all good people and that makes for a more tense and investing ride.Jason Lives also features some of the best kills of the entire franchise. Thom Matthews puts more of an emphasis on the supernatural nature of Jason's character here, (This is the first of the zombie Jason movies, where Jason is an actual monster/zombie rather than just a psychotic and murderous deformed human) which leads to some creative and EXTREMELY entertaining kills. Jason is at his most fun to watch here; decapitating 3 people in a single blow, flipping over trucks, twisting people's heads 360 degrees around. The death scenes here are extremely memorable.The atmosphere here is phenomenal, without a doubt the best I've ever seen and probably ever will see in a slasher movie. It truly feels like something straight out of the Universal Monster movies or Hammer Monster Films, complete with foggy moors and graveyards and lightning clashes. Even Jason's intro into the movie, where he is resurrected via a lightning bolt to the chest, feels like something out of a Frankenstein flick. This is helped by a very creepy and tense score by Harry Manfredini.This right here is by far the definitive Jason movie, if not slasher movie in general. The acting is fantastic, the characters are likable, the kills are insanely fun to watch, the atmosphere is, dare I say, beautiful. I really can't find anything bad to say about it. "},{"Title":"Another Jason movie, but still entertaining","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a gorehound at all and only occasionally watch slasher flicks, but I'm a huge fan of the Friday the 13th franchise, which started in 1980 with the mega-success of the first film. My appreciation has nothing to do with nostalgia since I didn't become a fan until I was well into adulthood when I saw 1985's Friday the 13th Part V A New Beginning on TV one night in the early 2000s. I think I like these movies because they typically involve young adults in a fun camp-type environment in the woods, which naturally stirs fond youthful memories (not that I'm that old); the presence of a lunatic unstoppable killer &#x97; who increasingly becomes an infernal monster &#x97; just adds an air of danger and suspense to the dramedy and adventure. Add scores of gorgeous females and various filming locations around North America and you have a fabulously entertaining franchise that has yet to end. It's the camp-like settings of most of the series and the unstoppable malevolent force that is Voorhees -- Jason, his mother, or anyone under his diabolic spell -- that especially sets Friday the 13th apart from similar franchises.The first two films are serious in nature with the expected antics of youths on vacation in the woods, but the franchise introduced a campy element with Part III, which pretty much plagues the rest of the series with the exception of maybe Part IV and the reboot in 2009. Not that I'm complaining much, as these films are only quasi-believable anyway. Released in 1986, Jason Lives Friday the 13th Part VI is notable for being the premiere of the zombie Jason as his rotting corpse is resurrected in the prologue indirectly through the actions of Tommy Jarvis and a friend who recently got out of the mental institution. This prologue also shows that Tommy didn't murder Pam at the end of Part V and that he was simply experiencing hallucinations from his trauma with the diabolic Voorhees spirit. Another difference with Part VI is that we finally get to see a busload of kids -- children -- at Crystal Lake, although they changed the name to Camp Forest Green. Tommy runs to the local sheriff to inform him that Jason has been resurrected but sheriff, of course, doesn't believe him (would you?). His hot daughter, Megan, is attracted to Tommy and, when youths start being slaughtered, the sheriff realizes that Jason is indeed alive.Speaking of Tommy Jarvis, he's played by Thom Mathews here rather than John Shepherd, who was excellent in Part V. Thom is an okay replacement but he lacks Shepherd's brooding charisma.The film features one of the best Friday babes in Megan, played by Jennifer Cooke, although Pam from the previous film is my favorite. Other than that, though, the females in Part VI are weak, as far as physical beauty goes, but that's not necessarily a bad thing, as it makes the story more believable. Speaking of which, the campiness of Part III and Part V returns for this installment, particularly with the goofy paintball warriors.As far as locations go, Part VI returns to the East for filming, being shot roughly 40 miles East of Atlanta.Many people find these films scary and shocking and the first two movies have some slightly chilling aspects, some of the others as well, but &#x97; with the exception of the 2009 reboot &#x97; I don't find these movies particularly scary, although they have loads of jump scares. They're sometimes creepy, sometimes suspenseful, sometimes exciting and always fun & entertaining, but not very scary, for me anyway. In fact, I usually bust out laughing at the inevitable death scenes.BOTTOM LINE You either like the Friday the 13th series or you don't. Part VI is another retread of the same Friday formula with the distinction of Jason now being totally inhuman -- a horrific zombie -- and the addition of children at the camp. It also has a better story than parts III and IV with the sheriff and his daughter & Tommy going after Jason, plus Megan is one of the top Friday girls in the series.The film runs 9l minutes and the cut version 86 minutes.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Jason comes back, again!","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Friday the 13th series is thrilling and gory, but also campy and cheesy. But, one can admit that it is a iconic trilogy in its day (and still is) and it is one to watch for some decent screams and laughs. No matter how often you defeat him, Jason Voorhees somehow keeps coming back to haunt a new crop of youngsters in another campy, but fun slasher flick. In this one, Tommy Jarvis (Thom Mathews) goes to the graveyard to get rid of Jason Voorhees' body, but instead, inadvertently resurrects him by exposing the body to lightening. Now, its another fight to eliminate Jason (C.J. Graham).Tommy Jarvis has become a central character in the series and it is fun to see his heroic and determined self trying to rid the world of Jason Voorhees, wondering what lengths and heights Tommy will go through to achieve this. The thrills, screams, gore and action continue with this film, and the actors, though campy and amateurish at times, still delivered in the film.The series is not on par with the likes of the Halloween or Hitchcock movies, and the cheese factor does show, but it is still entertaining in its fast-paced plot and hair-raising scenes.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Whoever said this film was the best in the series, you're right. Jason Lives revolves around Tommy Jarvis, the hero from parts 4 and 5 who has just witnessed Jason's return from the grave. Tommy tries to tell the police but they are skeptical. meanwhile Camp Crystal Lake( now called Camp Forest Green) is reopening for the summer, when murders start happening at the camp, Tommy is blamed and subsequently locked up. The only person who believes Tommy is the sheriff's daughter, Megan, who breaks him out of jail and drives him to the lake so he can get his final revenge on Jason. What else can I say? Jason Lives is action packed, gory, humorous, suspenseful, and even kind of heartwarming all at the same time, the score and soundtrack are amazing, The male and female lead have great chemistry, the acting is pretty decent, the characters are very likable, The kills are creative, and Jason(played expertly by C.J. Graham)has an awesome look in this movie. So I would strongly recommend Jason Lives Friday the 13th part VI. "},{"Title":"Really enjoyable installment.","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I really enjoyed this installment, it had everything I had wanted. It isn't your standard, straight up horror/slasher film, its a slasher with some some personality, some dry humour, its also entertaining as all hell, unlike most slashers.Jason is brought back like the Frankenstein monster (cool reference)by Tommy and from there he goes on a big killing spree (not much different I know), but this time he's a bit more serious, a bit scarier actually, the kills don't have the same over the top factor they used to, its no Jason X thats for sure but I like how they brought back a more serious Jason and the fact this Jason isn't as bulky as Kane Hodder is, it makes him a little more unsuspecting, even more frightening in my opinion.The characters are really great in this one. The two cops, Jason, Megan, all memorable characters with memorable personalities. Yes, we still have the classic throw-away 'kill me now' characters for Jason to slaughter at his own pace but the main characters we genuinely don't want to see get turned to mush.The humour is really off beat, the one-liners of the cops, the bitchy yet good hearted attitude of Megan and some of the kills are hilarious. The kind of 'in on it' humour is also used to good effect, giving the film a slight meta vibe.But like I said, Jason ain't no clown in this one. There's a moment where he slowly gets closer to a scared child and you are genuinely scared for her.Overall, since i'm working my way backwards here, Jason Lives is the best in the series since Jason X, although for different reasons. Definitely check it out. "},{"Title":"I've seen enough horror movies to tell that any man wearing a mask is never friendly.","Date":"12 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This one doesn't get a lot of respect but it's one of my favorites. I love the opening scene where Jason is resurrected. It reminds me of the opening to Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man, where the two grave robbers inadvertently resurrect the Wolf Man. I also love the Alice Cooper song He's Back (The Man Behind the Mask). Very '80s and very cool. I know many fans don't like it much because they say it's watered down. But it adds a lot to what was a very repetitive series. It embraces the absurdity of the story and has fun with it, injecting a much-needed sense of humor into the series. Thom Matthews of Return of the Living Dead fame replaces dull John Shepherd as Tommy. Matthews is great. C.J. Graham is the guy playing Jason this time. I have to say as far as physical build and presence, he is the perfect Jason to me. Kane Hodder and his professional wrestler build I never liked. Also it's got Horshack in it and he has his heart punched out -- that's solid gold right there. This is an excellent Friday the 13th movie and just behind 1 & 4 for being the best. "},{"Title":"A nice package of campy fun.","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th has always been an audience-polarizing series ever since the first one appeared in 1980. The sequels up to this point have ranged from decent to banging-your-head-against-the-wall stupid. That's how most horror films were at the time. The only ones that ever really did anything different were the Nightmare on Elm Street, Re-Animator, and Evil Dead films. These gory classics had everything that the audiences wanted, and the self-deprecating humor that even got the critics to love them. Jason Lives wisely takes cues from those films and what we got was the best Friday the 13th film in the series.This movie knows how ridiculous it is, and it wants you to know it too. The basic premise draws inspiration from the classics like Frankenstein. Jason's carcass is brought back from the dead by a bolt of lighting, and the carnage continues. This sequel definitely has a twisted sense of humor, which is exactly what this series needed. It needed to really take a look at itself and just give in to its own stupidity. The rest of the series would then follow this movie's formula. This includes the girl with psychic powers in The New Blood, Jason taking Manhattan in Part VIII, Jason being blown up and his soul coming back to haunt everyone in Jason Goes to Hell, and Jason in space in Jason X. Obviously there was a huge drop-off in quality as the sequels came and went, but Jason Lives still endures as both a satire and a slasher classic. "},{"Title":"So, what were you gonna be when you grew up?","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Writer / director Tom McLoughlins' entry in this long running series isn't about to mess too much with a winning formula. What he does, first and foremost, is introduce an element of humour into the mix, even using it to make an amusing commentary on fans of this type of thing! Some series devotees don't care for the comedy, but others see it as a breath of fresh air.At this point in the series, it wasn't exactly out of line to start getting self-referential with the material one character remarks that men in masks are usually not so friendly. McLoughlin also has a minor character break the fourth wall to let us know that, yeah, this kind of entertainment ain't exactly Shakespeare, and maybe you gotta be a little strange to really get into it.The third part in the Tommy Jarvis trilogy segment of the franchise, it picks up as Tommy, now played by Thom Mathews of The Return of the Living Dead, is out of a mental institution and *still* clearly not right in the head. He's obsessed with getting revenge on Jason, to the point where he and an ill-fated friend (Ron Horshack Palillo) intend to dig up Jasons' body and cremate it. But things go predictably wrong and a resurrected, now seemingly invincible Jason returns to his old stamping ground Crystal Lake, now renamed Forest Green by a community desperate to put its past behind it.Jason Lives has got some great atmosphere going for it, and a rather slick look gone is the grainy quality of the earlier entries. The kills are entertaining without being too gory, although the aftermath of a murder in a cabin has to be seen to be believed. DAMN, but that place is bloody! The pacing is excellent and the many entertaining sequences include a skewering of company war games and Tommy's frequent futile attempts to get a stubborn jerk sheriff (David Kagen) to believe him.An engaging cast includes Jennifer Cooke as an extremely feisty final girl, and a roster of victims such as Renee Jones, Kerry Noonan, Darcy DeMoss, and Tom Fridley. Tony Goldwyn, a few years before his breakthrough performance in Ghost, got his SAG card on this show. The director's wife Nancy plays Lizbeth, and a hilarious Vincent Guastaferro is the macho deputy with the impressive gun.Harry Manfredinis' score is even better than usual, getting away from the more signature cues of the series, and as icing on the cake there are a few songs by rock legend Alice Cooper on the soundtrack Teenage Frankenstein, Hard Rock Summer, and of course He's Back (The Man Behind the Mask).Some F13 fans believe that this sequel signaled the beginning of the end, but speaking personally, I find it to be a lot of fun and don't mind a bit when filmmakers play around with the formula.Then again, some folks do have a strange idea of entertainment.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Thank God Jason is back!!!!!!","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" We just knew that Part 6 had to bring back the icon of the hockey mask. Part 5 to me only maintained 1 level of truth and that was Tommy Jarvis at the edge of sanity forced to the brink to find out Jason's true demise. The first 15 minutes of part 6 is my favourite of the series. The killings are all top notch and Jason's zombie like persona was able to make the killings become extremely innovative. Unfortunately this was the first outing where the MPAA started to really hone in on the violence in this series and the gore level here is diminished significantly. In fact compared to today's standards this is pg-13 to 14a level of violence. Alice Cooper soundtrack is just awesome and the acting better than usual. "}{"Title":"Ridiculous, but enjoyable.","Date":"16 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film is overly comedic, but feels more satisfying than part 5. Now at the beginning of this film I could tell something was wrong, Tommy is a completely different person, he is no longer quite and secluded. Not to mention what happened at the ending of part 5 somehow didn't get incorporated into this, I think they just chose to ignore part 5.This film is pretty over the top, with the writing and some of the deaths. One death has a guy getting his arm ripped off and then being flung into a tree, leaving a bloody smiley face imprint. There was a lot of pointless kills, but I'm not complaining. This film is one of the bloodiest in the series, there is a cabin actually painted in blood, that was awesome. There's a scene where a guy looks at the camera and starts talking to it. The film is treading old water with bringing back the camp counsellors. The final act at the camp looked absolutely beautiful, the woods, cabins, lighting, leaves falling, it all looked great. Great atmosphere during this part. There was one freaky part where Jason is looking through the window into the kids cabin, imagine if you actually saw that. My biggest complaint was the Tommy character, I prefer part 5's Tommy better. I also find it strange how the lead actress is so excited and cheery all the time.The film is enjoyable, I still think the first four parts were the best, but this one is pretty fun. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Friday Sequels!","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Tom Matthews, Jennifer Cooke and David Kagan star in this 1986 horror sequel. Masked Killer, Jason Voorhees returns from the grave after he's dug up by a teen. In this sequel, Tommy Jarvis (Matthews) tries to put an end to Jason (C.J. Graham) once and for all or so he thinks. After Tommy digs up his grave, lightning strikes Jason and resurrects him like Frankenstein. Tommy tries to warn Sheriff Garris (Kagan) that he brought back Jason and he's going to kill again. Garris thinks Tommy's insane at first, but soon realizes he's not when Jason starts killing people. Tommy is helped by the sheriff's daughter, Megan (Cooke) who is one of the counselors at Camp Forest Green that's really Crystal Lake and they try to stop Jason. This is one of the best Friday sequels that should've been part 5 because that one doesn't really count. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"My Absolute Favorite of the Entire Friday the 13th Franchise!!!","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the best and one of my favorite Friday the 13th movies. It's different, it's funny, has a car chase, Gothic and a tribute to 40's/50's classic horror films. It's not just horny teenagers in an abandoned house and Jason happens to show up and kill them which about 4 sequels are. Tommy Jarvis wants to make sure Jason is dead. (Pretend Part V never happened!) Him and a friend go to the cemetery to make sure, but Tommy accidentally brings Jason back to life. This is the one where Jason becomes more of a zombie and walks, instead of running. Tommy gets thrown in jail, and the Sheriff's daughter, Megan begins to have a crush on Tommy. Camp Crystal Lake has been renamed to Forrest Green because no one wants to remember about Jason. Later, Megan helps Tommy break out of jail so he can go to Crystal Lake and stop Jason once and for all!!! I highly recommend Friday THE 13TH PART VI JASON LIVES!!! "},{"Title":"Jason Lives, and He's Creepier than Ever!","Date":"7 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a big fan of the Friday The 13th series in general, and would not call any of its part 'great' or even 'scary', yet it is undeniable that some of the films are vastly entertaining. The sixth Jason film, Jason Lives Friday the 13th Par VI of 1986 is probably my personal favorite entry to the series. With this film, the series makes a refreshing twist into the supernatural. In order to continue the series, there obviously was a need for Jason to return after the Jason-less fifth part, and this film presents a Jason who looks creepier than ever.Tommy Jarvis, the boy who killed Jason Voorhees in Part 4, and who was sent to a loony bin in Part 5, returns to Jason's grave to send the mass murderer to hell once and for all. However, he accidentally awakes Jason who had been resting in his grave, and who, after several years, is devoted to returning to the killing-business more then ever...The makeup effects are great here, and the killings are gory and very well-done. The way Jason is resurrected may seem a bit far-fetched and silly - however, the entire series isn't logical, and this therefore doesn't matter at all. The people in this one aren't nearly as annoying as those in most of the other films, which makes this film more suspenseful. The presence of little kids makes the film scarier - after all, it is a lot easier to be scared for small children than for annoying teenagers. Furthermore, the settings of this one are great. All Friday films before Part 8 are set around Crystal Lake, yet the settings look different. This one has the great look of the first film, mainly set deep in the woods at the forest camp by the beautiful Crystal Lake - definitely the nicest killing grounds for good old Jason Voorhees. The film obviously had a pretty high budget, and looks great overall. Even the performances are way above par for the series (though Thom Mathews, who plays the protagonist Tommy Jarvis, isn't very good). This is the film in which it becomes clear that Jason has supernatural powers, and he also looks a lot creepier and more menacing than in any of the predecessors. The mess left by Jason in a blood-soaked room is one of the creepiest sights in any of the films, and Jason Lives has many other great moments. As mentioned above, I am not the biggest fan of the series, but some of the films are highly entertaining, and this one is definitely one of them. Recommended! "},{"Title":"More mayhem from Jason Voorhees.","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There's no doubt that Jason is the hand of God,and if you are a Christian and you have a problem with what I just said,then you can screw your sister or brother for all I care.There are many reasons why Jason is the hand of God.First off,he can't die.You can shoot him,burn him,stab him,or even blow him up.He just won't quit.Second,the way he kills people is just great.Not one death scene in the entire series is not creative.well,maybe a few aren't so great.'Friday the 13th Jason Lives' has some really good ones,and that's why this film is both gruesome and fun.OK,maybe a little bit funny as well.All in all,this is simply another great installment in the popular and somewhat misunderstood series. "},{"Title":"Jason Lives to stalk another day.","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hey Nikki, what are ya doin' back there? Taking a dump? - CortSitting down on a Friday The 13th and attempting to sit through a marathon of Friday The 13th movies can be quite the arduous task. Not because they are bad films, per se, but because for the most part -- especially in regards to the first five films -- they work with a pretty well-worn formula that keeps each installment a little too familiar and too close to it's source material. Even as a horror fan who adores the franchise, it's easy to see how critics and pop-culture in general became disenfranchised with the series. All that changed for a moment, though, in 1986 with the sixth entry in the ongoing saga Friday The 13th Part VI Jason Lives.As an attempt to break up the monotony, director Tom McLoughlin injects not only a campy sense of humor, but a bit of action, Gothic imagery, and 80's cheese to boot into his film. If the films that preceded it felt a bit redundant when viewed back to back, then Jason Lives serves as a refreshment. The kind of horror sequel that could only be born in the 1980's, it's full of highly-stylized, over-the-top death-scenes, an abundance of over-acting and plenty of self-referential humor, often breaking the fourth wall to let it's audience know that this film is a different monster (or zombie) than what came before. It's a film that's tailor-made for a built-in audience, for sure, but those who are up for a good time with old Jas-face will hardly leave disappointed.Thom Matthews (Return Of The Living Dead) portrays the troubled Tommy Jarvis in this film, returning to Camp Crystal Lake to make sure Jason is truly dead and buried. One thing leads to another, though, as Tommy and Horshack unwittingly revive the maggot infested corpse of Jason Vorhees, via electricity. Jason makes his return to camp -- now renamed Forest Green -- in hopes of stalking yet another batch of unsuspecting, fun-seeking teenagers. With the mind-set that only he can stop him, Tommy constantly butts heads with the town's sheriff, enjoys the lap of said-sheriff's daughter and breaks more than a handful of laws in an attempt to finally lay Jason to rest.Admittingly, the story is less engaging than previous films, but then again, this is meant to be a less-serious film, and it's the better for it. We don't dwell on Tommy's skeletons here, and the characters are colorful 80's clichés, portrayed by actors so bad that they are good. While it's death scenes are memorable (but cut heavily, as always) it's worth noting that the sex is played down quite considerably for this installment, with virtually no skin being bared. This was quite a change from the borderline pornographic A New Beginning but in no way hinders the genuine Friday The 13th feeling of the movie. Truth be told, it's still just as much fun as one would expect from a Jason flick, while being very witty and very well-made. It knows it's the sixth installment in an increasingly ridiculous franchise, and Jason Lives is by far and away one of the best trips to Camp Crystal Lake you could take. "},{"Title":"Jason is back! He's the man behind the mask.","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is my fave Friday the 13th film of all the chapters. Jason lives allows people to forget the cheating Friday the 13th part 5 new beginning which did not have the REAL Jason Voorhies in it (see the film to see what I mean). The resurrection of Jason was good and Jason's methods of killing were impressive. Even the character of Jason was made to be more liked than his human victims. This was possibly the first film that you will on Jason to murder his victims in many different ways. It is more fun than the others too. To see what I mean check out the paint ball party scene, i have never laughed so much at a Friday the 13th movie as much as I laughed at this. The laughs are intentionally put in and they work well. Coupled with the music of Alice Cooper and starring Thom Matthews from Return of the living dead fame and a brief cameo by Tony GHOST Goldwyn and an pleasing amiable female lead played by Jennifer Cooke and Jason lives becomes a great 1hr 34 mins of a great night in. "},{"Title":"What was Tommy Jarvis thinking?","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Of all the Friday movies this one is a tough pill to swallow. Tommy Jarvis has had a tough time coping with the fact that he killed Jason in the Final Chapter (part 4). For some reason he feels it would be best if he went to the cemetery where Jason's buried and dig up his corpse in order to cremate it and end his painful memories of long ago. Like always, things go awry and good ol' Jason comes back to life and the carnage ensues from there. This movie is a little better than the others surrounding it (part 5 new beginning and part 7 new blood) but it still lacks real good acting characters (with the exception of Thom Mathews, who played Tommy very well). Otherwise it's just another cheesy teen sex-slasher-splatterkill Friday installment, although I must say that Jason is very creepy in this installment. I do recommend this movie to slasher fans galore but don't expect a boatload of good acting and huge scares. Overall the movie is pretty decent. Watch for Horshack (Ron Palillo) from Welcome back Kotter as Tommy's friend in the beginning of the movie. "},{"Title":"good then, good now","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" maybe I got a soft spot for this particular sequel. Afterall, part five I thought bit. I mean with no real Jason, and some over-the-top acting, It didn't exactly grab me. So when part 6 came out, it was just cool to see Jason back doing what he does best, slicing and dicing. and they almost had to bring him back from the dead. I mean, what else were they going to do. but watching it now, I just laugh at how they give the fans what they want, jason actually walking around in the woods, hacking people up. I mean in broad view! no suspense, no mystery, just him from whatever view you like, walking through the woods ALONE! unbelievable...and I like it just as much now. "},{"Title":"Jason is better elsewhere","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I loved Parts 1 and 3 and 5. 2 and 4 reminded me of every slasher flick that was coming out at that time, but were still stellar slasher film, nonetheless. The first film was an effectively scary horror film, with strong characters and stronger special effects. The fifth film was such an obnoxious, mean-spirited exploitation piece, that by the time I pretty much figured Jason was not the killer, i didn't care anymore. I just wanted to see someone get killed, because that is all the movie had going for it. Never mind all that, this is Part 6. Part 6 is basically your normal stalk-a-thon.It's a pretty good Jason movie, it's just that any new-comer to the Friday series knows there is alotta Jason movies out there, and this basically pays off like a TV show episode as if the Friday the 13th series was like a long-running soap-opera.Another day in the life of Jason killing. I don't mean to be so critical of this film, the Friday movies are my favorite.I just feel that this is one of the weakest of the series (counting Parts 1-8, after that I don't care). There is no blood to speak of, no nudity, and all the characters act as if they are 11 years old.The bloody scenes are edited badly, and the humorous touches that come into the film off and on are horribly off-key.Part 7 is much better. At least Jason looked somewhat spooky in that entry. Even if that's all that one had going for it. This installment is just plain boring. Two stars. "}{"Title":"One of the better Jason chapters","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In my opinion, this is one of the better chapters of the hallowed Friday the 13th series. The opening is awesome with the bringing Jason back to life in the cemetery. Thom Matthews makes a decent upgrade for the Tommy Jarvis character when you think we could have had to witness Corey Feldman fighting off Jason again, which would have made this sequel quite brutal. The camera loved Jennifer Cooke, who was red hot, her father the sheriff in the flick made a good hard ass, and the idiot camp counselors that get slaughtered made the grade for me. We even got to see a more human side of the hockey masked villain when he didn't butcher the room full of kids he was in. How anyone could put this behind Jason in Manhattan, Jason in space, and the paramedic Jason in part 5 is beyond me. Kudos to Jason Lives, definitely a decent Friday to me.  "},{"Title":"Jason Lives, but a lot of others don't","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Several years after he supposedly killed Jason, Tommy Jarvis digs up Jason's body, on Thursday the 12th, in the middle of a lightning storm, to make sure he's really dead, but then, well, read the title of the movie. He and cute little Megan (Jennifer Cooke) spend most of the rest of the movie trying to kill Jason yet again, while various others end up slashed by Jason and his machete. The Jason make up is pretty much non existent in the one - C.J. Graham is basically just a fat guy in a boiler suit walking around wearing a hockey mask - but this one kind of looks like an old 1960s Hammer horror/ Dracula/ monster movie (Come on, Jason is revived by a bolt of lightning! Even the colour composition looks similar) with more comedy than the rest of the series, beginning with the James Bond satire at the very beginning. Amusing to note also, this is the only Friday the 13th film to show Jason's rotten face at the very start of the film, but the other films in the series have an unmasking scene at the climax.I would almost give this film a 7 out of 10 because it is one of the better sequels, but it's hurt though by some atrocious acting (especially by Deputy Cologne) and a ridiculous ending. And did anybody else notice that Megan's character changes clothes three times in the first three scenes, even though the scenes take place all on the same morning? "},{"Title":"They've taken more chances, and made a better film.","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  FRIDAY THE 13TH PART 6 - JASON LIVES (1986)**SPOILERS**THE GOOD--The writers challenge themselves more with this instalment. Instead of the movie just being dumb teenagers in the woods getting stoned and having sex, we get a whole new story with the police, the essential dumb teenagers, Tommy Jarvis and also little kiddie campers are visiting Crystal Lake.--You gotta love the scene just before we get the credits. It was unrealistic and a little hokey, but we got to see Jason actually putting on his hockey mask and giving the audience a scare. You gotta love it!--There was a car chase in this film&#133;very strange for F13, but I really liked it.--The song that played during the credits was pretty neat. It's cool to hear a song about the F13 series.--It was cool that they changed the formula for the final act in this one. This time it wasn't the last standing female running around the woods finding dead bodies, it was a male hero, who outsmarted Jason out on the lake.--There is some of the more successfully built suspense in this movie. One of the best examples is when Jason is watching a counsellor through the window, walking along with her as she moves through a corridor of the camp. The suspense in this film might've not worked if the direction hadn't be as good, because we see Jason the whole time in this film, and sometimes suspense and tension works better if you can't see the killer. But the director really made it work. The more Jason the better I say!THE BAD--Jason is a full-fleshed corpse. But after 18 years of being in a grave, I'm fairly certain you would be a skeleton.--Wouldn't you think a lightning bolt to the body would make Jason&#133;ya know&#133;like, a whole lot deadder than he already is?--The paintball stuff near the beginning of the movie is pointless and the farthest thing from funny. --Jason was a bit stupid and uncharacteristic leaving his machete lying around.RATING7/10 - Quite close to an 8/10 actually. The crew have taken more chances with their sixth instalment. How weird was it to see Jason swimming?IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDAlien Resurrection (6/10) Frankenstein (9/10) Friday the 13th Part 4 - The Final Chapter (6/10) Friday the 13th Part 5 - A New Beginning (5/10) Friday the 13th Part 7 - The New Blood (7/10) Jason X (5/10) Halloween Resurrection (3/10) "},{"Title":"uh oh.......","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  im a fan of this series but come on, no normal person could like this or think its good surely. I speak from the heart when i say this is a bad film an insult to horror movies. I wanna know how the director etc.. could make a film this bad unintentionally surely they were in on it???avoid it "},{"Title":"Too much Fast paced","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Though iam a big fan of friday the 13th and have liked or enjoyed almost all of its movie's,even those whom most die hard fab's call crap's,i must say this movie was a bit ''Downer''.For starter it was too much fast paced and the story moved so quickly that you lost touch with it until the last sequences when all the fun had gone away.Also,the killing's in the movie were not as much suspenceful,entertaining and likable as in the other part's,people just came and got killed and we didnt even got to know the character's a little bit as in other f13 movies and relative unknowns who suddenly popped into the movie were dispatched just becuz they were with the teens who jason was going to kill,Big deal!also what was the point of the stupid resurrection,it was even worse than jason being sent to hell in part 9.And ofcourse no nudity and liitle sex excitement that most f13 movies contained and some annoying character's like the soldier impersonator's and i loved when these people got killed.But i did had its plus points like the Triple decapitation which i just loved,a very good and bloody scene about a camp counsellor,sissy's friend,getting killed and my favourite Alice cooper's wonderful song 'He's back'.and the final fight sequece.Overall 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Pretty weak","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  They could have done so much better with this one. This is the first Friday where Jason is magically revived from the dead by the most ridiculous means. Jason has always been able to take a licking, but this is the first film where gunshots at point blank range apparently have no effect on him. This is also Jason's first attempt at comic relief. You can't really blame him for this, part six of any horror series is just plain funny. My problem with this film is the absence of gore and nudity. They should have called it `PC Jason'. Stick to 1 through 5 if you want any attempt at horror. Watch 6 through 10 if black comedy is your taste. Is it me or is the DVD edited down from the theatrical release? I remember this movie having more gore in the theater. I recall the triple decapitation being more graphic.     "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part VI  The Series Goes to Hell","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well Jason didn't go to Hell until 1993.  But the Friday the 13th series went to Hell in 1986...with this movie.  Comic relief (read as rampant stupidity), idiotic premise, and lack of an actual plot sink this movie.Jason is reanimated by completely ludicrous means, kills Horshack from Welcome Back Kotter, then proceeds to kill one person every five minutes until the closing credits roll.  There...I just saved you 87 minutes.While many saw Part 5 as a major let-down, it was, in my opinion, infinitely better than this cliched piece of slasher tripe.  Even if Jason WASN'T the killer in Part 5, the story was better (hell, it HAD a story, so that immediately makes it better), it was made better, and it was just a better film.I highly recommend this film to people with no attention spans whatsoever.  Others, steer clear.  I could vomit up a better film than this. "},{"Title":"Mediocre, and probably the most commercially presentable.","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday The 13th, Part VI Jason Lives is probably the most commercially presentable film of the entire series of feature films. A simple plot brings back the Tommy Jarvis character (this time played by Thom Mathews of Return Of The Living Dead, and Return Of The Living Dead Part II.) Tommy tries to ease his anxieties by having a pal help him dig up Jason's grave. A bolt of lightning then revives Jason, and again the maniac stalks and kills in the woods that are familiar to him. A side plot involves the sheriff's daughter's (Jennifer Cooke) interest in Tommy, as she gets caught up in Tommy's quest to put a stop to Jason. A summer camp is one of the settings, which hasn't been used as a setting since Friday The 13th Part II. The film's focus is not on the summer camp as a main setting, and divides the running time between it, the woods, and the sheriff's office. This is probably the most commercially presentable film of the series (with the exception of the bouncy sex scene) due to not being as graphic with the violence, and because of its use of humor. The blood and gore effects don't seem to be as vivid as they were in other parts of the series, and the addition of humor to the script makes the film a bit less brutal as well. The humor was interjected well, and the title sequence is a parody of the title sequences to James Bond films. The film was also more commercial by having Alice Cooper record the closing song, which was also released as a single. Harry Manfredini again does the score, and this time the results are more effective than they were in Friday The 13th - A New Beginning. There are also more effective results with suspense than in the fifth part. The acting is generally good. Friday The 13th Part VI Jason Lives is much better than the fifth part, but the outcome doesn't rise above mediocre.  "},{"Title":"Jason (and 80's horror) goes out like a sucker. (SPOILERS)","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS This is widely considered one of the best of the series, but I must say to me it is the beginning of the end for 80's horror, moving from the gloriously dark visions of the era into the age of political correctness and Hollywood marketing (where test audiences demand happy endings). The down note ending that was a hallmark of the series is absent here- theres not even a scare-the-pants-off-you unveiling of Jason's face! Overall a decent flick, but it kind of hits a sore spot with me; I dug the tongue-in-cheek flavor right until the end, when I found my horror payoff missing and saw it for what it was- the beginning of the watering down of horror films as a whole... "},{"Title":"WHAT AN OPENER!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  MILD SPOILERS!!! The sixth installment has by far the best beginning of any JASON movie. The eerie graveyard scene and Jason's accidental resurrection from the grave via lightning (a la Frankentein's monster) is exciting and funny and scary all at the same time. Too bad the rest of the movie is such a dud. But any true Jason fan/completist needs to see the first 10 minutes of this episode.  "}{"Title":"Headache attack!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Probably you´ve already noticed that I don´t like this dumb Friday-series... And if can´t stand this further spoiling comment avoid go on reading!!!Only three things are well executed in this nasty shot1) The entrance-sequence on the cemetery great creepy atmosphere, some cool gory takes2) The showdown on Crystal Lake probably the best ever featured in the whole series! Exciting, breathtaking, stunning! Much better than the ridiculous one in Friday - Part 4...3) Alice Cooper´s rock smasher The Man behind the MaskThe rest pure crap! Bad acting performed by a bunch of discount-protagonists, silly dialogues (Which dialogues?!?) and murders which are anything else but original..!Watch this only if you are a die hard-fan of this series... and I know there are a few out there..! "},{"Title":"Never stick a metal pole into a dead body during a storm!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As a child, Tommy Jarvis did what many died trying to do, he killed Jason Voorhees. Yes, he slid that machete through Jason's head as if it were melted butter. But several years since then, Tommy is haunted by the fact that maybe Jason isn't really dead, so Tommy and a friend escape from an institution and head to Forest Green (formerlyknown as Crystal Lake) and head to the cemetary. There they dig up the rotting corpse of Jason Voorhees. Tommy get's mad at him and stabs the body with an iron pole. Big mistake! Lightning strikes the pole and Jason Voorhees comes back to life which is unfortunate for Tommy and very unfortunate for his friend, so Tommy races to the policestation and tells them his story, the sheriff thinks he's nuts andthrows him in jail. While Jason adorns his old hockey mask and a pair of gloves from Tommy's stash and goes on his old killing spree. His victims include five naive paintball players, lovebirds on a picnic,an old graveyard keeper, a stupid torn cloth-clad boy named Cort andhis date Vicki, and there's more, for you see, after all these years they open up Camp Crystal Lake again, except now it's called Camp Forest Green because people wanted to forget about Jason. But that still didn't help, because Jason found them and killed them. Jason even kills the mean sheriff who didn't believe Tommy. The sheriff's daughter Megan helps Tommy with his plan of returning Jason back to the bottom of the lake. So he chains him up with the chains locked to a boulder and pushes it into the lake, but when Jason tries to drown Tommy with him, Megan shoves an outboard motor blade into his face. That was the end of Jason for a while.         Before I end, one thing about this movie that really irritatesme When Megan tells her friends the legend of Jason, she says, Maybe he's come back, looking for the counselor that decapitated his vengeful mother. Well Jason has already done that. Anybody who's seen Friday the 13th Part 2 would know that Jason has killed Alice. An ice pick right through the skull.  ---- "},{"Title":"Is this what it has come down to?","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, I don`t know how people can think this is the best Friday the 13th film so far.  Nothing good comes from this movie except the fact that the series continues.  Well maybe the humor is good but there`s too much in it to be qualified as a horror movie.   One things that is worst of all is the fact that they changed the Tommy character so much.  In the last film, he was a real hard a$$ that could snap at any moment and hardly ever spoke.  Now he` s a wussy dork and he never beat the crap out of anyone.   Another bad thing is all the lousy one-liners.  Where ever the red dot goes, ya bang?  Whoa, look out Arnold.  Well at least Jason kept the killing up and it sticks to tradition.  It`s a ** out of ***** in my opinion. "},{"Title":"One Of The Stupidest","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the dumbest Friday films every made.  Don't get me wrong I am a hardcore Friday films fan. This one just sucked, the best ones are part 1,2,3,and4. The series should have ended with part 4. They were so cool when part 5 came out it was a degrace to all the Fridays. But now part 6 of dumb the same guy that finally killed Jason in part 4 brings him back.  So if you want a Friday movie to watch rent either 1-4 if you get one that is from 5-9 you will hate the series so get one of the first ones and you will love them. "},{"Title":"Oh boy, another one","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason is brought back to life and get this, its by the same person that killed him in part 4. This time the guy who did Jason away in part 4 digs Jason up and sets him free. Okay now lets see here was that a smart thing to do? I mean a killer that can't die is finally dead and someone (not just anyone but someone that finally did kill the psycho) decides to dig up the body. Who writes this stuff? Whoever did I hope that they are no longer in the writing business and if they are they are writing smarter stuff than this. "},{"Title":"not very good","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i was reading some comments from the other users and so many of them liked this movie, what the hell are they watching? this movie is pretty bad, but it's better then the last part though. Jason once again comes back to life and this time he's now a zombie. the writer tried to be funny, hence the key word tried. it's not a horrible movie just bad. but it's watchable. this is very little suspense if any really, and no good scares. i give this movie 4/10. the only reason i give it a 4 is cause Jason is back, only watch it if you seen the whole series and you have not see this one. "},{"Title":"Lacks gore and scares.","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Although it is a part of a legendary horror series,this one isn't very good.It's too bad it lost it's battle with the MPAA,cause this could have been rated PG-13! The movie begins with Tommy Jarvis(the man who killed Jason as a boy in part 4) and a friend going to cremate Jason Voorhees' body. However, a lightning bolt hits Jason and he wakes up, kills Tommy's friend, and heads back for Crystal Lake. As I said before this one lacks scares and gore,and gets a C for a grade. "},{"Title":"Sixth one Nice try","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  For a series of movies that was just totally ruined by Part V, this one does an O.K. job at trying to redeem itself, but it's still crap! I still say that Part IV should have been the last. "},{"Title":"'Part VI' has some offbeat moments","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason (C.J. Graham) --The man behind the mask -- is back after being struck twice by a bolt of lightning.  His one time victim (Thom Mathews) wants to make sure that he stays dead.  Not as gory as previous sequels.  Writer/director Tom McLoughlin livens this sequel with a few one-liners and offbeat humor.  My evaluation ** out of ****. "},{"Title":"no no no no no this is crap","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th was good in fact the best, then came the disaster, a number of pointless sequels, I did not like this one at all, it was fake in nearly every aspect.The killings were fake, jason without any effort cuts off 3 people`s heads at once, AS IF. Then he smashes a woman`s head into a wall making her face print on it.Well it is a Jason film and they became sloppy after part 2. well there is not anything else to say about it, well there is but swearing is NOT allowed so forget it.I give this a 3 out of 10. What a waste! "}{"Title":"The worst in the series!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst movie in the FRIDAY THE 13TH series. It isn't scary or thrilling. It's a cheesy horror flick with bad acting and bad special effects. Even the FRIDAY THE 13TH movies made in the early 1980's look better than this. I don't weather to blame the screenwriters or the director, but somebody has to be blamed for this mess about the masked slayer who once again climbs out of his grave for a summer of gruesome murders with Tommy Jarvis Thomas Mathews trying to stop him. Jennifer Cooke who plays Megan is a beautiful actress, but that's not a good enough reason to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"The begin of the ultimate downfall of the series.","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is my least favorite movie in the series and arguably the worst in the series, besides Jason X.SEVERAL REASONSThe score I guess they decided to give up on the classy score in the previous films and bring in some ultra-cheesy synth. Why? I don't know.Jarvis The actor who they chose was HORRIBLE for the part, not to mention just a horrible actor period. Besides, isn't he supposed to be 16-17?The Beginning Need I say more? OK, so let's forget the creative setup of the last two films and have Tommy Accidentally bring jason back to life because for some reason he felt he had to stick a pole in his chest....just ridiculously stupid.OK...the humor was half-assed, mildly funny anyway. It didn't make up for the total lack of suspense and coherency...but there were a cool few kills...i'll give it that. "},{"Title":"See This Movie*","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Without a doubt, Friday the 13th, Part VI is the second worst of the series next to the 9th installment, Jason Goes To Hell. What makes this film so bad is the inclusion of childlike humor into the script. If you like unrealistic characters, nonsensical storylines, bad scripts, bad acting, and movies that make you think What the...? after watching them, then I would highly recommend that you see this movie. If you own this movie it is recommended that you burn it, as selling it to someone- or simply giving it to someone would be cruel. "},{"Title":"Jason Lives & bores the viewer to death!","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Apart from Jason Goes To Hell this has to be the biggest pile of crap to have the Friday the 13th title to date.Ignoring the stupid way that Jason is brought back from the dead the film itself has no plot at all - most of the others in the series had at least a flimsy plot onto which they could make money out of.It's at this point in the '80s that horror really started to go down the toilet and this film demonstrates why. During the late '80s many of the films tried to use humor however it helps if you are making a horror film for the film to be scary.Not all the fault for this film lies with the film makers as it was hacked to pieces by the censors - however I can't see that the film would have been any better had they left it alone. "},{"Title":"Zombie-Jason has a good heart! He doesn't kill little kids!","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is bad! Comparing with the previous five movies, it's by far the worst! It starts bad and it ends awful, and I think there's almost nothing good in it! The beginning is just ridiculous because it starts almost like the fifth part, and again with TOMMY (the character is just in the same age he's in the fifth movie, but it's with a different actor! Ridiculous!), but with the silly idea that JASON would back to life by the power energy of a lightning, becoming a Zombie-Jason! Terribly absurd, but not as much as the pathetic humor the movie has. Better, it tries to be funny, with pseudo dark-humor, but it ends being just pathetic. And we must also notice that this Zombie-Jason has a good heart! Yes, that's true, he doesn't kill little kids! Worst movie in the series so far! If it's true that the previous five might be a bit repetitive, in the plot, scenarios and characters, it's also true that they could be called masterpieces comparing to this low cost piece of crap! For me this movie lost the entire JASON mystic; what didn't happen with the previous sequels! Even the soundtrack was spoiled! "},{"Title":"Don't Make Fun of Yourself, Jason -- That's My Job","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halfway through this woeful installment in the Friday the 13th series, a grave digger, who's discovered that the grave of Jason Voorhees has been dug up (by none other than Tommy Jarvis, being played by yet a third actor), looks squarely at the camera and says, Some people have a strange idea of entertainment. Thus, this Friday movie is doomed by a self-referential sense of humor that decides to make a sort of action hero out of Jason. In the opening credits, he walks out James Bond style on the screen and whirls his machete like a gunslinger twirling a pistol. Tee hee, isn't that funny? These movies are horrible, but I've always derived a level of satisfaction from making fun of them. So if they start making fun of themselves and take even that morsel of entertainment value away from me, what's left? This episode doesn't even include one gratuitous nude scene, and gore hounds will be sorely disappointed at how un-gory the whole thing is. Thanks for digging up Jason, you stupid bastard, and unleashing yet another series of remedial sequels on us all.Grade F "},{"Title":"This is where it starts to get silly!!!","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well lets face it... Hollywood had to find someway to bring Jason back... It finally emerges that Jason and his mother were in fact members of some satanic cult so when Tommy and his friend go to make sure Jason is indeed dead... Lightning revives the vile beast once more and he is out for revenge!The silly storyline having taken so long to come into being is why I rank this film so low... But overall it is not actually bad - Worth watching before you hit the REAL LOWS of Hollywood simply trying to cash in!!!This is also (at this time) the last of the series I watched until The Final Friday - So no reviews for Jason Take Manhattan until a much later date...Effects wise, the film is great! Very good effects... Though its easy for even a Casual viewer to spot some glaring continuity errors throughout this film and The Final Friday.Still, a good addition to the franchise if far from the best. "},{"Title":"An OK entry","Date":"2 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't know if this review will count as a spoiler but I will list it just in case.As a child Tommy Jarvis did what many people died trying to do. He killed Jason Vorhees, the mass murderer who terrorised the residents of Crystal Lake. But now, years later, Tommy is tormented by the fear that maybe Jason isn't dead. So Tommy and a friend go to the cemetery to dig up Jason's grave. Unfortunately, instead of finding a rotting corpse, they discover a well rested Jason who comes back from the dead for another bloody rampage in Friday THE 13th PART 6JASON LIVES!This film starred Thom Matthews, Jennifer Cooke & David Kagen.In my opinion, this wasn't the best entry in the Friday the 13th saga and out of the first 6 it was probably the worst. Tommy Jarvis was a completely changed character from the 5th film to this one. As in the 5th film he was scared, haunted by Jason scared of him, but in this one he taunts Jason when they are face to face and doesn't seem scared of him and just ants him dead as he is an enemy to Tommy. Although that bugged me in this film, the kills were decent, you got a couple of good shocks and Jason is back!***/***** Could be worse. "},{"Title":"Jason gets better","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When you turn on the TV to watch a Jason movie, you have to be ready for what it will be. Even thought most parts of the series are quite bad, this one isn't that much. Actually, for it's gender, it's kinda good. Characters are all dumb like they're supposed to be, teenagers die while/after having sex, people don't believe in Jason's return, among another teen horror movies clichés. Deaths aren't innovative or anything, and sadly director hides them most of the time, but we can accept that as a way to not show how fake they are. If you invite some friends to watch this flick for a pure entertainment, I believe you will not have a bad time with this. "},{"Title":"Jason Lives Friday the 13th Part VI (1986)","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 44/100. Listed as the best Jason film by fans of the series, although so far I would call it the worst outside of the universally panned fifth film. Not only does this begin a series of 'Friday' films where Jason is for a lack of better words a supernatural zombie, but it also marks the point in the franchise where Jason became the film's hero rather than antagonist. The film also brought in an abundance of campy humor that really felt out of place at times, although admittedly some of the gags were pretty neat. There was some cool kills and impressive make-up effects, but the cast was largely forgettable and there was a number of incredibly stupid moments most notably the bumbling paint ball players. Worst looking Crystal Lake to date, with the foggy atmosphere of the woods creating the illusion that Crystal Lake is down south, when all the other films pointed toward a New Jersey area location. What I did like about the film was that the killings took place while the kids were at the camp, something I've been waiting to happen for awhile. Bad first hour that thankfully picked up for a mostly entertaining final half hour. "}{"Title":"Note to self if you defile the grave of a mass murderer, don't do it during a lightning storm","Date":"20 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This sixth installment of the Friday The 13th franchise scores some points right off the bat by pretending that A New Beginning doesn't exist. But with an increased emphasis on humor and one of the tamest rosters of kills in the series, this outing is decidedly uneven, and it still falls somewhere in the middle of the rankings for the most enjoyable film of the franchise.Thom Mathews takes over the role of Tommy Jarvis, although his portrayal is not nearly as sensible as the admittedly solid turn by John Shepherd in the previous film. The best thing Mathews has going for him is a strong resemblance to Michael Dudikoff (a real missed opportunity there; an 80's F13 film featuring Dudikoff versus Jason might have been pretty awesome). The opening scene, in which Tommy ventures to Jason's grave to dig up and cremate the body to send him to hell (?!) features some great images of a zombified Jason, but most viewers will have trouble getting past the rather nonsensical impetus for the killer's resurrection, which requires him being struck by lightning not once, but twice. Of course, I won't be dropping a spoiler when I tell you that Jason is brought back from the dead, upon which he embarks on the killing spree that you were hoping for when you put this DVD into your player. And you should under no circumstances question how Jason still has eyeballs despite being severely decomposed and overrun with maggots. Just don't, okay?One thing the film does do rather smartly is drop the pretensions about there being a mysterious killer at work here. While previous films utilized time-tested POV camera work and kept actually seeing Jason under wraps until the final reels, Jason Lives acknowledges who the star of the show is in its very title, and he's seen in all of his rotted glory every step of the way.The afore-mentioned humor is largely rather lame, but there are moments of brilliance. A couple of clever sight gags, such as a pre-teen camper falling asleep reading Sartre's No Exit, show a bit of intelligence on behalf of the film-makers. Though most of the one-liners fall flat, the film almost reaches genius with a line from Martin, the drunken cemetery care-taker who stumbles across Jason's exhumed grave. In one of the great fourth-wall-breaking moments in movie history, Martin looks directly at the camera as he wonders aloud, Why'd they have to go and dig up Jason? Some folks have a strange idea of entertainment... One plot point deserves special mention, simply because it's an interesting idea and infuses a bit of realism into a series that has never really bothered with that sort of thing. The denizens of Crystal Lake changing the town's name to Forest Green to avoid unsavory attachments to the Jason legacy is a very nice touch, and again it shows that the film-makers at least put some thought into this one.Perhaps the biggest problem with Jason Lives is that there is almost zero gore in the film. Since this installment is bereft of scares or suspense, the very least we can hope for is a few interesting kills to satisfy the promise implied by Jason's name on the marquee. Sadly, that element is notably non-existent here, and while I'm not sure whether the MPAA or the film-makers are to blame for the tepid approach to the violence in Jason Lives, we are left with a slasher movie without the slashing, and none of the bloody bits even come close to the fare we would get in an average episode of CSI. The only red sauce on display here comes courtesy of off-camera suggestions, with blood splashing against windows and the like, and all of the victims meet their fates in rather uninspired ways that belie the gleefully sadistic carnage that made this franchise what it is.While the finale is executed in a silly manner, the idea of returning Jason to the bottom of Crystal Lake is actually a pretty interesting one. Of course, we know he doesn't stay there, but there is a fitting full-circle feel to the conclusion, and if this had been the last entry in the series there would be something almost brilliant about that. But, you know, there's ultimately not.The whole movie seems to be built on the assumption that the words Friday The 13th in the title will guarantee a certain audience, no matter how relatively mediocre the actual film is. Jason Lives is certainly semi-enjoyable, but there's nothing here that suggests a kick-start to the fading franchise. I promise it gets better, but then it also gets far, far worse before it gets better again, so it's pretty much up to you to decide where you want to draw the line on the series. "},{"Title":"Jason belongs in Hell - and I'm gonna see to it that he gets there.","Date":"21 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jason the Zombie! Tommy (Thom Mathews) want to see if he is really dead, and he brings him back to live in a Frankenstein sort of way.Now, Jason is just rambling the country side looking for fresh meat, while Tommy tries to convince the sheriff (David Kagen) that Jason lives.Jason doesn't seem at all confused that they have renamed Crystal Lake. Forest Green? Doesn't fool him.The sheriff's daughter (Jennifer Cooke) becomes his sidekick, and together they take on Jason. You know that he will comeback to life. Didn't they see Zombie Lake? "},{"Title":"More entertaining than horror","Date":"21 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was one of those 80's teens that flocked to the theaters eager to see the new Friday the 13th that came out, and I do believe I saw this one back then. I just saw it last night again for the first time in years and was more amused than anything(I'm too old to get scared anyway), but that added to the film's charm. I recall noticing Horshack getting killed by Jason in the very beginning of the film, but not much more. It was good seeing this again anyway, and I do recall many more scenes which I enjoyed back in 1986, especially the funny ones. You know the drill Jason gets resurrected, kills teens on his way to the camp, etc. This installment has some cool atmosphere and nice looking shots throughout the duration, and not too much Jason kill overkill, if you catch my drift. As for the funnier moments, look for the paintball crew and the drunk cemetery caretaker, which will make you laugh. As I recall, this film was much better than the previous, which had an EMT pretending to be Jason Voorhees; this version has the real deal thankfully. It seems you can't keep a good man down. "},{"Title":"Jason's Gone Hunting","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the disappointment of Friday the 13th Part 5, I'd have to say this is a flashback, bloody good time sequel. It's also one of my fav in the Friday the 13th series.I won't say much because this is already a great film and there no doubt in saying that there are magnificent kills in this film. E.g. Knife to the side of the head, Three paint ballers having there heads slashed off with a Machete. Most of the deaths in this particular Friday reminded me of Call of Duty, it's like Jason's going COD, Rambo! D.Overall this is a creepy Friday the 13th and it still keeps up the chills besides the great kills.It easily gets an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Jason lives indeed","Date":"11 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Each entry of the series gets even better. This one has some twists and turns to it. Now we have a graveyard, a skeptical sheriff, scared children, and an RV. Just when you think there aren't any more new ways for the victims to die (or for Jason to die again), along comes something you don't recognize. This entry has plenty of ideas, it makes the previous chapters in the series, especially parts 1 & 2, seem like time-wasters. What I also admire about the making of Jason Lives is that the filmmakers make Tommy truly care about what Jason is doing. Or maybe that's just because he's older. Either way, it's something to think about. "},{"Title":"The undead trilogy begins!","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film begins the undead Jason trilogy of the Friday the 13th films and to be honest, that's my favorite version of Jason. I'm not sure if others view it as a guilty pleasure, but I enjoy this sequel almost as much as some of the first few sequels. And after the disappointment of the last film in the interesting kills department, we get quite a few this time around. One of the most memorable is Nikki getting her face shoved into the wall of the bathroom in the RV only to see the imprint of her face come through the other side. Sheriff Harris' death is also pretty incredible. Seeing a guy get bent in half in the opposite direction is always a crowd-pleaser. Hawes' death has to be the best one though. Jason sticks his hand through Hawes and explodes through his back holding his heart. While there is sex in the film, there's no nudity that I can recall. Normally that would hurt a Friday the 13th film, but the great kills and overall entertaining feel of the entire film really made up for it for me. "},{"Title":"A mixed bag in the series....","Date":"24 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a big fan of the series anyway, so you'll have to take my comments with a grain of salt. Some of the other reviewers have pointed out that this entry gets back to the basics of the series. I don't think that I would agree. The whole Jason mythos is pretty incoherent in this movie and doesn't make much sense. It certainly isn't consistent with the two previous movies (which were pretty bad) or the first two (which were heavy on the slasher and light on the supernatural).What IS a big improvement here is that you get some more imaginative killings. Jason also has a bit more personality than in Parts III-IV, which makes for a bit more fun, but demystifies the whole endeavor.We can't end, however, without pointing out that Part VI has NO (nada, none, zippo...) bare breasts. Maybe I got a censored DVD from NF, but there were absolutely none in the film I saw. (Actually, this might explain why the editing and continuity seemed a bit off. But if you think you saw some, let me know what scenes they were in.) I mention this only because it is such a notable departure, not just from the series, but from ALL 80s teen slasher flicks.So, there you have it. Better than some Jason flicks, but not as good as the first two. "},{"Title":"Fairly Awful","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Eh, I appreciate the higher production values in this one, and the semi-decent acting, and the 80s-ness, but Jason Lives Friday the 13th Part VI is not really a good movie. Granted, I didn't really pay attention during the movie, but its a slasher movie, so whatever. This installment of the series could have definitely used more nudity, that was really a disappointment. Also the lighter feeling scenes were just stupid, with the paintball, and the counselors getting the kids all happy about camp. Actually that was really annoyingly stupid. But at least the kill scenes were pretty good. Not a bad movie to have on when your doing something else. "},{"Title":"Best of the Paramount-era sequels.","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Plot Synopsis Years after he killed serial killer Jason Voorhees, Tommy Jarvis visits Jason's grave in order to destroy his body. But he accidentally reanimates it. Now an unstoppable zombie, Jason heads back to Camp Crystal Lake, killing anyone who gets in his way.This is the sixth entry in the Friday the 13th saga. Unlike the previous five films, which were all formulaic hack-&-slash, this one has a lot going for it. The acting is better than average, the heroine is a lot more savvy than those before her, the script throws up a lot of in-jokes & references (loved the Bond-style opening credits), the killings are more spectacular. In fact, this entry is the best of all the Paramount-era sequels. Jason, being turned into a zombie by an utterly ridiculous act of nature, is now an unstoppable juggernaut who survives a lot more damage than he did in the previous films. "},{"Title":"Back On Form","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the somewhat not bad but disappointing part 5, I'm glad to say that the series is back on form with this one. Definitely one of the better ones in the series.The plot = Tommy Jarvis is back this time played by Thom Matthews attempts to make sure that Jason is dead and will never come back, but instead he accidentally brings him back to life as a zombie and again Jason heads off into the woods killing of happy go lucky teens, can Tommy stop him once and for all or will he end up as another one of Jason's victims.Part 6 is a definite step up in the series, Add to that Jason now being a Zombie which spiced up the game, some gnarly and ambitious set pieces (all about that RV scene), a couple of inspired kills (the body bending bit&#133;ouch!) and some hard pumping Alice Cooper songs and you get a hands down crowd pleaser. I was also glad to say that they have better actors this time and likable characters, also the James Bond type opening was brilliant. Although only a few things that were slightly disappointing like the fact that the series is no longer scary anymore or the death count in this one isn't as high as some of the other ones, but other than that this movie kicks ass.Tommy Jarvis is yet again played by a new actor Thom Matthews who gives a solid performance really strong and engaging performance and he's also really good looking which really adds to the boost. Jennifer Cooke (Megan) was sexy and was also a great character she's my 2nd fave heroine in the series next to Amy Steel, and what's also nice to see that she's not one of the virginal stereotypes heroines, she's quite flirty and likes sex as much as anyone and she's also the sexiest girl in this movie and the entire series and plus her chemistry with Thom Matthews was really engaging and spot on. David Kagan (Sheriff Garris) was fab as the tough cop he had all the best lines and also loved his bad ass routine, it's again nice to see the cops are more developed in these movies usually they're just there in Slasher movies as comic relief and to just add to the numbers. Tom Fridley (Cort) played his part well and was really funny. Cort's girlfriend Nikki (Darcy Demoss) although a small role but she was fun, Paula (Kerry Noonan) and Sissy (Rennee Jones) were also fine in they're roles and Deputy Rick (Vincent Guastaferro) was quite amusing in his role as the bubbling cop who gets outsmarted by Tommy and Megan and he also has the best line in the Wherever The Red Dot goes you bang.I also like to mention that the directing in this flick was brilliant McLouglhin injected the movie with a Gothic atmosphere, lots of slick shots, some effective slow motion and a tighter than tight pace. I also loved the fact that he's taken Jason in a new direction, and plus the paintball gun scene was brilliant.All in all it's obvious that part 6 was created with love and effort Not only does did the flick continue the Jason saga with confidence and class; it also had no problem standing on its own two undead feet. Granted, it wasn't the blood-fest that were the earlier entries and the fear factor was on the low jive but the top notch production values, the lovable cast, the superior script makes this more than just a standard Slasher flick. "}{"Title":"He's back!","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I for one like 'A New Beginning' and thought it was pretty cool and ballsy of them to make the Jason in that one just a wacko in disguise. But this would only work once, so if the series was to continue it only seemed right that the real Jason returned from the grave, which is exactly what he does in this installment, called the, or at the very least one of the best installments in the series. And rightfully so.Pros A powerful opening sequence and comeback for our hockey-masked friend. A good sense of humor, and also refreshing. Some of the best acting of the series. Harry Manfredini's score is excellent and one of his best. Having the kids in the middle of all this heightens the tension and gives the series a meaner edge. Enough blood and creative kills to please slasher fans. The pace never lets up. Gotta love that song Alice Cooper did especially for this movie.Cons Maybe the pace moves too fast, not leaving a whole lot of time for viewers to breathe. Aside from the humor and having kids around, there's nothing much new here.Final thoughts Part 4 was promised to be the 'Final Chapter' and I for one am glad they changed their minds. What a comeback for Jason! It also paved the way for a new direction for the series, and each one since has tried something new. Whether that's good or not is up to the viewer, but bottom line is that this sequel is a winner.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"He lives alright...","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This time Tommy Jarvis(Thom Mathews) and his friend(Played by Horshack) decide to dig up Jason's grave and make sure he's dead, however lightning strikes and brings Jason's corpse back to life, much to the trouble of the new teenagers at Camp Crystal Lake as well as Thom Mathews who can't get anyone to believe his story, well he does get help from the sheriff's daughter named Megan(Jennifer Cooke), who helps him out. This Friday The 13th entry is in my opinion better than all that came before it, this can be due to the fact that this was the first movie I ever snuck into after being turned down at the door. (I did get into The Final Chapter) it was certainly worth it because of all the entries this has the best quality of the bunch, in that the production values while cheap are more polished. Also the underwater scenes are lit well and there is a welcome sense of humor. Also the acting was far better than usual and I actually found myself caring for the characters. This was the first entry to establish this. It's not a great movie but for fans of the series, Part VI works as the most enjoyable of the series.* *1/2 out of 4-(Pretty good) "},{"Title":"One of the Better of the Friday the 13th Films","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is probably one of the best of the Friday the 13th films. Revolving around recurring character Tommy Jarvis (Thom Matthews) and his attempts to convince the police of Crystal Lake (now renamed Forest Green) that psychopath Jason Voorhees has been resurrected as some kind of zombie, the film never pretends to take itself seriously.In fact the intentional humour is the films saving grace, as the series' trademark gore and nudity have been significantly toned down in this instalment, which makes it less of a guilty pleasure. However, despite the weakness of Matthews in the lead role, most of the teenagers are surprisingly sympathetic and likable, which makes a change. "},{"Title":"A lot of fun","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the disappointing pile of crap that was Friday the 13th Part 5, Jason Voorhees fans should appreciate this return to the real hockey masked killer and his nemesis, Tommy Jarvis.Tommy, who viciously slaughtered Jason Voorhees as a little boy in Part 4, is now an emotionally troubled and very angry young man, played by Thom Mathews (who also appeared in one of my favorite zombie films The Return of the Living Dead). Tommy has been plagued by bad memories and nightmares ever since his slaying of Jason and so decides to trek out to Crystal Lake with his buddy Hawes (aka Horshak) to finish Jason off once and for all. After digging up Jason's grave and opening the cobwebby and maggoty coffin, Tommy goes ballistic, stabbing Jason's dead body with an iron spike ripped off of the cemetery fence. Unfortunately, Tommy has extraordinarily bad timing a lightening storm descends over the cemetery and one convenient lightening bolt later, Jason is alive and well and is ripping Hawes's heart out of his chest with his bare hands. Tommy is then off and running, trying to warn the local sheriff of Jason's resurrection, but the sheriff dismisses Tommy as a nutcase and later believes that the young man is responsible for the new string of bloody murders. However, the sheriffs pretty blond daughter believes Tommy and decides to help him, breaking him out of prison and hunting Jason down...but not before Jason can decapitate a bunch of yuppie paint-balling executives, slaughter an annoying fornicating couple in a mobile home, slaughter two camp counselors at the newly re-opened Camp Forest Green and terrorize a little girl. Can Tommy finish what he foolishly began and kill Jason before he and his new girlfriend are killed themselves?This, along with part 7 and 8, are my favorite sequels in the Friday the 13th series. Thom Mathews is great as the haunted and ultimately very foolish Tommy. C. J. Graham is satisfyingly brutal as Jason Voorhees, displaying all the right qualities of rage, curiosity and dumb innocence that Kane Hodder would later improve upon. This is a somewhat spoofy, darkly funny and satisfyingly bloody installment in the prolific series. The opening sequence, featuring Jason's maggot-ridden corpse, is perhaps the best pre-credit sequence of any of the Friday films yet. Hardcore Friday fans should not miss this 6th sequel. 8 out of 10 stars for Jason Lives! "},{"Title":"YES He Is Indeed ALIVE!!!!!!!","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After Friday THE 13TH PART VA NEW BEGINNING, I was a little afraid of this installment, thinking they will ruin it. Thank God for Tom McLoughlin for making a fun and excellent sequel that actually stands out to be just as good as the original.Tommy Jarvis(Thom Mathews) and a friend escape a mental hospital to cremate JASON(C.J. Graham)'s body, because he thinks he is still alive. When he opens he's coffin, only to find him dead, he jams a sphere in his chest just for the hell of it. Out of nowhere lighten strikes the sphere. And just like Frankenstien's Monster, JASON comes back from the grave the as UNDEAD. Now how can Tommy kill what's already dead and heading home to Crystal Lake(now called Forest Green).This is one of my favorite horror films of all time. The death scenes are inventive and sometimes funny. the way Tom though of to bring JASON back was sweet. Jennifer Cooke as Megan has to be the sexiest eye candy of the series. Thom Mathews's Tommy is also a standout role and the best one. In each film there is a different character study of how he is becoming. And David Kagen role is a screen stealer. The comedy dosen't even hurt the film. A must see for JASON fans, because this is like a love poem. This is also the start of Zombie JASON. "},{"Title":"He's Back...The Man Behind the Mask","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It took them 5 tries - but they finally got it right! I'm not a huge fan of sequels, especially when the first picture was such a breakthrough (i.e. Halloween) but this one seems to have hit the mark...It has some honest-to-goodness good scares, some well-needed humor, and a soundtrack featuring Alice Cooper...what more could you ask for? All this and one HOT 80's chick in the lead role!This has to be the best sequel to this series that I have seen...If you're a fan Check out part 7....if you're into these flicks it's quite entertaining...otherwise, do yourself a favor and skip the other lame-o sequels! "},{"Title":"The best Friday the 13th in the series and also a GOOD Horror movie.","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Could that happen? Can a sequel of the infamous Friday the 13th movies be that good that it should be considered a decent horror movie? The answer is a surprising yes. Watch it with minimal expectations, watch it without the Friday the 13th title and you could enjoy an entertaining horror movie. If you have seen other Jason movies and didn't like them, trust me, JASON LIVES could be the exception as it's not the typical slasher flick. There's black humor, violence, a good score, high quality direction, and a story (something that most slasher flicks lack of).***SPOILERS*** (PLOT, HIGHLIGHTS)**PLOT** Jason Voorhees returns to Camp Crystal Lake (now called Camp Forrest Green) after he is resurrected by accident by Tommy Jarvis, the boy that killed him years before. Jason's resurrection is spectacular, arguably, the best opening sequence in the series. Tommy Jarvis sticks a pole in Jason's corpse when suddenly a thunder strikes it, giving life to Jason by lightning. After raising from his grave, he takes and puts his hockey mask on, and heads his way to Camp Crystal Lake (now officially named Camp Forrest Green to ignore the events of Camp Blood). Tommy after watching Jason's resurrection goes to Sheriff Garrett's office looking for help but the Sheriff withdraws his version and recognizes him as the boy traumatized by Jason and resident of the mental institution.Tommy insists on his story but only ends incarcerated in the sheriff's office. Sheriff Garrett's daughter shows interest on Tommy and later helps him escape and get things in order to face Jason. Meanwhile Jason starts his killing spree and this time his victims are child counselors, plush a gravedigger, a horny couple, and a group of ultra geek explorers. After a series of events including the Sheriff and his officers' deaths and a massacre at Camp Forrest Green, Tommy with the aid of a book of the occult (where he learns that Jason has to be killed in the place where he originally died), chains, gasoline, and a boat; faces Jason in the middle of Crystal Lake. Finally Tommy manages to tie a huge rock with a chain to Jason's neck making him drown (once again)in the bottom of Crystal Lake. Jason chokes Tommy and believes he killed him, while he gets used to his underwater grave, tied to a rock.**HIGHLIGHTS** The opening scene is unique, it has great f/x, a creepy atmosphere, a scary environment, and black humor surrounding it. The James Bond spoof is excellent! it's stuff for legend. That's a touch of genius with a lot of black humor.The deaths are a bit of disappointing. Many fans of the series think about Jason Lives as the PG-13 Friday the 13th movie. There are still the well known Friday the 13th elements such as gore, sex, violence, sex related jokes, etc. but in a low tone. There are good death scenes like Elizabeth (stabbed in the face), Hawes (has his heart ripped!), Sheriff Garrett (gets his back broken), and Cort (stabbed in the temple) among others. Jason's death in this movie is very well done. The whole scene with the lake in flames, the scared children watching, Megan watching how she could help, Tommy fighting Jason in the middle of the lake; is one of the best elaborated scenes in the whole series. Jason's death should please fans of the series, as Jason is defeated not that easily as in part 2, 3, The Final Chapter, Thew New Blood, and Jason Takes Manhattan.What I love about JASON LIVES is the clever black humor that surrounds it. There's spoof of other movies where everything surrounds the main character (Frankenstein, 007, Evil Dead), it also spoofs horror clichés in a delightful way. JASON LIVES stands alone in the Friday the 13th series because it has elements that are nowhere to be found in the other movies. For example this is the only movie where there's black humor, not explicit death scenes, scary moments, the tense music often used in the series, and an interesting and well crafted story that supports the events. The acting is great for a slasher movie. Thom Mathews (from Return Of The Living Dead fame) delivers an insane and mature performance as the haunted and obsessed with Jason Tommy Jarvis. His performance is believable. What can I say about Megan? (Jennifer Cooke) I think she's the best lead female in the series. She's super hot, sexy, tender, and also brave. She's not the typical Friday the 13th lead female. She even knocks off Jason in the final scene. Great actress, I wonder why she didn't continue in the genre.The other cast members are very good; you can't get much better acting in other slasher movies. The score is great! totally new stuff in the series. You still got the trademark ki ki ki ma ma ma plush a very 80's metal soundtrack, and a great score specially made for the movie. A score that good that was used by The New Blood and House II.Director Tom McLoughin did a great job by giving this touch of quality to the Friday the 13th series. He did a quality horror movie that stands alone from HUNDREDS of 80's cheesiness in horror.JASON LIVES is not a simple slasher movie, it's a horror movie with a story to support it. In other words it's a good horror movie. Probably the best in the series and one of the best horror movies with black comedy. Believe it or not, even with the Friday the 13th part VI title it's a good horror movie that totally deserves a watch by any horror fan.10/10 in the Friday the 13th scale.  "},{"Title":"Yeah, he's back!  He's the Man Behind the Mask!  And he's outta control!","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  JASON LIVES popped up on SpikeTV last night, inducing a flood of memories. (Well, a rolling stream of memories at least.)  I remember seeing it by myself the weekend it came out. I was 12, and it scared the hell out of me; I couldn't move from my seat when it ended, I was so petrified. I had freaky nightmares for days afterward. It was my first slasher, and so I had no idea who Jason was, and since I was living in a town in New Jersey with an actual Crystal Lake nearby (in Haddonfield! And there's an Elm Street in every suburban town!), I was convinced that this movie was based on a true story. Even the Alice Cooper tunes were unnerving.Ah, youth. Of course when I watch it now I wonder why it affected me so much. Maybe since then I've seen scads of similar movies and am conditioned, like everyone else, to spot every cliché a mile away (speaking of clichés). Gore no longer looks real. I can recognize bad acting. Looking back, I'm amazed that I was granted admission at such a young age. (I saw BLUE VELVET the same year, also alone, which might explain how my mind matured in such a warped manner.) Still, F13/VI made me crave more, and it's still my favorite sequel in the series. (My mom even got a kick out of it, even if her tastes run toward Tom Hanks and musicals.)1986 was quite a year, both for my developing taste for horror movies and for the genre itself.  I must have rented every title my local shop stocked, and there were a lot of really bad ones there  ROCK 'N' ROLL NIGHTMARE, KILLER PARTY, SLEEPAWAY CAMP and countless other titles I'm now a little embarrassed to have seen.  This insatiable desire also forced me to see all those even worse movies on Prism (remember that channel, Philadelphians?) - crap like SLAUGHTER HIGH and NIGHTMARE AT SHADOW WOODS.  But there were some gems mixed in the late-night cable dreck; I still have DOLLS and CHOPPING MALL on old, disintegrating VHS tapes.Disregarding 1981's dopey, ZAZ-style STUDENT BODIES, 1986 also could be credited for introducing satire into the mix.  Is JASON LIVES' Lizabeth the first slasher character who's seen other slasher movies?  SCREAM's Randy Meeks should know about that.  Then there was APRIL FOOL'S DAY, which predated the current vogue of twist endings by more than a decade.  Why doesn't it get the recognition it deserves? "},{"Title":"Oh dear!!","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Why they decided to make another film in this series beggers belief. This film is just plain awful!! Why they made a second film to the, mediocre at best, original let alone a 5th and the 4 more after that is beyond me. They could have put Jason in a huge blender to kill him yet the people in power would still have found a more ridiculous way to bring him back than the last time.I myself am compelled though to see how on earth they bring him back each time, having seen the previous 4(more fool me) i felt i had to see it.If you're a fan of the series then rent it, if not, rent Judge Dread!!  "},{"Title":"More wit, more gore, more of the same","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part VI- Jason Lives (1986) Thom Matthews, Jennifer Cooke, David Kagen, Kerry Noonan, Renee Jones, Tom Fridley, C.J. Graham, Darcy DeMoss, D Tom McLoughlin. Jason takes on another killing at a camp full of children and counselors after he's resurrected from his grave by the survivor of Part V. Made some progress by adding wit, but that's all. Fun for fans, for others, Camp Crystal Lake will never be the same. Running Time 87 minutes and rated R for language, sexuality, and strong gore/ violence. RATING * ½ (out of ****)   "}{"Title":"the best one","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie when I was like 7 years old in Yugoslavia and even though I was scared to death, I watched it over and over again. It was my favorite movie and I guess my love of horror movies began at an early age. "},{"Title":"REDEEMS THE SERIES AFTER 4 AND 5","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  to me, jason lives redeems the friday the 13th series after the mediocre sequels 4 and 5. i found it really bloody and a great gore fest. its so 80's but yet so fun. the ending is one of the best to a friday flick, with tommy in the boat and the fire. i s****** myself when jason popped up on the side of the boat. GOD HELP ME, I LOVE THIS MOVIE....ONE OF THE BEST FRIDAY SEQUELS YET! "},{"Title":"If only the gore was intact","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This could have been the best Friday the 13th film. There are some humorous moments but not overly silly with one-liners (see Jason X) and Jason is now turned into Zombie Jason. He's super strong and can kill alot quicker and take more punishment. The music by Alice Cooper rocks, the acting is good, almost the whole film takes place at night, the problem with the movie is that the people at the MPAA butchered this film to death. It is almost incoherent at times thanks to them. The boob count is also zero and surely missed.  "},{"Title":"For Fellow Friday Fans","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Judging by this movies rating and a seemingly never-ending supply of bad reviews gracing the front page, I felt it was time for me to speak up.First of all, in my personal opinion, this is one of the best Friday's. The purpose of this film was to bring back the Jason character from his one year hiatus with a new flair. He was to be an undead zombie (an attempt at advancing his scare factor) that could no longer be killed conventionally (not that he ever could, but still). He would be stronger and he would no longer need weapons to kill his prey. Many a death in this movie are the labor of bare hands. And, for the first time, Jason wouldn't be hiding out or lurking in the shadows. Jason is shown in more shots from above the waist than he ever had been. The filmmakers didn't save full shots of him until the end of the movie like the other Friday's had done. Jason is very much a full character in this movie, rather than the usual stalker in the dark that is only shown as a pair of legs or a hand with a weapon. This is a trend that would be followed in every Friday film after this one.This is the first Friday film to play to the fans. It becomes obvious in the early stages of the film, that the goal isn't to scare the viewer as much as it is to impress them with Jason's new found strength and weapon arsenal. This is also a trend that later Friday's would follow. Basically, this movie reinvents the series. The character of Jason is now a vehicle to get from one death to the next, and the audience spends more time following his tail lights than we have before. In my personal opinion, this is not a bad change.This movie still offers up some good scares, although a seasoned horror film watcher won't really catch them. One of my favorite scenes has a stranded Tommy Jarvis (the hero) calling from a boat floating in the lake to Jason on shore. Jason is within seconds of killing Tommy's love interest, but drops the task in favor of pursuing the hopeless Tommy. Jason marches into the lake and soon becomes hidden by the deepening water line. Tommy now knows that Jason is underneath him, and could pop out at any moment.Really people, this movie isn't that bad. If you care enough to search the site for this movie, than it is only fair that you get treated to at least one good review. And for Kane Hodder Fans, C.J. Graham did a good job too don't you think? Bonus points for the songs by Alice Cooper.7/10 "},{"Title":"The best of the Friday bunch.","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Friday the 13th series has never been about supreme moviemaking. It's never been about great acting talent, gorgeous locations and awesome visual effects. Heck, it's never really been about suspense, action or horror...The Friday movies are a beloved relic from the 1980's, a time when the world was simpler and horror movies were long, big and plentiful. Competing against A Nightmare on Elm Street, I've always found Friday to be the superior, dishing up plenty of awesome gore and the bad-ass Mr. Terror himself, Jason Voorhees.Plenty of people love these films. And you know why? Not because they're great filmmaking, by any stretch of the imagination --- but because they're cool, dark, sick, twisted and oh-so wicked!This time, we find Jason coming back from the grave thanks to a lightning strike. Immediately, Jason returns to his old tricks again After coming out of the coffin, he pulls out some guy's heart and lets him fall into the open grave, the coffin door slamming down upon him. Now THAT's cool!Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives is actually one of the better episodes in the long-running franchise, spicing up an otherwise tired series by introducing some genuine suspense, plenty of gore and a lot of surprising comedy. And that's not something easy to do, for a film that has a huge 6 at the end of its name. Enjoy this film for what it is a enjoyable horror romp. JASON LIVES!!! "},{"Title":"The best of the Friday bunch.","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Friday the 13th series has never been about supreme moviemaking. It's never been about great acting talent, gorgeous locations and awesome visual effects. Heck, it's never really been about suspense, action or horror...The Friday movies are a beloved relic from the 1980's, a time when the world was simpler and horror movies were long, big and plentiful. Competing against A Nightmare on Elm Street, I've always found Friday to be the superior, dishing up plenty of awesome gore and the bad-ass Mr. Terror himself, Jason Voorhees.Plenty of people love these films. And you know why? Not because their great filmmaking, by any stretch of the imagination --- but because they're cool, dark, sick, twisted and oh-so wicked!This time, we find Jason coming back from the grave thanks to a lightning strike. Immediately, Jason returns to his old tricks again After coming out of the coffin, he pulls out some guy's heart and lets him fall into the open grave, the coffin door slamming down upon him. Now THAT's cool!Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives is actually one of the better episodes in the long-running franchise, spicing up an otherwise tired series by introducing some genuine suspense, plenty of gore and a lot of surprising comedy. And that's not something easy to do, for a film that has a huge 6 at the end of its name. Enjoy this film for what it is a enjoyable horror romp. JASON LIVES!!! "},{"Title":"JASON LIVES! The real Friday the 13th experience.","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's supposed that Jason died in The Final Chapter. True and False.JASON LIVES (Friday the 13th part VI) is what I call the perfect horror movie. The mix of horror and humor make this a unique horror movie that set the standards for followers such as Evil Dead 2 among others.The plot is great! They bring us the most beloved character of the series besides Jason  Tommy Jarvis. Jason faces in Jarvis his deadliest enemy in the whole series. Jason Voorhees looks scary and mean, portrayed perfectly by C.J. Graham. The lead actors Thom Mathews, and Jennifer Cooke are the best couple in the Friday the 13th series. The setting is creepy and dark for Jason. Camp Forrest Green looks a scary place to wander at. The haunting score is perfect for this movie. Jason's killings are brutal and original. What else could any horror fan ask for?? The ending is awesome and very original. Jason Voorhees dies where he belongs... Overall, this is by far the best of the Friday the 13th movies. It's not just gore and dumb situations. JASON LIVES looks deadly and powerful, and Jason is the responsible for all the possible feelings for this movie.Recommended for everyone, even if you are not a fan of the series. There are some fantastic moments for the fans, pure gold. I just can say that this is an excelent horror movie that will please everyone. Take this word of a true hard core Jason fan.*SPOILERS*In fact he DID die, but he managed to escape from the pits of hell. Tommy now as a grown-up is still traumatized by the events that involved Jason Voorhees and led to the death of his mother, and the occupiers of the cabin next to his house. INTRO On cold Thursday the 12th night Tommy Jarvis with the aid of a friend decides to open Jason's grave in the cemetentery in order to verify that Jason is inside his grave.  Tommy opens the grave and Jason Voorhees' corpse full of maggots is inside. For a moment Tommy realizes that he has nothing to worry about, but he's not completely satisfied after watching Jason's corpse so he stabs it repeteadly with a stick pole. Tommy's friend Allen Hawes is terrorized and asks Tommy to stop his mad behavior but Tommy doesn't listen to him and keeps impaling in and out the corpse. Tommy throws gasoline to the corpse and he's convinced that he has to burn it.Suddenly a powerful lightning thunder strikes the stick pole that is impaled in Jason's corpse bringing him to life again. (Similar to Frankenstein).When Tommy Jarvis is about to throw a burning match to the corpse, it suddenly jumps out of the grave. Allen Hawes runs in desesperation after watching such a terrorific scene. Tommy tries to enlighten a match again when raining falls.  Allen Hawes comes to the scene with a shovel and hits Jason in the head just to get his heart ripped off by Jason's mere hands. Tommy runs to his truck and drives at maximum velocity to escape from the cementery. The opening credits are stuff for legend, amazing James Bond parody.Jason Voorhees is alive; is Tommy Jarvis ready to fight and defeat Jason for the last time?. *SPOILERS Tommy Jarvis goes to the local Forrest Green (Camp Crystal Lake) police department telling the sheriff and the officers about the events of the night before; they don't believe him as Jason Voorhees was buried years ago. Meanwhile Jason starts his route to Camp Crystal Lake to once again terrorize the teenagers that wander in his dominions.  Tommy Jarvis with the aid of Megan Garris (the daughter of the sheriff) and a book of the occult has his most powerful weapons to defeat Jason and send him where he belongs... "},{"Title":"The best of the series","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" CAUTION Possible SpoilersAlthough Jason part 6 is the best of the Friday the 13th series that is not saying much.  The other Friday movies I watched for laughs but this one is actually a decent movie. Jason is much tougher in this film then in the previous ones. One scene a police officer shoots Jason with a pistol multiple times but Jason still lives. In the previous movies if Jason got shot he would have died. I think its good that Jason is stronger because as a human he was kind of pathetic. This movie didn't have as many pointless and stupid parts as the ones before and was entertaining from the beginning where Jason is resurrected to the end where Jason and the hero, Tommy Jarvis fight in Crystal Lake. This movie was funnier and was better in all respects (except in suspense, you see Jason the whole time) then the other movies. "},{"Title":"Great way to renew interest in the series","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Tommy Jarvis resurrectsJason Voorhees. He continues to slash victims at Crystal Lake,now Forest Green. This is a funny movie. We get a lot of great jokes. It has a fast pace,doesn't bore you. We get some great gore scenes. Plus the writing is fantastic,brings a more inhuman element to Jason,which we all knew he had. It is fun! A lot of great things were added to this movie. It is like a horror paradoy,which have become quite popular. Great movie. A whole lot of fun.3.5/4 "},{"Title":"The best of the bunch !","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After loads of so so sequels we finally get one that is really good . It's obvious that this one has a larger budget than previous entries and probably most that followed as well . We finally get some better actors and the film also has better production values . There is also a nice amount of humor present but not the kind of dumb humor associated with modern teen slasher flicks . Harry Manfredini's score also seems to be more rousing than usual . All in all a good effort . Unfortunatly the US release was once again edited to obtain an R rating . "}{"Title":"The best 'Friday' Movie.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this one for some reason. It had the standard stuff of the other movies, and it was almost identical, except for the Ressurection, but it was a GOOD movie. I can't pinpoint why...Anyhoo..It's got alot of Deaths and it's fun. Just give it a watch. IT's really not THAt bad for a sixth movie...Remember 'Nightmare on Elm Street 6'? *Shudder*.. "},{"Title":"Back on track...","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After an embarassing part 5, I was happy to see the series back on track with this installment. We are now introduced to a stronger; more inhuman Jason, as he is resurrected after being killed in the fourth chapter. There is more humor this time around; including a cameo by Ron Palillo (Horshack from Welcome Back, Kotter). Good performances by Thom Mathews and the beautiful Jennifer Cooke. One of the best in the series. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"`I've seen enough horror movies to know any weirdo wearing a mask is never friendly.'","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first of the Friday movies to introduce a supernatural element, this may have led to the execrable Jason Goes To Hell, but is introduced here with considerable style. As with the title quote, It's more knowing than usual, and while not clever enough to be considered post-modern, it still amuses on occasion. One of the funniest bits is the title sequence, where Jason does a Bond-spoofing `gunshot walk'.Fantasy had flittered around the series right from the start Jason was a deformed mutant living underwater, and the sequels had seen him take would-be fatal blows yet survive. Here though he's resurrected by lightning.None of the films from the third onwards could even remotely be considered scary, so Jason Lives inserts comedy characters to pep things up. It's quite funny seeing Jason doing his usual stalk &#145;n' slash through the woods&#133; only to bump into some executives playing paintball. One of the subtler jokey references is a momentary shot of Jean Paul Satre's `No Exit', which is a nice touch.This time around the camp workers have small children to look after, so the usual `horny teens take their clothes off' scenes are notable by their absence. This also creates a narrative problem in that you know no film would show infanticide and so you also know the children are intrinsically safe.Some of the exposition is a little heavy, the dialogue often dumb, but at other times it can be humorous, as with the following exchange`Why don't you at least call the camp and make sure everything's alright?' `We have. Tried to track you down, the phone there's disconnected.' `Doesn't that tell you something?' `Yeah, they should have paid their bill.'Direction is also above average for the franchise, with a nicely shot climatic underwater sequence. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Better than 5","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was better than 5, but it still was none of the best. Jason has a semi new look going on. The death count in this movie is pretty high. I didn't think any of the acting in this movie was any of the best, but enough to get by. The paced sort of lagged a bit at times. By this movie Jason is an established killer so everybody's expecting him to do his job. A little comedy here and there was not needed to the story, but somehow still wound up being put in the movie. My rating 5/10  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Tommy Jarvis has been through a lot,he killed Jason Voorhees. Now he just wants to make sure Jason is still dead. He is resurrected in a Frankenstein like fashion,tribute to Karloff. Jason continue`s where he left off. The Town wants all The Crystal Lake horrors behind them,so they are now called Forest Green,and a new camp is opened. Well Jason kills all The Camp Staff,and Tommy is left to take out Jason until The Next Friday. Good Movie,you would think it get old,but no it`s just as fresh,and fun as Part I.5/5  "},{"Title":"Good resurrection of both Jason and the series.","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Five installments into it, the Friday the 13th series was already starting to show signs of age and deterioration by the time this bad boy rolled around. Friday the 13th pt. VI Jason Lives is where the series took a whole new direction. This movie was the start of what I like to call the Friday the 13th Zombie Trilogy which under it's umbrella, includes this, pt. VII The New Blood and pt. VIII Jason Takes Manhattan. In all three of these films, Jason is a walking rotting corpse. He is no longer a mentally retarded child stuck in a man's body with animal instincts. He is quite simply, a very unhappy camper. This entry was also the introduction of Jason the Anti-hero. Throughout this movie, we follow Jason as he stalks his victims. In the other movies, you never knew where Jason was and he was sort of a mystery. This movie is all about Jason. Despite some obvious changes and flaws, this one still remains one of the best in the series. This is the movie where the MPAA really took it's toll on the F13 series. The gore is brutally butchered and there is no T&A in sight. However, there is plenty of good humor and funny one-liners sprinkled throughout (I.E. So What did you wanna be when you grew up? Wasn't that the end of the song? -- Really, you have to be watching) that were entertaining. The acting is horrible. Every bad actor in this movie dies and that's the way it should be. As is always the case with these movies, Jason Lives is not intelligent, it is not groundbreaking, hell, it's not even scary. It's just pure Saturday Night popcorn fun. Fans of the series will love it. "},{"Title":"One of the better Jason Movies...","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part 6 is one of the better sequels of the Jason Franchise. There are a lot of cool kill scenes and how Jason is brought back is pretty awesome too. Although it may not top some of the earlier Jason films, this movie is really better than part 5. "},{"Title":"One of the best films In the Friday The 13th Series.","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  One good thing about this film Is that Director found A better actor to portray the character of Tommy Jarvis.And also this time the movie fans See the character of Jason Vorhees return to the series.I think C.J.Graham does A great job portraying Jason making the character almost Indestructible. "},{"Title":"not one of the greater sequels but still not the worse.","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I doubt you are going to each of my Fridays I written about just to see which one I nominated as the worst but if you are, this still isn't the one.  This isn't that bad really.  The beginning with the part on how Jason comes back to life is really great and just goes to show how stupid people can be.  I'm not going to ruin it due to the fact that many other people already wrote it down under their summary so why bother wasting your time.  Some other good parts are the paint ball scene where Jason kills some people who work together while playing paint ball and getting some anger out; a scene where a couple is in a Volkswagen bug and the lady says, Darren we need to stop and turn around. I've seen enough horror movies to know that anybody wearing a hockey mask with an ax is not good.  Of course they get killed in gruesome ways.  I liked how they actually had kids as campers in this movie.  All the other Friday movies just showed the teens getting the camp ready, but never any kids. I mean Jason actually went into the cabin and a little girl woke up, she closed her eyes, said a prayer, and when she opened her eyes Jason was gone. Then the little girl looked under the bed just to make sure he wasn't hiding.  I also liked the female character,which just happened to be the sheriff's daughter,  Jennifer Cooke.  She was really beautiful. I still give it a 10 for the effort, the beginning, and the end. "},{"Title":"My favorite Friday the 13th!","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was very young, maybe 5... And I loved it! I thought that Tommy was very good looking, and that Jason was  scary.  Of course, I still think those things... But I am the kind of freak who is actually scared at Friday the 13th movies. This movie is unique from other FT13 movies in several ways.a.) The heroine isn't unbearably whiny, and her 80's hair isn't that bad b.) The killings are kinda original (he folds a dude in half!)  c.) The movie doesn't take itself too seriously (i.e. the hilarious paintballing scene)One thing to look for when watching this movie is... How Tommy pronounces the word padlock near the end of the movie... He says it very oddly... PaddllllckAll in all... 9/10 for a FT13 movie!  "}{"Title":" Come on, Jason!","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jennifer Cooke is listless as Megan in this demanding horror flick. The supporting cast is senseless. The costumes are conceited. One of the fair flicks in the genre, Friday The 13th Part 6 Jason Lives wields seldom horrors. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I liked this better than the usual","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  None of the Friday the 13th movies are really very good, except for maybe the original, but this is probably my favorite sequel.  Jason gets a lot of airtime, in daytime and at night, and is onscreen from the start.  The pace is intense and the movie never really insults the audience's intelligence.  The filmmakers know that the kills are what people come to see and they deliver without much buildup.  The usual fare are slaughtered, including camp counselors, the town old timer and/or drunk and cops.  One difference is that the kids at the camp are used and used effectively in the case of the blond little girl.  The scene where she's confronted by Jason and prays until he's gone, followed by her looking under her bed, is priceless.  Some more levity is provided by a group in a war games exercise.  They bumble around in the beginning and provide some of the early throw away kills as well as some useless humor.  The acting is decent to standard.4.5/10   "},{"Title":"Delivers what you expect and more","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason, the legendary Hockeymasked slasher has made quite a franchise of himself throughout the years. A pretty good accomplishment considering his main trademark, the hockeymask, was  only introduced in the 3rd installment. Most movie franchises have 3 films the most (Godfather, Back to the future, The Omen, RoboCop etc.) so when a movie's main gimmick (the hockeymask) is introduced after 2 movies it's quite an achievement that people Can you imagine Freddy without the gloves from day 1? I can't.So after reading reviews here about good ol' Jason's movies it occured to me that some people do more slashing at his movies then he does in all of his movies together.Unfair I say, because 9 out of 10 times you get exactly what the people behind the movie promise you 1,5 hour  long halfnaked pot smoking teenagers in the woods who get chopped up by a guy with a machete and a hockeymask (ok, so in part 1 it was his Ms. Voorhees and in part 9 it was a worm) You know what you can expect when you watch a Friday the 13th movie, and still some people review the movies like they were expecting a Usual Suspects!Well this is the 6th installment in the series which reached a total of 10 movies with the release of Jason X last year. This is one of the better installments I must say. Out with all the seriousness, in with a swift and slick slashermovie featuring ol' Jason. There are excellent scenes in this one, the paintball-office-nerds- scene being the best one. Offcourse this being a typical slashermovie from the 80's you can expect the standard typecasting; everybody takes him/herself extremely serious (except for the 1st victims in the Beetle), there's the standard rebel teenagers who don't listen to dad, there's the ignorant local sherrif who doesn't believe that there is a supernatural serialkiller on the loose, there's the hero who wastes more time running around warning about the killer then trying to stop him. The only thing it lacks, but what we do expect in a friday-flick, is hot nude teengirls (played by girls who are way in their 20's offcourse). That's too bad, since Jason made it standard that if you do smoke pot and/or have pre-marital sex (although playing strip-poker is enough to get yourself killed) it is kind of a downside that the only sex-scene in the movie is one where the people having sex have all their clothes on and just move silly.Well, I cab rave about this movie because it brings you the Man with the mask in a high-bodycount-story with a sense of humor. Too bad there were no naked teengirls, but there are plenty of other Friday-installments in which they do get chopped up.I rate this one 4 out of 5 compared with other Friday the 13th's "},{"Title":"Jason is now officially a zombie!","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know why everyone says part 8 is trash because it has no gore. This one is the one with no gore! It is still very good though. Tommy jarvis played by 'Return of the living dead' Thom Mathews tries to kill Jason once and for all. Instead he resurrects him with lightning on a pole and Jason is up to his usual tricks again. Jason is hunting and being hunted in this one. It's quite a lot like part 9. C.J Graham looks like he's having fun playing Jason as do the rest of the cast. His James Bond opening credits is good and he gets away with some creative deaths. A triple decapitation! A face being crushed into the side of a caravan and a knife thrown to the head of a cop. It moves at a fast pace and continues to show a love for the Jason character. "},{"Title":"One of the better sequels.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Part 6 in the series was pretty good and it has Thom Mathews in it (who is awesome in Return of the Living Dead)This is the 1st Friday film in which Jason is a supernatural zombie and nothing seems to affect him. Part 6 is a lot better than most sequels in the series. This Friday film actually as some OK acting in it and has some god scares. Sit back and enjoy OVERALL 8/10 "},{"Title":"Should have said Jason returns.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well you guessed the masked killer the crazy Jason is back killing again. What does it take to keep a killer down like this? People with hockey mask must really be tough, perhaps the teens should have tried football equipment and tackle this hockey killer!! "},{"Title":"As Good As The Original!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, after Part V, I suppose anything would've pleased me.  But especially this.  This film made me feel 100% better.  Tommy Jarvis (from Part IV and V) just HAS to make sure Jason is dead.  He and a friend decide to dig up the grave just to make sure it's really true.  Jarvis sticks a big metal pole in Jason and poof!  Bad idea.  Lightening strikes the pole and resurrects Jason.  He then proceeds to kill Jarvis's friend and then heads for Camp Crystal Lake which has been peaceful ever since that night...  Tommy Jarvis then goes to the town to warn people.  He is arrested by the sheriff, but then the sheriff's daughter helps him out and...  Well acted by Thom Mathews and the other teens.  Nudity is kept to a minimum in this one, but the gore is just as strong.  The writing and directing is much better also.  This and Parts I and IV are my favorites in this series.  **1/2out of**** For the huge improvement over Part V, in EVERY way.  I hope the DVD is coming out soon!  "},{"Title":"One of the best!!","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"            Okay, you'd think that by the time they reach part six that they would be running out of ideas..not so, this is one of the best horror movies I've ever seen. The characters are likeable, and the music is great. Of course it's still just Jason slaughtering more teens, but in this one the death scenes are much more original.           After watching part 5 one might have given up on the series, but trust me after watching part 6 you will realize why you love watching Friday the 13th. "},{"Title":"WOWZERZ!?@$?@#@","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Tommy Jarvis accidently revives Jason, with expected results. Now, I have to shout, THIS MOVIE IS COOL!! It's a self spoof, and it's funny. Gory, fast-paced, entertaining, and funny. It's the best of the series, with a captivating female lead and a reluctant hero. I'm waiting for the DVD myself. Love Jason, to. He is practically un-stoppable with his machete.....***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"On All Fridays","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This series of horror movies is my second favorite series of all time. Second only to Phantasm.  If i had to rank them, i'd say 6, 2, 7, 5, 4, 3, 1, 8 and 9 as the last. However, i do like all of them almost equally.  I know that part 5, 8, and 9 get a lot of slack. I can see why some would say that 9 is bad because it goes against the original story of Jason, but i still think it's a good movie on its own. Maybe not a good sequel, but good none the less. Part 5 is actually the first one i ever saw.  I was 11 years old at the time.  So i didn't get it when the mask came off at the end (those who have seen it know what i mean). I still think part 5 was interesting, and a neat trick to bring back the series. There are a lot of so-called Friday fans who claim the series should've ended with 4. But if that happened then all the popularity of Jason wouldn't exist today. I doubt Todd McFarlane would have made a Jason figure, in fact i doubt the whole movie maniacs toy line would exist, without the many Friday sequels. I think they should keep making Friday movies for a long time.  They're fun to watch and that's the point. I do agree with people when they say they shouldn't promise a last sequel, when everyone knows they are going to make more. Final Chapter, acceptable, because they called part 5 A New Beginning, but Final Friday, give me a break.  Everyone knew the series would continue. Why put that obvious ending. To sum up, i just love the entire series and hope it continues. You can bet i will be the first in line for Jason X.  "}{"Title":"Its doesnt get any better than this!","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well,if you didnt like this one, then you wont like any of them. This is without a doubt the best F13 movie to date. Its just kicks ass on so many levels!first the acting. This is Friday the 13Th part 6. You wouldnt expect good acting. but you get it.Granted,its overacted sometimes, but this has the best acting of any of the F13's. Thom Mathews is great as Tommy Jarvis, the slightly wacked-out kid from part 4 and 5 . He gives a believable performance and is probably the best role the series has to offer. The slimy bad cop Sherrif Garris is nicely over-played by David Kagen but in a good way.The script is good too. Not only is this one of the only Friday the 13th movies where the dialogue is not clumsy and the plot is not full of more holes than Jason is by the end, but its funny too! Some of the deaths are played for laughs and the characters actually have personality. This is one of the few movies in the series where the charcters are not so annoying that you cheer as Jason impales them. The paintball players are a prime example of this. The whole scene is one big joke and it works perfectly with the bouncy army theme played with it.and Jason himself. I dont know why, but he seems really intense in this film. And more human too. Just the things he does in the film that are never matched by any of the others like the scene where he walks through the childrens cabin and kneeles beside the little girl and just watches her.like he is remembering his childhood.And that look he gives the camera when he hold up the arm of the paintaballer,like he gets the joke.There is just that little hint that Jason is still a human under that mask that is so subtle you almost miss it. C.J. Graham's subtle performance as Jason is almost as good as Kane Hodder's animalistic portrayal of Jason in the last few films.the deaths are simple yet extremely effective. they arent the ludicrously elaborate ones in the previous ones but they are done with style, something missing from all the other sequels. the tree face smashing death and the Winnebago scene are examples of this.then there are the creative deaths(*caution minor spoilers* one man is folded in half the wrong way so that his heels touch the back of his head and another has her face smashed so hard against the inside of a winnebago that her face leaves an imprint in the metal).But for me a big part of what makes this film so good is the suspense created by director Tom McLoughlin. Usually i just watch the F13 movies to see jason beat the crap out of a bunch of annoying college kids, but this time i was like look out!behind you! and it surprised me. This is one of the few movies in the series where there are genuinely suspenseful moments. There are some amazing sequences in here as well. The opening scene in the cemetary is one of the best openings for any horror movie i have seen.its just so intense and well directed and the pacing is great.The Jason scene in the Winnebago is cleverly crafted and even a bit humerous. Tom McLoughlin even manages to get the people to act.what? acting in a F13 movie? well, its no oscar performance but its good enough for low budget 80's trendy horror. and there is some good music in here too.what more can i say?this is as good as it gets.if you dont like this one then theres no hope of liking any of them.        "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this sequel! It's the best of the Friday the 13th series. It has lots of comic relief, good horror scenes, likable characters, self-referential humor, and Alice Cooper music! This movie rules! I hope Jason X will turn out like this one rather than something like Friday The 13th Part 4 (very boring and stupid)Rated AA 14+ (In Canada) for brief strong brutal violence, coarse language and some sexuality. "},{"Title":"Jason is back, and this time it`s scary","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday part 6 is a totally other world compared to part 5. While part 5 is boring and has no soul, part 6 is a documentary on how making sequels a success!Jason Lives brings us back to Crystal Lake, where it all began and where it all should stop in the end (that is if there is one).This time, there is no talking.  Jason is angry and they`re all in his way!The thing about this one is that Jason is hiding all the time, you can barely see him. But when you do, it seems ruthless and breathtakingly scary! It seems that Jason has learned from part 4, he knows what his victims go through, he just doesn't care.As I mentioned, part 6 takes us back to Crystal Lake, which is wonderful for us loyal fans. We see how the people have changed and the buildings have changed, but the woods are still dark as they used to.The movie shows Jason from a different side compared to part 1-4.I highly recommend this movie.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Well its a start","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well this is a start.This movie did what the last one did not do. Jason was in this movie so I take it as apology that part 5 was a rip off and insulted the fans everywhereThe acting was ok. The story was even better. This is how Part 5 should have been.Anyways CJ Graham did a really good job as Jason. He's the best Jason ever,Anyways see this movie. >  "},{"Title":"It´s not just the best sequal, it´s the best Friday movie!!!","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I think this the best Friday movie, because in this one, Jason becomes the unstoppable killing machine he is today. Also, the movie actually has a decent plot, that isn´t just about sex, blood, gore, sex, sex and sex. You can really see that the writer has put some of his blood, sweat & tears in to the script and not written it on his lunchbreak. I recommend this to everyone who like good horror movies (even though this ain´t so terrifying). "},{"Title":"My favorite of the sequels","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I think this is by far the best movie in the Friday series. I can enjoy all of these slasher movies, but this is the one that pleases me the most. There is a lot of gore and a killer soundtrack with music by Alice Cooper. Thom Matthews (of Return of the Living Dead fame) makes a memorable performance as a grown-up Tommy Jarvis (from parts 4 & 5). The death sequences are intense and unique. I really like the characters Sissy and Paula (you actually feel sorry for them when they get knocked off). I especially like the fact that this time there are actually young kids at the summer camp. I have absolutely no complaints about this movie. A+ "},{"Title":"I must say","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I must say that this is possibly the best one in the entire series.  the thing that made this one work was that it had bits and parts of comedy along with the slashing and they chose the correct actor to play Jason, if anybody saw the movie highway to hell, he played hellcop.  This fifth sequel was entertaining, funny, gruesome, and the timing was right, to all the cast and crew i say way to go "},{"Title":"The most kills in the series","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason Voorhees is back..... and he is mad this time, not only is this the return of the hockey mask wearing maniac but it is the only movie in the Friday the 13th series in which Jason`s victim list nearly reaches the big 20. The story is pretty weak though but the killing scenes are pretty cool and some are elaborate. Not the best sequel but not the worst, I give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Interest is lacking","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jason returns from the machete-to the-head from Part IV and hallucinations of Part V. Jason has his awesome outfit from previous movies, but the score loses the moody feel, the previous movies had. And even though zombie-Jason rules, the earlier movies are the most entertaining. Though the last 20 minutes of Part VIII is very entertaining. And the beginning of Part IX is very entertaining. There are entertaining elements in this movie, but the feel of the earlier movies is lost. This was right around the time, Freddy Vs. Jason was first being mentioned.  "},{"Title":"Good sequel","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason, reanimated after his grave was hit by lightening, goes on another slicing spree. Tommy Jarvis is the hero who tries to hunt him down.This film, while no world beater, is helped to no end by a frantic pace and a dark streak of humour that generates a lot of laughs. The finale is also a lot better than exepected. Amongst the best in this series.RATING **1/2 (Out of four) "}{"Title":"Lightning gives life to Jason and a series","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Yes people, it's the 6th in the series, and one of the best. It has some OK characters and some characters were their simply to just fill space and well...die. I seem to agree with others who say that this entry has a different feeling to it, and its campy. The humor, for me, was hard to find when i was a kid(not so long ago) because i was too scared to pay attention. Then there's the gory murders, which I think are almost as grusome as most others(the triple decapitation, double impalment on a motorcycle, face through the wall which made an imprint, a good one ), etc.) But this seemed to be the one where jason was more menacing, and mean, and cruel. Then came VII, which I also thought was good, along with VIII, but Jason goes to hell was kinda disappointing, which leads me to my philosophy of the Friday FansThe Friday Fans I think, are of two types, 1)the type who likes the first 4, and hated the last 5, 2) the type who may or may not have liked the first 4, but like the last 4 better or at least the sixth one(few like the 5th). I am one of the second types. What Im trying to say is that I liked this one better than the others, except the first one because after all, it was the Original. but Im also one in favor for 7 and 8(look up my reviews on those if u care or dare haha )But anyway I liked this one over all and found it quite entertaining if not following the formula of a slasher.   "},{"Title":"Scary as hell","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The 6th part to the Friday the 13th series is a real blinder. Part 5, to be nice, was not the greatest film ever seen. Part 6 however sees the return of classic movie killer Jason Voorhees. The horror starts as soon as the film does with the thunder, lightning, spooky music effect. Cliched but with the lights off scares the living daylights out of you. OK if you hate horror films you are going to hate this but if you like horror films this is a must! Plenty of killing in this one, maybe not as much as in previous Friday`s but still many gruesome scenes. I loved this film and would recommend it to any lover of the horror genre. In conclusion it is a cliched horror movie which I absolutely love! "},{"Title":"The best","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Really good. I don't know why, but this one seems to be more interesting and better than the others. Although I feel that this didn't fill the gore quota, however Alice Cooper's music makes up and takes place where there would be some kind of crappy, generic music.  "},{"Title":"A high point of the series.","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Tommy and a friend go to Jason's grave and exhume the killer to make sure he really is dead.  But lightning is attracted to the metal fence-post Tommy stabs into the corpse in a rage and Jason is brought back to life.The series had at this point pulled itself up from the depths that were the first Friday the 13th films.  Part 6 is one of the best.  Tommy makes a good hero, the storyline is well-paced and entertaining and there are a multitude of interesting characters rather than just brainless teenagers (although there are a few of those).  Overall, however, this is a great film, and has a very well-made feel about it. "},{"Title":"One Of the Best!","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Although I have not seem parts 2,3, and Jason Goes to Hell I think this one is the very best because it has a really cool triple decapitation and more great killings, no nudity in this one though for the perverts who watch it for that reason. It has some scares and awesome beginning where Jason comes back to life with maggots and worms all over him, also some suspense in the beggining were Tommy is in the grave when we know Jason is alive. Also a cool title beginning that reminds me of a James Bond movie, how about you? Tommy the kid that was evil in the end of parts 4 and 5 is somehow good again that's what messes up the plot some but otherwise this is still a cool movie, especially the ending with the boat, were Tommy and Jason battle it out where Tommmy attempts to put a stop to Jason forever, but we all know that's not possible!!! "},{"Title":"best friday yet!","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was great.  I love it in the movie when Jason punches that one dude and goes right through him.  That was killer.  Tommy is cool .. He is not a loser like he was in the last two.  The first Friday was pathetic , but this was more than great.  You get gore, and could get scared.  Best Friday yet.... I give it 8 /10 = A "},{"Title":"A great return to the rotten part 5....","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday 13th Part 5 made me feel like any sequel onwards would be just as bad or worse...But that aint the case here,this a good return to the series,and this time Jasons Back!!!The acting was suprisingly pretty good...Worth the look!My ratings...Acting - 3.0 / 5.0 Actors - 2.5 / 5.0 Script - 3.0 / 5.0 Display- 3.0 / 5.0 Gore   - 2.5 / 5.0 Suspense-2.5 / 5.0 Music   -2.5 / 5.0 Overall -2.5 / 5.0 C+  "},{"Title":"An unexpected highpoint in the series.","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Even though I've been rather tolerant of the Friday series, parts 4 and 5 were so lame I'd almost given up. I'm glad I kept going, because I would have missed this fun entry.Since virtually all of the Friday films have the same plots, characters, sets, e.t.c, it's kind of difficult to pinpoint the exact elements that make one film good, and another one bad. That's probably the reason why fans of this series can argue for days about which films are good and bad. The factors that make this watchable are VERY subtle.First, there's the opening bit, the old evil monster gets resurrected in the spooky graveyard amidst a raging thunderstorm gambit. Just seeing the main character digging up Jason's grave as the rain and lightning crashes around him, I felt a warm glow inside.And unlike the last film where the humor was needlessly mean-spirited and was focused on the gross main characters (it was kind of like Jason killing the cast of Police Academy), here the humor is not as cheap, dealing instead with the concept of the film. I found myself chuckling through the majority of this as Jason pretty much has a fun time dispatching the ALMOST likeable characters.If you've never seen one of these films, I would recommend you start here, as it's fun. Although you'll probably start at the beginning and work your way up. God help you. "},{"Title":"Finally, after two dumb movies like the part 4 and 5, we have a decent Friday the 13th !!!!!!","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The movie began when Tommy Jarvis ( AGAIN ) goes to a cemetery with his friend, look for Jason's tumule to certificate that he's really dead ! ( What a borried kid, let the guy sleep alone ! ). A thunder falls  right in Jason's tumule, what brings him back to life. Jason kill Tommy's friend, but Tommy escapes and runs to a police station to warn the cops that Jason is alive, but no one believes in him, everybody in the town thinks he's crazy, and worse, the cops arrest him !!!! Meanwhile, the sheriff's daughter and her frieds are re-open Crystal Lake like instructors with another name, to receive million of kids for the summer. Guess who's gonna appear ???? Now, Tommy has to escape to save the childrens and the teenagers life, but how he will do that ? Well, watch the movie, you think i'm gonna tell u ????? "},{"Title":"Phew! Back on track","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nice to see a little humour being applied to the series, I was getting a bit fed up of the same cat jumping out of the cupboard/body thrown through the window antics that the series had settled down to. The characters here are pretty much likeable cannon fodder, the killings are fairly inventive but again YOUR MPAA spoilt the fun. Blimey there wasn't even any gore left for our own censors to take a pair of scissors to.The 3rd best in the series (1 & 4 being the others) "}{"Title":"the best friday movie","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this is far and away the best in the series of friday movies.  This movie has it all , gore, action, suspense and humor.. This is the last movie made before the series went down the toilet.  There is a good storyline here and Tommy actually has a pulse in this one.also be sure to watch for some of the best jason-killings, in their full violentic gore.  A must see for all horror and friday fans.  "},{"Title":"My first Friday, I like it!","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the first FT13th movie, and I really liked it. Jason is a good maniac (not as good as the original Freddy though). And the makers seem to have left him alone over the course of the series and not tried to make him into some kind of lovable weakling like they did with poor Freddy after part 2 of ANOE. He IS evil, he WILL kill you, he WON`T make any wisecracks. And the bodycount was quite high, and that´s why we watch these movies isn´t it? I will watch more Fridays when I get the chance, that´s for sure! "},{"Title":"The Best F13 Sequel to Date!","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In my honest opinion, this is the best sequel to date.  Tommy is the best in this one because he's not some weakling geek like in the past two films. This one has a great storyline, some good death scenes, and some cool special effects for Jason's return from the dead.  C.J. Graham plays one of the best Jasons and is right up there with Kane Hodder (parts 7-9).  Plus the songs from Alice Cooper makes this a great one overall!  Although the death scenes may not as elaborate as those in some others, this one is a good one overall, and it's good at the end to show that he's still 'alive' so-to-speak.  Long live 'the Man Behind the Mask' (Jason & the song). "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this movie","Date":"28 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie start of with tommy and his friend digging up Jason grave and they find him and then Tommy picks a stick and stabs him with it and then lighting hit the stick that bring Jason back to life and them kills his best he a really gory away.Tommy runs to police station and tells what happened and he get himself into a lot of trouble with the police.Back at camp there are few teenager look after small kids for the holidays.The deaths scenes were okay but were not as gory as the other movies.This has so much more humour and it not as dark as the others one (I did laugh a lot at the jokes and there no nudity in this movie at all.The acting was really good from most (not all) of cast even the little kids were good.I Would have been happy if the series ended like this. i give this 6/10 "},{"Title":"The final chapter of the final chapter....","Date":"6 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This series is not getting any stars from me anymore. Not even half a star....Not any different than all the other Friday the 13th films with a ton of kids getting killed right after they have sex....With all the missing persons at Crystal Lake I am surprised people still want to go there and spend their summers. But they still do and Jason either comes back to life by rising from the dead or disappearing into the woods only to come back later and kill some more. Does this film really need to be reviewed? I mean just think of all the Friday the 13th films you have seen and that is pretty much the same thing as all the others....except in this one its just a new crop of kids. Hmmm it was the final chapter, then The New Blood and now Jason lives.....Whatever...I am done with this... "},{"Title":"One of the best sequels to a horror series!","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's been years since Tommy Jarvis (Thom Matthews) exterminated Jason Voorhees (CJ Graham) for good and he is still haunted by that night he slaughtered him. He decides to go back to Crystal Lake Town where his remains are buried and make sure his body is cremated but unfortunately he accidentally brings him back to life like Frankenstein through a pole in his chest thus making him into a powerful and very strong zombie-like creature that is hard to kill and is out for more senseless killing. Tommy tries to convince the local sheriff (David Kagen) that Jason is back from the dead but doesn't believe in him as the daughter Megan (Jennifer Cooke) does believe in him. The camp has reopened for business for everyone wants to forget those tragedies as the nightmare has returned for another round of butchering.Truly awesome installment of the wickedly cool Friday The 13th saga! this is one of the best installment thanks to a sharp sense of dark humor, an Alice Cooper soundtrack and an early appearance by Tony Goldwyn. After the last movie didn't satisfy the fans due to no appearance of the real Jason in the last movie when they intended to have a different killer in each sequel but the makers decided to bring Jason back from the dead. There's some awesome gory murders such as the infamous triple decapitation to the screwdriver murder.This one will satisfy the viewer into a fun and ghastly funhouse of thrills. "},{"Title":"Probably My Favourite of the Series.","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" God, this is a great mindless horror movie. This seems to be the part of the series where they just decided Look, people don't watch these movies to be scared anymore, they watch them to see Jason cause carnage. So what do they do? Well for the most part they forget about the type of scenes where they hear a noise, and it turns out to be a cat or something like that. Then they throw in a bunch of corny humour, and last but certainly not least, bring back our man Jason and throw all his limitations out the window. Sounds like the perfect recipe to me.Yes, it has the most ridiculous plot so far in the movie, (Remind me to write in my will that before burying me, I want my family to have me struck by lightning a few times and see if that helps) but who really cares? It's all part of the fun. It was offering something new to the series. As much as I love the other movies, most of them were all pretty similar in terms of plot, with characters that were hard to distinguish from one another, to me anyway. Sure the movies were all different in a couple of ways, but they still had a fair few similarities. Bunch of teens in a secluded area getting picked off one by one. Sure Jason Lives sort of has that, but it's a much smaller part of the movie. A New Beginning tried something new, but it didn't really pay off for them. The thing about the other movies were they were essentially about the killer taking out the people for most the movie. The minor exception to that rule was The Final Chapter, which contained some awareness to the situation, but even that came under that profile for the most part. Jason Lives seems to focus more on the fight against Jason. There are characters who know what he is doing from the start.Another thing I like about the movie is the fact that the kills seem a lot cooler to me. Normally you would just see characters see Jason, have a scared look on their face and get killed. Or a character killed so fast they probably wouldn't even realise that they are being killed. It's not a major problem but it wasn't really what I wanted to see every time. Now scenes in the range of someone firing rounds of shotgun shells into Jason is more like it. The movie has removed a fair few of the Friday the 13th series, such as bare breasts and drug use. It seems like they really wanted to offer the fans something new, and I feel that they really succeeded with this movie. There is lots of awesome and pointless violence, heaps of lame jokes, and an awesome soundtrack (Alice Cooper! Hell yeah!) and just plain Jason being awesome. This is not a movie to watch if you want to be challenged intellectually or anything. It's a movie you watch when you want some mindless entertainment. "},{"Title":"Comedic twist to the series - WARNING SPOILERS!","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 6 takes the series into a more comedic direction - not taking itself overly seriously.The plot evolves around Tommy Jarvis and his quest to put Jason out of existence forever. However - he accidentally revives Jason - who consequently goes on a camp counselor blood bath.The acting is bearable, the gore isn't all that (compared to other entries) - and there isn't the usual emphasis on Jason slashing naked teenagers (only 1 teenage couple get the axe!). Also - the two virgin-esque girls get killed off whilst the heroine of the movie (Megan) - is more flirty and dangerous.I think Thom Matthews is badly cast (he was good in Return of the Living Dead - but horrible here!).Not the best in the series - but not all that bad either. "},{"Title":"Jason officially becomes the Knight of the Living Dead","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Tommy Jarvis (Thomas Mathews) is back, and he's still haunted by   nightmares of Jason Voorhees (here played by CJ Graham). In an attempt   to purge himself of the nightmares, Tommy digs up Jason's grave with   the intention of setting it on fire, but the idiot stabs Jason first   with a big long poll and the poll acts as a lightning rod, and the   lightning resurrects Jason. After that, Jason, now a zombie, goes on   another killing spree at the re-titled Camp Forest Hill or something,   but to him its still Camp Crystal Lake. Tommy tries to get help from   the sheriff, but the cops all think he's crazy... it gets personal for   the sheriff when his idiot daughter falls in love/lust with Tommy.     Well, heads fly, blood spews, Tommy nearly drowns trying to trap Jason   at the bottom of Camp Crystal Lake, but he's saved by Megan (the   sheriff's daughter). Jason remains at the bottom of the lake until   being resurrected as Kane Hodder in #7 by Lar Park Lincoln.     Easily one of the weaker Friday films, along with Part 5. It's great to   actually have Jason back, but CJ Graham isn't a very impressive Jason;   he had the walk down pat, but despite being 6'3 and weighing around   200 lbs he looks too lean to be a mean killing machine. Film is often   unintentionally hilarious, despite the 80s charm.    The kids were a nice touch, and there's that funny Alice Cooper song. "},{"Title":"The machete's back and so is Tommy. Get ready for Jason vs. Tommy II!","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You can never keep a good psycho down. Jason's back after taking a well deserved breather. Those fools keep on trying to reopen Camp Crystal Lake disturbing Jason's beauty sleep. Tommy's back to end his nightmares about Jason. The two decide to settle the score once and for all. Sounds better than it was. Movie's pretty lame. However if you must watch. Don't say I didn't warn you!D "}{"Title":"He's ALIVE","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th part 6 Jason lives i think wasn't a bad movie. We've got the answer and yes jason is Alive, but how that was happened was that Jarvis accidently brought him back to life, so here we go again, a 6th round and this time Jarvis has to kill him again. I give this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Wow number 2","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, it was better than 5. Tommy is back only now he is played by yet a different actor and all those annoying quirks of being a mental case are now gone and he is a normal human being. Also, all that about Jason being cremated in Part 5, turns out to not be true, as at the start of the movie Tommy and Arnold Horseshack do something Ben Franklin never thought of. Rasing the dead via lightening, although it wasn't their original plan.Anyway, Tommy goes on a quest to save the campers at, Crystal Lake (renamed Forest Green) from Jason's wrath. Although if he wouldn't have shocked him back to life they wouldn't need to be saved. So, in the end Tommy is really the butthole here, not Jason.But the butthole gets this really hot blonde chick who is supposed to be 17 or 18 even though she looks like she's in her middle 20's at least.Now of course the police don't believe Tommy and a bunch of people die. This time though the director went a different direction. Instead of getting to know any of our victims outside of one of them, we rarely see them until they are brutally slaughtered.Except for one couple and who have sex to whatever the beat the music they listen to is at (also the female clearly has mental issues, thinking a guy can hold it in for 10 minutes).Anyway, Jason is big bad and scary and the director is a moron. Instead of not letting us see Jason until his kills people, we follow Jason as he kills them. This way any possible suspense or terror is completely eliminated. 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"bad movie, cool killings","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" really bad, but what do you expect its a Friday the 13th movie, but it is a bad Friday the 13th sequel. but it does have cool killings. jason comes to life by tommy who goes to make sure jason is dead by nailing his jason's corpse with a pole and lightening strikes jason and hes alive. he gets tommy's hockey mask that he brought and then tommy leaves . those of you who don't know tommy he is a boy(grown up in this movie) who killed jason in the previous Friday the 13th movies. after jason comes alive and kills tommy's friend tommy goes and tells the police (like i said tommy leaves) . the sheriff thinks hes crazy and locks tommy up because he does not want him scaring people. then tommy gets out by the sheriff's daughter and tommy goes to crystal lake to try to stop jason. the acting is bad. the plot is bad but like i said what do you expect. the killings knife through guys head, jason's machete goes through a couple on a motorcycle, jason chops three heads off at once. Rated R for Strong Violence and some Gruesome Images, Sexuality, and some Language "},{"Title":"Zzz...","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" My, my. The Friday the 13th series is definitively a thing to put on my official Why I dislike the 80's-list. In his no-brainer Jason is back from the dead (again) and still thinks it's funny to kill idiots. Well like in any other movie in this series there are a lot of idiots and yeah, most get killed too. The bodycount is still pretty disappointing, landing somewhere around 15, the gore is almost non-existent, the plot is as weak as you might expect and for once there's not even any boobs to be seen.The beginning is about the only thing in this movie that doesn't make you fall asleep, mainly because of some stupid gags and a particularly funny James Bond imitation by Jason.Otherwise this is as boring as a horror movie can get.2/10 "},{"Title":"STUPID, STUPID TOMMY","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Stupid, Stupid Tommy. He goes to see if Jason is really dead and accidently bring him back to life. This was an un needed sequel to a series that went on too long. But I don't mind them bringing him back because he is the best horror movie killer of all time. The movie contains some average murders and a not so geeky Tommy again trying to beat Jason. From here on in the series begins to go on a down fall (jason takes manhattan is alright)  "},{"Title":"Amusing at first, ultimately tedious.","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part VI begins by taking the whole Jason legend in an entirely different direction in the pre-title sequence Jason imitates James Bond (!) and there are a few other self-spoofing scenes to follow. In the first part, the film often approaches the style of a slapstick comedy! I've never been a fan of the early Friday entries (especially of the terrible Final Chapter), so I had no trouble in enjoying those moments. But eventually the usual monotony sets in, the killings are standard and the movie becomes tediously repetitive. This film has a huge body count - so huge, in fact, that many of the victims don't even get to introduce themselves before they get decapitated. "},{"Title":"BETTER THAN IT'S REP SUGGESTS","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It was the most professionally one so far when it was made and they stopped using that awful grainy film. But they still lacked it in the scriptwriting dept. The same old trash with bad dialogue and teens finding some dumb reason to walk off into the woods and get killed. A few neat sequences and some elaborate deaths redeem it. Just don't count how many goofs there are. You'll be watching all day if you do. "},{"Title":"You're all right - this was a mega comeback!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Absolute ripper of a sequel probably the best of the series - not bad for a 6th instalment. So what's with this insane user-rating of 4.3??? 6.3 would be somewhat more in keeping!Everything worked here.  OK Jason's resurrection was pushing back the boundaries of disbelief...but 50 million people wanted him back, who was going to care HOW they did it? (even a fall back on the old Part V was really a dream concept would have satisfied everyone.)Tommy Jarvis, now played by Thom Matthews came into his own as a teen hero and CJ Graham was probably the best Jason to date. Part 6 marked the onset of Jason Voorhees as an unkillable super-human, a role modified and taken to new levels by stunt-man Kane Hodder in parts 7 - 10.Plenty of humor, action, tension and good sexy fun. Easily one of the best! "},{"Title":"They don't make them like this anymore...","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  and for that, I am eternally thankful. By the time the FT13 franchise got to six episodes, it was plumbing such depths that it couldn't even bring a memorable kill to the table. Like the previous five films, part six recycles so many plot elements from each other, and other, more creative films, to the extent that one can forget which episode they are watching after a while. Part six doesn't even try to be original. It's a simple case of Jason getting resurrected, killing a few people, then getting killed again.Even the kills are not unique enough to be fun anymore. We've seen it all before, and the other staples of the FT13 series have been stripped back to such an extent that they cannot compensate. The sex quotient of this episode basically consists of sticking the camera in the female lead's lap, and the actors are wooden enough to make Keanu Reeves seem expressive.Speaking of the actors, they're an irritating bunch this time around. It's no easy task to be a secondary antagonist, but the whole where the red dot goes exchange, among other things, just turns one off the characters in an instant. It might have worked if there had been some setup, or moments when the characters don't seem like complete bastards, but sadly, the makers neglected to add this to the script. The most developed character in the entire film is Jason himself, and given that his entire backstory was developed in the first two episodes of the franchise, that's not saying very much.As an experiment, trying naming the ways in which the cast are killed off during this episode. I can only remember one, and the manner in which it was realized does not make it all that interesting. I'm not even sure that I'm remembering something from another episode and transferring it to this one. Believe me, this episode needs all the help it can get.Not surprisingly, the cast of this film have never acted in anything that could vaguely be described as above this level before or since. As a further exercise, try naming anyone who acts in this film. It's like trying to name the cast of a menswear commercial. That basically summarises the entire film. It is a waste of eighty-six minutes of your life, from which you will literally remember nothing, even if you watch it as part of a group.I gave Friday The 13th Part VI a one out of ten. I felt that I was being generous.  "},{"Title":"Best Friday movie after part 4","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought the Friday the 13th movies should have stopped after the fourth movie which was subtitled The Final Chapter. The fifth film, subtitled A New Beginning, was a disaster. However the sixth film to follow, Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives, was an improvement over part 5. And it's still better than the other films that followed afterward, making it the best Friday the 13th movie after The Final Chapter. This movie is just the same old stuff that we saw in the earlier movies Jason Voorhees stalks and kills people around Camp Crystal Lake (which has been renamed Forest Green for this film). So, big deal. To Jason it will always be Camp Crystal Lake no matter what. The question is how many people Jason will kill and how he does them in. But this film has one major element that the other movies in the series lacks, and that is humor. The humor is handled very well here, and it helps the film to be much better than it could have been. Plus one thing that I was glad to see once in a Friday the 13th movie, none of the characters using drugs for a change. However, those elements can't make Friday the 13th Part VI a masterpiece. It doesn't even top the first couple movies in the series. It's all too familiar with all the violence and gore. And therefore, I have to give Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives thumbs down. But not a big thumbs down like Friday the 13th Part V A New Beginning or any of the movies that followed this one. It has some good things working for it. As far as the acting goes Jennifer Cooke is pretty good (and very attractive) as the heroine, but David Kagan comes off very annoying as her father the sheriff.** (out of four)  "}{"Title":"I knew it....","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It was just too good to last.So, Tommy was just having an episode at the end of the last movie and he inadvertently brings Jason back to life in this one.  Looks that way in Part VI, where Jason rises from the grave to lay waste to the teenage wasteland.Paramount Pictures, Tom McLaughlin, Harry Manfredini, and everyone else that had even passing involvement in this film should all be dragged out into the street, tied onto the bumper of a Greyhound and driven out into the middle of the ocean.  Can you tell I'm not a fan?You want to know the only point of interest in this entire film?  Horshack (Palillo) from Welcome Back, Kotter gets offed.  That's it. No stars.  What a big, huge, elephantine waste of time.  Jason, buddy, you shoulda stayed down. "},{"Title":"A step-up from Jason 5","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, JASON LIVES is not as good as people says it is. Friday THE 13th - PART VI JASON LIVES does resurrect Jason Voorhees, which is amazing. But this film does not even have the same feel of the first four films, or even the fifth film for that matter. It is low budget like the rest, but it seems more sophisticated and humorous.Friday THE 13th films aren't supposed to funny and smart at all. They are supposed to be gory, scary, messy and gritty horror fun. Something about this frustrates me the wrong way about this one.Tommy Jarvis accidentally brings Jason to life while trying to dig up his body. Eventually, Jason starts killing some random people in the area and the keystone cops automatically blame Tommy. Meanwhile, a group of young camp counselors are setting up for the kids. Jason, of course, attacks the camp and kills some more people in the process.I will explain the things I like from this film. I like it goes back to the camp setting. The first two were about camp counselors getting killed by Jason. I like the spooky atmospheric scenes with the woods. And I like the music and visuals in the film and the original theme composed by Harry Manfredini.The things I don't like about this movie is that it is over-hyped as one of the best Jason movies, better than the first 4 Jason films according to some people. It does not have the feel of a Friday THE 13th film. The officers are as stupid as hell in this franchise. And why in the hell did they change the camp from Camp Crystal Lake to Camp Forest Green?Also, the one thing I don't like is the Zombie Jason, he is just way too over-creepy for this film and I think there are some good parts in the film, especially the kill sequences that Jason has in this film.Overall, this film is a step-up from the previous installment, but definitely not as good as it is said to be, but I can still watch it on Halloween month.4.5 / 10 "},{"Title":"I've got the whole Enchillada...","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th part 6 is not a passable film. The acting is terrible at times, most of the dialogue is laughable, and the kills lack suspense. It has a high production value but they repeat the same formula over and over. The character motivations here are very questionable-mostly in the beginning. Whats up with those cops? A guy races in looking for help and you threaten him with a revolver? Saved from a lower ranking solely on artistic merit and Jennifer Cooke. Its an improvement over part 5, but that film was so bad even I could produce something better than with knowledge from some intro film courses I took in college. "},{"Title":"More comedy than horror, feeble comedy at that *my Top 50 Turkeys*","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Thin on plot is to be expected, this being no.6 of course we should hope for nothing more. 'Jason Lives' just about says it all he's back, and he's killing again, and we don't need an earth-shatteringly deep explanation. What we do need, though, is good horrific kill scenes. The only consolation in such a lamely scripted and acted franchise as this, quite frankly, is in enjoying the parade of irksome and dumb teenagers getting killed off. Unfortunately what we get is a series of partial views of the kills, containing ketchup-blood that would do 60s movies proud. We get how he does in each victim, but we don't see it through or even glimpse it in any way that feels convincing. It's simply not powerful enough to shock OR entertain (whatever your disposition is to horror), and any self-respecting horror fan feels defrauded. It might scare somebody under 10 years of age, but in these times of 13-year-olds 'laughing' at The Exorcist (I've witnessed such), a crock of formula vomit such as this just does not cut it.It's infuriating, soon boring (I couldn't care less what became of the leads by half way through), and in all seriousness I believe it's the type of film that should be banned if we must ban anything, since by such inept and skittish efforts to portray killing it cheapens human life and is a completely inadequate outlet for the dark side of our souls - which is the purpose of good horror fiction. "},{"Title":"he's back, the man behind the mask","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I already had so much to say about the Friday flicks and still I can't believe how it could find so many fans. The aren't bad but still, there is much better. But I notice that I'm always opening with that statement. Again, it starts of pretty well with the resurrection of Jason Voorhees but once he's out there and he starts to kill you could tell, again, where's the red stuff. Again, killings are done off-camera. The story is going more and more away from the Crystal Lake storyline and Jason is more and more a monster with supernatural powers. Another thing that was left out is the nudity, one of the things that most of the fans require in a Friday flick. Again, if you watch it on his own it could pass the mine of horror but into the franchise it's getting worser and worser but still, people came watching the series. The music here is mostly from Alice Cooper. I still can remember that I bought the album (CD's weren't yet invented!)but hearing it know it is also a bit out of date. But the best Jason for many (Kane Hodder) was knocking at hell's door to enter and giving Jason a new way of looking (you know, slanting his head before killing). "},{"Title":"What *were* you gonna be, when you grew up?","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Tommy(recast, as the other guy became born-again, opting for a mass-murderer of higher reputation, Yahwe... and the new dude has an amusing accent, and broods a little) isn't certain that the ol' goalie is really dead(in fact, Jason Lives, as the title puts it... for no readily apparent reason, as the headline of a newspaper review from back then added, *hilarious*), so he goes to dig him up, accidentally bringing him back to life(I hate when that happens). The camp(that actually has children now) is opening again, and guess where the now reanimated killer of now superhuman strength is headed? Ah, but this time, Jarvis Junior is on his trail, and he has a plan to take him down for good. Finally we have actual plot in this series, and it really makes a difference. The nemesis kind of thing going on, while our hero is held back by clichéd occurrences, raises this above the others where you're just watching the body-count go up. This doesn't have stalking, and we see the badass butcher the most out of any of these up to this point, yet he remains terrifying... he's like nitroglycerin, unstable and you don't know when he'll explode. He has no trouble taking out people and goes through them like a hot knife... butter... yeah, you know what I mean. The death scenes are memorable if not necessarily creative, and there's hardly any gore(some violence, and lots of blood... there isn't nudity either, if one sex scene), you usually merely see the wound afterwards. No, it tends to be sound effects and the performances that sells it. There aren't many FX. The pacing isn't bad, and we get a creepy opening and a cool and different climax. This is 80 minutes sans credits, and it's entertaining throughout. The humor has its moments, when it isn't intolerably silly and/or trying way too hard. Characters and acting are OK. The editing and filming is the best yet, with some downright nice sequences. This and the 3rd are the ones worth the time investment of the ones I've seen so far. The DVD comes with a cool theatrical trailer. I recommend this to any fan of the franchise and of slasher flicks in general. 6/10 "},{"Title":"part VI? what a BEEP!","Date":"14 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" What's all this? Part VI seems to be happening as if part V never took place. Okay, the way Jason can come back to life is probably the coolest return in the whole series. The actors, however, are not that cool, and the actresses portray women as whores. No wonder many feminists were so angry on this movie (but, in fact, they were mad on the whole series, for not portraying female characters with more intelligence). This sort of horror movies - also known as slashers - let the audience see that women are sluts. Itis but to wonder if it really was (and is) so, or that it's all based on the thesis that guys are heroes and girls not (as in Temple of Doom). The women in this particular picture are portrayed stupid and dumb. They do idiotic things, like shooting paint on men with guns in their hands for fun. Yeah, that's really funny... What's also funny is the kind of humor in this film (sarcastic laugh) with only one cut, Jason beheads three of his victims at once. Pretty sharp sword, I would say.The cemetery scenes show us the horrors that await the characters, with fences around the graves (yes, you see them everywhere nowadays) to hold the dead in a cage, safely buried under the ground. If the young people 'visit' the cemetery, they break the cage of the dead, and by that, they give Jason a free card to go on killing the living after his death. Alcohol on a graveyard could mean the opposite of what we see, that the living are caged in the land of the dead. Because Jason lives, as the title says, it is probably that we are dead, or that we are maybe supposed to die.The few nudity scenes in part VI are worthless, you can't see anything in focus. So because there aren't any good nudity scenes in it, we must concentrate on the real horror in this movie.Since part V ended with a stupid death sequence that could hardly be called creepy (die! die! die!), it was actually a good idea of the director to do as if it never happened. But if part V never occurred, how did Tommy get the hockey mask of Jason in his possession? If part IV ended like it did, I would suppose the police put the mask safely away in a vault somewhere on the police bureau or something, unless Tommy's big sister would help her kid brother to hide that mask from the police. But why would she do something like that? Especially because she didn't return in part VI? Why??? 'Jason lives'? No, he dies almost every time, but he still manages to come back like Chucky or Freddy. "},{"Title":"Awesome Jason Film!","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Awesome Jason Film! That's really the first time I'm able to say those words about this series of movies. But, this one really was pure entertainment. Friday the 13th recovers itself into a chilling horror film after giving us the atrocious Part 5. Jason is scary again, introducing the supernatural element that puts no limits on what could happen next. All the deaths were more creative than what we have ever seen from these films.This movie succeeded in special effects and having a well written story. We need another Friday film with the same person writing and directing, it certainly works out here. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Fridays","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This Friday was probably my favorite besides the original of course. It has a strong plot with some really cool death scenes. The acting is actually pretty good compared to all of the other ones. Thom Matthews makes a good cut for Tommy Jarvis. Also I like the setting of this one. It's not like one big cabin and and a small lake in front of it like in part 3. This actually looks like it would be the REAL camp crystal lake. Also there's really cool things that Jason does that really make you fear him. This movie does have a bit of gore in it. But not to much so you'll throw up. Jason uses a variety of different weapons like a pole, a knife, an arrow, and of course his beloved machete. But he also uses his own bare hands in a couple of scenes. So once again this is one of my if not favorite Friday. I would recommend it to any Friday fan or just horror fan. "},{"Title":"The best Friday? Perhaps...","Date":"7 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There can be no denying the cult status of the original Friday the 13th. Or even, for that matter, its two sequels. This sequel separates itself from its predecessors in its tongue in cheek approach to horror movie clichés and clever cinematic techniques. Homages to Nightmare on Elm Street, Frankenstein etc., are controlled well without relying on previous horror tradition.One thing that separates this is perhaps its pure enjoyable nature. This film is amazingly fun to watch and well acted. At some point, when I come to watch he film again, I will give a point-by-point analysis of why this film has such a place in my heart. Until then, suffice to say - excellent kills, sufficiently good acting, a well-shot film, and cleverly directed (watch for the breaking of the forth wall...tres pretentious) "}{"Title":"Another great F13","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed this movie as much as the last. Here we follow Tommy Jarvis again. The 5th movie doesn't seem to exist in this one, but that doesn't make it any less good. This movie tried to mix in some comedy it seems, I thought the 5th movie was funny, this one wasn't bad either. This movie had some interesting kills, as well as a few random but brilliant scenes. Plus, Tommy Jarvis is played by Thom Mathews, who starred in the awesome Return of the Living Dead, and its awesome sequel Return of the Living Dead II. He didn't even seem like the same person in those movies (notice how I said person not people, ROTLD fans will know what I mean). Plus there were some actors in this movie I had actually seen in other movies. Like Thom, Alan Blumenfeld (Larry the paintball guy), Tony Goldwyn (Darren the head counselor), Nancy McLoughlin (Lizbeth, his girlfriend I guess). My biggest grievance is the guy who played Jason, he just didn't play him the way Jason should be. Jason was too fast, and too human like. I give this a 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the better Friday films...","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Okay, so this movie isn't great, but it's one of the better Friday films. It has a character named Tommy Jarvis, first established in Friday the 13th The Final Chapter, the fourth film in the series, visit Jason's grave at Forest Green cemetery (formerly known as Crystal Lake cemetery) and there he inadvertently resurrects Jason and spends the duration of the film trying to put a stop to him once and for all.Camp Crystal Lake evidently has been renamed Camp Forest Green, most likely in an attempt to distance itself from its murderous reputation, but it makes no difference as Jason starts killing off more camp counselors, one by one. Don't these people ever learn? The ending is actually pretty good, and it almost makes sense that Jason would be stopped by being tied to a boulder and sunk to the bottom of the lake. The same lake he drowned in as a boy all those years ago. The problem is we have seen Jason wade his way through the water in previous films, which they shouldn't have done.The filmmakers should have left water his weakness, in Freddy versus Jason they claim it is, he even appears deathly afraid of it, but yet any viewing of Friday the 13th The Final Chapter would show he can make his way pretty far out into the lake to kill a young woman on a flotation device without him drowning. Water should be his weakness; the hard part should be luring him out into the water.Anyway, I'd say this movie is worth the rental, it is one of the better Friday sequels. If you have made it this far into the series, you know the kind of movies you're watching and should know what to expect. "},{"Title":"Oh? It wasn't even Jason?","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, this pretty much screws it up, (not the series), but the idea that Jason could ever be killed. In part V, it appears that it was only a copycat killer, but how did the copycat survive so many hits as well? Anyway, part 6 is interesting in that there is a final battle between Jason and Tommy, and that the coming back of Jason was done in the graveyard. (It gives a more descriptive, more literal explanation of Jason's return, at last.) Also, this is the first film that they decide to make the characters try to forget Jason for good, by pretending he doesn't exist and never did.This one does, however, have it's faults, but I suppose that's to expected. After all, even though it survived for so long, a series is not likely to drag on like this without some issues in it's making. "},{"Title":"I've seen enough horror movies to know any weirdo wearing a mask is never friendly.","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" - What an original idea for a movie! A group of kids goes into the woods near Crystal Lake. One by one, they're butchered by an undead madman named Jason. Roll credits. That's pretty much the entire movie. Wake me when it's over.- Actually, this Friday sequel is a little better than most. While the plot ideas are nothing new, Director/Screenwriter Tom McLoughlin attempts to bring a level of intelligence to the proceedings. Some of the dialogue is at least witty. It might have been interesting to see what he would have done with the series had he been brought on earlier before the concept became so tired.- The acting is nothing spectacular. In fact, I can't remember anyone who stood out. The special effects are the highlight of the movie. The opening scene in the graveyard with the maggot covered Jason is quite good. The film suffers tremendously from MPAA cuts. Most of the effects are shown only in very brief glances.- In short, Part VI is far from worst of the series, but it certainly isn't the best. "},{"Title":"Jason Lives!","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jason Lives indeed, and he is once again ready to kill! Friday The 13th part six was a great way for Paramount to bring Jason back. Better kills, better gore, and even though it's not all that scary this time around, it is ACTING PACKED! This is when the series turned into more FUN horror movies then SCARY horror movies.The film begins with a not so young Tommy Jarvis, who has grown up to be a nutcase. He isn't all that bad, but he is OBSESSED with killing Jason Voorhees. But when he gets to his destination, he does the exact opposite! Rather then killing Jason, he sets him free! Now, Tommy must find a way to put an end to Jason once and for all.This movie is so freaking killer. It is my second favorite in the series. The death scenes are gorier. In one of the death scenes, Jason punches through a guys chest, and pulls his heart right out of his body! There are many cool deaths in this film. It is a must see! "},{"Title":"slight improvement over previous sequels, but still mediocre","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Friday the 13th franchise was given birth by what was, in 1980, just an average ripoff of Psycho and Halloween (with an increased gore factor); as the series consumed the public conscience for the good part of a decade, it simply had to rip itself off to bring in the returns.  In any case, Part VI (interesting sudden switch to roman numerals midway through the series) is more of the same; in what has to be one of the most imbecilic resurrection scenes (well, the way it's executed suggests the characters have no common sense) in film history, Mr. Hockey Mask is revived for another round of slice-n-dice mayhem.  The film's constant barrage of one-liners is distracting to no end (considering 99% of them aren't even funny), but the presence of B-movie himbo Thom Mathews, strong production values, a grasp of suspense, and the effective seasonal atmosphere (leaves rustling, etc.) make this a better (but still not very good) sequel.4/10 "},{"Title":"Easily one of the best Friday the 13th films out there....","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As many people may know, all the Friday the 13th movies have done extremely well up to part 5, but after that, the series started to do poor at the box office. Not one Friday the 13th film has made over 40 million dollars, but came awfully close to the 40 million mark. In my opinion, Friday the 13th Part 5 ruined the series' reputation. However, though Friday the 13th Part 5 sucked badly, Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives actually delivers the goods. The only thing that makes this film different from the other Friday movies, is the fact that this one doesn't have ANY nudity, or sex scenes whatsoever. Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives delivers some mediocre acting, some of the actors did a good job, and some didn't. Sheriff Michael Garris (played by actor David Kagen (I)) is one of the main characters father. He believes that Tommy Jarvis is just a little insane in the head, due to the fact that Jason murdered his family. David Kagen (I)gave a really bad performance to say the least. In one scene, his daughter Megan (played by actress Jennifer Cooke (I)) asks her father when one of the murders occurred. He says a specific time, but he says it terribly. However, Thom Mathews does give a great performance as Tommy Jarvis. Another improvement from the the 5th and 4th installment was the fact that the character Tommy Jarvis has changed, he is no longer the bumbling geek he once was. In the first Friday film, is was a straight slasher. The plot that applies to Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives, deals with more of a supernatural nature. Here's the story to this installment Tommy Jarvis has finally been released from the asylum. One night, he plans on sending Jason to hell once and for all. He digs up Jason's grave, and attempts to set it on fire. Once he opens the coffin, pure hatred fills his body. He runs to the entrance to the cemetary, grabs a VERY sharp bar, and continuously stabs Jason's dead body. The mistake he made was leaving the bar jammed into Jason's stomach. When Tommy gets out of the hole, he grabs the gasoline. Before he could even get close to the grave, lightning hits the metal bar that was jammed into Jason's body. The electricity runs through Jason's body, and resurrects him. That's when the killings begin. There is merely nothing wrong with the plot, I in fact think that its cool, but some Friday the 13th fans might not like it. The make-up, and gore effects are still in the movie. Jason is cool and all, but I didn't like his make-up, or his mask. The actor who they got to play Jason (C.J. Graham) was a little to small for the part of Jason, I mean, the mask was bigger then his head. I thought that Jason's suit could have been a little bit better too, but who cares. When you look past all the flaws that Friday the 13th part 6 has, you will probably find an overall entertaining movie. After seeing Jason X, I realize that Jason wasn't all that powerful in this installment to the series. Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives deserves the high score of a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I Like It, But It Doesn't Seem To Fit In With the Friday the 13th Series.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"      First of all, I did enjoy this movie, but at least to me it seemed it didn't fit in the Friday the 13th series. It seemed like a whole different movie from all the rest. Also, this movie also had focused slightly on the children at Camp Crystal Lake, or the new name Camp Forest Green. This isn't the best F13 sequel, but it was an okay movie. I give Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives a 6 out of 10. ) "},{"Title":"Not bad really","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Believe it or not, the sixth entry in the long-running slasher series is actually a decent movie. The basic plot is pretty much the same, but it's better constructed than most films of this type. It's competently made, with some atmospheric photography, evoking some of the eeriness of 1930's horror.Refusing to take itself seriously, Jason Lives displays a healthy, refreshing sense of humor. In-jokes and sly digs at the slasher genre abound. Notice the line, I've seen enough horror movies not to trust a guy in a funny mask. Or the self-reflexive wink at the ancient cliché of vehicle engines stalling at the worst possible time. There's even a Bond spoof, probably the funniest bit in the movie. Of course, this being a slasher, it couldn't do without the expected gore scenes and shock moments. I freely admit I actually jumped a few times. Some of the gore effects are pretty good, although it's obvious when they were cut at the MPAA's behest. The climax is fairly effective, and for a moment I actually wondered if Tommy Jarvis would survive.Despite my praises, this isn't really a good movie, at least not in the conventional sense. The plot is still pretty thin, and the supporting characters are as annoying and disposable as ever. Still, it's worth a rental for horror fans.**1/2 (out of ****)Released by Paramount Pictures  "},{"Title":"A Good Sequel","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Now who hasn't seen a Friday the 13th flick?  If you grew up in the 80s like myself you were probably raised on them, I was.  Friday the 13th Jason Lives is actually a pleasant twist on the series.  Giving it a bit of a comic edge, but doesn't lack when it comes to those slashings we all know and love from the masked man.  This is in my opinion the best of the sequels next to part 4. Now that doesn't say much, but some of those flicks are just down right terrible i.e part 5 and 8.  But its pretty good with a few laughs, so check it out!  Who doesn't love a good a slash flick with a nice tall rum and coke.  Jason Lives....Forever!! "}{"Title":"Not Bad for a Friday flick","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th part 6 actually delivers scares with some good acting from Thom Matthews who plays Tommy. Jason is a bigger force in this movie than he was in the others, however some of the gore in this movie gets out of hand. It is the best one out of the later bunch(5-9) of the Friday series. "},{"Title":"BEST OF THE SERIES....PERIOD.","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  ***  out of ****What a thrill it was in 1986 when I saw my favorite killing machine rise from a slimey grave as an animated zombie!!!! It was promising from its title, JASON LIVES, and they weren't kidding! It was one of my most enjoyable screenings that I ever experienced in that theatre on the premiere evening!Jason is back. That's the main thing. And he's back as a truly unstoppable monstrosity this time...re-animated from his coffin by lightning, thus adding an extra kick for me as I adore the old Universal Frankenstein classics! And boy, can he still discover new ways to murder innocent people!The direction is good, and the characters have some edge to them so that you care about a few of them (always a plus to get a strong effect when they die). I think this film resembles an actual well crafted movie more than any of the others. Other assets Added touches of black humor that balance the gruesome events; Alice Cooper's dynamite closing song parody;  the James Bondian Opening Credits Sequence; Jason's great death scene.Highly Recommended for anyone enjoying horror films, and crucial for a FRIDAY THE 13th fan. HE'S BACK! (the man behind the mask)! "},{"Title":"One of the better ones","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'm suprized at all the negative reviews about this film because frankly, I love it! Not the best, but far from being the worst(Look to part 2 for that). !!!SPOILERS!!! Tommy Jarvis and a friend accidentally resurrect Jason, sending him on another murder spree.This time we get some humor into the story and a really great soundtrack. Anyway, Tommy is locked up while Jason kills teens at the Camp Crystal Lake which has been renamed Camp Forest Green. Tommy escapes and fights Jason one last time. Exciting, good story, acting, effects, and music. **** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Done with some humor.","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason returns after Camp Crystal Lake is reopened under a different name. And begins killing off the camper population again. Nothing really new, but done with more humor than usual. Lots of scenes were cut so this could avoid the dreaded X rating. One of the better Jason films, but still nothing to really brag about. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Strange zombie/slasher hybrid and nothing more...(Possible spoiler)","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The sixth installment of this popular series is very commercial and enjoyable picture.The cast is nice and endearing,the body count is high but the atmosphere is non-existent.The gore effects are heavily trimmed down-even by today standards.The violence in this movie is really cartoonish-nothing is over-the-top.And what a completely fake head that fell out of the police car?Want some real violence?Check out Maniac,Nightmare or some of the movies by Dario Argento.I only recommend this movie to horror fans of this series.At least it's far superior than totally horrible part 7. "},{"Title":"the second most entertaining in the series","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is not as scary as part 5. it's nearly as entertaining. but it has to be the second most entertaining in the series. i give it *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"The best","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've been watching all the F13 films in order and this is the one I enjoyed the most. Thom Matthews is an actor I enjoyed in Return of the Living Dead, and it was good to see him taking over the role of Tommy (although he looks nothing like a grown-up Corey Feldmen). The thing that really sets this film over the top, though, is the touches of humor- the shot of the little girl reading No Exit was hilarious, and the part where Jason steps out of the smoldering RV was great. This is definitely my favorite of the series. "},{"Title":"As if the others were not bad enough...","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As if the first lot were not bad enough. With Jason finally dead it should of all been over. But no, then he had to come back zombiefied. This was the first with Jason as a member of the living dead. And it really is not worth seeing.I have actually seen good reviews for this film. But out of all the Friday the 13th films this is the worst. Although the production values are amongst the best. Alice Coopers soundtrack is catchy. And I like the parody of the James Bond gun/eye sequence at the beginning.But really you should avoid this film. Unless you are suicidal or insane... "},{"Title":"Better than Part V","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After they said it couldn't be done, the powers to be produce the 6th edition to the Friday the 13th series. Although Part 5 was terrible, Part 6 returns to the movie's roots to Crystal Lake and the main theme of Jason. Thom Mathews gives a good performance as the star of the film. The special effects are as good as the plot. Learning from all the mistakes from Part 5, Jason Lives makes it possible for the series to continue with more sequels. The movie ends with the possibility of Part 7 as Jason is seen alive at the bottom of the lake where he originally died. Not the scariest of the Friday the 13th endings, but one of the better endings. Jason Lives does justice to the series as the movie hits on all the original themes that Part 1 and Part 2 had. One of the better horror movies of the 80's. "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason this time is brought to life by a bolt of lightning and returns back to Camp Crystal Lake which has now reopened to continue his muderous ways. This entry tries to throw in some humor into the mix, but by this point it is too little too late. Cliched characters, by the numbers direction, and a recycled script sink it. Rated R; Graphic Violence, Sexual Situations, and Profanity. "}{"Title":"Please stop!","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I wish the makers of this movie could have would something else to make. What kind of franchise is this? Nine sequels!?!? Please. This movie still offers nothing new but the same old crap. Jason, of course, lives and kills. The end does seem to be the end of this trash but it's not. Great fake, huh? You've got to wonder how someone could take all that pain. I would have butted out and called it even. The producers didn't think that was a good idea. If you want my advice, just watch Friday the 13th The Final Chapter. Try to say to yourself, it's the last movie! Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives F "},{"Title":"A different Friday movie","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie starts off by throwing continuity straight out the window. According to the last movie Tommy Jarvis is now Jason and the REAL Jason was killed and cremated. This one starts on a dark and rainy night. Tommy Jarvis (Thom Mathews) (he's NOT Jason now) is driving to Jason's grave (guess Jason wasn't cremated either) to make sure Jason is dead. He has a friend along (played by Ron Pallio). He opens the grave, accidentally revives Jason (don't ask) and Jason is up and about. Camp Crystal Lake is now Lake Forest Green and a new summer camp is about to open (since Jason is dead). Tommy tries to tell the police Jason is alive and well...but they don't believe him. And Jason is walking right to the lake where a whole bunch of little kids have just started summer camp...A real strange sequel. For starters the infamous music is NOT used until the end (and updated at that). Also this doesn't take itself seriously at all--it has an intentional sense of humor and--to be honest--some of it is very funny. I love the James Bond parody right before the opening credits. Also there are in jokes galore--there's a Cunningham Road, a town called Carpenter and Karloff's General Store! Also the kids in the summer camp are never really in danger and joke about it too (One kid thinks they're going to die and casually asks another, So--what did you want to be when you grew up?) It actually works but this IS supposed to be a horror film.Palillo's opening murder is nice and gory and there are a few decent bits of gore here and there but (compared to the previous movies) this is pretty restrained. A triple decapitation isn't even shown! The original print had a lot more blood and gore but the MPAA REALLY clamped down on this one and most of the violence was edited out to get an R rating. The body count is still pretty high though--11 men, 6 women. The acting is pretty bad (as always). Mathews and Palillo are pretty good but everybody else is lousy. And, as always, Jason somehow manages to appear in these places that is was impossible for him to get to. I got a good laugh when he somehow manages to get into a tiny bathroom inside an RV to kill somebody! And we get a bunch of idiots doing some training where they shot each other with paint. They have no purpose in the movie other than to be killed.This is really not bad. It's not as stupid as the others and the humor works pretty well. No masterpiece but one of the better Friday the 13th sequels. I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives (1986) ***1/2","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Can the word brilliant be applied to a Friday the 13th movie? Well, that's what I'd call this one, which for my money is tied with THE FINAL CHAPTER as being best of the entire Friday THE 13TH franchise. You have to really hand it to director Tom McLoughlin, who knew how to handle a sixth sequel at this extended point in time and somehow manage to keep it exciting and interesting. McLoughlin was a fan of the old classic Universal and Hammer horror movies of the past, and he was gratefully able to inject some Gothic and classic style to the proceedings.Wisely bypassing the ending of the desperate NEW BEGINNING (that was part 5), we begin with a new actor playing an older Tommy Jarvis (Thom Mathews, who was better than John Shepherd), who sneaks out of his mental institution and searches for the grave of Jason Voorhees. He wants to put an end to his own hallucinations by digging up Jason's lifeless corpse and burning it to ashes. However, through a series of mishaps worthy of the old Universal Frankenstein films, Jason is accidentally revived with lightning and now emerges as a living monster/zombie... now more unstoppable and threatening than he ever was before. It's up to Tommy to play hero and stop Jason's new murderous reign of terror, if he can dodge the local town sheriff who thinks Tommy's only using the Jason motif to commit the killings himself.Director Mcloughlin decided to add some dashes of dark humor in his film, which actually compliment the grisly nature of the movie nicely without making fun of Jason Voorhees in any way. JASON LIVES was a welcome return to form for fans of this series, and when it was released to theaters in 1986, we cheered appreciatively and were glad to have our guy back again. Also featured are a couple of killer songs by Alice Cooper Teenage Frankenstein, and He's Back (the Man Behind the Mask). A good horror movie with lots of fun, even for those viewers who may not particularly care for Friday the 13th movies. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Tommy, Thorm Matthews goes to Jasons grave to make sure he is dead and accidentally brings him back to life. As always Jason goes on a killing spree.Megans dad believes Tommy is the killer,Jason kills at least 20 people . The only bad thing is lack of gore and no nudity. Several cuts had to be made to avoid an X Rating They were Allens insides were ripped out by Jason. He dragged the guts to were his heart laid steaming. The camp counselors in the car death were trimmed. Darren slid down the spear leaving his insides on it. The paintball players decapitations were trimmed. In the cabin were. Paula gets killed there were shot of entrails going down the walls which was cut for obvious reasons. Sissys death was toned down. mpaa Rating R for profanity a sex scene and graphic violence. "},{"Title":"The Best (And Funniest) of the series!","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday The 13th Part VI Jason Lives is incredibly funny.Now, when one usually says funny when it comes to a horror film, some people assume that funny means unintentional laughs.Seriously, it is funny. And the laughs are intentional. It makes for an interesting mix, though. One moment you're screaming your head off, the next your laughing your head off. What gives? Well, thanks to Tommy Jarvis, the survivor from part 4 (And now played as an adult by Thom Mathews), Jason is revived by lightning as Tommy is attempting to cremate him. Tommy gets away, and Jason is back to his job, which is killing stupid, horny teens.Meanwhile Tommy is arrested. Seems that the people that live in Crystal Lake (Now called Forest Green)would rather forget about their association with Jason. Megan, the daughter of the disbelieving sheriff, helps him to escape. Tommy is determined to finish off Jason once and for all and knows where Jason is headed To Crystal Lake.Some of the deaths are brutal, but also incredibly funny (The corporate team, for example). But the lines are funny, too (One kid hiding under a bed says to another kid, So, what WERE you going to be when you grew up?).As for Jason, he is pretty much all business in this film, using whatever weapon is available (Especially his trusty machete).The best of the series before it started going downhill and New Line took over the franchise. "},{"Title":"Okay, so were going in the right direction.","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nothing this evil ever dies.Tommy returns to the grave to make sure Jason is dead and accidentally brings him back to life. Now it's up to Tommy to stop Jason's mindless killing and put him back where he belongs.Jasons back and we are starting to get original. Friday the 13th takes on a life of its own in this film. No longer copying from Halloween or any other horror film series. Part 3,4 and 5 were all going downhill and beginning to just get pointless. So this is a step up, even if its not very far as its only 4/10. Part 6 marked the onset of Jason Voorhees as an undead super-human. "},{"Title":"An improvement over PART V, that's about it","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" JASON LIVES is marginally better than A NEW BEGINNING, but still pretty lame. Tommy Jarvis (Tom McGoughlin from RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD) and a friend (the guy who played Horshack on Welcome Back, Kotter!!!) travel to the cemetery where Jason is buried to make sure he's really dead. They dig him up, see he's in there, dead as a doornail, but a convenient bolt of lightning brings him back to life. Jason gets up, dons his hockey mask and gets back to work. The only real difference between this one and the others in the series is its attempts at slapstick humor, which don't make things much more interesting. A guy's head is impaled on a tree branch which breaks off revealing a smiley face, Jason does a double take when he sees a camper rocking as two teens screw inside, a trio of survivalists are decapitated simultaneously, a guy's head is crushed causing snot to squirt out of his nose, a girl's head is smashed into a wall leaving an imprint of her face, and other various moments. Not much in the way of skin, relatively restrained gore and the aforementioned hokey humor make this one a fairly boring entry. It does, however, have an amusing parody of the James Bond opening at the beginning and features a theme song by Alice Cooper over the closing credits. The on screen title is actually JASON LIVES Friday THE 13TH PART VI. "},{"Title":"Decent sequel","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives makes up for part 5. The oringial bad boy is back and he's meaner than ever. Thom Matthews is cool in the lead role plays Jason's bets known arch rival. The film's best scene, the triple deicapation.  "},{"Title":"the last really good one","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hate to sound harsh, but Tommy is a dumb ass.  I mean, Jason's dead and buried (for several years after part 4) and I suppose because of the events of the previous film, he reeeeally needs to know Jason's expired.  So he and a buddy dig him up to cremate the body just to be absolutely sure.  Before this can be accomplished, an angered Tommy shoves some fencing in Jason's chest, which is then hit by lightning resurrecting the wacko.  So if you think about it, Tommy is responsible for the 16 people that die in this movie, which, to me, makes him a dumb ass.  But fortunately he was so that we could be supplied with entertainment and Jason definately doesnt disappoint.  3 heads slashed off in one swing, face into a mirror, head twisted off, etc.  Writer-director McGloughlin should be credited as making the last good film of this series, his woodsy-campy atmosphere right on the money.  And Graham was the best Jason, with that intimidating fast walk of his.  The ending, though without the usual splattering of Jason, is still inventive.  Matthews is a better Tommy, as John Shepard was not brought back to play the part, but I couldnt see him having Matthews energy anyway.  Cooke is very cute, but as far as the other femmes or their breasts, this is one of the rare Fridays without nudity.  But this is still great, with that nicely shot, creepy opening and a good sense of humor.  Not very scary, but these films havent been scary since the first one, with the emphasis put on gore in the following films.  In my opinion the last good one before things went downhill. "},{"Title":"No End in Sight.","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Goodness. Will the madness ever end? When did we lose the glory? What type of world do we live in where something like Friday the 13 would just keep on haunting us over and over and over and over and over and over again? The sixth chapter is another worthless installment. Jason comes back again and he kills again. That is about it. The film is ugly and vile and has no cinematic worth. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "}{"Title":"Best Jason Movie...great fun","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have seen all the Friday the 13th series. This is the best out of the ten. Jason looks bigger, stronger and finally a proper monster. Part One was Good, but Jason wasn't there. Part Two was boring and introduces Jason. Part Three Jason gets his mask, very entertaining. Part Four Jason dies, quite good. Part Five was a dream, bad sequel. Part Six has Jason coming alive and is my favourite out of the lot. Part Seven has Jason battling a girl with telekenic powers, not too bad. Part Eight has Jason walking in Manhattan, slow but has some good scenes. Part Nine was one of the worst, with a ridiculous storyline. Jason X was superb. Apart from Jason X, this movie has the most death toll, Jason kills his victims in a entertaining way. Great Fun. "},{"Title":"Yes, for there would be another sequel to well... you get the idea","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  6 out of the 10 sequels I have completed. Jason Lives. Catchy title. You always know how they say in the trailer You thought the terror was over. You thought that he was dead. Yadda, yadda, yadda. I admit, I love predictable horror flicks sometimes. This wasn't true to the Friday the 13th experience. There was no nudity! How can you have a Jason movie without nudity?! Not to sound weird, but it is kind of tradition with these films. Over all, Jason Lives isn't a bad installment to the series. I guess I'm off to rent the 7th. I wonder if this one Jason learns how to cook. Maybe he'll give swimming lessons... never mind.5/10  "},{"Title":"this is insulting","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Impressive - I feel the whole F13 series is so bad that it's not worth putting the films in any order whatsover . . . but somehow, this film managed to irritate me to the point of nearly shutting it off before it really got rolling. So it is ranked as my worst. What's the best F13? Which one is ranked as third best? seventh best? I don't know and I don't care, but I do know I hated six the most.Okay, we're in a horror movie - granted everyone is stupid enough to trip in a chase, drop their keys, separate from the pack when they should stick together . . . but to go out of your way with hours upon hours of driving time and labor to revive Jason accidentally, that is retarded by F13 standards. Sorry, Tommy, you deserve to die. Stupid people like you don't need to breed.And after the bloodthirsty outrage of part five, we have to make Jason bigger than life. Harry, give Jason a Charles Ivesesque Dies Irae of theme with the shrilly brass section! If Tommy's stupidity doesn't drive our audience away, maybe your music will!Ooh ooh! I know! I know! And just to be sure that this film is a chore to watch, let's shove some really corny characters/kills/situation down our audience's throat because we know they're not bright enough to get it unless we spell it out for them like an American in Japan thinking his hand gestures will make them understand his poor English. And if someone manages to make it through the entire film without being offended or insulted, let's put in a hideous pop song!This movie was one annoyance after another. It attempts to be funny and fails. Tries to be scary, fails. Tries to be bold . . . another failure. Did they do anything right? Actually yes. They ripped off another Halloween trademark and would make it a little more mainstay, but beyond that our friend Jason in his Hokey mask (not a typo - the mask is 1 step away from a smiley face.)I cannot recommend this film to anyone even though many fans feel its the high point of the series. No power on earth will make me watch this film which somehow manages to be the worst smelling spot in a sea of crap. "},{"Title":"See What You've Been Missing...finally","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ah, my favorite 'Friday the 13th' film, 'Part VI Jason Lives.' This horror/comedy works on so many levels. From the excellent opening, with the return of Jason's nemesis Tommy digging up Jason's corpse to ensure his demise, to the James Bond spoof credit scene, the movie starts with a bang. Yes, even the lightening that inadvertently brings Jason back is a good show &#150; it flat out tells us what were in for a horror spoof that not only spoofs the previous 'Friday' films, but never once takes itself seriously. I love that in films ones that can acknowledge their own faults and refuse to take themselves at word. Including and after the opening, they get right to the point. All previous 'Friday' movies made us wait until the final 20 minutes or less to actually see the killer. Here, finally, we get to see Jason throughout. And he's in full force, now technically a monster with great strength and no hiding that he really can't be killed. That's part of the evidence 'Jason Lives' doesn't take itself too seriously; they know it's a sixth entry in a horror series and they know we all know what to expect, including Jason doesn't seem to die &#150; so why hide it? The movie has an excellent, ah hem, killer soundtrack, including Alice Cooper ('He's Back' is one of my all time favorite Cooper songs), funny dialogue and scenes (anyone wanna play paintball?), actual tense, scary and creative scenes/kills despite its comedic tone throughout, decent acting and finally, 'Friday' brings the young kids to camp &#150; something many previous installments only talked about. And the best part (minor spoiler here), Jason leaves them alone. Yes, he's a monster, but even he knows enough they're off limits. This ranks in my top ten favorite horror movies. "},{"Title":"he's back","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" int this 6th installment of the series,Jason once again stalks, campers,counselors and any one else foolish enough to get in his way.there is not much new in this installment,although there are some exciting moments,particularly the climatic ending.and there is a clue(a small clue,but a clue)about why he is so unstoppable and never seems to stay dead,and why he kills.unlike a lot of people,i don't hate these Friday the 13th movies.sure they are redundant for the most part,but i still get a kick out of seeing Jason in the mask dispatching his victims.i think it's because the character is so iconic,like Freddy,from the Nightmare on Elm Street series,or Michael Myers from the Halloween franchise.i thought this movie was as good as part 5A new Beginning,but then what do i know.for me,Friday the 13th Part VIJason Lives is a 5.8/10 "},{"Title":"The best sequel in the Friday The 13th series!","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This sixth entry moves the series into a much more saner, tamer place & is a much coarse movie than what Part V turned out to be. It's faster, fresher, wittier & much better made & more fun & explores a brand new avenue in the series. Seemingly ignoring Part V, Part VI was just plain fun in my view. What's notable about this film, is that besides the plot being pretty much the same, there are indeed several new wrinkles in the films structure, in particular the tone of the film, it should be noted that despite the praise critics gave SCREAM for being classy, with it's characters being very self aware of themselves in a horror movie, Part VI invented this idea, not SCREAM! (Ironically enough McLoughlin was actually asked to direct the first SCREAM film at one point) Part VI thought up the self aware & referential angle to the horror genre, unlike previous entries, the kids know of Jason & his legend. He also adds several doses of humour, most notably in the roadside signs Dangerous Curves Ahead & Speeding? & also has characters in his script, that break the fourth wall, especially in a scene where the gravedigger stares into the camera Some folk, have a stranger idea of entertainment. Which leaves one wondering, are the makers of this film making fun of the audience of themselves? the series? it leaves it open for interpretation, as well as McLoughlin staging moments for the audience to provide the punchline & another scene where a sexist paint baller has his arm jerked out of it's socket by Jason & is thrust into a tree, to which there's a bloody smiley face carved into the tree & Tommy's run from the cops in the cemetery where Jason was buried, that is staged like a game of PAC-MAN. McLouglin also adds some strange twists on profanity & his one sex scene is not only played for laughs, but also is the only sex scene to make this instalment in this series to not feature any requisite nudity & the director wisely jettisons all the carbon copy, stereotypical characters of the previous films & makes his kids much more real & innocent. McLoughlin also stretches his low budget pretty good, he manages to stage an impressive underwater fight scene, two car chases, adds more suspense. The killings although toned down when compared to most instalments to this series, were still pretty inventive & effective in their execution & Director McLoughlin deserves credit for creating a really good horror movie with touches of humorous comedy bits. The acting & suspense was great, I particularly enjoyed David Kagen's portrayal as the tough as nails Sheriff, he was a real joy to watch & Jennifer Cooke has to be without a shadow of a doubt, the best most interesting & sexy heroine's of the entire series. The Jason make-up was really neat, there's no slow spots in the movie either, as Tom McLoughlin keeps things well paced & entertaining to keep the viewers mind from wandering. In fact, I can honestly say that Part VI is the best film alongside IV. The films has a good pace to it, witty one liners, humorous comedy bits, action, a great Gothic feel, a lead heroine that would be a guys ultimate dream girl. The character of TOMMY JARVIS has also changed, in fact, the portrayal given by Thom Mathews here & written by the director, bears almost no resemblance to the character in Parts IV & V, for starters, he doesn't wear glasses, is better looking, is no longer a troubled violent prone youth like he was in V & not once does he ever carry any of the masks he created as a child. The character as displayed here is more of a young JAMES BOND than anything & far more likable as a lead. Speaking of Bond, there's even a JAMES BOND spoof at the beginning of the film with Jason walking & turning around to thrust a machete at the audience before the credits roll. Director Mcloughlin manages to keep the films pace flowing throughout the film, giving us a high body count that seems to occur every five minutes, while at the same time, managing to keep his story from completely sinking. The kills are inventive & the rock score by ALICE COOPER coupled with a very good Gothic like score from series mainstay composer HARRY MANFREDINI really adds a magical quality to the film. McLoughlin is clearly a fan of the Hammer horror classics, in particular FRANKENSTEIN, since Jason is resurrected via a lightning bolt in a very eerie looking cemetery. Part VI is the only one after the original to set it's action at an actual camp & not a lake house cabin like the others. Another thing I feel helped the film be a bit more suspenseful than the others is in the fact that unlike the first film, where the camp was set to be opened, this camp is opened & full of kids who's lives are in danger as Jason prowls the camp & brutally hacks up the counsellors, you really wonder what Jason's intentions are for the kids, will he leave them alone? or does he want them dead too? Mcloughlin also throws in a few nifty idea's about death & the afterlife. Also worth mentioning is how the film appears to be a modern day take on the Frankenstein story. C.J. GRAHAM was perfection as Jason! My only complaint, the cemetery scenes, which are just begging for a CHRISTOPHER LEE & VINCENT PRICE cameo! Followed by Friday The 13th Part VII -The New Blood**** stars "},{"Title":"A Darn Good Follow Up","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"    A High Body Count plus Orginality Makes...One Darn Good Horror Movie. Jason Also Shows His Kindness and Mystery is He Walks up to the Little Girl and Suddenly Disappears. This Film Also is Recognized As Bringing The Series up To Date, After a Slow Part V. I also like The War Between the Sheriff and Tommy Jarvis. Rent it if you like Horror.  "},{"Title":"Jason returns and really piles up the bodies.","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favorite Friday the 13th movies to watch.  This is probably because it has the most killings of any of the franchise.  In fact the first time I saw this one as a kid I made a joke that this one needed a counter to show every time someone was killed, like in the horror spoof Student Bodies.  Tommy, who apparently killed Jason in 4, digs up Jason in an attempt to cremate his remains.  Let me say that it is best to ignore part 5 where it is mentioned that Jason has in fact already been cremated, best to just pretend 5 doesn't exist for the most part.  Lightening somehow revives Jason, and before Tommy can set him on fire it starts to rain...Darn!  Jason proceeds to mow down anybody he comes into contact with, and Tommy gets thrown in jail because no one believes his story of a walking corpse on a killing spree.  Is this a great movie...no, but it is rather fun to watch if not taken too seriously. "},{"Title":"Meaningless","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is as meaningless as the entire TV series disaster that was known as Felicity.  Think about it, sure part 5 sucked liek airplane food but at least it tried to put an end to Jason.  Here, we see a ressurection of him that is both improbable and uneeded as he is struck by lighting and back to life an d killing innocent kids and teens.  And while some might find it cool to see a Jason-monster from Dr. Frankenstein, I find this film is the reason that parts 7, 8, 9 and the upsoming 10 were made (despite one part enjoyable).  D+ "},{"Title":"Jason's silly rampage continues.","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's amazing the stuff they think they can get away with. Jason Lives Friday the 13th Part VI is again a sequel with little story to it, even though it tries to bring in some originality again by changing the settings and of the movie and don't just restrain it to one location.For this movie Jason makes his reappearance again, after his absence from the previous movie as the movie its main killer. In this movie he's more monstrous than ever before and also his killers are perhaps more brutal than ever. His portrayal and appearance are great, though it still is a weird fact how randomly he always picks his victims in the movies. It has nothing to do with revenge anymore, as was still the case with at least the first two entries of the series. Now he's just killing for fun and it doesn't matter how old you are, what you do or how you look, you're just death when Jason is around. Horror-wise this just doesn't work out as anything to tense or scary.This movie sort of continues on the same trend as the previous sequels. It doesn't care about its story really and they think it's more than enough to simply put in as much killings as possible, unfortunately also again with some lame attempts at humor added to it. There is of course far more needed to make a good and above all also original horror movie with. Within its franchise but also within its genre Jason Lives Friday the 13th Part VI that adds little and doesn't impress much on any fronts, though its gore and effects are all being quite good to watch.It's also silly how the Friday the 13th series always seems to ruin its own potential. This is the second time already that they let the Tommy Jarvis character go to watch. In the previous two sequels within the series it was already implied that Tommy was going to be the next psychopathic killer but every time when a new sequel gets released he's being the good guy again, as if nothing had ever happened at the end of the previous movies, in which it showed Tommy as an evil character. It really goes at the expense of the continuity of the series, especially when you're watching the movies back-to-back.The movie doesn't even really try to be a great one. It simply seems to accept the fact that it isn't being renewing or original within its genre or even within its series of Friday the 13th movies and tries to compensate this by simply putting some graphic and brutal killings by the still greatly portrayed horror icon Jason Voorhees. 5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"One of the Funnier Ones in the Series","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Tommy Jarvis, all grown up and out of the funny farm, just can't believe Jason Voorhees is really dead. So he goes to the cemetery and digs Jason up. Poor timing and a bad idea, because thanks to movie magic Jason is hit by lightning and re-animated, creating a serial killer zombie who is even more unstoppable than before. How do you kill a monster that's already dead? I think a lot of people really dislike this film. But those are the people who take these films too seriously. None of the Friday the 13th movies are actually good (although I'm partial to Jason Goes to Hell). But they're fun, and this one really adds to the fun by adding in more dark humor and audience participation. (At one point, a character evens talks to the camera, revealing he knows full well he's in a horror movie. Another character also references being in a horror movie, though not to the camera.)Sequels bring more gore, more nudity and a higher body count. While this one lacks the nudity, and the gore is nothing special, the body count certainly is higher. A sheriff's department, a series of camp counselors, a paintball expedition, and something like twenty little kids are all potential victims. Oh, I forgot Tommy's friend and a groundskeeper. So, yeah... there's a little bit of carnage here.Any complaint I have could be written off by the fact it's part six in a series of horror movies. At this point, films really shouldn't even be this good. The way Jason is defeated is a bit hard to believe (sorry if that gives anything away, but there's five more films in the series so I think you know he lives). And I wish they had not switched actors that play Tommy Jarvis. But these are minor issues.In my opinion, parts four, five and six are the best in the series until part nine. They have a strong grasp on who their audience is and what they want to see. At least, that is if they assume the audience is me. And as I say, if you made it this far in the series, you may as well just keep going. It's going to pay off after a few more films. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining.","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As a child,Tommy Jarvis killed Jason Voorhees,the bloodthirsty murderer who terrorized the residents of Crystal Lake.But now,years later,Tommy is tormented by the fear that maybe Jason isn't really dead.So Tommy and his friend go to the cemetery to dig up Jason's grave.Unfortunately for Tommy,a lighting bolt flashes downward bringing Jason Voorhees back to life.Jason rises from the grave for another bloody rampage...Friday the 13th Part VIJason Lives is easily one of the best films from this highly popular series.The acting is quite good and the characters are likable.The gore effects are excellent-we've got a nice triple decapitation plus some grisly stabbings and impalings.This time Jason is zombified and more powerful than ever.So if you're a fan of Friday the 13th series you can't go wrong with this enjoyable entry.8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"After taking a break in Pt. 5, the original 'man behind the mask' is back.","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In an effort to breathe some life back into the ailing franchise, and also to compete with new maniac on the block Freddy Krueger, the people behind Jason Lives add a mystical slant to their story, confirming what most fans had already suspected that Jason is no ordinary flesh and blood mass psycho, but rather an unstoppable manifestation of pure evil.Part 6 sees the return of the superhuman, machete-wielding hulk after his nemesis Tommy (Return of the Living Dead's Thom Mathews) unwisely decides to exhume the killer's body in order to cremate it; however, rather than putting the evil to permanent rest, he accidentally revives the maniac, who immediately resumes his killing spree.With the help of Sheriff's daughter Megan (Jennifer Cooke), Tommy attempts to correct his mistake by luring Jason to Crystal Lake (now renamed as Forest Green by local authorities keen to forget the area's grisly history) where, according to an occult handbook, the maggot-ridden murderer can finally be laid to rest.Directed by Tom McLoughlin, who would later tackle several episodes of the Friday the 13th TV series, this outing for Jason turns out to be a fairly routine slice of popcorn horror despite its interesting supernatural spin. Once Jason has been brought back to life, the film becomes nothing more than a rather bland series of deaths, with a smattering of not-overly-explicit gore, and one obligatory sex scene (but no nudity&#151;and that's unforgivable!).Add to this some very silly bits of dumb humour, including a Bond-style title sequence with Jason throwing his machete at the screen, a couple of wise-cracking kids, and several stupid executives playing paint-ball in the woods, and this tongue-in-cheek sequel can't help but be something of a disappointment for those who like their stalk and slash a little more serious and a lot more scary. "},{"Title":"This Part is a Little Better Than Parts IV and V","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In a stormy night, Tommy Jarvis (Thom Mathews, the third different actor to perform this role) goes with a friend to a cemetery, looking for Jason' s grave. He wants to be sure Jason is really dead and put fire on his body. There, a ray reaches Jason and brings him to life. Jason goes to former Lake Crystal camp and starts killing again. The local Sheriff Michael Garris (Davod Kagen) does not believe in Tommy and thinks he is the killer. Only his daughter, the dumb blonde Megan Garris (Jennifer Cooke) has faith on Tommy and helps him. This part is better than parts IV and V. The actors and actresses are much better than those in the previous movies. The revival of Jason is very similar to the creature of Dr. Frankenstein coming to life. Unfortunately, the writer and director Tom McLoughlin has not had the courage to make Jason kills the children in the camp. The modus operandi of Jason would never allow them to escape without being killed. The character of Megan is irritatingly stupid, provoking inclusive the death of her father. My vote is five. Title (Brazil) `Sexta-Feira 13 Parte VI Jason Vive' (`Friday, the 13th Part VI Jason Lives') "},{"Title":"Jason is back...and he's here to STAY !!!","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  We've come to part 6 of the Jason Vorhees saga. The producers didn't make the same mistake again. Jason is a star and he is needed for this series. ( just ask the Halloween makers how much they needed Michael Myers after Halloween III ). Part 5 handled about a copycat killer and most fans of the series ( including myself ) didn't like this a single bit. The need for Jason was so big around this time that he came back enormously. More powerful and satanic than he ever was. I think this was THE movie in which Jason deserved his status of immortal horror icon the most.SMALL SPOILERS .... It's a fully grown up Tommy Jarvis ( the kid who beat Jason in part 4 ) who is responsible of the resurrection of Jason. It's his own goddamn fault, he should have left his grave alone instead of trying to send him to hell for good. Anyway, no complaints from me because this stands for the best opening in ALL Friday the 13th movies. Jason's corpse gets hit by lightening and not only is back among the living, he's now more powerful than ever. ( he rips of people's heads and arm like they are gingerbread men ). At the meantime, Camp Crystal Lake changed his name in favor to get rid of the bad reputation and opens its doors again. It's friday the 13th and they're are lots of counselors waiting to be slaughtered again...the ideal Vorhees atmosphere. Tommy is having trouble to explain it all to the local sheriff but the daughter is willing to help him. Tommy thinks he can only finish Jason once and for all by bringing him back to the exact same place where he died at young age. Of course that easier said than done... END SPOILERS !!!The bigger budget obviously saved this episode. We get to see a lot more Jason than we ever did before and his killing spree is shown much more detailed. Every slasher fans dream, in other words. The plot is of course dumb and far from original but few people care about that, I think. The writers did try to come up with a few nice elements ( for example the actual presence of young children which helps to build up the tension ) but, in general, the story is too weak to speak about a good horror film. Although, while watching this film, it occured to me that this cast contains several people who actually CAN act ! The girl who plays Megan ( Jennifer Cooke) and the sheriff ( David Kagen ) belong to the best actors this series had so far.  Compaired to part 5 A new beginning, this sequel is recommended for every horror fan and especially for the fans of the series...although this episode contained NO nudity at all ! what the hell is that about ?? "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th 6 *** (out of 4) Fans were outraged after the previous film so the studio knew they had better deliver a wonderful film and that they did with Friday the 13th 6 Jason Lives, which introduced zombie Jason. This film was directed by Tom McLoughlin and apparently he shot this film three times. Each version featured a different amount of gore and this theatrical cut was apparently the least gory and that's why I enjoy this film so much. Instead of your typical mindless gore flick, this one here actually has a very good story as well as some wonderful characters to tell it.Thom Mathews as Tommy is the real highlight and especially his chemistry with co-star Jennifer Cooke. The two of them together make for a wonderful combo and it's highly entertaining seeing them run around trying to figure out a way for them to kill Jason. Her sheriff father is also very well written as are the rest of the teens even though most of them are only here to be killed. With a soundtrack including songs by Alice Cooper, this film seems to be taking itself with a grain of salt and not only giving murders but giving the fans a good time all around.What really sets this film apart from the previous ones is that the director seems to be trying to make a great movie and not just a movie full of violence and gore. This one here really isn't a slasher because we're spending a lot more time with Tommy than seeing murders. Yes there are still murders but all of this stuff takes a backseat to Tommy and his story. The director also kicks things off with a huge bang, the opening cemetery scene is full of rich atmosphere and the emerging Jason is something wonderful to see. The director knew fans were wanting to see Jason returns and he handles the scene very well. "}]