[{"Title":"Haunted Honeymoon is enjoyable for Gilda Radner's final movie","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Having heard for years how awful Haunted Honeymoon was and long wanting to see Gilda Radner in her last movie, I taped this last night while the Emmys were on. Now that I've seen it, I can now say nobody in the cast and crew have anything to be ashamed about. I love the performances in the radio studio with Radner and Gene Wilder playing characters in a show with the same title as film. Dom DeLuise is amusing as Aunt Kate. But I want to really praise the hard-of-hearing butler Pfister (Bryan Pringle) who, because Wilder tells him his fiancée is slightly deaf, keeps shouting at Radner. And, yes, like many other comments here, I love Wilder's using someone else's legs as his in front of policemen. I also loved the Ballin' the Jack number between DeLuise and Radner and Radner's joke about the bug on the windshield. So in short, if you're a fan of all three stars, seek this out by all means! "},{"Title":"Just brilliant!","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Another film which no-one else seems to like, but which I find enjoyable. I think some people should give this picture a second chance. Gene Wilder plays a neurotic radio star called Larry Abbott, and on the eve of his wedding to co-star Vicky Pearle (the late Mrs. Wilder, Gilda Radner) his memories of a childhood trauma cause him to experience bizarre mood swings.  His psychiatrist uncle arranges for him to spend the weekend at his aunt's Gothic mansion.  The whole bizarre family gathers and a series of madcap events occur as a mysterious killer tries to bump Wilder off to get the family fortune.  Wilder is not as funny as he usually is.  He only really shines with the 'legs' joke in the cellar, but his co-stars generate a lot of smiles, especially the dragged-up Dom DeLuise as Great Aunt Kate, Bryan Pringle as the alcoholic butler Pfister and Gilda Radner herself raises mucho smiles. A young Jonathan Pryce is suitably hissable as bad guy Charlie.  John Morris' music score is as excellent as ever as are the sets by Terence Marsh (THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION) who also co-wrote the script with Wilder. Just give it a chance. "},{"Title":"way underrated","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" This is a surprisingly well-made movie. It's funny, sure, but not in the punchliney way you'd expect. It's more that the whole thing is just so unexpected. Gene Wilder is completely charming and does some great understated acting in this film; Gilda Radner is funny everywhere she goes. Dom DeLouise pulls off a great drag character, and no one works too hard on their jokes--it's just a good time, filmed with surprising confidence. Though it looks like it's going to be another bad script with tired jokes for a niche videostore crowd, it's actually an extension of many of Mel Brooks' best directorial moments. It even has a Brooksian meta- narrative about film-making. I imagine it might look silly and dated on a TV screen with a movie channel logo in the corner, but when it's treated like a film instead of a schlock night, it's a respectable piece of work well worth anyone's time. "},{"Title":"Charming.","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Brilliantly witty horror/comedy starring the best husband & wife team in the genre of comedy.Gene Wilder is, admittedly, an acquired taste. His humor is expressive and intelligent and not for everyone. But who can not love sweet little Gilda Radner? This is one of the few collaborations between the husband & wife team of Wilder and Radner, and one of Wilder's best attempts, in this critic's opinion.While there are a few plot holes here, this movie was not meant to be an Oscar contender, nor was it made to be thought-inspiring. This is pure entertainment which hits dead on the mark. Gilda is sweet, competent, and assertive here as Vickie Pearle, fiancé to Larry Abbott (Wilder). The couple work as radio stars for a weekly horror broadcast, but Larry is having some anxiety problems, and it's up to Vickie to help keep him glued together. Just as their show is starting to top the charts, Larry begins to show serious signs of wear, and now his uncle, Paul Abbott, steps in and takes Larry's reins.It seems Dr. Abbott knows how to cure Larry's problem, but with murder, treachery, and intrigue all around him, will Larry ever be cured of his anxiety?This is a wonderfully fun movie with an all-star cast, which bears a definite Agatha Christie feel about it, even with Dom DeLuise in drag! I adore this movie, and watch it often.It rates an 8.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Excellent movie with a certain cult value...","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" We purchased this movie because we learned that Gilda starred in it right before her death. I had wanted to introduce my daughter to Gilda's interesting style of humor and, since she loves Gene Wilder so much (we watch Young Frankenstein twice a week, at least), she instantly loved this one, as well.At first, the plot line is terribly hard to fathom and I had to watch it several times to catch all the straggling ends. However, once you understand what's really happening, the story within the story within the story, then you can really begin to enjoy the subtle jokes, the attention to detail in the sets and costumes, the excellent performances by one and all. Of course, Gene and Gilda are enchanting together and she shines in her role as only she could do. Dom DeLuise played the Great-Aunt perfectly, but my favorite in the movie was Jonathan Pryce whose performance was exceptional. My grand-daughter's favorite part of the movie is Gilda and Dom's singing and dancing to Ball in the Jack. We have to play that part over and over for her so she can dance with them.Haunted Honeymoon is worth watching several times and worth returning to, often. "},{"Title":"A bizarre late-night laugh","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This is the sort of off-the-wall comedy that is perfect for the wee hours -- so long as you don't wake up the rest of the household, either screaming or laughing!  DeLuise and Radner were especially good (as you might expect) -- it would be hard to beat their duet of Balling the Jack.  If you're looking for a logical plotline, you will have to go elsewhere.  There are more twists and turns and unresolved moments than actual dialogue, I believe.  However, if totally bizarre is what you're after, this is it!  I found it thoroughly enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Laughter and Sin, this is a charming underrated gem","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" I've loved Haunted Honeymoon ever since I was a kid, and saw it in the Cinema. Naturally as you get older you see things with different eyes, and what I remembered as a scary tale of Werewolves is actually a rather sweet, funny and hugely entertaining trip down memory lane.It's tragic to think that this was Gilda Rander's before she tragically lost her life, but she gives a sparkling performance and bounced of husband Gene Wilder beautifully.It's a great little tail of Werewolves, deception, Transvestism and jealousy.I have never been able to decide who's the funniest, whether it's Aunt Kate or Rachel, both are so much fun, Rachel, played by Ann Way is a joy, especially when she's bashing poor Pfister about, she's a diminutive terror.The music is really nice the whole way through, it's so dramatic, it fits in great with the film, real 80's Chiller feel to it.I am stunned by the bad reviews that surround this film, to me it's just a bundle of fun. Take Dom LeLuise's performance for what it is, hugely over the top, but truly funny.Best scene has to be Eagle Rock, which is a show stopper, I love it, Gilda had gorgeous legs. You can't help but smile watching it.What happens to Larry's old girlfriend Susan, where does she go?? Was the Werewolf talking to Susan in the Wine Cellar, don't know.I grew up on this film and I still love it, sure it's daft, but it doesn't try to be anything else. "},{"Title":"Haunted Honeymoon - Great Movie","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Just watched this film recently. Its one of those films always on TV and you think you've watched it. Well I hadn't actually watched it for nearly 20 years, what a fantastically funny film! I particularly loved the scene where Gene Wilder in in the basement with the dead body (legs hanging out) and the cops think the legs are Gene's. I thought I was going to have a heart attack there and then, the tears were rolling down my cheeks. Its a great film with a couple of real scary moments too! Highly recommended (as with all Gene Wilder films). I only found out recently that Gilda Radner died shortly after filming this movie. She was Gene's wife in the movie and in real life. "},{"Title":"This is just a filthy pigment of my diseased imagination. Unscary & unfunny comedy horror.","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Haunted Honeymoon is set in the 1930's & starts in a radio studio where 'Manhattan Mystery Theatre' is going out live, actor Larry Abbot (Gene Wilder) & his co-star Vickie Pearle (Gila Radner, Wilder's then wife & her last film before she died) are soon to be married. However the engagement to Vickie has set a screw loose in Larry's head & he often can't control himself on-air. The shows sponsor Charlie (Lou Hirsch) is about to fire him when Larry's psychiatrist Brother Dr. Paul Abbot (Paul L. Smith) assures Charlie that he can cure Larry by literally scaring the condition out of him when the entire Abbot family meet up together at their large ancestral mansion to celebrate Larry's engagement. As the guests begin to arrive strange things start to happen, Larry's Aunt Kate (Dom DeLuise) talks of a Werewolf, a family member (Roger Ashton-Griffiths) is murdered shortly after being told the contents of rich Aunt Kate's will, Larry begins to start seeing ghosts & quickly discovers not everything is as it appears...Staring, co-written & directed by Gene Wilder this is one tragic mess of a film, just about a complete failure on almost every level. The script by Wilder & Terence Marsh is supposed to pay homage to the old dark haunted house mysteries from the 30's like The Cat and the Canary (1939) among others. Unfortunately it also tries to mix other genres as well, comedy, musical & horror, quite simply it doesn't work in the slightest. The comedy elements are so unfunny I couldn't believe it, I did not laugh once during this film. It tries far too hard with all out slapstick, comedy sound effects & sequences which probably looked OK on paper but ended up being far from OK in the finished product. Scenes of Wilder trying to pass a dead body off as a living person by dancing with it in front of two idiotic cops (Billy J. Mitchell & R. J. Bell) is embarrassing to watch, or a scene in which Wilder is sitting on top of a stuffed moose head hiding from a snake is just dumb & Dom Deluise in drag as Aunt Kate is a truly hideous & laugh free image. Not one single moment of supposed comedy in Haunted Honeymoon worked for me, the jokes are far too drawn out & predictable. The mystery elements are better but are all but lost amongst the lame attempts at humour & nothing is explained, the killer is revealed but how he achieved certain things are unclear like them walking down a wall & those crazy mirror effects. There is even a brief musical interlude as Vickie & Aunt Kate perform a little number, once again it just comes across as embarrassing to watch. I also hated the ending, it makes a mockery of everything that precedes it & is just lazy & clichéd. One area in which Haunted Honeymoon does succeed is with it's good atmosphere, the period production design & sets are excellent & really capture the feel of those old horror mysteries. The cinematography & special effects are good & generally speaking Haunted Honeymoon is very well made with that Hollywood polish about it. The acting is pretty bad by all involved including Wilder whom I usually like, perhaps he was more concerned about behind-the-camera activities as director rather than acting in front of it, Dom Deluise is highly annoying & irritating as Aunt Kate. As far as I'm concerned Haunted Honeymoon is a complete failure as either a horror mystery or a comedy & I just can't see what sort of film goer this would appeal too & enjoy it. Haunted Honeymoon was Wilder's last directorial effort to date which says it all really, you have been forewarned! "},{"Title":"Underrated Horror Comedy!","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Gene Wilder directs & stars in this 1986 horror comedy co-starring Gilda Radner, Dom DeLuise, Jonathan Pryce and Paul L. Smith. This is sort of a send-up of the 1941 classic, The Wolf Man where we meet radio actor, Larry Abbott (Wilder) who is celebrating his wedding engagement to radio actress, Vickie Pearle (Radner). He takes her to the Abbott castle where he grew up for a family reunion hosted by his Aunt, Kate (DeLuise). Larry has a phobia in which he's scared of thunder and lightning since he was a child. Pryce (Brazil) plays Larry's cousin, Charles and Smith (Crimewave) plays Larry's uncle, Dr. Paul Abbott who plans on scaring Larry to death to cure him and has the whole family in on it. Soon, a mysterious killer who may be a werewolf starts stalking the castle and targets Larry. I've liked this film since I was a kid and think it's underrated. Wilder & Radner were great together, the rest of the cast is good as well as John Morris' score. I recommend this. "}{"Title":"Great","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" This is a fantastic film, with the extremely funny Gene Wilder behind it. It is set in the Early 20th Century, and Gene and his future wife are two radio actors, and before they get married they go to his family house, where strange goings on happen. This is a great film, with silly humor and great for a laugh. If you do not like silly comedy's then this may not be your cup of tea, Gene Wilder is a comedy King and he shows it in this film. I would compare this film to Young Frankenstien, and that too is a brilliant film. I give this four and a half out of five. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully entertaining!!","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This one has it all, the old mystery radio show, a haunted house, and a killer cast, especially Gene Wilder and Gilda Radner together. Now throw in a family worthy of James Thurber's, and great story line and you have entertainment.Dom Deloise as the eccentric aunt in drag is priceless, and mysterious happenings at a family gathering, a bizarre butler, his wife, and a fantastic story with wit, style, and loads of humor. A genuine keeper.Check out the cast listing, it's great! And the delivery of the actors is flawless, well-timed.  Well worth the money. "},{"Title":"Fun combination of horror and comedy. I wish the movie had more laughs in it though.","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" It's amazing that a movie with such a concept and people involved wasn't more fun to watch. The movie seriously lacked some good laughs at times and I feel that the movie in its core had far more potential.It's obvious that Gene Wilder wanted to make a Mel Brooks kind of movie. The movie definitely has the same atmosphere and ideas as Young Frankenstein. Unfortunately its not as good and it shows how much quality Mel Brooks actually has, to have the skill to have simple, predictable and silly humor and still make an hilarious and classic movie with it.The humor in this movie is just as absurd and predictable and unfortunately it just doesn't always work out.The story is totally uninteresting and just serves as an excuse to put as many crazy characters as possible into the movie. It's a weird looking bunch with Dom DeLuise playing a woman! Could be me but I thought the sight of him was pretty darn hilarious! Halve of the time I didn't even bother to wanted to know what the story was all about, it was that absurd really!The movie of course also features Gene Wilder but unfortunately he hasn't given himself better material and dialog to work with. So it's hardly his best or most comical role. The movie further more also features Jonathan Pryce, in one of his earlier movie roles.Quite frankly I don't understand who the movie has such a bad reputation. I mean the movie is not all that bad. Yes, you have to like these sort of movies (Mel Brooks-type of humor movies) but I've seen far worse genre movies receiving far better criticism. It just doesn't seem really fair.The special effects are definitely acceptable for its genre and year it was made in. So was its make-up and its entire professional visual look.If you like these type of movies its very well worth seeing, though it's definitely not the best movie in its genre that is around.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not all that bad","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I saw this movie a loooong time ago and again just last week.  Even though it is not as funny as today's comedy films, it still brings a little giggle every now and then.  The movie is about a radio talent named Larry (played by Gene Wilder) who has a deeply rooted fear of anything scary, especially lightning.  His fiance Vicki (played by Gilda Radner, a very talented soul) and himself decide to spend a weekend in a haunted mansion.  Everything gets kind of weird from there, a sudden thunderstorm, an eccentric aunt (played by Dom Deluise) who claims the house is cursed, and other funky mishaps. Like I said before, the film isn't all that great, but it doesn't completely stink either.  If you're in the mood for a stupidly silly movie to watch on a boring evening, then I would recommend Haunted Honeymoon.  I give this movie 3 stars, mostly because of the funny things Larry (Gene) does when he thinks he's in trouble.   "},{"Title":"I swear, they had to TRY HARD to make it this bad.","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This film is a bottomless abyss of waste. It is full of reasonably talented people playing characters in the situation which could be very, very funny. Instead, is is boring, convoluted, random, unfunny and stupid. Among other things, it reeks of some very bad editing. The plot is totally, thoroughly incomprehensible. It left me wanting to kick somebody in the shins. How can you have Jonathan Pryce with long hair and an American accent, and make such a pathetic wad of celluloid? It's criminal.As a great man once said, DISAPPOINTED!!   "},{"Title":"One of those movies we picked at random and now watch again and again!","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  my friends and i picked this movie at random, and now everyone i know has been sucked in.  It's hilarious...from dom delouise's dance with gilda radner, to gene wilders hilarious performance in the cellar, i was cracking up.  It's one of those movies that is just funny...a li'l stupid....but funny never-the-less.  Plus, with Gene Wilder and Gilda Radner, who could not love it?  It gets a 10! "},{"Title":"VERY FUNNY AND SPOOKILY ENJOYABLE!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Gene Wilder is good in this movie. There are some very funny scenes throughout and, although it may seem quite dated, it's unquestionably enjoyable sometimes. Plenty of laughs and gags to be had. The other actors are cast great in this movie. SPOOKILY FUNNY! 7/10 "},{"Title":"Amusing But Not Amazing","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Larry Abbot, speaker in the radio horror shows of Manhattan Mystery Theater wants to marry. For the marriage he takes his fiancée home to the castle where he grew up among his eccentric relatives. His uncle decides that he needs to be cured from a neurotic speech defect and exaggerated bursts of fear he gives him a shock therapy with palace ghosts.You really can't dislike any film with Gene Wilder, Gilda Radner and Dom DeLuise. I mean, that is just guaranteed to be fun to watch no matter what happens. But this is really pretty tame. Some good moments of humor, surrounded by lots of just average scenery. And at a very short run time (barely over an hour), it seems odd they didn't have enough jokes to fill the script. "},{"Title":"Gilda Radner's last picture show. Dom Deluise is great as Aunt Kate","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" There's a lot going for this under-rated good, but not great, spoof of recent and old B-grade murder-haunted house films. It will remind you of everything from Bob Hope to the Bowery Boys, The 3 Stooges, Abbott & Costello, to Murder By Death and Clue. Filmed in England. with pretty good effects for 1986. Why the low ratings? So many rubber masks, wigs, fake coffins, intentional wires and strings. The ending is confusing as it ends up back at the radio station before they are even married. Was it all just a dream, everything at Aunt Kate's creepy old mansion, with hidden passages and an ancient butler and maid? Dom DeLuise actually won the Razzie award for best cross dresser. He is a riot as crazy Aunt Kate. Confusing? Gida and Gene get married twice First at the haunted mansion and again in the city. I suspect that maybe Gilda was already sick and they had to wrap it up quite quickly? It's her last film and it's only 82 min. I enjoyed it because of her bravo performance alone and that's why I rated it up so high. Is it a great film? Hardly, but everybody seemed to be having a lot of fun making it! "},{"Title":"Goofy fun","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Gene Wilder made this film as a tribute to the 'old dark house' style movies popular during the 1930s. I guess nobody remembered or appreciated those films because this was a massive bomb on release and hardly anybody bothered going to see it. It's a shame, because it's as equally enjoyable as more popular '80s fare like POLICE ACADEMY.The plot has a straightforward premise about a group of characters meeting up at a creepy old house for a wedding, but it becomes increasingly convoluted as time goes on. There's a murderer on the loose, and the jokes and chills come thick and fast. It's very similar to MURDER BY DEATH, although not as funny or well-written as that film.Still, Wilder is on strong form here, as is Gilda Radner as his bride to be. The worst thing about the film are the plot twists, especially at the climax, which are a step too far. Still, the spooky atmosphere is fun, and as this was filmed in the UK, there's an exemplary supporting cast including Jonathan Pryce and Peter Vaughan. My favourite character is the underrated Ann Way (CLOCKWISE) as the housekeeper. "}{"Title":"Retold Young Frankenstein","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" While enjoyable (if you haven't seen Young Frankenstein), it reuses a LOT of the gags from the earlier movie. I, having seen, and re-watched, YF a thousand times found it a humorous homage to the earlier movie... with some fascinating twists, but without too much to set it apart. Perhaps it would make a better sequel, but... alas, it is too late to go back and change time. Gene Wilder's character seems, at times, a mix of Charlie & The Chocolate Factory mixed with his YF character, in the same oddities and hair-trigger attitude, with gags from YF mixed in. The supporting cast were rather amusing in their antics, however, if in some cases rather forgettable. However, some managed to make themselves quite outstanding, such as the Butler, who was rather amusing with his interchange with the Maid. Jonathan Pryce, playing a cousin or some such (I just got done watching it and I can't recall the names, hrm) managed to play a hippy-esque man, which is actually quite amusing, especially since he was one of the potential villains and he pulled off the suspense quite well. Dom DeLuise was, as always, quite funny... if a little odd and fabulous. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" This was a wonderful movie, entirely underrated. Gene Wilder and Gilda Radner were brilliant, as they always are. Dom Deluise was extremely funny as Aunt Kate. This movie kept me interested and kept me laughing all the way. Gene Wilder's constant covering up of the dead bodies in the house to the police in which he kept having to knock out the butler was hysterical along with Dom Deluise's speech about the werewolf and Gilda Radner's declaration that this thing is pinching my butt! I also fell in love with the song Who's Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf? always playing, from Gilda whistling it to the organ playing it later on. Again I will say that this is an absolutely wonderful movie! "},{"Title":"Wonderfully entertaining!!","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This one has it all, the old mystery radio show, a haunted house, and a killer cast, especially Gene Wilder and Gilda Radner together. Now throw in a family worthy of James Thurber's, and great story line and you have entertainment.Dom Deloise as the eccentric aunt in drag is priceless, and mysterious happenings at a family gathering, a bizarre butler, his wife, and a fantastic story with wit, style, and loads of humor. A genuine keeper.Check out the cast listing, it's great! And the delivery of the actors is flawless, well-timed.  Well worth the money. "},{"Title":"I highly recommend this comedy/murder mystery.","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This is a film done in the 20s radio show style in the beginning. And portrays Gene Wilder's character as a very popular, yet troubled actor who is about to marry his on air co-star played by Gilda Radner. As the story unfolds, the laughs are too many to count. Also, the murder mystery really captures your interest. There is a huge selection of actors that play their parts so well. One being Dom Delouise, Who plays Larry Abbot's Aunt. His lines are outrageously funny. Don't delay, see it right away! "},{"Title":"I Don't Care What Anyone Says, I Like This Movie","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" I grew up on this movie. Comedy Central used to air it about 5 times a week (sometimes more often). My mother and father were big Gene Wilder/Gilda Radner fans and they were particularly fond of this movie. Whenever it aired, we watched it. Maybe that's part of my allegiance. But I sincerely don't believe that there is much else funnier than Dom Deluise sliding down a railing, dressed in drag. I've dreamed of this movie after watching it, and even the dream was funny. I admit, the humor isn't very high-brow, but that's OK. The I have to use the can! and get happy sequences are pretty funny. Like I said before, the movie isn't going to stimulate anyone intellectually. But if you just tune your mind to pun, this movie should amuse you enough. "},{"Title":"Gilda Radner's autobiography offers some insight.","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" When Haunted Honeymoon was released, the critics panned it and almost no one saw it. But it does have a certain charm to it. Featuring Gene Wilder and Gilda Radner as husband-and-wife-to-be Larry Abbot and Vickie Pearle staying in a Gothic mansion where there may or may not be a werewolf, the movie's completely silly but pretty funny. There's certainly an air of Young Frankenstein here. Dom DeLuise looks really zany playing a woman, and the movie also stars Jonathan Pryce and Paul Smith (the prison guard from Midnight Express).If you want to know more about this movie, read Gilda Radner's autobiography It's Always Something. She talks about how they filmed it, and Gene Wilder stayed in England to edit it. While he was there, Chernobyl happened. So, she was worried about him in Europe with a radioactive cloud hanging over it.I wonder what ever became of Gene Wilder. He seems to have disappeared ever since Gilda Radner died. "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This movie was adorable. It was funny, and kept me interested. But then again who wouldn't be entertained when Gilda Radner's on screen? "},{"Title":"Great Performances; Lousy Movie","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" I enjoy Gene Wilder, and certainly I'll be the first to say that he has done some wonderful work both on screen and behind the scenes in many films. But he is also the frothy sort of artist who is at his best when firmly grounded by the restraint of a hardnosed director--and for HAUNTED HONEYMOON he had no such restraints. He was writer, director, and star, and the result is way too much froth and not nearly enough substance.The premise of the film is clever, a parody of the spooky-comedies of the 1940s and 1950s that were popularized by the likes of Red Skelton, Abbot and Costello, and Crosby and Hope. Two radio stars (Wilder and Radner) have become engaged and they rush off to the groom's ancestral home for the wedding... and promptly encounter everything from cobras in the closet to werewolves in the winecellar. And the script and production values are often quite amusing, with repeated references to James Whale's 1930s classic THE OLD DARK HOUSE, and even the score borrows a few phrases from I've Written A Letter To Daddy from WHATEVER HAPPENED TO BABY JANE? But the plot goes no where, and not even the stars of the film can save it.Which brings us to why the film is nonetheless worth watching. Wilder is excessive, to say the least, but his failings here are as director and writer; as a performer he manages quite well. And his co-star is the late and much missed Gilda Radner. Sadly, Radner never found her place on the big screen before her untimely death, and HAUNTED HONEYMOON is no exception; Wilder doesn't seem to know how best to display her talents. But even so, there are moments when she illuminates the film to a remarkable comic degree, giving the viewer a glimpse of what might have been if the role had been more carefully tailored to her talents. And then there is Dom DeLuise, who offers a hilarious throw-away performance in drag as Aunt Kate... And when Gilda and Dom join forces to perform the old Vaudeville song Ballin' the Jack the result is pure movie magic.Unfortunately, though, it isn't enough. The story is just too weak, too many of the one-liners fall flat, too often cast members who might have given great comic performances are neglected. I'll give it three stars... one each for Wilder, Radner, and DeLuise. But I'm erring on the generous side. Incidentally, this film is not to be confused with a Robert Young-Constance Cummings effort of the 1930s, also entitled HAUNTED HONEYMOON and based on the play and novel by mystery author Dorothy Sayers--a very good film, by the way, which sad to say has never been released to the home market.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Young Frankenstein wanna be","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Haunted Honeymoon had all the ear marks for a great comedy. A good setting with mood and a great comedic cast. Sadly the results are dismal as the laughs (if you can even call them that) are few and far between. The film's one big laugh is a direct steal from Wilder's classic Young Frankenstein bit involving the arm of a corpse coming out at a most inopportune time. And you would think that Dom DeLuise in drag might elicit a chuckle or two...but only groans of dismay. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This is a very funny movie.  It is something to watch when you want to get in a halloween mood but need to laugh.  "}{"Title":"Nothing But Trouble !","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Gene Wilder is a bit quirky. For sometimes, some far times, he's funny. But for most of the times he's not. And when he supposes whatever he does as comedic, then it is pretty annoying and nasty. Goggling by his eyes, among other trademark stuff, can't be considered a reason for Ha Ha in my book, rather Boo Hoo ! So when I read that he managed to be one of the most lovable comedians, then naturally it means In America, and when he's chosen as one of the most important 50 actors in history, by Empire Magazine, then it's not a favorite issue ! His work as a director tried to be different. Great or laughable are things to argue about achieving them there. Now, I don't want to weigh him as a director by this movie, because &#x96; obviously &#x96; it's nobody's feat.It has ambition which couldn't hold a candle to. The movie is possibly a parody of some themes in the horror genre, mostly related to the hunted house. Yet nothing is interesting further than its first scene !There is an assured emptiness. While it doesn't want to build itself on borrowing certain scenes from older movies to imitate ironically it doesn't find something to show. Even the characters are less than catchy. And the whole cast was wasted, doing nothing memorable at best.So Wilder, as a writer and director, didn't find a lot to be made. In any genre that's disappointing, however in comedy; it's ultra disappointing ! In that era, the horror spoof was in fashion. Saturday the 14th (1981), National Lampoon's Class Reunion (1982), Pandemonium (1982), Dead End (1985) and Saturday the 14th Strikes Back (1988). Well, Haunted Honeymoon (1986) falls in the end of the list. It's poor, freakily usual, long TV sketch. It makes bad movie like Nothing But Trouble (1991) more vital, surprising, and full !P.S  I still remember this due to the fact that I watched it through a try to set a record in watching many movies in just couple of days. So in 13 and 14 / 7 / 2000 I watched  Forrest Gump, Jungle Fever, Ghosts of Mississippi, Haunted Honeymoon, The Trigger Effect, and Sherlock Holmes Returns. How Haunted was I ! "},{"Title":"Haunted Masterpiece","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" I was brought this movie for £4.99 over a decade ago when I was still a youngster.. and I must say its a very underrated film. Most films are underrated. Its only the hyped ones usually which are overrated.The basic premise is that Larry Abbott and Vicky Pearle are radio stars who are due to get married - but then it becomes clear something isn't quite right with Larry and a doctor becomes involved in a plot to cure him, yet it might cost Larry in the long run. However, it becomes apparent that a plot is being set to kill Larry Abbott after an attempt on Aunt Kate's life fails.The cast are fantastic and old fashioned which is just what makes a film what it is - Dom DeLuise is wonderful as are Gilda and Gene! I don't know why so many people slate Gene Wilder. He is a good actor and there is nothing wrong with his direction. The comedy isn't half bad and the murder plot might not be anything new but its still a decent storyline. As for plot holes, I couldn't see many. The villain is truly menacing and it becomes pretty obvious who the villain is early on during this feature because clues which are not subtle at all are thrown in but its still entertaining and it does have some great comedy moments.Yet, there are still a couple of unanswered questions and things to mull over at the end which makes it somewhat symbolic. Not a bad film by any means at all and certainly worthy of today's cinema. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie!","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I was only 4 years old when this movie first came out but I watched years later, I was in my mid teens and I thought this movie was funny. Another reason I like it because it has Gene Wilder in it and Dom Deluise playing his aunt and I'm a huge Gene Wilder and Dom Deluise fan. If your a huge fan of either Gene Wilder or Dom Deluise I recommend Haunted Honeymoon because its a funny movie. "},{"Title":"Nostalgia unwisely ditched for spoofy humor.","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  An attempt to make a little comedy like they did in the 40's.  Except that Gene Wilder directed and he was more interested in being another Mel Brooks (maybe he was more interested in making a film that looked like a film made in the 70's that was spoofing films of the 40's).  Except that those old little comedies were in black-and-white (maybe Gene Wilder would think it would look like he was ripping off Young Frankenstein.  You think???)  Except that those old little comedies were perfected by comedians who practiced their routines for years in vaudeville (Hope, Skelton, Abbott and Costello, etc...) so they KNEW they were funny before the camera rolled.  Except that those comedies never abandoned their simplicity for tasteless humor.  The premise WAS there in the first few minutes.  What a great blast-from-the-past when we were treated to Wilder and Ratner as radio personalities complete with a little musical number (just like in the old Bob Hope movies).  No spoof here, just pure nostalgia.  What fun!  After that the film sank trying to shoe horn spoofs to generate laughs.  Once Wilder abandoned the concept that laughs could be generated from the premise then so were we.  Sad that such a funny duo never had the opportunity to shine.  "},{"Title":"Wouldn't be fond of the film really...","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" I mean I honestly love both Gilda & Gene on this, they showed great chemistry for each other regardless if they were a couple or not. However I didn't find the whole storyline funny in fact wasn't that great to be honest with ya.I can't tell you how many times I got annoyed when Gene Wilder's kept asking too much to anyone if his tie was 'straight '. Whoever made him say this should've at least make him minimize it, it just hurts your head so much!Dom Deluise looked quite good in dressing up as a drag queen but he kept popping up as if he played the hero in which he didn't, he's meant to be a supporting character like! It was just annoying whenever someone said a line, he interrupted always! I think they should've picked someone else for the supporting role. I respect him deeply as an actor but he didn't do well in this movie!I didn't like what Gildas character wedding dress turned out to be, it looked like a white mother of the bride outfit then an actual bride outfit. The wardrobe department should really have gotten a better dress then Gilda would look like an actual bride for her character.The reason I came upon this film only because of Gene Wilder and Gilda Radner really. The rest can forget about it! "},{"Title":"I swear to God your tie is straight.","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Weak homage to old dark house comedy mysteries from the '30s & '40s. As a matter of fact, it actually uses some jokes taken straight from some of those movies. The plot sees two radio stars (Gene Wilder, Gilda Radner) engaged to be married who stay at the family mansion with his eccentric relatives. There a series of strange things happen. Yawn. I had hopes for this one, despite its reputation as being terrible. But it's pretty lame. Wilder and Radner try, but they just can't make a go of such tired material. Dom DeLuise, who benefited more from the pity of his friends than perhaps any other actor in the history of movies, stinks to high heaven. He deservedly won a Razzie Award for his awful performance. This movie has the sad distinction of being Gilda Radner's final film. "},{"Title":"Haunted is Right...I Was Haunted!","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Silly concept for a feature film. Wilder, Radner and DeLuise are all dismal in this comedy-romance-thriller-musical...Jeez! I guess nobody here could make up their minds. It certainly shows.. . "},{"Title":"A Weak Horror Comedy","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" If you watch the opening title sequence you can easily understand the problem with the rest of the movie  A transvestite falls dying against a window consciously telling the audience  It's not what you think , it's not what you think  . Seconds later something stirs in the bushes back to camera , the figure turns and we see it is a werewolf - then the action cuts to a radio studio ! And that sums up the movie . Camp transvestites are not laugh inducing while sequences that reveal the previous action was part of radio play is akin to someone waking up and discovering it was a bad dream . Bad dream sequence = bad movie I know that fusing comedy with horror is never easy but when you've got some talented people behind and in front of the camera you should demand more . Gene Wilder directs and he worked on YOUNG FRANKENSTIEN . Trying to tell me he forgot everything he knew from that classic comedy horror ? I also couldn't noticing that most of the cast are British . You'll recognise most of their faces if not their names and you can't help but notice their absolutely atrocious American accents ! I really do hate it when American actors try ( And fail ) to do British accents and we've got a trans Atalantic role reversal here . Trying to tell me Jonathan Pryce couldn't have done better ? I won't waste any more words on this movie except to reiterate that it's a lazily written , badly acted and hugely disappointing film "},{"Title":"Not one single thing was funny","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Nervous radio entertainer and his girlfriend are going to be married. So to unwind a bit, they go to his family estate which turns out to be a really huge castle replete with all manner of weird characters.  Some guy dressed up like Lon Chaney was bumping folks off, then running to his secret hideout. I suppose he had his reasons. The cute little twist at the end did nothing for the film either. "},{"Title":"Unredeemable.","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Haunted Honeymoon suffers from a classic case of all setup, no payoff. It keeps introducing new eccentric characters, then drops them and gives them nothing to do. It has a promising (and game) cast, but wastes it. And it can't seem to find a consistent tone; for example, that brutal fistfight near the end is an unforgivable mistake.The film does have a few scattered laughs (Wilder's version of the song Get Happy), and Gilda Radner has a wonderful presence, but nothing can really redeem this confusing and convoluted mess. "}{"Title":"haunted honeymoon","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Okay, so it wasn't everyone's best work. If you look at it with no presupposed ideas about everyone, you will find a nice funny movie. There are bits which are priceless. If you think of the humor they were all trying to put forth with Gilda so sick and Gene so worried, maybe it will help to understand somewhat why more attention wasn't paid to a script or to more proper editing. I still find it a breathe of fresh air compared to a lot of movies released in the last 20 years. And isn't it rather funny to see an Englishman do an American accent badly, which was what they were supposed to be doing? It is a comedy, for crying out loud. It wasn't made as a movie to win a Nobel peace prize, but I am sure you will smile and even chuckle a little. Pop some popcorn, settle back, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Booooooo!","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Stupid comedy that stars Gene Wilder and Gilda Radner as two 1920s radio stars who decide to get married at Wilder's childhood home. The home happens to be a castle and there is a whole host of eccentric relatives who seem bent on scaring the pair to death before it is over. A really silly production that never makes much sense. Gene Wilder's direction and a weak screenplay cannot help out a cast that seems lost in the venture. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "}]