[{"Title":"Welcome Back to the Lost World of the 80's.","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sherman, set the wayback machine for... 1986. The United States was just climbing out of its worst postwar recession, while Japan was enjoying an unprecedented industrial boom. Manufacturing industries were still a significant part of the US economy, and factory workers were a good example of the average American. The word downsizing hadn't entered the general vocabulary yet, but everyone knew the phenomenon. Bruce could be heard on the radio singing, Foreman says these jobs are going, boy, and they ain't coming back to your hometown. Chrysler had just been bailed out by Uncle Sam. Bumper stickers could be seen saying Buy American -- the job you save may be your own.Gung Ho does a better job of capturing the mood of the American industrial workforce than just about any other popular movie made during that period. Certainly the movie has its flaws -- some loose plot threads and mediocre acting jobs by everyone except Michael Keaton and Gedde Watanabe. But the story really is about the meeting of East and West Keaton's Hunt Stevenson personifies America, brash and confident on the outside yet insecure underneath. Watanabe's Kazuhiro personifies Japan, on top of the heap with a successful system, but wondering if there is more to be learned from their Western rivals. The movie's plot, flawed as it is, simply provides a framework for the conflict, and eventually synthesis, of their two personalities.Keaton's acting overshadows everyone else's, and practically makes the movie by itself. I've always admired Keaton for his ability to deliver  lines that feel improvised, no matter what script he's following. His character, Hunt Stevenson, is a likable, affable everyman, a natural leader with a wise-ass streak. But he has a fatal flaw common to many of us he doesn't want to disappoint anyone. He'll distract the crowd with inspirational anecdotes, and even lie, rather than point out the ugly truth.Kazuhiro is the mirror image of Stevenson shy and introspective, but also, because of his Japanese upbringing, reluctant to be the bearer of bad news. The scene in which Stevenson first comes to Kazuhiro with the employees' grievances captures perfectly the Japanese approach to workplace conflict. Kazuhiro replies to Stevenson's complaints with I understand what you are saying, but won't refuse his requests out loud. Stevenson misinterprets this as agreement, and goes away saying, Okay, we've got that settled. (This is still a problem in Japanese-American business relations in the 21st century!)Ultimately, Kazuhiro and Stevenson have the same problem get the factory working smoothly, meet production goals, and fulfill their responsibility to the workers under them. In working towards this goal, they each have to take a page from the others' book. Kazuhiro's family becoming more Americanized is an obvious example. Also note that Stevenson thinks it's odd when Kazuhiro explains how he had to make a public apology to his workers for failing them -- and yet, later in the movie, Stevenson does exactly that himself.The plot and its resolution are a little cornball, but hey, this is a comedy. If you can overlook the movie's flaws, there is a great story about self-realization and open-mindedness here.  "},{"Title":"Michael Keaton At His Best! A Great Comedy!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Gung Ho is one of those movies that you will want to see over and over again. Michael Keaton is put in charge of wooing a Japanese car company to come to his town thus creating jobs for the residents of Hadleyville. What happens after that is one hilarious moment after another. The two cultures clash and it is up to Keaton to hold things together. Look for great performances from Keaton, Gedde Watanabe, George Wendt, Mimi Rogers,  John Turturro, Soh Yamamura and Sab Shimomo. All are perfectly cast. Don't be fooled by the low number rating. This is a 7.5 in my book. It is interesting to note that the town name  of Hadleyville was also used in High Noon. Yes, there is a real Hadleyville but in Oregon.  "},{"Title":"WOW! I can't believe this movie is so poorly rated.","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think it great example of the differences between two cultures. It would be a great movie to show in a sociology class. I thought it was pretty funny and I must say that i am a sucker for that lets band together and get the job done plot device. It seems most people don't realize that this movie is not just a comedy. It has a few dramatic elements in it as well and I think they blend in nicely. Overall, I give it a solid 8.  "},{"Title":"Not edgy, but funny","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Surprised to see the rather low score for this movie. Just saw this film for the first time in 10 years, and was reminded why I like it.Come back with me, children, to a time when Michael Keaton was a straight-up comedy guy, and you might find some joy in this film. It's a gentle comedy -- the kind Ron Howard specializes in -- but if that's your thing, you should check this out. Keaton's low-key charm is just right for this project.Gung Ho is a bit dated, because it takes places in the last stage of the pre-global economy world, when it still mattered what country a business was based in. That said, it delivers laughs as well as a lesson on how people can learn from each other, to great benefit.You could watch this film and enjoy it without remembering one scene in particular you really liked, but that's because the whole movie provides a slow but constant stream of laughs. It's like an I.V. drip. And I mean that in a good way.   "},{"Title":"This is a typical Keaton comedy...excellent!","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This comedy is bound to be good from the get-go. East meets west and east doesn't want to lose...west doesn't know what losing is like. It starts a little slow but it grabs you very soon and it doesn't let go. This is definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"terrific, underrated movie","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a wonderful movie with a fun, clever story and the dynamics of culture differences and the running theme of what's important in life make this a very under-appreciated movie. Don't let the cynics of the world deter you from seeing this. Keaton has wonderful moments and I wonder at the fact that comedy is never appreciated, because actors like Keaton make going from humor to serious bits look tremendously easy. Great movie all around! "},{"Title":"An eighties classic. Very funny.","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A very funny east-meets-west film influenced by the closure of GM's Flint, Michigan plant in the eighties and the rise and integration of Japanese automakers in the US. Set in western Pennsylvania, it features great performances by Michael Keaton, Gedde Watanabe, and George Wendt. Music by blues legend Stevie Ray Vaughan. "},{"Title":"Not many laughs but a good story","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wow, it's been years since I last saw this movie. Watching it in 2008 is certainly different than watching it in 1986. Initially I didn't' think I would make it through the movie. Hunt Stevenson (Michael Keaton) was so obnoxious, arrogant and disrespectful that I found it hard to watch him. He embodied every negative stereotype of Americans. If that wasn't bad enough, once the small American town's finest workers were shown the image only got worse. On the opposite spectrum the Japanese were presented as emotionless, robotic workaholics. The movie wasn't even all that funny, I only hung in there because of the nostalgic value of it. And I'm glad I continued the watch.Just like boxing, judges are swayed by how you finish the round. This movie went from about a three up to the seven I rated it because of the ending. The end was excellent. You always want a harmonious ending and this was just that. It was great that the town got to keep there jobs and keep the factory, but what was most special was the marriage between the Japanese customs and values and the American customs and values. It was a mediocre movie that ended on a high note. "},{"Title":"Drive home with an Assan","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Way, way back in the 1980s, long before NAFTA was drafted and corporations began to shed their national identities, the United States and Japan were at each other's throat in the world manufacturing race. Remember sayings like 'Union Yes!,' 'the Japanese are taking this country over,' and 'Americans are lazy?'As the Reagan era winded down and corporations edged towards a global marketplace, director Ron Howard made one of several trips into the comedy genre with his 1986 smash 'Gung Ho,' which drew over $36 million in U.S. box office receipts. While in many ways dated, Howard's tongue-in-cheek story of colliding cultures in the workplace still offers hard truth for industrial life today.'Gung Ho' focuses on Hunt Stevenson (Michael Keaton), the automakers union rep from Hadleyville, a small, depressed town in the foothills of Pennsylvania. Stevenson has been asked to visit the Assan Motor Company in Tokyo (similar to real-life Toyota), which is considering a U.S. operation at the town's empty plant. With hundreds of residents out of work and the town verging on collapse, Assan decides to move in and Stevenson is hired as a liaison between company officials and workers on the assembly line.The 112 minutes of 'Gung Ho' is a humorous look at these two sides, with their strengths and weaknesses equally considered on one hand, an American workforce that values its traditions but is often caught in the frenzy of pride and trade unionism; on the other hand, Japanese workers who are extremely devoted to their job yet lacking in personal satisfaction and feelings of self-worth. In Stevenson, we find an American working class figure of average intelligence with the skills to chat people through misunderstandings. With the survival of his workers' jobs and most of Hadleyville on the line, Stevenson proves a likable guy who wants nothing more than a fair chance, although his cleverness will sink him into a great deal of trouble. Besides answering to the heads of Assan, we witness a delicate balancing act between Stevenson and his fellow union members, many of whom he grew up with. This includes Buster (George Wendt), Willie (John Turturro), and Paul (Clint Howard, Ron's brother).The Japanese cast is headed by Gedde Watanabe, also known for 'Sixteen Candles' and 'Volunteers.' Watanabe plays Kazihiro, the plant manager who is down on his luck and begins to feel a sympathy for American life. He is constantly shadowed by Saito (Sab Shimono), the nephew of Assan's CEO who is desperate to take his spot in the pecking order. While given a light touch, these characters fare very well in conveying ideas of the Japanese working culture.With Hunt Stevenson dominating the script, Michael Keaton has to give a solid performance for this film to work. 'Gung Ho' is indeed a slam-dunk success for Keaton, who also teamed with Ron Howard in 1994's 'The Paper.' He made this film during a string of lighter roles that included 'Mr. Mom,' 'Beetle Juice,' and 'The Dream Team' before venturing into 'Batman,' 'One Good Cop,' and 'My Life.' It's also hard not to like Gedde Watanabe's performance as the odd man out, who first wears Japanese ribbons of shame before teaming up with Stevenson to make the auto plant a cohesive unit.The supporting cast is top-notch, including Wendt, Turturro, Shimono, and Soh Yamamura as Assan CEO Sakamoto. Mimi Rogers supplies a romantic interest as Audrey, Hunt's girlfriend. Edwin Blum, Lowell Ganz, and Babaloo Mandel teamed up for Gung Ho's solid writing. The incidental music, which received a BMI Film Music Award, was composed by Thomas Newman. Gung Ho's soundtrack songs are wall-to-wall 80s, including 'Don't Get Me Wrong,' 'Tuff Enuff,' and 'Working Class Man.'The success of 'Gung Ho' actually led to a short-lived TV series on ABC. While more impressive as a social commentary twenty years ago, Ron Howard's film still has its comic value. It is available on DVD as part of the Paramount Widescreen Collection and is a tad short-changed. Audio options are provided in English 5.1 surround, English Dolby surround, and French 'dubbing,' but subtitles are in English only. There are no extras, not even the theatrical trailer. On the plus side, Paramount's digital transfer is quite good, with little grain after the opening credits and high quality sound. While a few extras would have been helpful - especially that 'Gung Ho' was a box office success - there's little to complain about the film presentation itself.*** out of 4 "},{"Title":"Feet of Clay","Date":"17 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Thus did a handful of rapacious citizens come to control all that was worth controlling. Honest, industrious citizens were classed as bloodsuckers if they asked to be paid a living wage, and praise was reserved henceforth for those who devised means of getting paid enormously for committing crimes against which no laws had been passed. - Kurt Vonnegut Ron Howard's Gung Ho stars Michael Keaton as Hunt Stevenson, a factory worker at an auto plant in Hadleyville, Pennsylvania. When the plant is purchased by Assan Motors, a Japanese company, Hunt becomes a liaison between Japanese bosses and American workers.For most of its running time, Gung Ho is a slick, well-shot and funny feature. Here, Japanese capitalism is shown to be dangerously obsessed with production, exploitation and servitude. In contrast, American workers and bosses are shown to be slovenly, lackadaisical and overly individualistic, traits which hamper corporate profits.By the film's end, however, Howard reveals Gung Ho's quite sinister message the worker of tomorrow is better off if he adopts a mixture of Eastern and Western values. Work hard, increase production and put your job first, and mega-corporations won't fire you, abandon you and go seeking cheaper labour elsewhere. But don't work too hard; after-all, an alive worker is a good worker.That this is not only a form of social blackmail, and a false binary &#x96; the worker forced to choose between two types of the same exploitation &#x96; doesn't occur to Howard. That capitalism's many contradictions means that it must, in aggregate, lead to bankruptcy, debt, unemployment, downsizing, lowered wages and unemployment regardless of efficiency or the behaviour of the worker, doesn't occur to him either. Co-starring Mimi Rogers, the film quite cleverly positions its audience to sympathise with what would otherwise be deemed racial stereotypes.7.5/10 - Worth one viewing. "}{"Title":"Cultural Clashes","Date":"9 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" With no laughs but with important messages, Gung Ho manages to be a reflexive entertainment about the cultural and economical clashes of two nations when they join forces to rise from the ashes an automobile factory that can be the only hope of saving a town. Michael Keaton plays an American executive who gets the job of rescuing such factory with a new leadership coming from Japan with a desperate executive (Gedde Watanabe) trying to save his career from potential failure. The latter's task is to command the American plant and their workers, accustomed to work in a particular way, trying impose the Oriental methods of working for long hours for the benefit of the company and such clashes with the interests of Keaton who's trying to look good before his friends who aren't used to such working journey. But let's face it the movie isn't funny. Babaloo Mandel and Lowell Ganz are terrific writers (Splash, Parenthood) but they didn't create much moments we could say they were funny, most of the time is just using of caricatures to make some amusing moments, they barely work, maybe two or three scenes. Their concentration to the more engaging aspects was what made Gung Ho something really worth seeing. It pokes fun on the culture comparisons between U.S., specially when it comes to both nations traditions but it also establishes a greater sense of supporting each other, one might be better than the other but only together they come up with something bigger, better and stronger. Having a movie like this made on a decade where American superiority was presented in every single movie and also in politics is something of a miracle. It basically says We're no longer the strongest nation in the world, neither the most efficient but we can aspire to be if we follow some other examples around the world. Sure, it doesn't paint a fair picture for both sides (Japanese as workaholics who can't contest their bosses and Americans as lazy and incompetent), often recurring to stereotypes but presents something good out of those. Although a little sloppy, clichéd and never serious enough, Gung Ho can be used as a source of inspiration, at least for those who have a company and doesn't know how to bring out the best with their employs, it's always there to bring out of the best of a team, push them to the limits and show them the advantages of following new directives. I know this movie is something of a classic between Administration students in here, and most of them enjoy it. Out of this department, it might be a disappointment for Keaton and Ron Howard fans, they're not at their best. The supporting cast formed with the likes of Mimi Rogers, George Wendt, John Turturro, Rance and Clint Howard save this for a bit, but the most interesting in scene is Watanabe, the funniest in the show. In the end, it reaches its purpose of presenting a parallel between cultures, but never takes our fully enjoyment, neither much of our laughs. Easy to watch and quite motivational though. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A victory worth compromising over","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Gung Ho works more efficiently as a social commentary than it does a comedy. The comedy it provides us is lightweight, and most of the humor is derived from the Japanese stereotypes, sometimes funny, sometimes not. But the social commentary the film gives us is strong and meaningful. It's actually one of the most presentable and worthwhile morals in a comedy I've seen in a while.The story centers around a closed car plant in Hadleyville, Pennsylvania. Before the plant was closed, most of the town's jobs were supplied by the factory and the town's economy nearly depends on it alone. Former head of the factory Hunt Stevenson (portrayed effectively by Michael Keaton), travels all the way to Tokyo to try and strike a deal with Assan Motors Corporation to purchase the plant so it can reopen under new management.Takahara Kazuhiro (Watanabe) is the head of Assan, and has been branded a failure because of his leniency on his workers. The Japanese are taught to be strong, faithful employees who work as a team. When the company fails, they should feel like they've failed. They don't work for the money. They work for the company.Hunt and Takahara strike a deal and the plant reopens under the Japanese management, but the company must adapt to the brand new set of rules. No newspapers in the bathrooms, little to no breaks, etc. This is where the social commentary part of the film comes in. The American workers have more freedom, yet still, most of the time, they work efficiently. The Japanese workers are more faithful to the company, but at the same time are scared to request freedom, luxuries, and independence. Once they agree to a job, they are that job. No excuses.The moral of the story here is that both ways are successful, but both have their own perks. Sometimes, we Americans don't think how lucky we are. Some of the most arbitrary jobs nowadays (IE an experienced radio personality) get paid six figure salaries. They don't work a full day, yet they make more money than teachers, nurses, etc. Same thing goes with professional athletes. Their average salary could rank in the millions if they're lucky. Granted many of them suffer hard labor, but really, should someone like a baseball player demand a higher salary if he's been benched for a good portion of the season? Going back to the comedy portion, many jokes are directed at the Japanese's expense. The problem here is we are expected to laugh at the Japanese because they are Japanese. There's one part in the film where we are expected to laugh at the Japanese head because he said looney tunes. Certain things like that almost make the film spiral to a level of immaturity that it should be trying to avoid. There's one central character, a chubby American worker (played by George Wendt) who starts fist fights or threatens them whenever he gets the chance. He is not too charming of a character. He almost reminds me of the character Chris Farley played in Tommy Boy. The difference there was Farley played a likable louse who you couldn't help but side with because of his cheery nature. Here, Wendt's character is so preoccupied with starting something he comes off as an unlikable caricature.On a side note, the film's two central leads, Keaton and Watanabe, do a fine job at working past the formula and going an extra mile to make successful characters. Gung Ho isn't perfect, but it does what many comedies don't bother toying with. The eighties were a decade of fun parties and coming of age films. It's nice to see one film dared to voice an opinion on the American/Japanese cultures working out deals and striking fond relationships with one another without mudslinging one side filthy.Starring Michael Keaton, Gedde Watanabe, George Wendt, Mimi Rogers, John Turturro, Clint Howard, and Michelle Johnson. Directed by Ron Howard. "},{"Title":"light-hearted fun from difficult subject matter","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The auto plant in Hadleyville, Pennsylvania had closed down after 35 years. The town is desperate. Foreman Hunt Stevenson (Michael Keaton) travels to Japan to convince Assan Motors to reopen the plant. He's successful to his complete surprise. He's hired by new plant manager Takahara Kazuhiro (Gedde Watanabe) as liaison with the American workers. Takahara had been shamed for being a bad executive. Hunt struggles between the demands from Japanese management and the expectations of the American workers.Director Ron Howard makes light-hearted fun from a difficult subject matter. For the most part, it works for me. It can be off-putting for an audience that is either pro or anti-union. Howard essentially splits the difference by having both workers and management come together in a happy ending. Michael Keaton is fun. He faces the challenge with charm. Another director would make this a tougher movie but Howard is not that guy. "},{"Title":"It's just cars, not brain surgery.","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was my second favorite Michael Keaton flick from the Eighties, Beetlejuice was the first. I always liked Keaton for his wisecrack manner and facial language, for me one of the best. Watching today the picture has lost some of it's vibe from three decades ago. Times change and tastes change, so I guess that accounts for most of my sentiment. The culture clash between American and Japanese workers is at the heart of the story here, and how mid-level managers Hunt Stevenson (Keaton) and Oishi Kazihiro (Gedde Watanabe) direct their approach to work. Americans are industrious and competent, but by the Eighties, the demands of family life often took priority. Whereas for the Japanese, work is the defining characteristic of one's life and other considerations are not allowed to intrude. The picture seems to take a fairly well balanced approach in bringing each side over to the other's point of view. I had forgotten most of the supporting players here. Mimi Rogers, George Wendt and John Turturro had modest roles supporting Keaton, and after a while I came to realize that a different name was used for Watanabe's character every so often, like Kazoito and Takahira. In his own inimitable style, Keaton called him Kazmania and my own personal favorite, Kazmonaut. Well like the man said, it's not brain surgery. The ending of the picture seems to come together out of left field to reward the citizens of Hadleyville for pulling out a win in the fourth quarter like Hunt promised. It's a little convoluted and feels forced, but if you're a Michael Keaton fan, it ought to work well enough for you. "},{"Title":"Gung Ho Jack-Asses","Date":"18 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just saw this movie again and was utterly shocked how the American workers were portrayed in this film. The U.S. workers all come across as first class jack-asses. They are crude, loud mouth, ignorant, anti social bullies. None of them come across as even remotely likable. Only Micheal Keaton has a bit of compassion. The Japanese are totally stereotyped, but at least they come across as human beings. This is suppose to be a comedy, but there isn't even one laugh.The storyline is interesting regarding a clash of cultures, but the U.S. culture comes in a distant second. Workers are shown as being lazy, unorganized, hot-tempered and below pare. Of course at the end, the workers man up to get their acts together, but honestly who cares. They are so unlikeable and come across as only money hungry that you couldn't care less because they are all a bunch of total jack-asses. "},{"Title":"Only in America, only in the '80s, only in the movies.","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hunt Stevenson would have been tarred and feathered for all the scamming he does in 'Gung ho', but here (for instance) his angry girlfriend is turned on when it comes out he lied to the whole village and played with their jobs... Sure, I get it, it's supposed to deal with various issues between America and Japan, and at its core there are only good intentions, but this movie really takes the cake when it comes to suspending disbelief.I must admit that the film has its charms, and even if Michael Keaton hams it up to the max, he still gets away with it - most of the time. The Japanese were über-stereotypical to the point of being very annoying, and some of the Americans, too. Oh, well...Certainly not a good movie, but somehow it wasn't very hard to sit this one out. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Japanese automaker courts an American factory. Cultures clash.","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just today, holed up with a bad head cold on a wet and dreary day, I watched this old movie. Simply because I wanted to see some old Michael Keaton movies I had missed. This is mostly a comedy just for the sake of comedy, but there is a cultural message here. The Japanese find out how hard it is to have a bunch of blue-collar Pennsylvanians make cars the Japanese way, efficiency, zero defects , and all that. And the Americans find out that they can't just keep on doing business as usual and keep jobs in their community.Michael Keaton is auto worker Hunt Stevenson, sent by the mayor to Japan to court Assan Motors in the hopes of re-starting a car factory and re-vitalize their community. Hunt thinks he botches the assignment, but somehow the Japanese are impressed and schedule a visit to the plant site. The deal is made, the workers begin making cars. Defects and all. We can't make these perfect, those flaws are for the dealer to fix. American Gedde Watanabe is the Japanese plant manager, Oishi Kazihiro. Anyway the movie bogs down a bit in the middle but in the end the Americans and the Japanese figure out ways to respect each others' cultures, and keep the factory going after it had to be shut down briefly. "},{"Title":"Movie has lessons in business management and more","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In addition to having a humorous, well-written script, this movie can teach current businesses the value of good management practices and a look at Unions. We should all be thinking globally, especially in business. No one knows it all, and everyone can teach us something. If we remain open-minded and work together great things can happen.This movie provides a lesson in close-minded management, the value of honesty, friendship and family and more importantly the value of admitting when you were wrong. The script reveals the differences between cultures and their business practices and skillfully focuses on the ensuing confrontation between them. "},{"Title":"I use this for my Japanese class","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I teach Japanese for an online high school and I include cultural activities so that the students can learn about the country as well as the language. And watching Gung Ho is one of the requirements. The students can either buy or rent the movie. Stereotypes or not, this helps the students to see that other people view the world and their lives differently than we do. Many of my students have told me that they enjoyed the movie so much, they are going to get a copy for themselves. It is really interesting to see what we value in this culture and what they value in their culture. I just wish I could get a cleaned-up TV version. I'm not really into the crude language the auto workers use all the time. "},{"Title":"not as bad as those have made it to be","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this movie wasnt all that bad as some people say --the plot was filled with lots of USA vs. Japan satire which came off as repetative and predictable --good fight between Keaton and Wendt destroying the supermarket always made me laugh "}{"Title":"Doughnut babe !!","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  Typically Ron Howard who seems to like being associated with Michael Keaton. Love the scene when Hunt travels to Japan with his sales pitch. Whoa, how did that get in there ! Cheap laughs but great value "},{"Title":"Funny and fun Michael Keaton vehicle","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Michael Keaton used to be a great comedy actor and before he pretty much left comedy he made some great comedies in the eighties like Mr. Mom, Beetlejuice, and Gung Ho. Gung Ho is a bit dated as far as the Japanese stealing American jobs idea is concerned. Still, it's a fun, light hearted family comedy of the type that Ron Howard excels in making. The supporting cast bring up the rear quite well with the likes of George Wendt, Gedde Wanatabe, and John Turturro. Ron Howard manages to fit his brother Clint into the movie like he always does and thank God that Ron became a director or Clint would be wandering the streets somewhere. The story itself contains a continuous series of laughs and also has the moral of we can learn from each other at the end. Bottom Line A serviceable 80's comedy from Michael Keaton's glory days.   "},{"Title":"Now I remember why I didn't love the 80s","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" OK, we all like Michael Keaton and it's fun to sit back and watch a light silly 80s movie. The only thing is after Night Shift and Mr. Mom, they must have ran out of ideas because this one fell far short. It had some funny moments and some decent ideas, but it didn't really go anywhere. There was a strange awkwardness throughout the whole film as if there wasn't a clear vision of what was supposed to happen. Many scenes were almost funny or even almost dramatic, but very rarely hit the mark. Also, by the late 80s pop music hit an absolute low and here we get to sample some of the most awful tunes including one near the end in the factory that actually spoiled a scene that could have accomplished something. I must also point out the strange acting or was it bad casting or directing? Watanabe was great in Sixteen Candles, but was he a little young to play a top executive or was that just me? George Wendt was very odd, doing things that didn't quite make sense or feel right. I really wanted to like it and I guess it was pleasant enough, but I realize now why it's only rated a 5.7. It reminded me of The Dream Team- you wished it was good, but it just wasn't. "},{"Title":"Underrated movie","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie again as an assignment for my management class. Were to mainly comment on the different management styles and ideas on quality(of the product). I did rent this one back in the eighties and I remember it to be good(but not great)movie. I've always liked Michael Keaton's style and delivery. He was a perfect fit for the movie.I am surprised to see some of the low ratings for this movie. I grant you yes it's no Oscar winner but it does have decent comedic value. It's more of a subtle comedy rather than a all-out comedy farce. I also find some of those that felt this was an inaccurate film on cultural and business differences. I beg to differ. I grant you again that there are a lot of generalities and dramatizations but then again this is Hollywood film not a documentary. From what I've read about differences between Automakers on both sides of the Pacific at that time many of the principle ideas were accurate for the time.Some of the basic differences were that Japanese workers made to feel as part of the company as a whole. Teamwork was emphasized. They perhaps made the company above all else. Where American workers had more of a management verses labor type of relationship. The individual was more important than the company. I'll probably get some hate email over that comment I'm sure.Another difference was how quality was viewed and whose responsibility it was to fix. In many Japanese plants defects or problems are examined and fixed at the time it is discovered. Rather as one character in the movie put it it was the dealers(meaning car dealer) problem.Many of these things are probably dated but I'm sure some are still around as many US car makers are still struggling to keep up with the Japanese. If one is more interested in the subject of American, European and Japanese automakers I can recommend a book that studies this subject in more detail and was done around the same time period. The book is called The machine that changed the world by James Womack, Daniel Jones and Daniel Roos. It's about a study of automakers during and before the time period that this movie covers. Parts are bit dry but I think you'll find that it backs up much the movie also. "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" this is a great film!!!I first saw this film when it came out. I just recently saw this film again and it still holds up to my memory of it. A lot of films we watched when we were younger don't seem to hold up when we watch them later in life. The film is actually a great 80's example of the type of films made then. Keaton is at his best, all the actors actually did a very good job and Ron Howard was very good at letting the story push the movie along instead forcing it. The pace of the film is fast with few slow spots and seeing the cars from the 80's is too funny. Being from the 80's I loved seeing the ugly pacer again. The film is a great film for any comedy lovers and 80's film lovers. "},{"Title":"Very funny movie with heart.","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Gung Ho is one of those movies that I never get tired of watching. Michael Keaton has always been a favorite of mine, & he is absolutely hilarious in this movie. Matching him step for step is Gedde Watanabe. The two of them work wonderfully together. Although this movie is a comedy, I also like how it shows Hunt (Keaton) & Kazihiro (Watanabe) struggling in their roles as the leaders of their respective groups. They both try so hard to keep the peace, & then they finally get into a fight (which is hysterical to watch). First, they're both on the floor. Then Hunt jumps on a chair. Kazihiro jumps on the desk. Hunt jumps on the desk with him. The fight then spills out from the office into the factory. I love that after they are separated by the workers, you can tell that they both feel bad for letting things get so out of hand. Also, there is a scene where you can see the influence that Hunt has had on Kazihiro. He is at his house & his boss from Japan arrives & says he would like to visit the factory tomorrow Kazihiro Tomorrow not good day. Sakamoto Why not? Kazihiro Factory is locked & we can't find key.Tell me you can't picture Michael Keaton saying something like that!I guess I really like this movie because it is genuinely funny, & also shows how people that are radically different can not only learn from each other, but become good friends as well. "},{"Title":"I'd rather have one of those cars...","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember watching Gung Ho as a child with my mother, and wondered why she would always cry in the last few minutes. I, of course, found the entire movie hilarious, particularly the mannerisms of the characters. It wasn't until I was much older and watched it again that I realized how much deeper this show actually is.Michael Keaton and Gedde Watanabe shine in their roles as the reluctant mediators. Keaton ceases to amaze me with his real-life style of line delivery, and Watanabe adds humor and pathos to the mix. I also thought that Patti Yasutake (Umeki) was simply fabulous in her role as the comic relief.I think this movie is one of the most underrated films of the 80s. We can all learn a lesson from the merging of the American and Japanese workers in this film...sometimes you really *can* have the best of both worlds. And now I understand why my mother felt the way she did in those closing moments. I'd rather have one of those cars, too. "},{"Title":"Actually, I kind of like it...","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie when it was new. Later I rented it in Japan after having been here three years, afraid that I would cringe when I viewed it in the harsh light of my expanded international experience. The movie pleasantly surprised me with how accurately it portrays the culture clash between Japan and Pennsylvania (where I'm from). Not all the stuff is factually spot on, but the tone is perfect.I'm still in Japan many years later, and I continue to enjoy this film for its even-handed treatment of the two sides in the story. Interestingly, although the Japanese-American actors spoke Japanese in the original, the dialog is redubbed in the Japan version to cover up obvious second-language delivery problems.I noticed one reviewer uses this in a Japanese class. I think you can learn more about what to expect from an encounter with Japan by watching this film than by reading any of the serious books on the matter (most of which were written in the 80s and financed by propagandizing Japanese companies).Don't be fooled by drag on the average rating caused by one-star reviewers who, among other things, found it implausible that the Japanese would want to build cars in the US. (Of course, the Japanese operate many factories there to be close to the customers and to avoid trade friction.) This is a very warm and funny movie that I would rate higher were it not for a few 80s clichés, like the dancing around to cheesy electronic disco music. Michael Keaton has never been funnier. "},{"Title":"Better then I expected","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I recently saw this movie in my International Business class. I was not expecting anything other then another boring documentary (not to say I don't love documentary I've just hard bad luck with movies in that class) Imagine my surprise when this movie, that's actually a movie, came up. This film is a tell all of cultural differences in the work place and how they need to cooperate to get anywhere. The culture clash shows just how different the world is and just how differently we perceive ourselves until someone comes along and gives us a wake up call. I would highly recommend this film to anyone in business or who just wants a laugh, because yes it is funny. Well, that's about it! Cheers "},{"Title":"Relax it's a comedy","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just have to throw my two cents in. Relax, it's a comedy. Yes for the most part the characters are broadly written and acted. I can't think of many comedies where they aren't. This isn't a new release, it's out on video and airs on cable almost every week. Would I see it in a theater? Sure, I did, when it first came out. It's funny...that should be enough.Even if I didn't like it at all I'd still watch it on cable for Michael Keaton. He's an underrated and under-appreciated actor. I can't think of another who is so capable in every genre. Nor can I think of one who's as successful. A comedic actor who's also an action star(short lived but still), who's also a romantic lead, who's also a dramatic actor; a villain and a hero. I can't think of any, at least not in Hollywood. Certainly none who have been successful at all those genres. I mean there's Tom Cruise but to me he's better at being Tom Cruise than becoming a character. However this isn't about Michael Keaton vs. Tom Cruise so I'll move on.Gung Ho is worth renting, heck it's worth buying since you can probably find it for $10.00 or less at stores like Wal-Mart. It's worth watching on cable(if you have cable or satellite). It's one of those fun to watch movies. You can put your brain on pause, and just relax, and chuckle away.To ask for more, in my honest opinion, is asking too much. "}{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this, when it first came out, and even to this day.  Lots of '80's films depict the essence of the times they were made.  They truly don't make them like they used to.  It is very enjoyable and identifiable to all of us blue collar workers.Now, the premise to the film is Hunt Stevenson (Michael Keaton), a former factory worker with a gift for BS goes to Japan to sway the Japanese to buy the defunct auto plant in their community in Pennsylvania.  Hunt's verbal proposal is met with silence from the Japanese at Assan Motors, which discourages him.  Apparently, the Japanese he met with were stoic and did not let on that they were impressed by his presentation.  Assan motors decides to invest in this plant and it's workforce.  Unfortunately, the Japanese did not have an understanding on how a union shop works in the USA, and upon their revigorating the plant, they realize that the American workplace is quite different than that of Japan.Spoilers ahead...This film is based on the difference between the American and Japanese cultures overall.  The Japanese believe that the workers should eat, drink, and sleep for Assan Motors.  Hunt acts as the liason between the American workforce and Japanese management.  The management struggles with things that are acceptable in the American workplace (reading a newspaper in the restroom, a father taking time off to be with his child during surgery).  Hunt is given the unenviable task to reach a compromise between the Japanese and his American co-workers.Michael Keaton does a terrific job in portraying Hunt, who wants to stick up for the workers, and consequently, the town, yet he wants to save his own position.  He has a weasel side to him, yet he wants to do what is right for the community.Besides, this gem has a flavor to the '80's that all people who grew up during that time adore.  The Fabulous Thunderbirds' hit Tough Enough just fits in this movie. The guy who plays Kazi did a great job too.  No more MTV, No more Twisted Sister, no more Green Giant Niblets!!!  We find out later on he is more Americanized than he lets on.One more gem that Michael Keaton says in this movie  The American Spirit is alive and well, but they got it, and we got to get it back.  A sobering statement that makes us all think twice about our position in the manufacturing industry back then.By the way, George Wendt was perfect for this movie.  He had kind of a minor role, but he wasn't too departed from Norm Peterson, our favorite barfly from Cheers.You gotta see this movie, it is inspirational.  It makes you want to put in 60 hour days in the factory to show that the American Spirit is still alive. "},{"Title":"Culture clashes played alternately for poignancy and laughs","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Gung Ho tries to express many ideas and entertain us with a wiseguy comedy at the same time.  The result is uneven, but generally entertaining. Keaton balances all three aspects of his lead character quite well.  Wantabedde is even better.  One warning George Wendt is very poor in his supporting role. Otherwise, this is quite enjoyable time capsule. "},{"Title":"Were there some things that it didn't get into?","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Focusing on a Japanese car company buying a factory in a Pennsylvania town, Gung Ho brings to mind the fact that in the '80's, the US was very much into the Japanese companies; obviously, things changed in the '90's. The movie also shows the company trying to bust the union, and one gets the feeling that Japanese workers are afraid to ever challenge their bosses. But it seems like there was more at which the movie could have looked. Oh well. It's a pretty funny movie overall. Michael Keaton is great as the all-American leader not about to let anyone stand in his way. You'll really like his trip to Japan, and the Japanese woman's attempt to say hard place. "},{"Title":"When studying Multi-Cultural or Inter-Cultural communications...","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Having watched this movie as part of a homework assignment, it is my opinion that this film is quite honest at a lot of viable levels.  By studying the communication assumptions and mistakes that each party makes in reference to the other, based on the fact that symbolic communication is a receiver-based standard, this movie is ideal to show exactly how, when people do not understand the shared symbols, how chaotic and confusing such communications can become.Therefore, before hucking it under the pile, never to be seen again, you might want to look upon it in a most serious light and see if it doesn't share some elements of truth that you've experienced when interfacing with other cultures in your life.Just a thought.David I. Brager "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I liked this movie, I used to watch it all the time in the early 90's. This was Michael Keatons best performance until Batman came along.  It was funny how the Japs started acting like Americans by arguing and listening to Twisted Sister.  Good supporting cast helped too. My favorite part was when Keaton punched George Wendt and he fell onto the cheese puffs LOL.  And did anyone notice that one of the spectators at the softball game had a Hulkamania shirt on?  How cool is that! "},{"Title":"Gung Ho Hum","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Here is a Michael Keaton outing that starts off promising and then thoroughly falls apart!  It's the type of movie that has you sitting there straining to control yourself, saying Why on Earth did they go in that direction?  The factory finale is apparently based on those old B musicals that have Mickey Rooney saying to Judy Garland, Hey, I know what we can do to save Aunt Mable's farm, we'll put on a show!If only Keaton, Wendt, and Rogers could have put on a show. "},{"Title":"Wow! Americans sure are jerks!","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are laughs in this film, that is for sure. Michael Keaton is a talent and he used to be funny (before he decided he was a serious actor). However, what bothers me so much about this film, is how unlikable practically all of the characters are. Other than the main two leads, everybody is a jerk. I mean, these small town losers are about as uncouth as you can get. You just watch and think, man, these losers should be unemployed. Moreover, the American factory worker is portrayed as a lazy and ungrateful slob. It made me wonder if this film was made by Japanese nationalists. Oh sure, in the end they all come together as one, but I just did not enjoy the trip to get there. "},{"Title":"my favorite michael keaton comedy","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this was my all time favorite  michael keaton comedy. it was hilarious and refreshing. i loved the relationship between keaton and wonderful  actor Gedde Watanabe was wonderful. i was very happy that this film had alot to do with Japan. and the car manufacturing of Japan. i was very happy to see Sab Shimono in this film too.  classic, cute comedy.  "},{"Title":"Good.....but bad","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a good movie......EXCEPT for the softball game...In the first place......softball games are only 7 innings....not 9.In the second place.....Michael Keaton's team did NOT win the game.  When Geo. Wendt ran into the shortstop trying to catch the fly ball.....he was the 3rd out.This flaw detracted from the whole movie....because it was a pivotal scene.Other than that it was well acted,  a good story,  and believable characters. "},{"Title":"Gung Ho","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Comedy of errors when a local businessman convinces a Japanese company to reopen a car factory in a U.S. town. One of Keaton's best films!  "}{"Title":"The worst film I have ever seen.","Date":"31 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is quite simply the worst film I have ever seen. It's nothing more than an anti-worker propaganda exercise to make everyone think that workers everywhere deserve everything they get. I am sure such a crass message works on the right wing, but to sane people I would hope they see it for the load of 'bosses good-workers bad' garbage that it is. It's almost as though the bosses of the biggest American industries got together and said 'look we all know how successful the Japanese economy and a lot of that is down to a highly disciplined robotically obedient workforce - how could we make American workers perform similarly?' And they came up with this utter rubbish.At the time I was visiting the cinema at least once a week and saw some very good and alternatively some dreadful films, but this one was in a league of it's own and was singley responsible for me deciding to reduce my cinema visits from then on. "},{"Title":"Workin' for a livin' - Banzai!","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  GUNG HO (1986) *** Michael Keaton, Gedde Watanabe, George Wendt, Mimi Rogers, John Turturro, Sab Shimono, Clint Howard, Soh Yamamura.  Better than average fish out of water culture clash comedy about a struggling American auto plant that succeeds in obtaining help from the Japanese only to come at loggerheads about the work ethic and vast differences in Yankee know-how with Eastern detachment of emotions.  Keaton gives a gusto turn as the sparkplug with the finger in the dike with comic aplomb.  Directed by Ron Howard. "},{"Title":"Gung No.","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Unimpressive work from Ron Howard that stars Michael Keaton as a liaison between the American workers and the Japanese management at a car manufacturing plant in Pennsylvania. Gedde Watanabe and Keaton clash on several occasions and the supporting cast does their best to keep the film going, but are only minimally successful here. George Wendt (of Cheers fame) stands out as one of the workers who likes to drink a little too much. I guess sometimes the cinema imitates television. Fair. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"The Glass Is Half Full Have Empty","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Gung Ho was a good idea, however it is to much to ask Americans viewers to understand the dynamics of American jobs and foreign competition.In this movie the main character Hunt Stevenson(Michael Keaton) goes to Japan and convinces a Japanese auto company to come to America and help his dying Pennslyvania town. Two things come at you.First why would a Japanese company come to America to make cars when they do so ,and so well at that? Secondly can anyone understand that American companies of all types go to third world nations to have their products made to escape American labor costs? It makes the film's premise then that the Number one maker of cars in the world would go to one of its' top competitors(aside from Germany)and put a plant there as unrealistic. Keaton was still in his comedy mode by this time. But he gives a credible performance all the same as he could prove that he could go from comedy to drama in a matter of seconds and still not embarrass himself but Director Ron Howard can't keep this from becoming a TV movie which it ends up being anyway because they have to give the unlikely story a happy ending the politics and problems of Japanese and American relations not withstanding. Gung Ho has a Happy Days and Laverne and Shirley feel to it as the producers of both TV shows made the film and then made the TV version of this movie as well which gives the film its' lightweight feel.The Japanese manager gets to love his American workers and feels he and other Japanese people can learnfrom Americans.His No.2 man Saito who supposedly doesn't like Americans all that much doesn't think so.I would have prefered all the Japanese characters been like Saito than the soft goofball characters they made the Japanese out to be.It would have made the film more interesting.  "},{"Title":"why was this movie even made?","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  talk about your waste of money.. im just wondering why Michael would star in such a turkey of a movie..Michael is a Great actor especially in the movie where he plays a man dying of cancer.. that was wonderful. as he tapes himself for his son to see it once he grows up .. Michael is such a talented actor.. so what made him do this one??? i watched it and thought it was really dumb.. i guess at one time in their career they have the crappy movies .. especially The Squeeze i didnt understand that one At all, and i feel his best performance was in Pacific Heights , his character really creeped me out.. and i really enjoyed Multiplicity. .that one was so Hilarious !!! and he was just Perfect for the role of Batman .. and i kind of liked Night Shift and i love Johnny Dangerously too .. just too bad some of them end up doing lousy movies .. like this one was... "}]