[{"Title":"A painfully funny 80s time capsule that should be embraced!","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"136 out of 188 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Considered one of the most notorious box-office flops in history (next to the 'Road to Morocco'-ripoff 'Ishtar' with Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty the following year), 'Howard the Duck' became the laughing stock of critics and movie-goers alike when it was released in theaters in 1986.  If its executive producer, George Lucas, had his way, he would have canned that movie for good.  But thanks to the home video boom in the 1980s, 'Howard' would follow suit and find his way into video stores across America.Nearly twenty years later, 'Howard' is slowly being pulled from video store shelves.  But it is now that a film of such poor quality can be truly appreciated.Here's how it all goes down You are dropped onto a planet from a far-away universe, where ducks are human-like and are running the world, only to be pulled out again moments later.  An everyday working-duck by the name of Howard gets sucked out of his living room on his recliner after returning to his apartment after a long, hard day.After the opening title is shown in the thundering tradition of cinematic heavyweights like '2001 A Space Odyssey', we see Howard's decent toward the planet Earth.  Once he has reluctantly gotten his feet on the ground, he clashes with the dregs of society and saves the lead singer of an all-female punk band named Beverly, (played by 'Back to the Future's Lea Thompson). She tries to give him a hand, and help him get an explanation as to how he got sucked out of his living room and landed in Cleveland, Ohio.That explanation never actually makes any sense, but that doesn't matter, because better plot developments hinge upon it.  With the help of a goofy lab janitor Phil (played by the immortal Tim Robbins in an early comedic role) and a big time nuclear scientist Dr. Jennings (none other than Jeffery Jones), Howard finds out that a giant laser Jennings was using went haywire, and pulled Howard down instead.  But going back isn't going to be so easy, because one of Dark Overlords of Evil hitched a ride on that laser, and has plans of planet domination and destruction.  And who better than to save the day than the 3'1 (3'2, that is) wise-quacking title character, Howard T. Duck!Although George Lucas got ripped apart for having his hands in this one, I have yet to see a movie that is so awful, so terribly bad that I have been brought to tears crying at simply recalling scenes from this flick.  The opening sequences on the duck planet contain countless parodies of American pop culture, and Howard's implausible hurtle through space is enough to make even the most serious chuckle.Audiences back in 1986 didn't seem to, however.  But something about watching this flop nearly two decades later makes all of these scenes so much funnier.  The way I see it, our teen generation now has a funny fascination with the decade in which they were born, the 80s, and anything from it has a distinctive look and sound.  American pop culture was throwing away Three's Company for MTV, LPs for tapes, and the Bee Gees for the Brat Pack.  The youth took yet another step in distancing themselves from their parents, and although they furthered that schism, they too felt a strong connection the past few decades.  What was happening when I was in utero? Taking my first steps?  Saying my first words?Today's generation has 'Howard the Duck' as one of the most endangered time capsules of the 80s.  You've got a one-of-a-kind performance by now Acadmey Award Winner Tim Robbins, whose his explanation of duck's evolutionary scale is priceless.  George Lucas's own Industrial Light and Magic (ILM) special effects studio must be embarassed to have itself credited with the horrendous effects (the Dark Overlord, for one).  You've got a helplessly catchy theme song, revelling in all of its cheesy 80s pop-synth glory.The jokes are terrible, the dialogue sub-par, the plot laughable.  But you know what, you'll laugh you a$$ off.Join me in saving Howard from being pulled from video store shelves. Today's generation will love the waddling fowl more than the angry movie-goers who saw this dud in the theaters.  Keep him alive! "},{"Title":"I'm going to be kind reviewing this one.","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"106 out of 148 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  HOWARD THE DUCK is one of those movies you have to see to believe.A whopping boondoggle of sheer notoriety that replaced HEAVEN'S GATE as The Most Embarrassing Miscalculation In Hollywood History, this flick immediately humanized George Lucas; it proved that even he could make a bomb. And that's one of the things that makes it so fascinating--you just sit there, wondering what on earth the man was thinking.I'm not going to write this with any intent of sarcastically ripping it to shreds, though. I'm going to attempt to both be fair and to express my opinion of it at the same time, mainly because I know that there *are* some folks out there who enjoy it for various reasons.I'll be honest with you, the moment I heard Lucas was doing this film months in advance (and even then I was convinced the guy telling me was kidding until I saw an article for it in the paper), I rolled my eyes with disgust and didn't see it in the theatres. I saw it when a friend later rented it out of curiosity after it was rushed to video.So what was it that suddenly possessed me to watch it? Well, I found out that my cousin was in it. You see, my cousin's name is Debbie Carrington (a.k.a. Debbie Lee Carrington), who was an Ewok in RETURN OF THE JEDI as well as a slew of other things, including but not limited to MEN IN BLACK, CAPTAIN EO, TOTAL RECALL (where she got to get on a table in a blonde wig and blast people with a machine gun) and on THE DREW CAREY SHOW (Mini-Mimi). So, naturally, I wanted to see this one because I learned of her involvement in it after the fact.Most people loathe this film, but some like it simply because it's *so* weird in its badness while others genuinely love it for whatever reason. And that's okay. Actually, I kind of got a kick out of it and all its silliness the first time I saw it. We tried to watch it a second time, though, and were bored by it half the way through.I just now saw it again for the first time since then.One of the most bizarre things about this movie is how cheap it looks. For all the gobs of cash wasted on it (a record sum), HOWARD THE DUCK looks terrible. And no, I'm not talking about just the duck costume; I'm talking about the overall film, which looks exactly like a low-budget special made for television. Seriously, that's exactly how it looks, and I have no clue as to where the budget went to. I once wondered if it was used to desperately convince the stars involved to be in it, but I doubt it.And meanwhile... speaking of the stars, I've got to hand it to Lea Thompson. Despite all the oddness here and all the stuff she is asked to do, she handles it all like a real trooper. In fact, this may be the bravest performance she's ever done, especially the bed scene. It also apparently didn't kill her career, thank God. Even though her character isn't at all fitting for a Big City Punkette, critics have nevertheless pointed out that she's still appealing here in her role as Beverly, and I agree. Meanwhile, Jeffery Jones gives quite possibly the strangest performance he's ever done, which is also an oddly effective one.The biggest problem with the film is its mechanically coy, self-conscious script that has commercialized to death all of the original comic's appeal out of the final result (so what ELSE is new, Hollywood? ;) ). The movie can't decide whether it wants to follow the original concept or sweeten it up to supposedly appeal to a wider audience, and it is badly confused as a result. The movie desperately wants to protect its investment, so much so that the life has been choked out of it. Also, it has a *huge* amount of blah, unimaginatively generic lines (No more Mr. Nice Duck, You'll never get away with this, etc.).But these days, it does have a ridiculous kind of flaky charm, partially because it's such an unbelievable anti-achievement and because it's so incredibly Eighties that it serves as a strong time capsule. And for those reasons and more, HOWARD THE DUCK has earned a place in twentieth century culture.  "},{"Title":"Cheesy, lame, but still a lot of fun","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"97 out of 148 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard the Duck is a film that I grew up with, I was only a 1 year old when it was released, but my mom and I would watch it together all the time. I think that's the reason why this movie is just special to me. But still I watch this movie and honestly it's not as bad as most people exaggerate it to be, granted it's not Citizen Kane, but it's still awesome to watch. I think people take the movie too seriously, first off look at the title, if you're expecting a duck to deliver an Oscar worth performance, get your head checked, second people make fun of the flirting between the duck and Lea Thompson, which was meant to be a joke, not real. Third, the ending, people make fun of it and it's being over the top, I personally found it to be so funny and still a ton of fun to watch, how could you not get a kick out of Jeffrey Jones' performance? He was awesome! If you wanna know what the movie is about, read on before you see the movie so you can get a good idea and judge for yourself.The film begins late at night in Duckworld, which is a version of planet Earth, but with talking ducks living there in place of human beings. As Howard tries to relax, his armchair begins to vibrate violently, and Howard and the chair are promptly yanked through outer-space, all the way to Cleveland on planet Earth. After ending up in an oil drum, Howard hears a fight involving a woman and two thugs pretending to be her fans. Howard uses his skills of Quack Fu to defend her. Intimidated by a talking duck, the thugs scamper. The woman, Beverly, thanks Howard and, feeling sorry for him because he has no warm and dry place to sleep, invites him to her apartment. The next day, Beverly takes Howard to see Phil Blumburtt , who she believes is a scientist that can help Howard get back to Duckworld. It turns out Phil is actually a janitor at a museum and Howard, infuriated with Phil's charade. A few days later, Dr. Walter Jenning , and Larry who explain to Howard that they were doing a routine procedure at the lab, only for the experiment to go out of control, causing the laser to hit Howard's planet instead. Howard suggests he can be sent back to Duckworld if the laser can be put into reverse. He is taken to the Dynatechnics lab alongside Beverly, only to find out on arrival that the laser is seriously damaged due to another explosion. The explosion brings down a Dark Overlord who is not seen by the audience at the time, and takes over Jenning's body. Howard and Beverly see Dr. Jenning, but he is in the process of being taken over by the Dark Overlord. With Howard and Beverly both unaware of this, they escape in Jenning's car onto the freeway with him driving dangerously due to his worsening possession. They stop outside a diner just before he is fully taken over. Inside the Diner, the Overlord explains his attempts to call forth his fellow aliens from the Nexus of Sominus so that they may take over the world.Honestly, yeah the plot is a bit much to grasp, but cut the movie some slack, it's about a duck for goodness' sake! For me, it still makes me laugh and I have a ton of fun watching it. I loved seeing Tim Robbins and Howard trying to get to the factory to destroy Jeffrey Jones before he could take over the world, Tim was absolutely hilarious! Yes there are a few things about this movie that are over the top but I still think that this movie is just mindless entertainment. Hey how many movies do we have where a duck saves Planet Earth? Hmm, I guess this is the only one; but give the movie a fair chance, it's a cute one.7/10 "},{"Title":"Marvel's Much-Maligned Mallard","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"72 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  At a time when most of Marvel Comics' characters were stuck in low budget TV and straight-to-video productions, Steve Gerber's relatively obscure Howard the Duck got the big budget treatment with none other than George Lucas as producer. The film was written by Willard Huyck and Gloria Katz, who co-wrote American Graffiti and Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, and directed by Huyck, with special effects by ILM. What could go wrong?A lot, apparently. Howard was a critical and financial failure that deep-sixed the careers of Huyck and Katz and led to the cancellation of the duck's magazine. If the film had a moderately priced budget, it might have been forgotten as just another lightweight, trashy 1980s comedy and even turned a profit. Instead, the budget somehow ballooned to a then staggering $37,000,000 (almost as much as the entire Star Wars trilogy cost to make). Although other films lost more money and got worse reviews, the name Howard the Duck is still synonymous with expensive turkey.That said, the movie itself isn't as bad as it's reputation suggests. The plot revolves around the title character (voice by Chip Zien, played by various midgets in animatronic duck suits), a sarcastic talking duck from a planet a lot like Earth, except ducks evolved into the dominant life form. Howard is brought to Cleveland, Ohio when an experimental laser beam opens an interdimensional portal. There he befriends an aspiring rock singer (Leah Thompson) and a kooky lab assistant (Tim Robbins), and comes into conflict with various lowlifes, the police, and an evil demon that has possessed the body of a helpful scientist (Jeffrey Jones), all the while trying to get back home.Gerber's original comic book series and a subsequent adult-oriented magazine weren't kids' stuff. They juxtaposed a funny animal character with bizarre villains and action more typical of Marvel's super-hero books, usually parodying comics, politics, and popular culture in the process. A sexual relationship between Howard and his human girlfriend Beverly was more than just implied. The Howard the Duck movie could have either toned down the more adult situations to create a family-friendly action-comedy, or gone straight for ribald satire and gotten an R rating. Instead, the filmmakers sought an uncomfortable middle ground that pleases no one. The script is not witty enough for adults and it is too sleazy and scary for young children. The endless duck puns become tiresome. There are, however, a few truly funny moments, such as Howard's shock at being served eggs, or his observation that If God intended ducks to fly, he wouldn't have taken away our wings.The direction is uneven. The reaction of several characters to meeting a talking alien duck seems muted given the circumstances. The special effects are also hit and miss. The animatronic duck suit cost millions, but the actors inside it add little personality. They could have at least waddled when they walked. The demonic Dark Lords of the Universe at the end of the film are portrayed with stop motion animation that is jerky and unrealistic even for the time (perhaps this was intentional, though, to provide a B-movie feel). However, while a bad movie all around, Howard the Duck at least stands out for its unique premise. Amidst a sea of formulaic mediocrity, an original idea, even if it's poorly developed, counts for something.** out ****  "},{"Title":"A King among bad movies","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"49 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There are certain movies you cannot die happy without having seen them at least once.  Casablanca, The Wizard of OZ, the Star Wars Trilogy...And, if you are a connoisseur of bad movies as I am, you must add to the above list the one, the only, Howard the Duck.Now this is, hands down, one of the stupidest ducking (groan) movies ever made.  On the other hand, if you have a soft spot for bad movies, it doesn't get much better than this.  It is absolutely insane.  And it isn't nearly as bad as Theodore Rex! "},{"Title":"Obvious Huyck and Katz never read the strip.","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I was in college, I regularly laughed my butt off reading S. Clay Wilson's The Checkered Demon comics. You see, there was this demon who wore checkered pants, and he got involved in all sorts of gross situations, mostly involving scatological humor, severed limbs and organs, and sexual acts.Doesn't translate very well, does it? The same thing must have happened when Lucas (or whoever) went to screenwriters Huyck and Katz and asked them to do a treatment of Gerber's Howard the Duck strip. H & K apparently had no idea of the type of humor the strip used, or at what demographic it was pitched. The result is a kiddie move that tries hard to be adult in all the wrong ways. The satire and keen observation of the original strip disappear completely. I keep expecting The Goonies to wander in at any moment.A VERY bad movie, though probably made with good intentions. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Cult Comic + George Lucas = Awful Movie","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"30 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The best continuing story comic strip of the past 20 years was, in my opinion, Howard the Duck. This brooding film noir-type comic had us sneaking outside work every day at 330 for the Washington Evening Star just for this 3-panel strip. Howard just was not happy to find himself trapped on Earth, in Cleveland, living in a slum and interacting with his sexually useless (being human rather than fowl) girl friend Beverly. Like Groucho Marx with a bad hangover, Howard's continual rants about his rotten situation made a great comic strip. Along comes executive producer George Lucas, who strips away every single thing that provided Howard with character, and makes him nice; worse he makes him cute. Gag! If that weren't bad enough, the film has Howard and the Lea Thompson character engaging in post-sex afterglow --- thus advocating human with animal sex and spitting on the Judeo Christian ethic, for the sake of an unfunny site gag. This film is now George Lucas' dirty-little-secret; a part of his legacy; and worse than any of the last 3 Star Wars movies. Boo! Hiss! "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie Ever Made?","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"26 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've often pondered what is the worst movie of all time. It's easy to point at low budget disasters like CAT WOMEN OF THE MOON and TEENAGERS FROM OUTER SPACE, but those movies did what they could with no money and no talent. The fact that they were made at all is something of an achievement.To really be fair, one has to take into consideration the budget and the talent involved to truly interpret just how bad a movie is. With this criteria in mind, I continually come back to HOWARD THE DUCK. Until I can be convinced otherwise, I have come to the conclusion that this pile of hippopotamus vomit is THE worst movie EVER.In fact, HOWARD THE DUCK is so godawful, it almost seems intentionally so. Not like ATTACK OF THE KILLER TOMATOES, which was a good-natured parody of bad B-movies, but more as a f*** you to the audience. I have no idea what producer George Lucas or anyone else involved in this movie could have been so enraged about in order to feel the need to unleash this form of torture on the public, but it must have really hit a nerve.The movie looks great. It's well-shot and the special effects (especially toward the end) are terrific; from a technical standpoint, there's not a lot to complain about. Even the actors seem to be genuinely trying their best to please, so the blame can't be laid at their feet either. Who, then, can we point at for this abomination? The obvious party is George Lucas himself. He had everything in 1986. Several blockbusters under his belt, his own independent multi-million dollar production company and an entire staff of effects artists at his fingertips, ready to bring anything that popped into his head to life. Maybe his ego got too big too fast, and he thought he could pull off this ill-advised project. Maybe he thought anything with the Lucasfilm logo on it automatically turned to gold. Boy was he ever wrong. He must have known so, as his name doesn't appear ANYWHERE in the on screen credits of the movie. Even Lucasfilm is buried inconspicuously in the end credits.But the real culprits are the writer-producer-director team of Willard Huyck and Gloria Katz. After writing a serviceable-at-best screenplay for INDIANA JONES AND THE TEMPLE OF DOOM, their buddy Lucas gave them Carte Blanche to create a mega-epic to end all others. It didn't quite work out that way.The screenplay is mind-bogglingly awful. Even worse, Huyck and Katz seem to think their dialog and characters are really funny and quirky, which only causes the script to get more and more awful as it lumbers along. Add to that Huyck's clueless direction and Katz's overblown production and you've got a movie for which there are not enough derogatory words.I can sum up HOWARD THE DUCK using ten such words STUPID, POINTLESS, OBNOXIOUS, DULL, EXCESSIVE, ANNOYING, INSULTING, INEPT, REPUGNANT and DISASTROUS. And those are just off the top of my head.Unless you want to feel the overwhelming urge to kick in your TV screen, never, NEVER watch HOWARD THE DUCK. "},{"Title":"Nobody of a Sound Mind Would Like This","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't even know how to properly express my anguish. I suppose it would be fair to admit that I am, usually, an avid lover of terrible movies. The Room was a work of brilliance, and it really doesn't get much better than Birdemic Shock and Terror. Howard the Duck was crossing the line. This transcended the threshold of so bad it's good. It wasn't bad in a Ghost Rider way. It wasn't even bad in a Dogma sort of way. This movie has put to question what terrible cinema truly is, at its core. I'm honestly disgusted with myself after having seen this movie. Crusaders in its defense have united in a joyful cry of Howard's originality and playfulness. Pray tell, what exactly about it is unique? Aside the fact that our main protagonist is a space- duck... what else? The story itself is deeply wanting in creativity, as are the painfully wooden characters, and campy, repulsive dialogue. The special effects, while acceptable, were not mind blowing. Especially Howard himself. The good guy should never give you nightmares. Howard was trollish and creepy. Not to mention, seriously flawed in his character. What a jerk. I'd also like to address the idea that this movie was some sort of B-movie phenomenon. This movie, believe it or not, was made in a very serious way. I think the mere fact that George Lucas was somehow attached to this project ought to demonstrate that. That in consideration, there really is no excuse for how vile this movie was. This wasn't a movie that was parading its own flaws, that wasn't egotistical or vain, and it certainly wasn't aiming to please the cult crowd. The sorry truth of the matter is, Howard the Duck was spawned in the same ambitious way as Star Wars. THIS was supposed to be an epic. That's just unacceptable. This whole movie is unacceptable. I feel betrayed. "},{"Title":"One word review ugh","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"35 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I like bad movies. No--I LOVE bad movies. They're fun to make fun of, good fun to watch. I mean, come on, I OWN copies of both 'Manos - The Hands of Fate' and 'Gigli,' both of which I rather enjoy. Enough said.I rented 'Howard the Duck' expecting it to be bad. Just the way I like 'em.I am flabbergasted to say that it fell far below my lowest possible expectations.Bad acting, but with Lea Thompson in the picture you can't expect too much. I was quite disappointed with Tim Robbins, at least HE should have been more capable. Jeffrey Jones puts in the best performance of the film as far as I'm concerned, but that's not saying much.Howard himself? Even given the limited capabilities of 1986 Hollywood, I still was shocked at how laughably ridiculous he looked.Special effects? Nothing special. Lots of other movies from this era have better (or worse) special effects and are more worth watching.To be brief, everything you heard about 'Howard the Duck' is true. Forget 'Manos' and 'Monster A Go-Go' and the other movies in IMDb's bottom 100. Those are all classics. As far as I'm concerned, 'Howard' is at the bottom of the stack, and not in a good way, either. "}{"Title":"Roger the Turkey","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Unfortunately the adult content in this movie makes it entirely unsuitable for the under fives. The only possible audience who might otherwise derive some enjoyment from it.There are so many fantastic stories that demand a movie, so many actors dying for an opportunity, so many talented directors without the opportunity so how the hell did they end up with this?Anyone associated with the making of this movie should hang their head in shame. It does not have a single redeeming quality. "},{"Title":"Couldn't possibly be any more retarded","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"30 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Just saw this as Surprise #1 at the 28th (my 24th) Case Western Reserve University (CWRU) Science Fiction Marathon.  My buddy brought his twelve year-old son, who provided the quote I'm using as my one-line summary above. You know what they say about the mouths of babes.I spent $25 to see the fifteen Marathon movies, meaning I paid $1.67 to see this.  That was about $1.67 too much.This is one of those movies that make you wonder, What were the film makers thinking?  The only reason I can imagine this movie exists is George Lucas' presence as Executive Producer.  He was hot off the original Star Wars trilogy at the time and the studio must have figured anything he touched would turn to gold.This is also one of those movies that make you wonder, What was the CWRU Film Society (organizers of the Marathon) thinking?  I guess they showed the film because it is set in Cleveland, Ohio where the annual Marathon takes place.  But if you live somewhere other than Northeastern Ohio, don't expect to gain any insights into life here by watching this movie.  The WMMS sticker on Lea Thompson's guitar case, an RTA bus, the mention of East 9th street, and the logo of Cleveland Museum of Natural History are the only touches of authenticity.  The city in this film and the surrounding countryside don't even remotely resemble the Cleveland metropolitan area. And if you come here to visit, don't look for the Cuyahoga Nuclear Power Plant - it never existed.I understand this is science fiction, and that location shooting is expensive, but nothing in this film rings true.  For example, Lea Thompson's character plays electric guitar in a Cleveland rock band.  Well, I happen to play electric bass guitar in a Cleveland rock band and I've never walked home from a gig like Lea Thompson's character does, for the very simple reason that I have an amp that weighs 125 pounds!  When I saw that scene, I couldn't help but ask aloud, Where's her amp?In conclusion, don't waste your time or money by watching this movie.  The character of Howard the Duck is intended to be humorous, but comes across as merely annoying.  I've never seen a comedy with fewer laughs, even unintentional ones.  Two hours of unexposed film stock has more entertainment value. "},{"Title":"It's not that terrible!  Really!","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"48 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Howard the Duck was a critical and commercial failure when it was first released in the summer of 1986.  Since that time, the movie has become synonymous with one word BOMB.  However, while it is not a very good film, I feel Howard the Duck is not nearly as bad as many people seem to believe.How can you dislike a film about a midget duck from another planet who (with the help of Lea Thompson and her gigantic '80s hair) saves Earth from impending doom?  Not only that, but the menace threatening Earth is the Dark Overlord of the Universe, an evil force that has invaded the body of Jeffery Jones!  Howard the Duck is one of those movies that is enjoyable in a mindless way.  It is by no means classic cinema, but if you are in the right frame of mind, it is very fun to watch.And don't miss the musical number at the end, when Howard and the cast do the duck waddle! "},{"Title":"Aren't B-Movies fun?","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"41 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Aren't B-Movies fun?Wait a second ...  this isn't a B-Movie!  George Lucas wouldn't sign his name to a low-budget piece of tripe, would he?  Well, he did.If you're actually looking for a good piece of cinema, stop right here. However, if the words 'talking alien duck' cause bells to ring in your mind, read on.Yes, it's a B-Movie.  It's a high budget, professionally made one, but it's as bad as most other B-Movies.  But, it's also one of the funniest things I've seen in quite a while.  Sure, it gets boring, but look at the concept A TALKING ALIEN DUCK!  What more can I say?So, if you have a twisted sense of humour and have already been drawn in by my one real summary (A TALKING ALIEN DUCK), then check this movie out. You'll enjoy it.  But, if you're not a fan of bad eighties movies stick with Star Wars or Indiana Jones, movies that Lucas probably actually cared about. "},{"Title":"Kiddies Were Freaked Out In 1986","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Spoilers AheadTo understand why this went down like a flaming comet, in 1986, you have to understand that nobody read the comic book of the same name. The theater was flooded with parents with kiddies who thought this was some distant relative of Donald Duck. Well, it really did not deviate from the comic; Beverly was hot, semi naked and always flirting with cigar smoking anti social Howard. Well, you should have seen the mass exodus that went faster than Superman 3. Once that bestiality scene with Lea and Howard in bed got going, you would have thought the theater was on fire. The movie is bad but it has good scenes in it. The ones in the diner are drop dead funny. The dialog is good in places, the real kiss of death for the movie was the eternal chase at the end that is stupid and pointless coupled with Howard / Beverly sexual activity. Lea was always the hottest actress in the eighties, she is semi clad here but for kiddies and parents? Forget about it, when the movie ended there were a line of severely PO'd parents at the box office. Lea's singing is painful, that did not help either, but she never sings even one complete number. You get bits and pieces of songs.Tim Robbins as a lab assistant has some really funny scenes. When you watch it, imagine it without that idiotic chase before the final battle with Dark Overlord which seems to last hours. Also, the weird stuff that was supposed to be true to the comic with Howard and Beverly that really freaked parents out big time. What is sad is that you can see the better movie in there that is surrounded by crap that wrecks it. Jefferey Jones is OK a bit too ham bone, some of his scenes work as Dark Overlord but a few of the lame jokes fall flat. You will laugh at parts of this movie. You have the benefit we did not have at the theater; when you come to the stupid chase at the end hit the chapter skip button. If the stuff with Lea and the duck in bed is too weird, same thing. I still think that if this movie had not been marketed as a kiddie movie it would have had a fighting chance. Howard does manage do come across as a pathetic figure lost in our world; it was a good beginning that Hyuck wrecked. It is worth one showing but keep that remote control handy. The effects that were state of the art thirty years ago look awful today. The highlight and funniest part is when they go to this all night diner; great, funny writing and as good as this movie gets. Trust me, if you do not like this part, turn the rest off, it is not for you. "},{"Title":"Expectations for this movie were too high","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"51 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Because a lot of talented people and money were behind this film, I believe that people rated this movie against their expectations and not against other movies.   When this movie is compared to other movies of its ilk it is very good!    I saw this movie only knowing that G. Lucas (he needs a nick name--the great god of SFX?) was behind it, not knowing that some of the other talent had appeared in much better/ tonier fare) and I was thoroughly delighted--viewing after viewing.  Lea (was she chosen because of her similarity to Leaia?) did about as good of a job as anyone can when your romantic lead is a duck.  Her trademark short skirt and legs did a lot to help.  The other actors seemed to be having fun with their roles as well-- and that is what this movie was supposed to be about fun.  Ever since Entertainment Tonight began pushing box office results as an indicator of quality, this has virtually become the only criteria of quality--but dont be fooled!  What the public spends its money on does not always a good movie make(and vice versa).  Ignore the tyrants of the dollars, spend a couple on Howard and you will be more than rewarded! "},{"Title":"Death from the skies to all duck hunters!","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"52 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It still puzzles me today why this movie is so despised by people.  There are so many more trash movies out there like the Perfect Storm, the Lost World, and even George Lucas' overblown Episode I, that go on to make tons of money and are total garbage, and yet pretend like they're actually great movies.  Howard the Duck is not so egotistical in it's approach.  It admits to its campy silliness (I mean c'mon, it's a movie about a talking duck, how can people try to take it seriously?).  Needless to say, it's a fun movie because of its schlock factor, and is boosted by its terrific special effects, over the top performances, and fantastic musical score by legendary composer, John Barry.  Overall, I consider Howard the Duck perhaps the most unappreciated film of all time, and one the greatest B-movies ever.  Go Howard! "},{"Title":"Dark Overlord of the Universe?","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ****WARNING MINOR SPOILERS****I consider myself to have pretty good taste in movies, but hey, we all have some flaws. Bottom line is...is that I really like this movie! You know those movies you would never let your friends know about?..the ones you watch late at night after everyone's asleep? This is it. This is my closet movie. I just love the characters and ok my sister knows about this flick because...well she would kill me but she loves this film every bit as much as I love it. But when when we email each other, our quotes are pretty much quotes from this and the Ferris Bueller movie. And well.. the funniest parts for me are with Jennings as a dark overlord in the resturant scenes. Especially when Beverly shouts that Howard is her boyfriend. I also love it when Jennings says, She took my eggs. Hillarious. I probably need therapy but there's always my friend, we'll call him Hugo who watches and loves the Poke'mon cartoons. It could be worse. Howard rules! "},{"Title":"i love this movie!","Date":"7 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i realise as an adult that movie is pretty bad. but i don't care! when i was a kid this was one of my favourite movies and i watched it religiously! i still remember being scared of the dark overlord. that was a scary concept for a child. especially when he pops up in a kids movie about a talking duck. i remember as a child actually thinking howard was in serious danger of getting hurt. i love the movies that scared me as a kid, they're the ones i really hang on to in my memories. and this is so great to revisit, it brings back so much of my childhood. and the funny thing is, its really not that bad a movie. i put this in the same mould as the ninja turtle films or the super mario bros film. full of cheese but extra tasty! theses are the movies i can watch over and over again whereas the more 'serious' films i love are a bit harder to sit through again and again without getting a bit sidetracked. i can't wait till i have children of my own and show them this. i know they will love it just like i did and still do. howard the duck is awesome! "},{"Title":"Review","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  if someone out there was to wonder onto this site, and wonder what the hell am I doing looking at this, you might want to pause and reflect awhile on the 1980's. The deceade that brought commercialism to the forfront of motion pictures, and created a nich market for advertisers also was one of the most profitable, and imaganative time periods ever. This film was one of the few that didn't hit it's mark. Howard the Duck, which is now imfamous for being George Lucus's floop, isn't really that far outta left field. In only a few short years America would learn to love an alien puppet name ALF. Where Howard fails mostly is it's inability to go anywhere. There is nothing for the Duck to really do, and the odd semi-crush he has on Lea Thompson, places the audience in an uncomforable possition. The thing that saves this movie, is the fact that if you can set aside your predermined ideas about what films should be, and walk into this film with the idea that it's stupid, silly, and just plan rediculas, then you will be amoung the first to see Howard the Duck for what it was meant to be, Fun and nothing else. "}{"Title":"All is well that Ends well...","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Howard the Duck is an excellent fantasy. Lately while I was searching for Howard links I found that many people didn't enjoy this film. Well to them I say too bad. This film is great, it is all that the 80's was and will be. Howard is such a good time. So if you don't want your nose bitten off by Howard's SUPER BILL than shut your yap and just enjoy a fun filled movie that is outta this world... "},{"Title":"What Happened?","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Proving that even a genius like George Lucas can make one of the worst films ever made. Thanks George, this film gave me the feeling that I could have made Star Wars. Though my Fiancé and my friend Stan are telling me this was an excellent film, I am going to stand firm and submit this review without any trepidation. I have to cut George some slack, I understand he was going through a divorce at the time. I loop this time period of his life in with the lack luster Indiana Jones and The Temple Of Doom. This was after the Holy Trilogy and it seemed as if George was a little lost. I would rather watch The Ewok Adventure sixty times in a row, then watch Howard The Duck one more time. "},{"Title":"Do not see this film. Ever.","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is possibly the worst film I have ever seen. Absurd and ridiculous, the comedy has more ability to evoke tears, for that three dollar rental fee is gone forever. Actually, try to get your money back. If the manager has seen the film, you just might.The story, if you want to call it that, is about a duck named Howard who is somehow flung from his duck world onto ours. There, he manages to fall in love with Lea Thompson, save the world from huge aliens that possess men and threaten to destroy the world, and play guitar in a rock band. All in under two hours (thank goodness). It is easy to see where the jokes are supposed to come, but this duck is completely lame (pardon the pun). Tori Amos was supposedly lined up for Thompson's role. She is still thanking the casting director. And George Lucas will forever regret this poor attempt at comedy.I give this 1 out of 10 stars, only because zero is not an option. Save your money. Trust me. "},{"Title":"They Call Him Howard The Duck...ain't no way to conceal it...","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was 16 years old when HOWARD THE DUCK made it to the screen in 1986, and I actually paid money to see it at my local theatre. (Judging from its famously-meager box office take, I was one of only a few dozen who did the same.) In the 20 years since, HOWARD has gone down in Hollywood history as one of the most expensive movie bombs EVER and it is generally looked down upon by serious film fans. I have to ask them WHY? Howard the Duck KICKED ASS in 1986 and it still kicks ass today! It had everything a talking duck for a hero, gigantic Dark Overlords from outer space, crashes, explosions, endless duck puns, remarkably decent special effects (most of which still hold up today), bad '80s synth-rock songs, and Lea Thompson at her most gorgeous in the role of Beverly Switzer, punk rocker and Duck-o-philiac. If it were not for this film I would not have developed my lifelong crush on Miss Thompson (which still persists to this day... if you watch her infamous tender love scene with Howard in which she's wearing only her underwear and you DON'T fall immediately in love with her, there's something seriously wrong with you!), nor would I say Hey, there's Phil Blumburtt! every time I see Tim Robbins in another movie. I'm sure the majority of the cast and crew involved with HOWARD would like to forget that the movie ever happened, but judging from the comments on this board, there are untold legions of bad-'80s-movie devotees out there like me who loved this movie then, still love it now, and are dying to own HOWARD THE DUCK on DVD. It absolutely astounds me, that with the amount of CRAP out there filling video store shelves, HOWARD has never achieved a DVD release. It's been 20 years, where's our 2-Disc 20th Anniversary Deluxe Edition, Mister Lucas? I'm still getting by with my taped copy of HOWARD that I recorded off of HBO back in the '80s, and it's about due for a replacement! Seriously folks, don't believe the hype. HOWARD THE DUCK is worth seeing, and it's nowhere near as bad as you've heard. Trust me. MetalGeek has never lied to you before. "},{"Title":"Duck this one....","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've read the Howard the Duck comic books when they were out.  They were funny, sharp and more satirical than anything.Why they just didn't make an animated movie about Howard is beyond me.In fact, this whole fiasco is beyond me.  That it was written by Huyck and Katz doesn't bode well for any inherent entertainment value.  It is so bad that you'll wonder who pointed a gun to George Lucas' head to give the green light for such an idea.The only good thing about this headache-inducer was seeing Thompson in a sheer nightie.  And Jones is always a stitch.  No stars.  Give this movie to the Dark Overlords, THAT'LL keep them away. "},{"Title":"That's it, no more Mr. Nice Duck.","Date":"26 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard The Duck is an interesting film to review. It's a big budget special effects spectacle, and yet there's plenty wrong with it. It is, to put it straight, odd. First of all, there's the twenty-seven-year-old duck Howard (voiced by Chip Zien). He's just like a normal person, except that he's a duck from Duckworld. He doesn't have any superpowers, but he does know quack-fu. The filmmakers made him look appealing, even cute at times, but his range of expressions isn't great because he's brought to life mostly by an animatronic suit. Still, I think that, for their time, the special effects (animatronic suits, costumes and puppets) look good and work well. I didn't have a problem with taking the duck seriously. The only problem with Howard, in my opinion, is that he's not a very likable protagonist. The Howard in the comic book is rude and obnoxious. The Howard in the film is sarcastic. Maybe the problem lies in his personality. Maybe the problem lies in the situations that he gets into. The film was supposed to appeal to children, as well as adults, but some of its dirty humor is not suitable for children. Howard gets beamed from Duckworld to Earth at the very beginning of the film. While this is happening, we're shown impressive views of space, planets and stars, which wouldn't look out of place in Star Trek. But, when Howard ends up on Earth, he has one problem after another, and his situation is a bit depressing because he's like a lost pet or a down-on-his-luck person. This is certainly not Back To The Future (1985). There are problems with the cast as well. The actors don't deliver bad performances, but, because the film is a comedy about a talking duck, their performances are sometimes strange. Firstly, there's Lea Thompson (playing Beverly Switzler), the beauty whose role in Howard The Duck was her biggest one yet. She was cast because of her appearance in Back To The Future. Her performance in Howard The Duck is definitely not one of her best. In some of her interviews, she talked about how unpleasant it was for her during filming. She's good at times, she looks nice, but, with the direction of Willard Huyck, she's often bland. Still, her involvement in the film made it better because she's a good screen presence. Tim Robbins plays Phil Blumburtt, a janitor who pretends to be a scientist. His performance is wacky. One can say that it's bad, but, in my opinion, it suits the film. Jeffrey Jones plays Walter Jenning, a good scientist whose transformation is memorable, yet strange, to say the least. It's also a bit scary, and what is with that voice? Another one of the film's problems is the direction by Huyck. Sure, the film seems coherent. It's not hard to follow the plot. But scenes seem to just happen, often without purpose, and some of them drag on for too long. Anyway, I can go on and on about what's wrong with Howard The Duck. Hardly anything about it seems right. Just about everything seems odd. It has a boring middle section. Did I mention the romance between Howard and Beverly? So, why do I, like many other people, like it? Well, it's because it's a film from the 1980s. It has that 1980s charm, those 1980s special effects, a good rock soundtrack, and it has Lea Thompson. It's a ridiculous, sometimes poorly-made film, but, so much money and effort was spent on it, that it's just interesting to watch and be marvelled by it. I definitely recommend it. "},{"Title":"Not As Bad As First Thought","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard The Duck rewards repeat viewing, believe it or not. The music score does seem to grow on one, to the point where I went and (with great difficulty) found a copy of the soundtrack, and the acting does appear to be better - I suspect the Heaven's Gate effect here, where in 1986 we were watching the negative publicity, but now we are just watching the film.The strange nature of the film - half adult/half kid pic - remains, but now seems both endearing and entertaining, rather than irritating. The acting does appear far better than first thought, with Lea Thompson and Jeffrey Jones both giving excellent performances. Certainly, it does not appear so bad today as to deserve to destroy the careers of Willard Huyck and Gloria Katz (which, of course, it did do back in '86). Strange the effect of time on the one piece of celluloid! "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's Bad Marvel Comics Movie adaptations.","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard The Duck (1986) was another in the line of bad Marvel comic books that was badly adapted into a feature film. While it's not as bad as a stand alone film (a mediocre effort) but if you have some knowledge of the original seventies comic book, you'll be disappointed big time. How come the writers of this movie didn't read the comic book a little more carefully? George Lucas' film company needs to bear some responsibility for producing this movie. Dude this is a comic book not some bad science fiction novel. So Lucas and his clones need to take notice. okay? Another Lea Thompson leading role vehicle. Man, somebody was trying to make her into a superstar.Mediocre movie that'll disappoint comic book fans. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Does it Again (Destroys a Classic Comicbook)","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There are so many titles to give a possible review of Howard the Duck. The most appropriate one would be, History Repeats Itself, Again.Once again Hollywood takes an esoteric cult classic, rips the heart out of it, disregards the core character and the elements that made it endearing, and pumps 20 mil of special effects in like embalming fluid, thinking this will ensure success.  And once again, scratches its head when it bombs. What I don't understand is, where do they get the money to keep doing this, and how can I get a job making $300,000 a year to be a Hollywood Producer/Idiot?For those unfamiliar with the character, Howard the Duck was a very unlikely everyman character that struck a chord with 80's readers of Marvel comics. Howard the Duck was an antihero in every sense;  he was small, frightened, alienated, isolated, at times mean, with a unique perspective on the world of humans he referred to as you hairless apes. Who could not relate to him?  Stever Gerber wrote him as a rough cynical character, commenting not only on human failings but of the failings of Marvel Comics itself, making the character almost existential.  His stories made fun of themselves and everyone about them, including the reader.   However, underneath it all Howard the Duck was struggling to maintain his humanity (or his version of it), while trapped in a world he couldn't escape from.  In this sense the stories were in fact less cynical than the mindless slasher/gore comics that came after.  The comic books became instant collector's items, and if Sartre were alive, he would have every one of them.Then George Lucas came along...I really don't know what Lucas was trying to achieve.  Did he really have an affection for this character and tried to realize a faithful movie version of Howard?  Whatever his motivation, Lucas  has become the heavy in many fan's eyes in the complete destruction of this character.  The * original * comics now sale for a dollar each.What went wrong?Any comic reader can answer that.  But as has always been, and always will be, comics readers (and writers) were not consulted and will never be consulted when their favorite book is optioned by producers who think comics are pictures to look at, with the screenplay written by writers who could not write a comic book if their lives depended on it.First, they took a darkly cynical character and decided to make him nice. Why did they do this?  Because the audience might not like him!  I can hear the team of producers in the boardroom now.   It's the same as taking Danny Devito's character in Taxi  and making him nice so the audience won't dislike him.  Without Howard's cynicism and crassness, the entire core of the character disappears.  His ability to comment on our world disappears.   He has become politically correct.  A politically correct Howard the Duck obviates his existence;  it is like describing a solid vacuum.Even his voice was softened to an irritating milquetoast sweetness.   In the comics, he was growling, threatening, yelling, even making strange ducklike Waaauughh! sounds in exasperation when words failed him.Second, they expected a mass audience to understand and accept a character that had a fan base, at most, of a few million people.  This is the same mistake Hollywood makes with all cult figures; they are a cult figure because they  * aren't *  a mass appeal figure!  Will Hollywood ever understand this?  Do I need to ask?The closest thing I can compare this mistake to is the twice-repeated mistake they made with movies based on Hunter S. Thompson.  They made two movies that both bombed about a dislikable character the minority of people have heard of, and expected the audience to understand him and his antics without explanation.Third, they hired a writer without an understanding of comic books.  Why there seems to be an unwritten law in Hollywood against using writers with experience in comics to write screenplays, I have no idea.Four, the plot.  Howard's most appealing adventures occurred in the midst of real-life greed, paranoia, and inhumanity of man to man.  The Dark Overlord bit occurred (I believe) after Gerber left the series and it went into a black and white format with writers desperate to keep an audience, and they introduced these elements which lost me and many others as readers. * This  * is what they decided to use as the basis of the script.  Rather like taking the final episodes of Star Trek in the third (and worst) season and making a big-budget movie based on them.   The concept of a talking alien duck is strange enough.  A Dark Overlord  threatening the universe is a movie in itself, but here is a distraction from the Howard character, and becomes a  vague nuisance (and an expensive one) that is never explained to the audience, and even if it were,  is not presented in a meaningful way the audience would care about.This was a very expensive movie.  If they had locked Steve Gerber, the creator of Howard, in a room for a week with a pencil and a six-pack of beer, his script would have been infinitely better than this embarrassing drek.  Even simpler than that, they could have removed*all* of the special effects, except Howard, and done a movie based on one of his early comic books, with his personality intact, and it could have been a cult movie.  But a mass movie success?  Never.  And that is why it fails on both levels, because they insist on it being both.If a Hollywood producer preparing to make another movie based on a comic book reads this, do you think he will learn anything?   Silly me. Hollywood producers would never read anything on IMDB.If anyone alive at this time is interested in understanding why Howard the Duck was once appealing to so many readers, read the original books by Steve Gerber.   They hold up even better as commentary on today's wacked society than they did when they were written.  (And believe me, now you can get them Cheap. )However, I doubt many people even remember the movie, much less care about a defunct cult comics character.As Howard would say (with a duck accent),   Waaauuughhh!Three stars, not that it matters.  "},{"Title":"Don't Worry George, I love this movie!!!","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If George Lucas is reading this reading this review, please pay attention.I saw this film back in it's original cinema run and loved it.  Throughout the years I have seen it on TV in it's uncut version with the rude bits put back in and own it on video.  And I still love it, it's funny to my warped sense of humour and features great effects especially the Dark Overlord and some great set design for Duck World.Jeffrey Jones and Tim Robbins turn in great comic performances and am I the only one who thought Howard worked great.If you are reading this review and think what is this guy on, is he mad?  No I am not I do generally love this film.  I don't know why, it clicked when I was a kid and now I am 30 I still enjoy it.  I just wish Lucasfilm would put it out on DVD and remaster it.  Please George if you don't want to do it, why?  You did Willow and Howard is 100 times better!!! "}{"Title":"It Honestly Wasn't That Bad","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't understand how Leonard Maltin could give a trashy movie like Lifeforce two stars and give this one a bomb. At least this movie has a coherent story! Sure, Howard is nothing more than a small person in a large duck suit, but that's part of this film's charm. It really doesn't take itself seriously; I doubt it ever meant to. I think people were probably simply expecting something completely different from what they got and weren't willing to be forgiving enough to observe how funny this movie actually is. A lot of the dialogue (especially Howard's) has a very nice razor-edge to it and the action, in my humble but firm opinion, was well-shot. I especially love the ultralight chase and the fight against the Dark Overlord, and I absolutely love the music, especially the catchy songs by Thomas Dolby. I wonder how many viewers of this movie got to read the novelization by Ellis Weiner... if they did, perhaps they'd better understand how far in-cheek the FILM'S tongue is; Weiner goes positively overboard in the book and launches so many narrative jokes it's possible to laugh at one page for several long minutes. It's very true this film is not for everyone, but to condemn it so fiercely is really unnecessary; there are plenty (and I do mean PLENTY) of films out there that are far worse. I was glued to this movie as a kid and I'm still glued to it. In fact, I let my son watch it recently for the first time, and he was glued to it too. Maybe it's simply a film for the young-at-heart. I dunno. But no matter which way you look at it, there's no denying that it's a fun and unique film that deserves some credit... plus where else can you see Lea Thompson in her skivvies or Tim Robbins making such an appropriate fool of himself? To those who have seen it before give it another chance, with the mindset that yes, it IS a comedy. To everyone else give it a try. You might actually like it. "},{"Title":"A Moment in time","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok..I gave this movie a six which is higher than most.  I know the movie has some bad acting. I also agree with you that the story could have been a lot better.  However, it really depends on how you look at it. If I look at it now at the age of 28 sure it has a lot of flaws but at the age of 14 it's a different story.  I loved this movie when it came out and Lea Thompson was great (looking that is). It had everything that appealed to a small kid including some adult themes which made you feel you were watching something you shouldn't.  It may not be the greatest movies but I can't picture the great eighties without Howard! "},{"Title":"Why does everyone slate this movie? Maybe they need to lighten up.","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Everyone seems to slate this movie and say it's crud, except the people on here not understanding why people slate it. I can't understand why, I watched this when I was young and I loved it it's a great sci fi adventure movie in the same kind of vein as flight of the navigator. The music I think its great, but then I am a bit of an eightiesphile the costumes are great with a very good looking duck and with Dr Jenning turning into the dark overlord it's great! And the special effects are totally awesome, for that time the Dark overlord is one of the coolest stop motion animated monsters I've ever seen in a movie he looks cool he movies cool he sounds cool, he is just cool! The ending was brilliant! a great face off between good and evil kind of similar to Transformers The Movie, but instead of a matrix of leadership he has a big flip off laser blaster. And it's funny, if a little far fetched all the way through! the whole movie is a really enjoyable rollercoaster of a movie that just keeps you going along with it with great action scenes and then a big grand finale! I must have watched this movie a hundred times as a kid and I wish it would come out o dvd so I could get a good widescreen copy with the footage in it that was cut from it in the UK to get a PG like the scene with the claw and the cigarette lighter. Fantastic, even though it bombed! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Awesome!  I love this movie!","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Fans of cult films or B-movies, this is a must.  Howard the Duck (from the Marvel comic series), has just landed on Earth and has to get accustomed to his new habitat.  Unfortunately for him 'dark forces' aren't going to make his stay welcome.  Cool movie, fun characters...this just doesn't get any better!George Lucas Instead of disowning this film you should disown Star Wars - the Phantom Menace.   "},{"Title":"Howard the Duck","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You know most people say there's no good or bad movie? Well I am wrong. One of these bad movies is Howard the Duck. It is known for it's dumbness of acting and it's comedy is just plain poor. The other thing I hated was that this movie had too much adult material in it. It has drunk scenes, contains perverted innuendos, and somewhat nudity. There is this one sick scene where when Howard is flying through his chair, he flies past another duck that is bathing. It showed the boobs of the duck right while he flew by. Isn't that sick or nasty? The other thing was that Howard's lips were barely moving and he had a very expressionless face. It was like torture watching this movie. And here is a plot hole. Why does a woman fall for a duck?! It makes no sense why those two would even be a couple. Anyways, I rated this movie 1/10. Thanks for reading. "},{"Title":"It's An Overall Failure","Date":"16 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard The Duck is based off an old DC comic. The story is that Howard comes from an alien planet filled with walking and talking ducks. Then, one day, Howard is warped out of his living room and into Cleveland, Ohio. Once Howard enters Earth, he tries to fit into society, which as you could imagine, doesn't work too well for him, that is until a rock star waiting for her big break, Lea Thompson, takes pity on him for some undesirable reason. After this, Howard is brought to a janitor/scientist, Tim Robbins, who is better known for his roles in The Player and The Shawshank Redemption but for this movie was nominated for worst supporting actor at the Razzies. Coming along to help wreck this absolute failure of a movie is Jeffery Jones from Ferris Bueller's Day Off, playing the scientist that is thrown into the movie for the sole purpose of being possessed by a weird ass demon. The supporting actors and other extras also seemed to take the sight of a talking duck pretty relaxed, but then again, it's Cleveland after all.The character of Howard is at many points in the movie, disturbing and weird. You could also tell that the makers of the movie did not care if Howard looked real or not, because Howard looks like, and is, just a short guy in a duck suit. The relationship between Howard and Lea Thompson is one of the stranger things about this movie, especially the scene where the two of them share a little love. This 2 hour disaster is drawn out much longer than it needed to be, and near the end, I was sure that every scene would be the climax, but no, the movie kept dragging along. All special effects in this film are awful. The animations and locations looked like they were cut out of cardboard. Honestly, I don't know why these usually good actors and producer George Lucas decided to sign off for this utter catastrophe. Its only good aspect was that at times it was so horrible, that it actually made me laugh out loud. I give Howard The Duck a 2 out of 10. For being a failure in every aspect, but for stupidly funny moments. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious. But a Little Questionable as a Family Film. Good Song Too.","Date":"12 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i hadn't seen 'HTD' in over two decades. i watched it the other night expecting it to live up to it's worst movie of all time repute, but instead i was a little surprised (maybe i should be alarmed or dismayed) to find i ACTUALLY liked it. i already know there's something wrong with me, but i think this must be because i'm not very intolerant or demanding or whatever.i couldn't help myself. i just couldn't stop laughing. especially toward the end. Jeffery Jones was incredibly funny. i mean this was some of the silliest junk i've ever seen, but it was really funny and good natured.the only thing i agree with the critics on this movie is that yeah, the family film/ dirty duck humour was at odds with itself and eventually the family film wins out over the more risqué humour of dirty duck comics. even though the bare breasted female ducks toward the beginning are a little inappropriate for kids, there is very little of that and not much swearing. even the un-natural love relationship between girl and duck is done on the tame side. i wouldn't really care if kids saw this, it's not that shocking and it's kinda cute.i suppose with really ribald kiddie films out in today's market like MacFarlane's 'Ted', 'Howard' seems soft core in comparison. but it's still funny and often cute.also the much criticized song by Thomas Dolby, is a lot better and cooler than critics have reminded us.you don't need brains to watch Howard's zany antics. you just need to lighten up a little and enjoy the brainless fun. "},{"Title":"Howard's great !","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I think Howard The Duck is a perfectly good little fantasy movie.It is a movie that is NOT supposed to be taken seriously, and I find it a lot of fun. It is in my movie collection, and I've seen it many times.Good acting, good creatures, good effects for the time.It is fun, for the sake of fun.Good going' George.There is a lot of garbage out there that I have no idea how they EVER got funding, but Howard The Duck was money well spent. It would be fun re-mastered in 3D too.. "},{"Title":"A movie I will always remember","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I will never understand in a million years why Howard the Duck was considered garbage to most people. This film is the first film i can remember seeing at the theater and it was really a special film. First off Beverly, played by Lea Thompson was hot!! Especially the scene where she is laying in bed with Howard and he is so intimidated by her. Anyways i thought George Lucas did a great job with this film and even though it was considered a huge flop, it still holds a special place in my heart. From the beginning to the end this film was funny, sad, exciting, adventurous, and amazing entertaining. Look for a young Tim Robbins who was very funny especially when he was trying to escape the police with Howard. Howard was also extremely funny, like when Beverly offered him some milk out of a bowl and he said you got a beer? If you haven't seen it please give it a chance, you might like it. And please don't listen to the negative people because most of the time they are just looking for something to whine and cry about anyways. Howard the Duck will forever be a classic to me and I assure you my children will see this movie and hopefully love it as much as i did. "},{"Title":"Better than it has a right to be","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie when I was 8 so I rented it again now that I'm 29 to see how I'd feel now. I was pleasantly surprised when it was really not a bad movie. It's really pretty funny and I picked up on a lot of things I didn't when I was 8 (the naked duck in the tub with breasts, for instance). And Jeffrey Jones was phenomenal when possessed by the dark lord. He just ran with it and gave one of the best possessed villain performances I have ever seen. By the end I was laughing hysterically. It's certainly not the masterpiece Star Wars is but I think George Lucas got a bad rap. Everyone was expecting another movie like Star Wars but I think he was trying to have a little more fun. Because whatever else Howard the Duck is, it's a fun movie. It zips along at a nice pace and holds your attention. I'm going to have to find this movie and buy it because it really was a good time. "}{"Title":"Howard the Duck (1986)","Date":"13 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rating 4 out of 5Genre Comedy, Science Fiction, Comic Book, Marvel ComicsDirector Willard HuyckStars Lea Thompson, Jeffrey Jones, Tim Robbins, Ed Gale, Chip Zien, Tim Rose, Steve Sleap, Peter Baird, Mary Wells, Lisa Sturz, Jordan Prentice, Paul Guilfoyle, Liz SagalSynopsis The comic book comes to life when a high-powered laser mishap transports one Howard T. Duck, a wise-cracking and cigar chomping non-flying avian from his home Duckworld to our backward world of Cleve-land. He's befriended by Beverly (the hot Lea Thompson) who helps him to figure out what happened and how to get him off of this hairless ape planet.Thoughts It is about time that the powers that be put this classic dud on DVD. Producer George Lucas (of Star Wars fame) must have been trying his hardest to keep this fowl blockbusting blight on his filmography as out of sight as possible. Hey man chill out! Don't forget your best bud Spielberg also had a colossal dub too (1941, another Universal coffer draining production). But seriously what's there not to like about Howard? It's got action, comedy, explosions, animatronic suits, duck-on-human love, quack-fu and dark overlords of the universe. Oh did I mention it had a hot Lea Thompson in it? Just watch it already&#133; In Conclusion It was a bit before its time but thankfully it's developed quite a rabid (or is that duck rabies) fanbase over the years. I guess all those emails to Lucasfilm and Universal finally paid off. Did I mention it had a hot&#133; "},{"Title":"Howard Don't Suck","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a movie that had such a disastrous run at the US box office that it was renamed 'Howard A New Breed Of Hero' in my native UK, and the poster was changed to disguise the fact that the main character was a duck. At the time, my feelings were that if it was produced by George Lucas, how bad could it be? Fortunately, not THAT bad. While it differs significantly from the tone of the Marvel comic book on which the movie is based, it succeeds in being a daftly entertaining kids film.What elevates the film are the performances by it's human cast. Lea Thompson is spunky as the female lead and Tim Robbins ACTUALLY funny in the comic sidekick role.The crowning glory is Jeffery Jones, hot off the success of Ferris Bueller, in another sidesplitting character part. As the Dark Overlord of the Universe, Jonesgoes into overdrive, provide the movies best lines.In addition, John Barry's grand score (which opens the scale of this mere kids film to more epic proportions) and Phil Tippiitt's magnificent creature effects propel this into cult, entertainment heaven.It's a pity then that while the performance of the Duck himself is acceptable, his realisation as a 'MAN-IN-A-SUIT' abomination is not.Come on George. Release this sucker on Hi Def soon! "},{"Title":"Legendary, I don't care what anyone else says, watch it love it!","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I just watched this again after many years away from duckworld and it's absolutely brilliant. It about time critics reassessed this film and about time it was released on DVD. Why it's great 1/ Most of the effects still stand up today, You can believe there's a talking duck on screen 2/ It's Funny, quite sharp in places, quite bizarre in places. 3/ It's well filmed, just look at the chase scene. 4/ It's a film with a talking duck as it's lead, what's not to like. 5/ The spoof movie posters etc.6/ Eighties clothing, shoulder pads need I say more? 7/ Tim Robbins with a comedy performance par excellence.8/ The theme tune. 9/ The dodgy love scene, even as I kid I knew something wasn't right there.10/ The way it makes me feel like a kid again. Take a chance watch it. "},{"Title":"Howard Rocks!!","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I consider Howard The Duck one of the finest films of there 20th Century. Everything that is needed to make a modern masterpiece is there. From twisting plot to deep characterisation and the understated direction. Huyck's portail of tormented Howard makes a satirical look at 1980's American society and lifestyle and how it would effect you if you were a displaced Mallard.I would recommend this film to any hopeful satirical directors and screenwriters. It is a life affirming film, a Shawshank Redemption for airborne water dwellers. Tom Robins performance easily surpasses that in the adaptation of King's short story. Lea Thompson gives career best performance as a young punk looking for love that is found in an unlikely place in her feathered friend.A must see. "},{"Title":"Too much fun!","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Considering this is a film about a talking duck, I didn't expect much to start with.  Having said that, this tale made me laugh more than a lot of movies have.So silly it is funny and in spite of it's box office failure, I would much rather watch this George Lucas film than the last two Star Wars films.  At least HTD was supposed to make me laugh at times - something I don't believe Clones or Phantom was intended to do.I hope HTD gets released (fat chance) on DVD.  Bring back this fun 80's film.  Do you think they have considered the $$ potential from releasing a HTD hits CD?  "},{"Title":"Wonderfully funny and sweet comic book fare.","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film was recently (as of 10-2003) featured in MSN's 10 Worst Movies of all Time, and bears a paltry (or...poultry) 3.9/10 here at IMDb. And, with a 30M budget and a $16,295,774 (USA) gross return, I have to admit, it did bomb. That not withstanding, I LOVE this movie. It's campy, funny (if not witty), heart-warming, and has some good elements. The sound track itself is excellent, the story is cute and easy to follow, the performances are solid tongue-in-cheek deliveries, and the movie as a whole still bears that George Lucas style.I watch this movie about once a month, and enjoy it each and every time. The effects are realistic, the monsters are not badly done, and the characters are developed well enough to allow them to be likable and to enable us to care about what happens.And yes, while I found the bestiality scene to be quite distasteful, it was still sweet, and fuzzy-feeling provoking, regardless of the moral/ethical implications.It's a fun fantasy, with some good elements, decent action, and strong comic-book overtones to match the original from which this was adapted. Sorry, Lucas. It deserved better than it got.I rate it 8.8/10 from...The Fiend . "},{"Title":"In defense of Howard....","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love HOWARD THE DUCK. As a fan of the Steve Gerber/Gene colan comic book series, I found this to be an almost perfect film visualization, in both spirit and style. Lea Thompson is delightful as Beverly Switzler, although why they changed her character from a model to a rock musician is beyond me. Great John Barry score and effects from ILM.I would like to see what they could have done with Howard using today's proficiency with computer graphic imaging. A fun movie! "},{"Title":"This was my favorite movie of my childhood","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, I can kind of say i've kind of outgrown this movie, but i still like it. It's one of the first movies that I can recall seeing, even if it wasn't in a theater. I was in Galveston Texas in a motel room when I first saw this movie, and I fell in love with it. (i was three or four at the time) Lea Thompson became on of my favorite actresses. Sure, it's corny...but it's still fun to watch. Did you know that Lea Thompson did her own singing in the film?? It kinda has that There's No Place Like Home feeling...Howard has that anyway. Anyway, i still love this movie!!  "},{"Title":"An alternative take","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just watched the film last night for the first time in ages and came online to see what others thought... 253 people have actually given it ten out of ten so I thought I'd provide a counter argument to help speak for them and to balance things out a little, as I think this film takes a lot of unfair bashing...Well first reactions are that the film actually has a pretty dark humour vibe to it with some quite risque elements, and Howard himself is pretty much in line with his comics persona. There's not a huge attempt to make him cuddly and nice in order to dumb him down to be more acceptable - he's sarcy, pessimistic and a bit nasty at times. All of which makes him an interesting character. Special mention must go to the actors themselves - Thompson, Jones and Robbins all play the action with a knowingness and seemingly genuine affection for the source material. When Bev storms off after an argument with Howard, she does so in a hyper-exaggerated manner that perfectly captures the Marvel Comics feel. There's also a genuine feeling of menace and dread with the arrival of the Dark Overlords, with some great Creature FX. Yes, the presentation of Howard himself may not be everyone's cup of tea, but you should just accept it and buy into the story that's been presented rather than let it ruin the film for you. A lot of people wanted him to be a cartoon a la Roger Rabbit - why? Surely a 2-D cartoon version would have looked a lot more fake (and weird) than the suit / animatronic version - he's meant to be flesh and blood. There's some good animatronic face work, especially on the various duck people at the start.A lot is also made of the fact George Lucas was executive producer. Well all I can say is bravo to him - if people never took risks, never tried different and mad stuff, and yes, sometimes failed, then there would never be all the great original characters and stories that we all love. Labyrinth, another Lucas project, used to be generally panned, but has recently been re-assessed and embraced by a great many people. It too has an offbeat plot and characters and didn't fare too well when first released. But, like Howard, it has a strong and affectionate fanbase of people who appreciate its quirky nature and the obvious care, affection (and talent) that went into it. Who knows, maybe, in time, others too, or a new generation, will grow fond of it also.BTW Trapped in a world he never made was actually a tag-line from the comic, so the films producers can't be blamed for that - they're actually remaining faithful to the source material. Alpha-4, I'm sorry you didn't enjoy this film - as it was shot and set in your native Ohio I'd have hoped you'd have supported it more! lolAnyway peace everyone and hope I've interested others to give this film a try.Dan "},{"Title":"In the beginning there was Howard The Duck!!!","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time.                              Minor SpoilersI was just crazy about this movie when it first came out.Seeing the Dark Overlord  was really scary.The special effects in Howard The Duck are great.Its really amazing to see how Lea Thompson,Jeffrey Jones,and Tim Robbins are so young in this and that this is part of a Lucas film.Jones` voice is really spooky when he becomes poesed by the Dark Overlord.HTD also has a great score by John Barry.Any Lucas,sc-fi,action,monster movie fan should liked Howard the Duck.I think its a classic!                                     "}{"Title":"If there is one thing this movie wreaks of it is awesomeness...","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First came Lea Thompson in the role of Lorraine Baines McFly from BTTF and the skill of George Lucas in Star Wars.By putting these two together an awesome story was made.  It blends elements of comedy, romance, and horror evenly.  Thus creating one of the top ten comedies of the 80's.  It falls right in line with Gremlins, Ghostbusters, Back to the Future and others.The story is kind of scatter brained but that adds into the enjoyment. Imagine what the stale Pulp Fiction movie would have been like if it was linear.Do yourself a favor stop looking at the bad reviews and go watch this movie. "},{"Title":"I thought this movie was cute...","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  To me and many others this movie was a cute movie for the 80's.  It might have taken a bomb in the theaters but I still like it.  Lea Thompson (Beverly) was a great actress in the movie. I have advise for many of you. Critics and many people said that this movie wasn't a good movie and might have have led you to the point where you didn't want to see it because they said that it wasn't good.  Don't listen to them.  People have different opinions.  You actually might think it i a great movie for the 80's which I did and so did many others.  So i suggest that you rent it an watch it.  I tell you this because if you don't, you will regret it for sure. "},{"Title":"Oh Baby, I love this film!","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think this is my favourite film of all time, I watched it when I was a kid, loved it instantly, rented it out of the local video shop about once a month. In the end I decided to asked the local shop if they would sell it to me, they did and now I have my very own video of Howard the Duck (Howard, a new breed of hero). Anyone who mocks this film, I don't understand. Basically its an easy watching, action comedy which never fails to amuse me. It uses a bunch of brilliant songs to help it along, plus it stars one of the great actors, Tim Robbins. Some of my favourite lines are ahh, a typical hairless ape, or thats a duck, thats a duck man! I guess you have to watch the film to get the humour of it. But anyway I just thought that I would let people know how great this film is, how can you miss out on watching a film which stars a master of QUACK FOO!!!!! "},{"Title":"I Luv this movie.","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Don't you notice how cute it is when some one writes the word love as luv. That's the best way to describe this movie it may not be altogether right (love) But it is just too appealing to dislike (luv).Just a note before I give my review To all those people bad mouthing it saying the effects sucked or it was really stupid. Go find a photo of yourself from 1986... now let me read your mind. Man, did I look stupid, and that shirt really sucks. But at the time brown and white striped with huge green collars was really hot. You'll see how this experiment ties in, in a sec.I saw Howard When I was 5 in 1987 and I loved it. I saw Howard a second time in 1989 at the age of 7 and i loved it. Between 1989 and 1990 i think i rented it from the video store at least 50 times. Then I saw it again in 1999 at the age of 17. (Reverting back to the picture) and not only did I enjoy the movie I was able to laugh at the cheesy effects and ludicrous story.... and who could forget the theme song apparently not the 100 napster users who have it on their hard drive (101 now).Don't compare it to films made today, and don't compare it to citizen Cain Just look at it as a fun 80's romp about a talking duck, and maybe if George Lucas could remove his head from his own butt for and hour and a half he'd see he removed his name from the only decent thing he ever made.9/10P.s Lea Thompson was HOT (and sweet) in this movie; I think she is still the only woman who could turn me on. "},{"Title":"One of my guilty pleasures...","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What can I say?  It's just one of those wonderful little films... honestly. I mean, come on, how can you possibly take it seriously?  Lea Thompson calling him Duckie, the Dark Overlords of the Universe.  It's so cheesy and fun that it's brilliant.   "},{"Title":"A Great B-Movie","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I vaguely remember seeing Howard The Duck some 12 years ago when I was a young lad and decided to rent it for nostalgia reasons and watch it again today.  Anyone who is a fan of B-movies must see this movie!Howard The Duck was one of the most notorious box office bomb movies of the 80's.  George Lucas was the executive producer and the movie cost many millions of dollars to make (and took 7 actors to play the duck, alone!), but it was one of the most poorly critically rated films of 1986 and it brought in about a third of what it cost to make.  I have seen this movie on dozens of lists about the worst films of all-time, but I think that is unfair.  The movie might be bad, but it is hilarious and far from painful to watch.This movie has everything an appreciator of bad cinema could want.  A cheesy story and setting.  Horrible acting and dialogue and best of all, great special effects done in a cheesy fashion.  The story?  It's really irrelevant here, but it's about a talking, cigar smoking, beer drinking duck named Howard who gets beamed out of his apartment (and right off his Duck planet, for that matter) accidentally across the galaxy and somehow ends up landing on Earth, in Cleveland.  He meets a foxy new wave chick (Lea Thompson) that's in an all girl new wave band called Cherry Bomb.  She tries to figure out how to get him back home.  Along the way, the dark lord of the universe manages to get zapped inside the body of the scientist trying to help him get back home and now not only does Howard have to try and get back to Mashington, D.C. (the town he lives in), but he has to save Earth from being conquered by the dark lord of the universe, too.  What else?  Well, Howard knows Quack-Fu and uses it to kick some booty all while shakin' his tail feather.I laughed throughout nearly the entire 110-minute duration of this film. It gets long in some parts, but it is well worth watching if you want a good laugh.  The musical sequence at the end of the film is especially priceless and hilarious.  Anyone who says this film is a pile of c**p and is painful to watch is an idiot.  This movie may be a pile of c**p, but it a really funny film and I'd recommend it to any B-Movie fan, right up there with `Killer Klowns from Outer Space'.  Completely ridiculous 80's fun. "},{"Title":"Howard rules!","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie. This is like the coolest movie ever. I love the theme song. The FX was really cool. The plot and characters were too. The only thing I hope is that they don't make a sequel. One Howard the duck movie is enough. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes has a good taste in movies. "},{"Title":"a cheesy but cool movie.","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I liked this film. It was cheesy 2 the point of laughter. Howard the talking duck is hilarious. Don't p**s Howard off cause he knows ninja. This may be lame but oh well, I found this 2 a cool movie & when the Dark Lords show up- so cool. Lea Thompson falls in love with Howard, so lame its funny. Tim Robbins also stars b4 he became famous. this is worth seeing if u r into cheesy movies or just want 2 see a duck in action. "},{"Title":"cute...","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just recently watched this film, and it's not nearly as bad as the hype suggests. In fact, it's a rather sweet romance between an alien duck and a surprisingly mellow punk-rocker (Lea Thompson). There are flaws of course, the plot meanders, and Tim Robbins is ANNOYING, and not in a funny way... However, Geoffrey Jones is marvellous once he becomes possessed by the Dark Overlords, and the rapport between Bev and her duckie is well done. It's not as good as Steve Gerber's bitterly satiric comic book series of the seventies, but then, that's not to be expected... "},{"Title":"So Glad I Missed the Negative Reviews","Date":"13 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Recently, I had the chance to watch this movie again, and afterward, watched the producer's and actor's comments and was surprised to learn that this movie was based on a comic book.I was 23 when I went to see this film with my husband at the walk-in in Wichita, Kansas. I thoroughly enjoyed Howard the Duck, though I did get a bit uncomfortable during the romantic scene where I thought Beverly and Howard were going to have sex. I found the Duck World reverse planet quite funny, with the movie posters, as it reminded me of a Twilight Zone episode. Back then, the costume for Howard was quite believable and acceptable, and after seeing this film again recently, it still works, amidst being inundated with CGI animation. The voice chosen for Howard really makes the character, as well as Howard's body movements.This film appealed to me musically, as I was a big fan of the 80's New Wave music, and still get a lump in my throat when I hear Thomas Dolby singing, Don't Turn Away, and then another scene when Lea Thompson sings the same song as dejected Howard walks into the club. The Cherry Bombs all-girl band came across very believable, and recently upon viewing the producer's comments, I learned that the actresses used their own vocal chords to sing - no voice-overs with real singers. Wow, Lea Thompson is a pretty good singer! You gotta love the big hair then - what I call, the puff head look.There was some good laughs in the film, even Howard's interview when he goes to the Cleveland unemployment office was hilarious! You would only find an off-the-wall café in a Lucas film - Joe Roma's Cajun Sushi. The waitress was perfect!Dr. Jenning's (Jeffrey Jones) was a very memorable part of the film, as he did the transition from human to the Dark Overlord very well, and made me feel a bit scared, especially as his facial expressions and voice reminded me of scenes of the demon-possessed girl in, The Exorcist, so, the thrown in lines like, If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen, were comedic relief that added more fun to the movie. Seeing Jennings/The Dark Overlord shut the restaurant door to keep Howard and Beverly from escaping was very realistic and I now know why after seeing the hard effort put into making the scene where the tables and chairs seem to be pushed by some invisible force. The Dark Overlord creature itself was awesome, as it was scorpion-like, and scorpions do scare many people. Seeing this scene today, it looked a bit dated for that era as the creature looks faded compared to the other objects around it, and looks like it was pasted onto the screen. But, back when I saw it, it looked real enough to me. The only drawback to the movie was Tim Robbins part at the beginning. His character wasn't believable, but became more real, especially when he was in the ultra-light with Howard. Then his character didn't seem so forced and silly. He pulled the character off completely with the line, Try the seat belt, Howard.I'm sure all the guys ogled at the scene where Beverly removes her robe and climbs in bed. If only I had legs like that! "}{"Title":"Unjustifiably Underrated Movie","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard the Duck is one of those movies that get underrated by some and hated by those who have no opinion of their own and repeat after doubtful authorities whose job is spitting on everything they can because it's their job.Well, I must say that against all better judgement I find this movie to be both original and entertaining, and that's what a decent movie is all about. Beside that, it has many things other (and especially modern) movies don't have original story (some people call it stupid - seriously, I don't know why. perhaps they're too serious? well, serious people don't waste their time on movies and other insubstantial things); character charisma - you can't help but sympathize with the protagonists you see on screen - almost every one of them is a living individual, not a that third guy from the left - especially that cynical, sarcastic duck; nice music that is played throughout the movie; decent acting (excellent acting if compared to modern movies); good decorations; nice and very colourful visuals. By the way, this movie won Razzie award for worst visual effects. Hm, if they only knew back in 1990 what visuals we'd have in 21 century... I've seen those modern, cheap, square special effects in Terminator 3 or LotR, and believe me - they were WORST. So why did T3, LotR, RE 2&3 etc. not win any of those humiliating awards? I guess because critics were much softer on them (being representatives of new movie viewer generation that loves pointless all action movies like Matrix with square visuals and minimum of REAL decorations). What many modern movie makers don't realize is that special effects cannot replace real decorations, and only with decorations being the basics of the view visuals can do some nice job, too. My dreams look more realistic and colourful than the background generated by computers in the movies. Anyway, one can easily explain why decorations are being less used nowadays - they cost millions and require some talents, while special effects cost nothing, take much less time and require someone who has never left his apartment.Now, let's talk about stupid movie stories - have you watched Batman Begins or The Dark Knight? Execellent movies, you say? Well, make me and yourselves a favour - forget that it's about Batman, forget that the budget was big (or not). Just watch them as if they were independent movies. Can you see through the mist of delusion now? Infantile in its stupidity story, poor acting (actors were disgusted about what they were doing so much they weren't able to show any emotions), histrionic dialogs that never make sense, stupid actions that lack rationalism and logic (like why the hell are you shooting with two handguns? buy UZI, you mendicant!), average music score, artificiality. I don't know what many people find so fine about last Batmans. Boring movies, with characters having no individuality they come, they die. who were they? who cares? let's watch those big explosions and stupid matrix-like fights that make no sense!.What I'm trying to say here is that as some movies are unjustifiably underrated (Lynch's Dune, for example), some are unjustifiably overrated. Regular viewers don't do the ratings - movie critics do. Bad thing is, many regular viewers fall for it and repeat after them, thus pushing one star button, thinking it's their honest opinion. Those critics are also individuals, with their own taste and desires. And instead of bashing movies like Howard the Duck only because its badness is a popular belief you'd better watch this movie independently of any alien opinion and decide for yourselves if you liked it or not. And I'm sure, everyone who HAS seen this movie had found something he/she liked in it.All in all, I give Howard the Duck 10 stars (by modern standards, for I haven't seen a decent American movie for a few years now) for its originality, humour, acting, music scores, decorations, visuals, and most importantly - for being alive. Of course, this movie does have some bad moments, like some scenes I personally would have cut out, but still, they don't ruin the film's inner charm. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of those films that on first glance seem to be sad. But on a second look it is a masterpiece of film work. I think it is classic 80,s I truly enjoyed this film and just taped form Concast on demand. it is one Lia Thompson,s first staring rolls and she was great in this film to enjoy this film one has to let go of his grown up self and let the kid in him or her loose. Just let go and relax and you will enjoy this film. A good movie is some thing to be enjoyed and criticized. Try not to over ananlize this film it is one of those movies you have to look at through a child,s eyes to enjoy. Just let go of your grownup self and be a kid again I can,t say it enough.Sean the Movie guy "},{"Title":"Many Call it a Legendary but Undeserved Flop. I Call it a Classic.","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  D Willard Huyck. Lea Thompson; Jeffrey Jones; Chip Zien; Ed Gale. Wildly enjoyable Sci-Fi Fantasy in which `Howard T. Duck' is mysteriously transported from his home in Duckworld and dropped into a rough community in Cleveland. Based on the Marvel comics series by Steve Gerber, Writer/Producers Willard Huyck and Gloria Katz teamed up with Star Wars legend George Lucas to adapt the wacky character to the big screen. A film that is widely remembered for being one of the all time great flops at the box office (it cost upwards of $35,000,000 to produce and took in around $16,000,000 U.S), it should be remembered as a pioneering effort in the field of Mechanical Effects, Stop Motion Animation (done by Phil Tippet) and `Super Light' Visuals (done by Joe Johnston). The lead character in the film, Howard, is created using a midget (successful actor/stunt performer Ed Gale) in a highly complex mechanical suit (which cost $2,000,000) and really must be seen to be believed. However, the film's chief problem appears to be that it is not aimed at children, to be honest it really isn't suitable for kids. This is not a children's film, and this is possibly the reason why it did not succeed. But for all comic book movie fans, seek out this rarity and enjoy it. Do not let this classic die, and pray for a DVD release. Highly recommended! Willard Huyck's final directorial effort to date. "},{"Title":"Another great movie that didn't use CGI","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not that I have anything against CGI. I just think movies are better if they use actual stuff to create the creatures and special effects rather than rely on computers all the time.I felt this was a great movie. Humorous plot that made fun of about 100 other movies just like it (creature comes from space, and either tries to destroy the world, or save it)And who in the world could forget the famous (infamous?) bed-room scene where Howard and Beverly (played by a very young and sexy Lea Thompson) nearly took part in a very illegal activity. I've never really watched Letterman before but I'd never pass up that invitation (if you haven't seen this flick you probably won't get that alliteration.)A lot of people are saying this movie is stupid. Well, yeah. A talking duck from an alternate world who saves the earth from the Dark Overlords of the Universe... that's stupid... but that's also why it works.The only thing i've never figured out about this movie is why do the female ducks in Duckworld have breasts when that is a very mammal thing to have. I guess somethings were never meant to be known. "},{"Title":"George Lucas Way Out of Touch w/Reality","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Saw the movie in '86 in San Francisco, $15 dollar premiere benefit performance for the Berkeley Film Archives. Champagne, pate, free t-shirt. Lucas was a no-show. Are you surprised? Let's just say that Howard was the most expensive piece o' crap attended by either myself or Howard the Hughes Lucas. And written by Katz & Huyck, who co-wrote American Graffiti! Sadness. At least I got a shirt out of the deal. Paging Jar Jar Binks! Lucas, my friends, is Way, Way Out of Touch with you & I. "},{"Title":"Pure Genius","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've never understood why everyone Hates Howard the Duck. (even the creator of the comic hates it) C'mon folks you gotta remember to take this movie at face value.  It is a hokey 80's movie based on a Comic book.  I think the Howard character was one of the most faithful translations of a comic character, sure there was some problems, but at least not as many as the last Batman or what they were gonna do to Superman.  I hold this film in the same regard that I hold Short Circuit 2, it's a very very entertaining movie.  Now if you want to see a bad movie, watch Vegas in Space or something. "},{"Title":"Leave Howard Alone!!!!!","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Okay, I will admit that this movie was stupid. But it was stupid in a good way. It was funny and it was funny without bare boobs or butts or sexual situations or drugs. I guess that to be good a comedy has to have sex, gross humor or humiliation in it. Some people don't think that way. Movies like Howard and Spaced Invaders are just plain funny.We need more movies like Howard. Not everyone likes to watch grossness or just plain retarded behavior on the screen. Keep your American Pie and your parodies. If you are into mind-numbing stupidity. I'll stick with good, clean silliness. Howard is a movie worthy of the comic geniuses of the past. "},{"Title":"Much better than people remember","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I like Howard the Duck. I'm not saying I love the movie. I don't own a copy, and have no real desire to own one. However, if it was on television, I'd watch it. If it was chopped up into several pieces and put on online, I'd check it out. If I already picked out two movies for a 3 DVDs for $5 special, and I saw 'Howard the Duck' in there, I'd grab it.Howard the Duck has many flaws, but at no point is it annoying to me. The 'duck' jokes aren't funny, admittedly, but the atmosphere is interesting, Howard himself is funny, and the movie is pure 80's. Also, Lea Thompson is HOT. Again, there are plenty of later movies where you can see her naked, but she was at her peak (and in her underwear) in Howard the Duck.Character actor Chip Zien, the voice of Howard, pulls off the performance with genuine charm, and Tim Robbins is delightfully goofy. To add to it, almost no one in the city really cares that Howard is a Duck. He spooks some, but for the most part they just ignore the alien wandering through their city, and rather than it being unbelievable, it comes off as delightful satire.Just as you think things are wrapping up, the movie becomes ridiculously epic, giant killer aliens show up, and Jeffrey Jones is really funny as the 'possessed' scientist. What can I say? The movie works for me.The only creepy thing is that despite all of Lucas' special effects it's disappointing that they still had to use the 'midget in a costume' technique for all the scenes. Almost anything else would have been better. A guy in a full sized suit? A cartoon effect? Hell, the movie itself probably would have worked a LOT better as a cartoon, rather than live action.Oh, and there's one other bad thing the 111 minute run time. You can't tell me they couldn't chop 25 minutes out of that movie. Come on, the movie stars a small, talking duck.Despite all that, it's an enjoyable movie. You might not be laughing at the parts they intend you to laugh at, but you'll be laughing, regardless. "},{"Title":"Somehow enjoyable","Date":"22 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Because of the reception that Howard the Duck has received, it is very difficult to review a movie of this caliber. After all, the average critic and moviegoer panned this movie. In addition, it was nominated, even won some, for several Razzie awards for not only that year but for the decade as well. If one were to admit that he or she enjoyed Howard the Duck, that person would have been made fun of. The question is is Howard the Duck as bad as everybody says it is.A science experiment, gone wrong, brings an extraterrestrial life form to the planet Earth through a laser beam. That extraterrestrial is none other then cigar smoking, beer drinking, duck named Howard. Unfortunately, another experiment brought home an alien life form bent on destroying the human race. Can Howard stop the alien and save the human race? From viewing this film, this reviewer can see why everybody hates this movie. However, some parts of this movie are actually enjoyable. There were some humorous moments, mostly unintentional, throughout. Boy and the dialog, wow, this reviewer has never heard so much lame duck puns in his life. At some times, there was dialog that would not sound strange in a Mel Brooks movie. It truly was bad, yet, somehow enjoyable. Unfortunately, why there are many things you can really laugh at, there is not enough to make this film a classic though.The actors, if they were looking back at their role today, would probably be embarrassed. The weird thing was that there were some big names. Lea Thompson plays a women name Beverley Switzler that becomes Howard's friend. Jeffrey Jones was very over the top as Dr. Jennings. Even Tim Robbins is in this film as an annoying scientist named Phil Blumburtt. Not one, not two, but seven little people, in a duck costume, played Howard the Duck.Overall, if you are into those types of movies, grab a few of your friends, rent it, laugh at it, and forget about it the next day. If you want to see a movie that features an awkward romance with Lea Thompson, at the time she was still attractive, with a great theme song at the end, you cannot go wrong with this title. To answer the question about whether or not Howard the Duck is as bad as everybody says, the answer would be yes. However, for the same reason as most of the 1980's, it is somehow enjoyable. "},{"Title":"the worst movie ever!!!","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't care if Howard the Duck was based on a comic strip or not.  What a lame and totally worthless movie.  Of all the movies I've seen in my 23 years, only Howard the Duck sticks out like a sore thumb as the absolute worst.  Was this just an unbelievably phony premise, or what?  Lea Thompson's a half-decent actress - what could she have possibly been thinking?  This is one of those horrendous movies that's shown either on late-night TV or on Saturday afternoons which nobody ever watches.  "}{"Title":"Oh, Bite Me...","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You guys are all WAAAY too invested in hating something that is MEANT to be stupid, ridiculous and fun...how sad to be you, you're missing out on a hoot of a film...)I LOVE this flick.Its the ultimate 'Bad 80's' movie, and its FUN.The acting is hammy, the writing is pure terrible GOLD, the SFX are TOP NOTCH (come ON, man...the Dark Overlord KICKS ASS!) and the score is PERFECT...you guys just don't know how to have fun with a golden turkey...how sad.Im betting the majority of the posters here don't get asked to parties much.K "},{"Title":"Misunderstood Or Plain Bloody Stupid?","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Howard The Duck is a film financed by George Lucas, and tells the story of an alien duck from a planet where ducks have advanced in much the same way as humans.  Whilst admittedly more of a turkey than a duck, the film is nethertheless worth giving a chance.Some songs, books, tv shows and indeed films become so bad they actually become good for that very reason.  A perfect example is the entire recording career of William Shatner, especially Lucy In The Sky With Diamonds, and another is Howard The Duck.This film is absolute cack, so much so that it is rendered brilliant for those who love high-class rubbish of the finest calibre, like myself.  I switch off, stick this film on, and know I'm not going to be bothered by serious plot lines, good acting (bar the ever reliable Jeffery Jones) or anything else of note.What I get instead is a midget in a duck costume and lots of stupid lines that wouldn't seem out of place in a Mel Brooks film, such as I'm not Jenning anymore, I'm... someone else....  Plus Howard playing guitar at the end of the film is worth the rental price alone - and I taped it off BBC1 years ago so I'm not complaining! D "},{"Title":"This is what they make people watch in hell","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Actually, with Lea Thompson in it, I guess they probably wouldn't show it in hell because it at least has some redeeming visual aspects when her face is on screen. Anyhow, I'm here to warn you to run (not walk but run) away from this piece of garbage, unless you want to create a low point in your life that you can always look back on so when something terrible happens you can say Well, at least I'm not watching Howard the Duck! I'm exaggerating here, but only slightly.Why am I bothering to write this? The other day I ran into an old girlfriend who once dragged me to this film and insisted on staying through the whole thing even though it was readily apparent it was worthless. She kept insisting the duck character was actually cute and the movie wasn't that bad. Trust me, she was wrong. Good thing that was a short relationship or I could have been subjected to more of the same. Anyhow, when I saw her the other day for the first time in years, the first thing that popped into my mind was that she was the fool who made me see Howard the Duck. I felt a duty and obligation to warn others to stay away.What's so bad about it? I don't know where to begin. Take every element of the film process and insert the word bad before it and you'll get the idea. It boggles the imagination how a studio could bankroll something like this, release it, advertise it, and actually get it shown by theaters. What an incredible waste of resources and viewer's time. It easily makes my ten worst list. "},{"Title":"An Awesome Marvel Comic Flick!!!","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's about time this finally got released in America! As a child, I loved it. Now that I'm older, I still love it! It's awesome that a duck from another world named Howard is transferred to Earth and the lead singer from the rock band Cherry Bomb named Beverly is in trouble and Howard helps her. After that, they become good friends. As Howard is stuck on Earth, he tries to get a job and scientists want to study him, so Beverly, Phil, and Dr. Jenning try to help him get back to Duck World. Something bad happens to the machine and a Dark Overlord takes over Jenning's body. Later, Jenning takes Beverly as a hostage and Howard and Phil must save her before the Dark Overlord summons his friends and destroys all life on Earth. The special effects are awesome! You really have to be open-minded in order to appreciate this masterpiece! The look of the film is of the classic 80's! I highly recommend HOWARD THE DUCK!!! "},{"Title":"My fave film of all time","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't' understand why people pan Howard the Duck.I think I first saw this movie when my Nan recorded it off the TV. I was about 10, so I didn't entirely get the more adult jokes, but that didn't matter to me. I thought that this was the best movie in the world ever. It's got action, it's funny, it's got scary bits, it's got a great soundtrack. To a child, this all makes for a good film. I still watch it now I'm an adult and it is still my most favourite film ever.In some of the above reviews, people have attacked the effects. OK, they're not fantastic, but most films of that time had poor effects. Take 'Terminator' for example, the scene where he's fixing his eye. The head was so obviously fake that nowadays it's laughable! I think it's a terrible shame that it's unavailable on DVD. I have the video and the soundtrack on vinyl. "},{"Title":"For Kids This Movie Will Rock And Stay In The Hearts Forever","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I thought i wanted to update my little comment of this movie...!!!When George Lucas made this movies his intentions were to show a movie not deemed worthy of anything, as it came out people fastly decided to hate the movie, it was just too unrealistic and too weird, now 20 years later it is in many's minds, i guess i know why nobody liked it back then.Story 8/10 Well you have a duck who drops down from his planet to earth and of course the story here is that a scientific problem happened and now he has to save the whole planet, the story isn't really that special, but the persons and the way it flows actually can pull you in. Of course there are many cheesy moments in the movie, but it all does well actually, i think that the reason this movie didn't get that much fame was because people don't want to see to much unrealistic things, thats why i know that kids will love this movie, scared of it at times, propraply at the end with the Dark Lord. We adults don't see the same way as kids, i think the kids who saw it back in the days loved it, and some who likes fantasies understood it in some ways also.Actors 9/10 Actors the ones in the movie is what makes this movie tick the most, you cant not love Howard sometimes, he is witty and funny, yeah the lines are weak at points but cool at other places, Lea Thompson plays the role of Beverly very well, she is also very hot and cute no matter how you look at it, Jeffrey Jones was a great actor back in the days, he is usually most known for oldies, in Howard the duck he plays as Doctor Jennings very well also. I don't think anyone other then him good do this part better then he does, he is a great great actor. the last one is Tim Robbins if i should be sincere and i shall then i don't like new movies with him, in this movies i believed he wasn't that bad, he was great as well. It is the actor that holds this movie the most and they do it very good.Music 8/10 Every song in the movie is catchy and it lingerers to you if you just have seen the movie, i liked all of them very much. I liked the main theme, but my favorite wasn't one they sang, only in one single moment when Lea Thompsons sings it, it is of course the song Dont Walk Away with Thomas Dolby. The small tunes in the movie is nothing to bitch about they aren't the best but the do what is supposed to do.Special Effects N/A I wont bitch about the special effects they are really not that good for an 80es film, but then again they do make children believe in it, a little scary when you are small, but i think that is what is so good about this movie. Adults will see its wrongs at the first sight, but children will like them at the first sight. The are not bad at all, but they aren't good at all either they are in the middle.Overall 9/10 I will give this a 9 because i believe that this movie grows on you, and later in time it will grow more even though it has long stopped to being produced. But it is a classic for many people and i thinks it grows on you in time, i will end with 2 of my favorite quotes in this movie.Cleve-Land. Perfectly weird name for this planet. And the other. BeverlyI never even had any pets, they seems like a lot of hassle you feeding them cleaning up after them, HowardIll try to be careful. "},{"Title":"Bad Film-- Great Entertainment","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Sure, This is a bad movie, filled with alot of holes, takcy dialogue, and an inplausible situation which was the job of the writers to make it seem plausible and they half-ass it here. Only a skilled writer can make the unbelievable capture your breath and make it seem life-like, but they don't do it here. The Howard suit looks fairly decent but its lack of facial expressions doom it, as well as the character itself not being true to the comic. If they gave him a longer neck and a more cartoony and lovable look and personality, they would have had a cult favorite here. Lea Thompson is sexy (who can forget her panty scene in this film) as a derivative rocker chick, but Tim Robbins is annoying here ( who'd thunk it, he would go on to do Shawshank after this?) and it is rather shallow and coawrdly of George Lucas to stand there proud at all the Star Wars praise but removes his name from the Howard the Duck film. I mean what was there in the final frame that wasn't there in the script? Anyway, depending on what your tatses are, you'll enjoy this film or you'll hate it. Either way, I won't fault you. "},{"Title":"What's all the fuss about?","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've personally just watched this movie for the first time, I was lent a copy by a friend after I spied it in his DVD collection. I was instantly intrigued, I mean, a movie with George Lucas's name attached called Howard THE DUCK??? I just had to see it. Before I put it on I have had a glance at the IMDb boards and found that this was a very expensive film that bombed miserably at the box office and has been panned to death by critics and buffs alike. Why???I just finished watching it and I thought it was great, no masterpiece by any means but it gave out exactly what it promised. For all you people who hate this movie, you didn't really expect Gone with the wind or The sound of music from a film about a talking alien duck did you?Sure it was cheesy as hell, and some of the jokes were just terrible but the charm it oozes comes at you in bucket loads. The movie is over 20 years old and yet some of the special effects are better than in some of the dross out nowadays, and are definitely better than most movies out in the 80's. The humour is hit and miss at times but I thought it far funnier than anything the likes of Adam Sandler has done to date. The big no no for me was the music which I have to admit was really pants. Not so much the songs the band play during the film but the actual score itself. But that's just a minor gripe.Tim Robbins was so over the top and Jeffrey Jones was a hoot, so c'mon people, it's a kids movie about a talking duck. On that score it delivers on every level. 3.9 is mega harsh a score in my book so I've given it a 10 (not that it will make that much difference) my honest score would be a solid 7.Amusing, cheesy, plenty of fun action, decent effects for the time, ridiculously over the top and packed to the hilt with an 80's nostalgic feel, I'm sorry but I have to say it is a very good movie for what it is. Far better than I was expecting from the comments I've read. "},{"Title":"Believe in Unique Cinema","Date":"21 November 2008","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I honestly think Ed Wood was a brilliant director. I value films with a unique vision of the world. I think Larry Cohen and Ken Russell are some of the greatest directors we've had. I think camp is a good element to any serious film, as David Lynch has later shown to be true. And I'm serious when I say that this is the greatest contribution George Lucas has ever made to celluloid. I've long thought Star Wars, even the original trilogy, to be extremely overrated. Those films aren't terrible, but everything Lucas has done since this film has been astronomically worse, and if you thought the new Indiana Jones movie or Episode I were pretty cool, don't watch this. You won't like it. You know why? Because you have bad taste.This movie has taken so much abuse by so many critics. If you think a film is bad because Roger Ebert said so, don't watch this. With the critics partly to blame, this film failed and destroyed the careers of Willard Huyck and Gloria Katz. And if you think a movie that does bad at the box office is probably bad, don't watch this. You have bad taste.Why is it okay for critics to praise William Castle and Russ Meyer now? Because they're dead. Those films are old, and it's now hip to think they're cool. In an ironic way, of course. In twenty years, this film will be seen just like those. But it's not cool to like this one just yet.Howard the Duck is one of my favorite films. Its vision of the world is unique and sometimes frightening, Lea Thompson is gorgeous, Jeffrey Jones and Tim Robbins are great, and the special effects are so much better than anything made in Hollywood today. If you thought Cloverfield was cool, don't watch this. You have bad taste.If you value originality, or just plain strangeness, you will like this film. This movie is unlike any other film EVER MADE. Can you say that about Star Wars? You couldn't even say that about Star Wars in 1977. This film is about the ruthlessness of men on Earth, and its message is that to find real meaning in life on Earth, you have to be true to yourself, even if you're a three-foot-tall duck from another planet. The new Indiana Jones film was about how cool that bad ass CGI looks. That's garbage, okay? That's bad cinema. If anything deserves an ironic appreciation, it's the latter day work of George Lucas. If you think Steven Spielberg is brilliant, if you liked Independence Day, or if you thought Spiderman was good, don't watch this. You have bad taste. "},{"Title":"Que Horror!","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When this movie came out, I was 13 years old.  Unbeknownst to me at that time, it would rate as one of worst movies of all time.  However, at 13 years of age; at an age where discriminate taste does not rank as a predominant trait...as I walked out of the theater (on Van Ness Street in San Francisco), I declared it a bomb.  I wonder if I were to happen to see it these many years later, drunk and with a group of drunk friends, would it be one of those movies that is so horrible, that it is funny?Actually, now that I look at the director's credits, and realized that he's directed, written, or produced virtually nothing else since, I feel kind of sorry for him. "}{"Title":"If you don't like it, you don't get it.","Date":"22 March 2007","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is amazing. I first saw it in 1986 when I was 8 yrs old and, like the Simpsons, I can watch it now as an adult and still find myself entertained for completely different reasons. I love the whole 80s feel to the film. The 'cherry bombs', the sleazy clubs, the punks which come straight out of 'double dragon', jeffrey jones as the dark overlord, lea thompson, the soundtrack, the total surrealism (the duck reading 'playduck' before crashing through the wall to another lady duck who is topless). In respect of the soundtrack, it rocked, just like Limahl's song in the Never Ending Story always makes me remember seeing that film as a kid. Some 80s films had an ability to set an atmosphere through the soundtrack that you do not get in the same way anymore... the breakfast club (simple minds), the goonies (cyndi lauper), back to the future (huey lewis & the news), pretty in pink etc. I am not a typical sci-fi/comic book hero fan at all, but it is not this aspect which makes the movie great for me. I don't know if the parts I love are the parts which Lucas intended to be great but, unintentional or not, they are great. If you think it is terrible, for the plot or cheesy jokes or whatever, then you are missing the point. Yes it is terrible in parts but for the time the film lasts, I and many others enjoy a pure escapism back to another era that only Howie can bring!!!! "},{"Title":"Go Back to Your Planet!!!","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen. I remember thinking it was strange when I was a kid, but now I think it's a lot stranger as an adult. I guess I'm just not sure which audience this movie is targeted, kids or adults? It seems like adults with the language and the themes, but then you have the duck. And another thing that disturbs me about this movie, the almost sex scene between Beverly and Howard the Duck. Is this girl mentally disturbed to want to have sex with a duck? Another thing, this movie lasts way too long. George Lucas, what were you smoking when you made this movie? "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sure, Howard the Duck can be ridiculous at parts, but not quite as ridiculous as someone who comments that the film was so terribly bad that I have been brought to tears crying at simply recalling scenes from this flick. Some people need to grow up.Speaking of growing up, I haven't seen this film since I was an adolescent. Nearly twenty years later, I finally found it again and sat down with great excitement to see this awesome film that I remembered having watched countless of times while young.So, did I have the typically disappointing experience that usually accompanies such a visit to the past? Yes and no.Perhaps my view of the film is still coloured by the fact that I loved it as a child, but I will try to be as objective as possible. I will skip the plot, since it has been said here so many times already.What struck me the most about the film when watching it as a jaded adult were a few things.First of all, the whole sexual innuendo between Howard and Beverly happens incredibly fast. So quickly, in fact, that its already built-in silliness treads on incredulity. Funny how I found that a perfectly reasonable progression as a kid. But hey, what did I know about women back then! The second thing is that the film feels as if it's really two films put together, but the real problem with that is really the way the two halves are partitioned. The first half is relatively quiet, interesting, and very well paced (aside from the romance part). We are interested in finding out what will happen to Howard, and how he will return home. Then, out of nowhere, the film switches to a painfully long chase scene. If you thought the wisecracks in the first half were silly, wait till you see the second half.Speaking of wisecracks, the entire diner scene really tests ones nerves. I don't know whose idea it was to include some lame joke in every other line, but it got very annoying.Finally, in the end, there were some... um.. special effects.. involving a monster. I must admit here this was the most shocking thing for me, both as a child and as an adult, though for entirely different reasons. As a kid, I found the thing scary, man. When I watched it yesterday, I nearly chuckled. What a shame, really, as even by 1980s special effects technology, there is really no excuse for this. Still, it does what its supposed to do.I do not understand why every know-it-all wannabe Hollywood lackey wants to blast this endearing film as if it were Armageddon. I saw significance in Howard's resemblance to us. The scene in the diner in particular took on a very new light for me with this latest viewing, one that showed humans as brutal, unthinking animals. Of course, that is not to say a film this silly hides some kind of earth-shattering reflection on the human condition. It's just fun! In conclusion, then, we have a funny, corny 80s movie about a duck who comes to save us, with the second half's chase scene becoming slightly tedious, and a great ending. It's endearing, it is heart-warming, and it's also dumb. That doesn't make it any worse than a host of other ridiculous films from the 80s the unbearable idiocy of Weekend at Bernie's, the mindlessness of Armageddon (which should really be used as an IQ test - the more you laugh, the stupider you are), or anything where Will Smith tries to act cool. Every Will Smith film, in other words. And let's not mention the slew of typically perverted Hollywood spewage concerning teens, parties with teens, and teens on trips through Europe. Throw in the deviancy and face-in-the-mud scum-filled comedy of the majority of Adam Sandler movies, and you'd be hard pressed to vilify a film as lovely and harmless as Howard the Duck. Of course, stooping so low as ridiculing Howard the Duck is pathetic enough, but what is even more amusing is those who attempt a scornful laugh at it. I guess some people are desperate for self-elevation.Howard the Duck is a great film to watch with family or friends, when you are in the mood for something lighthearted and fun.Recommended! "},{"Title":"Howard, forever the Underduck","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Let me tell you something about film critics. It's easy to pick faults in someone else's work, even if you do not have it in your power to create an equal work of art. The average film critic, by his very nature, is just a pretentious know-it-all who is quite frequently talking from the wrong end of his alimentary canal. When HTD came along in 1986 it was the first true victim to the pop culture critic.For 22 years it has been called 'the biggest flop of all time' and other such terrible labels. Well, it cost $30 million dollars (nothing compared to today's budgets) and took $37 million worldwide and that's not even counting the higher-than-you-think rental revenue. Add it altogether and HTD is most definitely NOT the flop it is accused of being. But since it was a rather eccentric family comedy (an easy target) and one of the first films to significantly under-perform at the domestic box office (George Lucas expected the returns to be astronomical) it became a scapegoat for bad studio spending and taste.I guess that the world needs something or someone to blame when pop culture goes wrong and the jackass critics I mentioned already seized upon Howard's failings to make a name for themselves. Derogatory soundbites are easy to come up with and everyone who hated the film used some kind of duck-themed insult to put it down and make themselves feel clever. But, when you think about it, these are basically the same people who will deliberately give a bad film a great review just to see their own name on the poster (yes, I am talking to you Paul Ross).The film also suffered a further bad rep when George Lucas publicly disowned the film. It's under-performance forced him to sell off a part of his company which went on to become Pixar (think of how much he could have earned if he didn't) and it really made him quite angry. Wouldn't you be? Me? I am a huge fan of the late Steve Gerber's comic-books. HTD was basically the first BIG comic-book movie and came surprisingly soon after he found success in his own series. Howard first appeared in an issue of Man-Thing and starred in a few other issues of Conan and even Spider-Man before getting his own wings in the late 70s. The comic-book stories are the most surreal, archaic and satirical I have ever read and it's a shame that they had to tone it down for the movie, but that's to be expected.As an ordinary duck working for an advertising company on his home planet of Duckworld, Howard is blasted across the universe right out of his living room by an experimental laser developed by Dr. Jenning (Jeffrey Jones). He lands in Cleveland, where he meets Beverly Switzler (Lea Thompson) a singer who takes him under her wing...I mean arm. Now trapped in a world he never made the one attempt at sending him back home unleashes the forces of the Dark Overlord of the Universe on earth through the possession of Dr. Jenning and he intends to bring more of his demons through the portal. Yeah, that sounds pretty heavy.I'm actually a sucker for duck-related stuff. I don't know why. Donald Duck, Daffy Duck, Duck Tales, Darkwing Duck, Duckman etc. The list goes on and on. What I particularly like about the HTD movie is how most people seem to be completely at ease at talking to a humanoid bird.Some of the fairer critics claimed that the film might have been a bigger hit if they had used CGI or traditional animation to bring Howard to life, but I must disagree. Part of the appeal of Howard is the fact that he is actually physically there and not some ghost who has been photo-shopped in afterwards. I love the duck suit, to me it is completely convincing and Chip Zien's voice work is perfect. I'd totally love to have Howard as a pal.No joke, this film has a unfairly notorious history and a totally wrong perception by the general public or those who turned their noses and beaks up when it came out in 1986. Clear your head of any preconceptions that you might have and enjoy it on its own level. Though we really could have done without that silly narration over the opening title. "},{"Title":"Cult Silliness","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"21 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" While watching TV, the humanoid duck Howard (Ed Gale) is dragged from his planet to an alley in Cleveland through a mysterious force. He befriends the rock-'n-roll singer Beverly Switzler (Lea Thompson), who introduces him to the clumsy scientist assistant Phil Blumburtt (Tim Robbins). Howard gets in many troubles until Phil brings his colleague Dr. Walter Jenning (Jeffrey Jones) that explains him that he was accidentally pushed through a laser beam of his experiment in Alpha-Centauri, and he proposes to revert the beam to return Howard to his planet. However, Dr. Jenning is possessed by the demon Dark Overlords that has also come from the outer space. When Beverly is kidnapped by the Dark Overlords that needs energy to bring other demons to Earth, Howard and Phil join forces to rescue Beverly and save our planet.The underrated Howard the Duck is a cult silliness from the 80's. The anti-hero Howard is cool and it is funny to see Tim Robbins in the beginning of his career performing a clumsy scientist and Lea Thompson in a sweet role singing many songs in her early career. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Howard, O Super-Herói (Howard, the Super-Hero) "},{"Title":"fun bad movie","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard the Duck comes from an alien planet Duckworld. He's a cigar-smoking non-swimmer. One night, he gets pulled from his world and lands in an alley in Cleveland. He rescues rock singer Beverly Switzler (Lea Thompson) from two thugs. Beverly brings Howard to her scientist friend Phil Blumbertt (Tim Robbins). Dr. Walter Jenning (Jeffrey Jones) recognizes Howard's feather which floated down after his laser experiment exploded. The laser had brought him from his world. As they try to reactivate the laser, it explodes again. This time Dr. Jenning gets possessed by one of the Dark Overlords of the Universe from the Nexus of Sominus.First of all, Howard the Duck looks weird. He's not nearly as cuddly as he needs to be. He's stiff and a bit ugly. This suggests a perfect movie to remake with a CGI character. There are tons of duck puns. This will either annoy you or you could have a bit of fun. The writing is not good but I still had some fun with it. I actually like Tim Robbins' wackiness. The inter-species love affair is awkward although Lea Thompson is looking very hot. There is a general problem with this movie. It's definitely not aimed at kids and yet it was rated PG. I don't think it could be aimed at adults either. Even the thugs look cheesy. It makes this very odd in tone. The movie seems to be slightly long. It's been a long time since I saw this movie. I had forgotten about the Cajun Sushi diner. That section has lots of problems. The fight scene is silly. Jeffrey Jones looks crazy and yet nobody else seems to notice. The mob trying to cook Howard is really off-putting. I would rather cut most of this section out. This movie has some fun moments. One little scene has both the possible charming fun but also the awkward humor. With Beverly looking through Howard's wallet, she finds some fun duck-puns. Then she finds an ugly looking duck condom. Like the duck boobies, the humor is pushed too far at the wrong time. However, not everybody is put off by duck boobies. "},{"Title":"Howard the Duck is sucked from his Planet to Earth were he has to defend the Planet from the Dark Overlord","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Teenager Perspective I saw this movie when I was 9 I didn't like the movie at all I thought it was stupid. I was agreeing with the people that hated it saying it was a waste of 30 Million. I then rated this movie a 3 now I moved it up to a 6 because I found a few things I liked actually. 1. Impressive for it's time. 2. Likable Duck. 3. Bad it's a movie you need to see. The reason why these things made me feel better about the movie was because its a bad movie that is funny! Go watch it once. At least once. I'm not watching this movie ever again though. The things that are bad. To much duck puns, none developed Dark Overlord character, and about 96% of everything. "},{"Title":"Are you ready for an incredible story?","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It took an after credits appearance in Guardians of the Galaxy to remind me that Howard the Duck had already made his film debut almost three decades earlier starring in his own film. What's truly astonishing to me is how Budweiser, Reebok, Coca-Cola, Pepsi and Heinz all committed product placement resources to this turkey of a duck film. How I willingly managed to get though almost two hours of this nonsense now remains a total mystery, but it did manage to persuade me that Lea Thompson must be a decent enough actress to simulate the appropriate response needed in virtually every scene she appeared in. Nice legs too. But at the same time, her character Beverly, the lead singer of Cherry Bomb also managed to accurately describe what I think most viewers would agree with - This is way too depressing.Beak me, Baby. "},{"Title":"A Fail of Epic Proportions","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The first five minutes of Howard the Duck (1986) has Howard (played by a multitude of little people) and his recliner being beamed into space by some unknown force. Confused and screaming, Howard lands in (of all places) Cleveland, Ohio where Beverly (Lea Thompson) takes pity on him and takes him home. As the plot wears on we discover Howard's trip was the result of a laser beam experiment perpetrated by scientist Walter Jenning (Jeffrey Jones) and his assistant Phil (Tim Robbins). Can Howard find his way home or will he be captured on earth for slicing, dicing and sautéing.It's not that Howard the Duck is a bad film. Sure it's on the level of Waterworld (1995) and John Carter (2012) for being a big, huge miscalculation on the part of the studio. And sure the story of an alien anthropomorphic duck causing trouble on Earth seems like something a twelve year old would come up with after learning to draw in the lines. The acting is terrible, the dialogue very much phoned- in and the special effects&#x85;well you got me there.Yes Howard the Duck despite all its faults is a tremendous spectacular mess with some pretty impressive set pieces. In fact Howard the Duck should probably be in a film industry museum, studied by wannabe special-effects gurus. One scene involving a roadside diner is basically a crash course in effects work involving stunts, miniatures, photo animation, prosthetics, animatronics, air cannons, squibs and light computer effects. After the diner scene there are two more massive and impressive set pieces, one involving an Ultralight and another involving a gigantic monster done with clay and stop-motion. With a bloated budget of $37 million dollars it's easy to see where that money went.If only more money went into making the character of Howard look more real. The fault was not entirely on the creators who I'm convinced did what they could but if Peter Jackson can make Meet the Feebles (1989) a no-budget Muppet parody that same decade and make the characters much more believable, I'm sure George Lucas and director Willard Huyck could have come up with something better than let's stick a bunch of little people in a stuffy duck suit. Actors' career's like Lea Thompson and Howard's voice Chip Zien never really recovered from Howard the Duck. Likely because Thompson's new found niche for characters falling in love with odd things (Her son in Back to the Future (1985) than this?) is a bit too narrowly tailored. Willard Huyck's career also took a tailspin which started on a high note with screen writing credits for American Graffiti (1973) and Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom (1984). Somewhat ironically Ed Gale, one of the seven little people stuffed in the aforementioned duck suit has said that he gets more fan mail from his performance in Howard the Duck than any of his other movies which includes Spaceballs (1987), Child's Play (1988) and O Brother Where Art Thou? (2000). Then there was the relatively green UCLA graduate who later made waves. I'm talking of course about Tim Robbins who went on to win an Oscar for Mystic River (2003). As for Jeffrey Jones; the less we say about him in this review the better.The unbelievably clunky execution of the duck in conjunction with a bad script and horrid acting deservedly puts the film in bad movie territory. Yet deliberately and knowingly making a movie of this caliber naively thinking it's going to be a big hit does not a worst movie make. It's almost like the film was done on a dare. I can imagine the back story to how this foul picture got made is similar to The Producers (1968). Let's go all out and make a profit out of the worst idea that could be found. Was it callowness; gumption; hubris? Who cares we got a train wreck of a movie out of it which for many including yours truly, isn't altogether the worst thing.http//www.theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Quaaaaack Fuuu","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When i saw the Movie back in OMG late 80s i was a Kid. I just remember that i saw somewhere and AD or Trailer and really wanted to see it. But it wasn't easy. Not like today i really had a HArdtime to get my Hands on it despite the Fact i had a Memberscard of 3 different Video Rentals in my Neighboorhood. Yea TV was awful and renting 5 Movies a Weeks was normal for me ))I had no expectation's except talking duck and scifi - yea. I dint know it was form comics until today (not a comic fan, never was).Today, after talking about this movie and nostalgic looking it up i was shocked about that Rating. Was it really that bad?No it wasn't. I still remember every Detail from that Movie - well I've seen it several times. It was the time of Ghostbusters and past Starwars and it fitted well into that period.It was funny, a lot of Gags and Fun, enough action to enjoy it but not to much as in today comic movie. The characters where really likable and the special effects where extraordinary for that time and even today some scenes are sill top.my favorite action sequence where in the Diner - i mean really, wasn't that cool. But specially the Howard character where really sympathetic. however some people say it was creepy with its human eyes. well and it maybe its true not to family kids friendly but also not to R rated for adults.personally i think its even today worth to view it again. specially it doesn't have that R Factor. maybe iam just tired of all that over violent and sexual movies nowadays and this movie gives a nice break.Its light funny and then not so light and sometimes even a little deeper moments with a tiny often frightened but brave duck who gives a duck about his odds and never gives up.Verdict This move is even better today as a refreshing innocent movie specially for adults with a good not over the top humor. Kids could also appreciate it but i guess many gags would just miss them, still would have plenty of fun.The actors well, they are not bad, and hey its the 80s. A time where Hollywood often really had its natural charm of natural people, not the best acts but in my opinion more sympathetic than today "}{"Title":"The weirdest '80s blockbuster that never was","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Before seeing the film, I only knew HOWARD THE DUCK (1986) as a cinematic punchline. I had little interest in seeking the movie out until a scene in Marvel Studios' sci-fi romp GUARDIANS OF THE GALAXY (2014) piqued my curiosity.It turns out the movie is just not very good. I don't know much about the character of Howard the Duck from the comic books, but this movie almost surely doesn't do him justice.First of all, the duck suit looks silly. As much as I like practical effects, CGI is the way to go with a character like Howard (an anthropomorphic cartoon-style duck let loose in a world of humans). In the days before CGI, the best solution might have been a mix of animation and live action à la WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT (1988). The animatronic duck head is impressive from an engineering standpoint, but the design doesn't sell Howard as believable in the context of the film.The opening scene showing photographs of Howard's duck family and duck friends, dressed up like people, introduces an air of ludicrosity that the film is hopeless to recover from.The writing is another disappointment. I always imagined Howard to be a duck with attitude, but the movie Howard lacks an edge. He's an everyman, a responsible, emotionally mature adult duck given to sarcastic quips and occasional shrieks of cowardice. The dialogue is weak all around, and the script is overflowing with groan-inducing duck puns.Rather than use the character of Howard the Duck for something satirical, metatextual, or otherwise unconventional, the film gives us a straightforward fish out of water story about being lost in a strange land and trying to get home. Howard and his armchair are inexplicably plucked from Duckworld and thrust through the cosmos, landing in Cleveland on the planet Earth. The second half of the movie falls into the familiar line of the hero saving the world from an evil villain. Standard comic book movie stuff, albeit with an unlikely hero (a mild-mannered mallard from a distant planet).Lea Thompson from BACK TO THE FUTURE (1985) co-stars as Beverly, a punk rock singer who takes Howard in. A young Tim Robbins plays her lab assistant friend, who helps piece together the mystery of Howard's arrival. Jeffrey Jones plays the scientist who can send him back, with an extra twist. Chip Zien lends his voice to the titular hero, with Ed Gale and others in the suit.Despite being a movie about a talking duck from outer space, HOWARD THE DUCK is not strictly for kids, with adult jokes that would never make it in today's family films.It's an oddball movie, for sure, from the Playduck centerfold to the inter-species romantic tension, and of course the absurdity of a humanoid duck walking around Cleveland. The filmmakers clearly intended the movie to be an offbeat comedy. Unfortunately the jokes aren't as funny as they think they are. The one-liners are painfully cheesy. Tim Robbins's performance is spastic and over-the-top and John Barry's generically heroic score plays like a parody over Howard's awkward Quack-Fu scenes.Famously produced by STAR WARS impresario George Lucas, HOWARD THE DUCK was co-written and directed by Lucas's AMERICAN_GRAFFITI (1975) collaborator Willard Huyck, with Industrial Light and Magic doing the special effects (which are solid for the mid-1980s). Based on a Marvel Comics character, the original concept for the film must've sounded intriguing, but the movie just isn't special enough. "},{"Title":"It may be bad, but I really enjoy it","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After reviewing Guardians of the Galaxy, you may want to know what do I think of the original Howard the Duck from 1986. When I first saw this movie on TV, I hated it and feel bad for Lea Thompson and George Lucas who happens to be one of my favorite filmmakers gets to be an executive producer of this movie. As time went by, I gave this movie another look on Netflix and I started to laugh at for some reason. After watching it, I thought the movie wasn't that bad, but its by no means a good movie and I do see other movies that are very much worse than Howard the Duck. I did have a fun time watching this movie by making fun of it. For me, this is one of those movies that I has to be seen to be believe that no one like George Lucas would get involved in this, and get his friends that worked with him on his second feature film American Graffiti. Willard Huyck co-wrote and directed the movie, while his wife Gloria Katz produces and co-write it. The movie is based on a Marvel comic book that was created by Steve Gerber, and it was Marvel's first movie; everything about this movie does have some weird elements like a female duck in a bathtub showing off her breast, which it is not real nudity and you have a condom that happens to be in Howard's wallet along with Thompson's character trying to make out with Howard in bed. Everyone who have seen this movie cannot make up their minds if this movie is intended for kids or adults. I have read some of the comics, and to me as I agree with Thompson's comment about the movie that comics were very much for adults (No I don't mean showing nudity or anything like that I mean for its own kind of bizarre type of humor). Parents that have bought this movie on VHS OR DVD are going to think that this is a kids movie, which it is not because no one is familiar with Howard the Duck because they have never read the comics; it is rated PG but I think it should have been either R or PG-13. With that said, I thought Lea Thompson has done a great job for her role a Beverly Switzler, and for also doing most of her signing work. Jeffery Jones is over the top, but seems to be having for playing the villain as the Dark Overlord of the Universe. Tim Robbins in this movie was just pretty much overacting, but I have gotten used to him. The special effects by ILM was not really that bad because I have seen movies that have bad special effects. The duck suit itself that everyone keeps talking about looks fake; to me, I thought it looked okay, and I thought the special effects team and the rest of the film crew did tried to put their best effort to bring Howard come to life in live-action form instead of an animated feature as what they originally were going for (It was Universal's idea for live action, watch the features on the special edition DVD's extra feature). They can't used CGI because this movie was made in the 80s, and there is nothing more that you can expect. Of course, the animatronics would have been better if they took it to Stan Winston or Jim Henson for creating the duck suit or this movie could have been made years later so they would make Howard CG, which it would have made a better movie. Speaking of the duck suit, I thought the stop motion animation for the Dark Overlord looks kind of cool, and Phil Tippet does a fine job with the look of the Dark Overlord. Of course, it may look cheesy but I think it does add a charm to it by just providing a B movie feel. The music by John Barry was very good, and I think the songs by Thomas Dolby were also good too. My favorites are Hunger City; Don't Turn Away (Both Dolby's and Thompson's); and the Howard the Duck theme. The movie doesn't feel boring, but I do think the pacing of this movie goes by pretty well. Overall, it may be bad, but I really enjoy it. Howard the Duck really deserves to be seen, and it depends on whether you think this movie is either underrated or just so bad its really good. If you think this movie stinks, so be it. For me, I enjoy watching this movie on how bad it is and really am going to have fun time as I just turn off my brain for some entertainment. Mindless entertainment as what I mean. I give this movie an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good, not as bad as you remember I see why people sincerely hate it, it has an interesting concept, characters, not as bad as its TV spin-off quack-fu trilogy.","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Its just another 80s' Kids, Cornball, Action, Comedy movie that I've learned to sincerely live by and I find thoroughly entertaining from start to finish, just another guilty pleasure for me.It has interesting characters, interesting concept and didn't disappoint back then and won't disappoint now, this film basically stays with me like other classics from my childhood such as (Mortal Komabat, Street Fighter, Batman Returns, Superman The Movie, Superman, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, 3 Ninja, Blade Runner, 2001 A Space Oddssey, The Godfather, and the timeless beautiful tear jerking classic continue moving on)Howardever (lol) its a Masterpiece compared to its no Ducktacular TV Sequels which where semi-canon- spin-off trilogies that were just awful.So if you like cornball quacktacular guilty pleasures with a unique/silly concepts that don't disappoint check out Howard The Duck. "},{"Title":"Duck Me &#x96; It Really Isn't That Bad","Date":"14 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Unbelievably, Howard the Duck was the first Marvel movie. Not sure why they started with him, but luckily they followed him up with Blade, X-Men and Spider-Man. But, this comic-turned-movie wasn't necessary to test audiences. Howard the Duck wasn't a masked superhero or a vigilante crime fighter.It wasn't a great movie, either. And still, it wasn't as terrible as I've heard ever since it was released until I saw it for the first time last month, in 2014. I mean, I see where they were going with it, it was very 1980s and you couldn't bring any realism to the table here.Basically, after a freak accident, Howard T. Duck's thrown from his home planet to ours, spends half his time yelling at the people trying to help this giant, talking duck and another portion trying to defeat what seems like an afterthought villain.Oh, and Lea Thompson is creepily and thoroughly sexually aroused by the birdman.Admittedly, some of it made me chuckle and I saw little harm in this Rated PG (but should've been at least PG-13) adventure, this middle of the quality road movie is not worth a watch. Personally, I only watched it because the gang over at the How Did This Get Made podcast had it on their list and I've been watching all they covered. It's been nearly 30 years&#x85;If I hadn't watched it before they encouraged me to, I would never had.* * * Final thoughts I love flashbacks to scenes that took place less than 10 minutes prior because the director has almost zero confidence the audience wouldn't remember. Oh, I forgot, Georgie Lucas helped make this. Explains a lot. "},{"Title":"Must See To Believe","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard the Duck is one of those movies that everyone should see at least once. There are no words that can describe it. It certainly is a spectacle in what missteps a movie can make.The movie is adapted from the Marvel Comics character. The movie version is almost nothing like the comics. One of the things about any adaptation is, at the very least, it should remain true to the spirit of the source. Comic Howard is rude and crude, his stories are usually social satires, and is often aware of the truth of his existence. Movie Howard is none of these things. There are rare glimpses at a more faithful Howard but the movie fails to go anywhere with them.One then has to wonder why Howard was chosen for a movie. This was back in the day when only Superman and Swamp Thing graced the screen. Long before Batman, X-Men, or Spider-Man. Howard was hardly a well-known property, sure he had a following but nothing big. If this was to adapt a comic book, why choose such a relatively obscure character? If this was a pet project, why so little faithfulness? Certainly, George Lucas could have used his Star Wars developed technology to make an interesting early X-Men or Fantastic Four film.Derived from Howard's characterization, the tone of the movie is not at all consistent. It's rated PG, though I'm not sure why. The movie goes between silly kid stuff to more adult fare. They try to have some more R stuff like drugs, alcohol, a near-sex scene, and some puppet nudity. But then they seem to water the movie down so much to keep a PG, as if they were just looking to get the Star Wars crowd to come. PG-13 had already been used so why not go for that middle ground?The best part of the movie is the visual effects. Howard's puppet is quite effective. In this day and age, CGI can do anything and everything but even the best creatures look like they were made in a computer. I always find it refreshing to watch an older movie and see some practical creature effects like Chewbacca, Jabba the Hutt, or Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle. Seeing a Howard that actually exist in the world he's supposed to be in looks good. Plus, the stop motion at the end actually works for the whole alternate universe Dark Overlord thing since that was really not supposed to fit in. But that's about it for the good.The acting can be viewed as either over-the-top campy or simply uninspired. The only standout is Chip Zien as the voice of Howard. He's the only one really trying, even if he isn't given much to work with. There's a reason Lea Thompson hasn't been popular outside of Back to the Future, and this shows why. She's mostly going through the motions. Jeffrey Jones and Tim Robbins are both so over the top to the point of making fun of themselves. The story is nothing interesting. Again, given the source you'd think it would be more interesting. It's your typical fish, or duck if you will, out of water story. Except that he and the world adjust to each other a little too quickly. The love story between Howard and Beverly is weak at best. And every scene with the Dark Overlord seems like you need some drugs in your system to fully appreciate. If anything, it's just an example of the over-the-top goofiness we got from many 80s movies.If you think about the movie, you won't enjoy it. There's simply too many problems with it. As a whole, it may just be campy enough to enjoy. Is it one of the worst movies ever made? Certainly not, there are far worse movies out there. Is it the worst comic book movie? Perhaps, but in today's age it's got competition from Jonah Hex and Fantastic Four.Watch it and see for yourself. Cause there is really no way anyone can describe it to you. It is either slightly greater than the sum of its parts, or a complete mess. "},{"Title":"Great closing theme song","Date":"15 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remain puzzled at Hollywood's thought processes. In recent years, of course, we have had a burst of comics-based movies. Back in 1986 we had had the biggies of Superman and Batman, and.... Swamp Thing? Howard The Duck? Say it ain't so! But it was.Howard The Duck, a small scale, minority satirical comic, was picked up and converted to big screen, big budget moviehood, under a new big screen name (Howard A New Breed Of Hero - go on, say it in Trailer man's gravelly voice in order to comprehend just how misconceived this re-imagining was), produced by George Lucas, and directed in a career-destroying burst of obscurity by Willard Huyck.There are elements of guilty pleasure to be had here - not least the closing song, and some of the special effects aren't bad - but, sweet heavens, this is a stinker. "},{"Title":"Howard the Duck","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The only real enjoyable, or humorous thing about Howard the Duck, is watching Ed Gale walking around in a duck suite. I mean, every time I saw him walking around or talking, I would crack up. Especially when he got angry.Howard the Duck is about a duck named Howard, who lived in a Duck Universe and is transferred to our universe. I think. Wasn't really paying attention.I will admit, the first half of the movie was quite entertaining. Stupid. But entertaining. There was even a weird part of the movie that had lots of sexual tension between Howard and a female.The movie took a downward slope when they entered a restaurant with about 40 minutes left. It just got crazy and weird. And boring. Ed Gale was jumping around. Standing on tables. Crazy midgets.If you're looking for decent, stupid, entertainment. This is it. "},{"Title":"Yes this Howard the Duck is a bad movie in all honesty, but it is far better than what I had heard before seeing it.","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I purchased Howard the Duck on DVD the other day for $5.00. I wasn't sure what to expect but I figured that I would enjoy it more than the critics did. After watching the film I was in total shock. I did not know how to go about writing a review. You see, this film has heart, good special effects, and is enjoyable, but it also suffers from some bad acting, some bad screenplay, and just a strange atmosphere. Also, Howard wasn't mean like I had heard he was in most of the comics. He also had a different voice in the film than I had imagined him to have. When I first heard about the film I expected Howard to be wild and crazy like a mix between the Mask and the original Daffy Duck. I also expected him to get an attitude like Donald Duck. I thought very wrong because he was not wild or wacky and he did not have much of an attitude.Because I am such a huge fan of movies, especially the weird ones like this one, I was able to look past most of the flaws and admire it for what it was trying to be. It was entertaining and a nice way to spend a Sunday afternoon or something.Last thing is that this film is a bit underrated. It is hated by many probably because of Howard's costume and the wacky plot and screenplay. I guess the people just don't understand that even George Lucas used costumes similar to Howard's for the star wars series.I think this should have been an animated film but it is what it is. It is not a GREAT movie by any means but it does have a lot of heart and I was impressed with how real the emotions on Howard's face were. The crew worked really hard on this film and it is enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A classic example of too many ignorant cooks in the kitchen.","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard is a duck person from a far flung planet that has been accidentally sucked to earth due to an accident that occurs when the testing of an experimental laser telescope goes awry. Confused and despondent over what has happened to him he grumbles over his sad lot in life until a chance meeting causes him to leap to the defense of a young rocker by the name of Beverly Switzler. Intrigued by Howard she takes him into her life -- and her bed -- and attempts to both acclimate him to life on Earth whilst attempting to help figure out how he came to be here and if it's possible for him to return to his home planet. Through a close friend they do eventually find out how it happened, but before they can attempt to recreate the accident in reverse (yeah that always works) another accident occurs during testing...but this time something far worse and evil has arrived.Considered a MASSIVE misstep by pretty much everyone involved in this project the film was not only a big financial and critical failure, but also the butt of many a joke for quite a while. A classic example of not only too many cooks who don't know what they're doing in the kitchen, but even those at the core of its creation had seemingly no idea of the true nature and spirit of the Howard the Duck comics and hoo brother does it show! Although I suppose to most people it was just a bad movie, but to a long standing comic book fan this was yet another painful representation of a beloved character on the silver screen. Which I suppose sort of makes me have to come clean about something....I am indeed a big comic book nerd and at the time a very big Howard the Duck fan as were many of my friends. Quite routinely this film gets brought up as a very bad movie and although I haven't fully disputed this in the past, I have defended it somewhat as more of a poorly executed mediocre movie with some very nice scenes of Lea Thompson in her underwear as, like many a young man in the '80s, we had quite a crush on the wee lass. So for no particular reason at all I decided to revisit the film and see how much I could still enjoy it.I didn't enjoy it.Yes I do have to admit that the movie is pretty bad and it makes me rather sad looking back wondering what could have been. Obviously when the movie was initially announced my friends and I were pretty happy and pleasantly surprised. Initially we were skeptical but at the time Lucas was coming off of his Star Wars films and still had a good name creatively speaking. He was also revealed to be something of a fan of the Howard comics so we felt that this could be a solid comic book film albeit a slightly odd choice. On hindsight it all makes tons of sense as to why this whole thing was a disaster. I mean, if you told anyone NOW that Lucas was going to make an A picture involving Howard the Duck your reaction would be Nooooooooo! much like Vader did resulting in much unintentional humor.It's funny but kind of sad to watch the writers of Howard the Duck these days talk about the movie looking back as they attempt to defend it by making statements about how people just needed to relax and accept the movie for the silly fun ride that it was supposed to be. It's not an existential movie they would proclaim! It's just a fun movie that was probably a bit ahead of its time. Oy. Let me explain something to the non comic book nerds out there...Howard the Duck was an extremely existential comic book as well as mixing in some rather long bouts of surrealism -- THAT'S why it was funny. The creator Steve Gerber used that template to then poke farcical takes on the ridiculous nature of popular Marvel heroes and villains. But at the core Howard as always just Howard attempting to get by in life no matter what it threw at him and all the while we slowly got to know everything thing about this average duck both inside and out.But obviously they didn't get it -- not the writers, not the studio, not Lucas...nobody. Again, on hindsight it all seems so obvious, but at the time it seemed like it all might work. To be fair there are some good moments. Lea Thompson, besides being quite fetching in little clothing, is quite fitting as Beverly even though she's obviously not exactly the curvaceous model that she was in the comic. But her attitude and quick acceptance of Howard as a person as well as her interaction with him are actually quite charming. Character actor Jeffrey Jones also delivers a quite amusing performance as an alien possessed scientists slowly devolving/involving into a horrific looking creature. It's kind of funny to note that Vincent D'Onofrio gave a very similar performance as Edgar the Bug in Men in Black.There's also some nice stunt work, excellent puppet work, and some excellent physical performance by Ed Gale who had to do pretty much every scene completely blind as he couldn't see out of the suit. But in the end it's just another bad comic book movie put together by a bunch of people who completely misunderstood the source material. They just thought that it was a silly book about a talking duck and threw a bunch of duck and bird-related puns and jokes in there and that was about it.Really just an awful movie although part of me will always remember it a little fondly due to my love for Howard in general. "},{"Title":"Not the Worst Movie of all Time as many sources state","Date":"2 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Although, this will never get its place on anyone's favorite list, it is actually quite funny in places and many other so-called quality movies that were put out in the 80s were similarly bad. The one thing that gave them a higher regard was that they were basically attached with a star.Okay, so you may hate Lea Thompson's performance here, but I think you can honestly say that she gives it her all, despite being second banana to a guy in a duck suit. You may hate the fact that George Lucas, a name that's usually connected to something a little more high brow was connected with this piece of light fluff. And last but not least, the famous comic book character on which this was based - oohh, it was not a faithful rendering of that character. Give me a break.Every character is pulled in one direction or the other to make it a little more interesting. Here, we have a wise ass duck who is smitten by a girl - a human girl. Okay, it's ridiculous but it is nothing that hasn't been done worse in countless other movies.I actually liked most of the characters, especially Tim Robbins. I don't think he has ever appeared as silly as he does here and probably ever again. And the great Jeffrey Jones as Jennings/Dark Overlord. Okay, his voice is a bit much and the visual effects in his scenes are quite unimpressive.Come on, this is supposed to be mindless entertainment and on that level Howard the Duck certainly succeeds. "}{"Title":"Please,  please,  please,  send  me  to  the  Oscars!","Date":"21 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There is something childish about this movie that seems to keep it on a level that isn't off the top! Howard The Duck probably should have been the next big hit right after Lucas' third Star Wars Return of the Jedi. However since it bombed in the box office it got shelved and was considered a B-Movie of the 80s that nobody wanted to see. What's screaming at me are all these amazing special effects that wouldn't be in a B-Movie because those films just don't have that kind of production money. As an 80s film, Howard The Duck fit right into the mainstream of the rock and roll genre with big hairdos and razzy outfits on the stage. Seems like the controlled part of the storyline is Howard. Much of the effects are done in the same fashion as Ghostbusters with the diner with furnature being shoved around, plates and cups flying off tables or breaking suddenly. That section of film is probably the biggest part of the show aside from the climax. Jeffrey Jones that everybody knows and loves from Ferris Beuller's Day Off does an amazing performance with the doctor and the villain roles switching out. He's something you can't take your eyes off of because you don't know what's going to happen next with this character. Overall I'd say it could have used some improvement, but not much because there's already enough storyline to work off of. And since the recent release of this film on DVD, I can't help but say this, especially since the ten year anniversary is here for a certain insurance company icon - AFLAC! "},{"Title":"Howard the Duck","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember this from long ago, i loved this movie and found it to be quite entertaining, When it comes to DVD i will definitely be adding it to my extensive collection of movies. this movie is very funny and has some good special effects, at the time were considered great, the story takes place in Cleveland Ohio, after Howard is beamed from his world, he finds himself in a very different surrounding, having to except his destiny he makes friends and try to find a way home, unknowing about the dark evil overlord and his evil plan to release all the overlord onto the planet earth, Howard almost single handedly save the day and the world. "},{"Title":"Watch at the risk of taking heat from your friends&#133;","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK, yes - Howard the Duck caused a cinematic blitzkrieg! Movie critics attacked it without mercy. Movie patrons roasted it in effigy. It's not terribly smart, well acted, or brilliantly conducted, but I loved it! Overacting? Heck yes &#150; think of The 3 Stooges, or Laurel & Hardy, or (respectful pause)&#133;Gilligan's Island! It's supposed to be that way. You want originality? Look elsewhere. The dialog is a running gag of film spoofs - (from, On the Waterfront to Spaghetti Westerns). Taken without pretense, they are amusing. You say, what about the talking duck thing? Granted that one is not so hysterical in and of itself, but if you're still with me, here is a little insight that might make a difference if you decide to watch this film or not. Before the movie, Howard the Duck existed as a comic book series. In the comic, Howard was a beer drinking, stogy smoking, chauvinist (ahem&#133;) duck! It had funny sexual innuendo (think Conan the Barbarian comics) and a kind of dark comedy anti-hero (Sgt. Rock comics) thing going. I've found that those who have some affinity for action/adventure/dark humor comic books got this film. When the producers finished making this movie, they thought they had a big hit on their hands. Undoubtedly, they read the old comics and were tainted by these. Too bad the film studio did not have some sort of lead-in promotion for the comic books which might have gotten some public buzz before release. Watch at the risk of taking heat from your friends&#133; "},{"Title":"Too groovy for gravy!","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ah, yes, Howard the Duck; one of the biggest bombs of the 1980s, but it's not all that bad. This movie certainly has an odd plot. A humanoid duck from a faraway planet accidentally gets warped to earth. He adjusts to life on Earth in addition to saving the planet from an evil alien (played by Jeffrey Jones). Did I mention he falls in love with a woman?(played by Lea Thompson, who also played a teenage girl in love with her future son in Back to the Future, has she ever played a woman with a healthy, non-perverse relationship in a movie?) Or that TIM ROBBINS (!?) is in this movie? This is a far cry from Mystic River, I'll tell you that. Despite the odd plot, this movie is fun to watch if you are just looking for some silly mindless fun one afternoon. It's funny seeing this small duck fighting an evil alien, and the sequence on the duck planet is amusing. So if your expectations are low, give this movie a try, you may just like it more than you thought you would; I liked this movie; maybe you will as well. "},{"Title":"Direction and horrible f/x ruined a great script","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Yes, there were better critter costumes in Flash Gordon movies. Yes, the pace dragged. But if you stop and actually listen to what the characters are saying, it sounds very much like a typical Howard the Duck comic book. (Or at least the ones written by Steve Gerber, which were the only funny ones.) Bringing comic-book dialog to the big screen is a delicate task--you can either sound campy, like the Batman TV show, or you digress from the true flavor of the source.Most people who saw this movie never saw a HTD comic in their lives, which made it hard to see beyond the rotting cheesiness. But fans of the comic would love to see Gerber's creation given another shot at movie stardom, especially with a competent director (Joss Whedon? Robert Rodriguez? Woody Allen?!) at the helm. "},{"Title":"memories","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" hahahahahahaha I gave it a Ten on childhood memories alone lol i loved this movie as a kid i watch now as an Adult and yeah there are parts were i slap myself in the face say why do i like this movie.But then I remember that this is a Movie about an alien duck.It's not really trying to take itself seriously, it's fun and that's what you do while watching have fun.I tend to get with some friends and we Mystery science theater the hell out of this film. Tim Robbins is Funny in this Film as is Jeffery Jones. LEa is kinda okay, I love Howard the character, Too bad this movie is a butt of jokes especially when their are much worse movies (ala Firepower, gigli, Alone in the dark, The Guyver...... i Could go on but i won't seriously if are bored or just wanna laugh your butt off at something stupid pop this in your VCR. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Lousy movie, GREAT send up","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I grew up with a taste for sendups and HTD is that.  The writers, director and cast took a completely silly story and a  hopelessly unbelievable underlying theme and ran with it VERY well. (A duck with the hots for Lea Thompson Even Groucho couldn't carry that off - Harpo maybe)StarTrek it ain't never tried to be, but StarTrek as seen by Monty Python on Speed - yes.I was forced to watch it by my granddaugher, after 5 minutes, when I sensed what I was really watching I started waiting for the edge to wear off. It didn't.  In a way it was like watching a Disney Satyricon or Golden Ass of Apuleus. And it cracked me up. (Of course this was pre-Eisner Disney, now, who knows.)One of the hardest things to do is satire.  Most actors can't do it, those few who can handle the silliest concepts and lines with straight faces and without cracking up, get my vote every time, after all THEY know what's coming next. Yet they keep their character and seem to avoid a line which would embarrass most actors. "},{"Title":"So Bad it's good.","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Make no mistake, thismovie is bad.  That they spent 30 millin dollars (or something like that) on it is incredible.  The duck doesn't look real, and it doesn't look like they tried to make Howard look real.All that said, I saw this when i was 20 or so (on video) and thought it was great.  Not great like Schindler's List or even Almost Famous, but great nevertheless.A duke that's in a band called Howie and the Heartbreakers, who's been on the cover of Rolling Duck and a master of Quackfooey.  It is what it is, and I enjoyed it.As I said elsewhere, if I had to rank it out of all of Lucas' films, I'd say the first 2 and 3/4 Star Wars (can't sit through the last 30-45 minutes of jedi..and no it's not the ewoks that bug me), American Grafitti and Tucker are the only films that I think are better...granted the rest are crap, but unlike Howard the Duck, they're unwatchable crap. "},{"Title":"I love this film for so many reasons","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Howard the duck is an absolute eighties classic, that really is totally unique. It is sort of aimed at kids but with an adult undertone that can be quite dark( the woman almost sleeps with the duck!). It's also got cool eighties clothing and hair styles that really help you to remember the period in all its glory. If you still don't believe its cool then just remember that George Lucas was connected to the project! "},{"Title":"quacker","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Howard the Duck is an extra terrestrial duck who is accidentally beamed to earth by physicist Dr. Jenning (Jeffrey Jones, you can't get away from this guy!) and his assistant Phil (Tim Robbins). The two go looking for Howard and find him in the home of Beverly Switzer (Lea Thompson), who was rescued by the interstellar duck from some street thugs. Beverly and Phil are friends, and when the government finds out about Howard, she helps Phil and Dr. Jenning hide him from the authorities until they can zap him back home. Howard the Duck is another movie I vividly remember from my childhood, looking back this movie was pretty ridiculous. "}{"Title":"C'mon, it's ridiculously hilarious","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The only way to give Howard The Duck such outrageously low rating, is to take it seriously. Seems like lots of people did. Of course, in such case, it is the worst movie of all time. But HOW CAN YOU possibly be serious here? It's a spoof, it's a riot, it's a gag, it's a joke, and I mean it in a best way.I have a sentimental attachment to the flick, I admit, I loved the movie when it came out, I thought it was funnier than hell and over the top. Years later, of course, you see things -) Still, so many one liners! (Dark Overlord, his hair spiky and glowing from nuclear heat I FEEL MUCH BETTA NOWWW!) The duck, I mean, c'mon, lewd playboy-reading duck from outer space with bad attitude, how can you top that? It's an 80's bad taste inferno! It's a must see, absolutely.Overall, for sheer audacity and over-the-top badness, I must give this movie high five.Now, speaking about bad movies Howard The Duck, in overall badness, cannot possibly even scratch such monstrosities like ARMAGEDDON or INDEPENDENCE DAY, and people consider them feel-good entertainment. Western civilization in decline... "},{"Title":"I loved it and have no pretetions...","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Sorry all you disenters I love this film and so it would appear do a lot of others (however it's probably because its the LOST Lucas Film), To get a copy I had to fight a bidding war on e-bay.(and it cost me around $30) I saw this movie years ago when it first came out, and maybe I do have a warped sense of the absurd, but I laughed so hard I nearly strained an intercostal. The film is cheesy, crass, tasteless and totally toungue in cheek. The actors ham it up for all they're worth, did I mention cheesy; but for all that it makes no pretention of being Casablanca, just good fun, and in that light I can only give it 5/5 Brilliant.    "},{"Title":"Absolutely bonkers!","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those films that sends your brain on a descent into psychosis. What sort of person could think up such a plot? A duck - that's a duck for Pete's sake - is propelled from a distant planet through the cosmos, lands on Earth and ends up fighting to save the world from the dark overlords, whatever they may be. Nevertheless, it makes for an improbably enjoyable ninety minutes entertainment. Aside from the sheer comical absurdity of it all, there are laughs aplenty with the hero, Howard the Duck (!), spewing out one-liners as if he comes from One Line City. `No-one laughs at a master of Quack Fu,' he says before setting about two street punks with a Charles Bronsonesque dynamism. In spite of the feeling of utter disbelief, it's hard to take your eyes off the action - and there's enough action for a dozen films here - car chases, bar brawls, an outlandish bedroom scene, special effects and even an aeroplane pursuit. And the scene in the nuclear power plant has got to be one of the funniest on film. All in all, it's jolly good fun and the story is wrapped up in a tidy manner. The soundtrack isn't bad either with all sorts of strange arcade game-type tunes. Howard the Duck will either leave you in the happiest of depraved states or it will tip you over the edge of sanity. "},{"Title":"If It's Got George Lucas Attached To It, It's Good!!!","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Howard The Duck was always one of my favorite movies. When I accidentaly lost my copy of it years back by rolling over the remote's record button in my sleep, I thought I would never see it again except in the hevaliy edited cable version on account of no video store had sold it in the longest time and because it was so old it probably would not be in print. Then, just last weekend, I happened to be in a Sam Goody store and saw it on the shelf for $ 5.99 and bought it. It was just as I remembered. Up to the time I first saw it, I had never seen a movie where somebody saves a place they did not call home. Howard did not like Earth, and except for scientific purposes, its populace did not like him. But he showed real guts when he decided to sacrifice his chance to go home in order to defeat the evil Dark Overlords. This movie is well worth your time. Watch it and see. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's the ultimate guilty pleasure. A sarcastic duck, a gorgeous Lea Thompson, a bad guy who is more irritating then a menace. Quack fu, Thomas Dolby songs and everything that reminds you how good/bad the eighties looked. I love this movie. When will there be a special edition DVD!Morph "},{"Title":"So Much Goodness!!","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film, so much underated, so very nice. I like Howard, he doesnt look so much like a duck as a bath sponge if it had a face, with lipstick. So much underation!! And Lea Thompson!! Proves she is the best actress ever lived and nearly outdoes herself in back to the future. To me personally, its better than star wars, I can relate to howard better than I can with Luke Skywarker or Handsome Solo. WELL DONE MR. LUCAS FOR MAKING A FILM WITH SO MUCH GOODNESS!!!! 10/10. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you are looking for a movie that has 80's written all over it rent Howard the Duck, or turn on WGN at 3 am on Tuesday night.  This is a brilliant film that people take way, way too seriously.  Tim Robbins best work ever, even better than Shawshank.  A top of the line comedy that will make you laugh until your sides split.  Excellent, I'm so glad that George Lucas funded this film, and would recommend it to all. "},{"Title":"Hated by most, regretted by Lucas, loved by a few.","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this film, and search for a high quality recording.For the critic this film features a poor story, dubious acting, a script that invoked cringes and key ideas that are best forgotten.For me, this film is highly unusual in that it doesn't consider itself, in any way, seriously.  The film starts on Howards home planet, allowing the audience to peek at playduck and the like.  From this laughable start the film progresses with a quick tempo.Nothing in this film is spectaculary good.  In fact, many would say that most of it is spectaculary bad.  BUT, if you allow yourself to enjoy this film for what it is, a good laugh, then you'll probably turn the TV off with a smile on your face.Not exactly Citizen Kane, but very enjoyable.  If you wish to claim a good knowledge of films, you must watch this film.6/10 Maybe a terrible film.  Absolutely a must see. "},{"Title":"What? Such a Classic 80's Movie","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Such a classic!  I dont know what else to say.  8 stars for originality, dialogue, acting is ok, and the effects are cool.  What a classic 80's love story with a twist and scifi story with a twist.  Wow .  Nuff said.  A for Awright. "},{"Title":"Howard great, the movie's not!","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I wasn't even alive when this movie came out, but I had heard how incredibly horrible it was.  So I rented it.  Howard the Duck is a talking duck with arms that can't swim.  Howard is warped by some strange laser beam from planet Earth in HIS parellel dimension to ours.  Weird, huh?  It is there that he meets his friend Beverly. Howard is hilarious in the film and George Lucas makes him very realistic using his famous talent.  The film goes bad, though, when we find out that the scientist that beamed Howard to Earth is transforming into an evil Overlord from a strange planet.  It gets horrifyingly tacky after that.  I reccomend that you rent the movie and stop watching it before you get to the pathetic rubbish.  Even George Lucas cant save the ending, and, I'm sorry to say, the special effects at the end look like they came from a 1930's B-movie. Howards great, the movie's not! "}{"Title":"A Masterpiece!","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Star Wars?  Blech.  This was George Lucas' real masterpiece, and it's a shame he hasn't stood up to the criticism it has received.  Howard the Duck is the most well-developed character I've ever seen in one his films.  The pacing is brilliant, the humor well-worked and when things get dramatic, it is truly gripping.An inspiring tale, a wonderfully made film. "},{"Title":"A Terribly Misused Concept","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  No question, this film was a disappointment when it first came out.  However, the worse thing about this film that it could have worked.  In fact, there was a short scene in the film with Howard's interview with a really earnest employment counsellor when for all too few brief minutes, the film nailed the essential Steve Gerber satiric wit that made the original comic so great.  The real problem with this film is that the producers should have thought on a smaller scale and forgotten about the alien invasion story.  Instead, they should have  focused on a simple story about this grouchy wisecracking duck trying to cope with this world he never made and how he saw the silly things we hairless ape do.  In short, the writers should have studied the comics more closely and truly saw what made the character so unique and avoided the bloated wasted oppurtunity it became. "},{"Title":"So it was bad... but...","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  So this movie was bad. It was stupid. The only thing it had in common with the comic book was a wisecracking duck and his love interest. But you can't help but enjoy this movie, even if the enjoyment is derived from talking back. We have Lea Thompson (plus) a walking talking duck (plus) Tim Robbins making an ass of himself and huge aliens that want to take over the world. Sure it SOUNDS stupid, and it is that, but it's a fun kind of stupid. And remember that it's not as bad as Godfather III or 120 Days in Sodom. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, what can I say... I love this movie.I hadn't seen it for about ten years, I remember it as one of those movies I and my friends liked when we were young. I found out George Lucas was the creator of it, and I'm a real big fan of Mr Lucas =o) Not only that, but it was put together by the people who did Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom (another movie which deserves a better go).Well, one day I saw it at the video shop, and just borrowed it for old times sake. I watched it once, but didn't pay attention, but then I watched again with my girlfriend... and I LOVED IT!!! I love every bit about it... great story, great 80's music (who Lea Thompson actually sings), great special FX for it time... I love it! And I can see how I could have loved it back when I was young.Great actors too! A young and funny Tim Burton, a beautiful, young and great singing Lea Thomson, and the best Duck as well (you get over his looks in the first five minutes)... Duck world is even humerous, for the little time you see of it. And it has another famous lead actor, but I can't remember his name.I thinks Howard the Duck is a classic of the '80s and deserves a better go. Just watched it for the hell of it... it's lot of fun!Five and a half out of Five! "},{"Title":"It's not THAT bad!","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, so I understand why some people might think this movie is terrible, but what they don't realize is that it is supposed to be campy.  That alone makes it hillarious!  It's not as though the director actually thought that Howard looked like a real duck.  I hardly think Lea Thompson thought I'm a shoo-in for an Oscar this year!  So Howard the Duck never made it to Cannes Film Festival.  Watch it again and give it a second chance. "},{"Title":"A textbook example of bad filmmaking...yet I can't turn away","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  HTD is a classic of lousy movies, for many reasons 1) It manages to fail even with great source material, the surreal, almost existential comic of the same name from the 1970s; 2) the real-world fallout of the film, which was such a humongous bellyflop when Universal laid it in theaters back in 1986 that many careers were ended, including the directing career of Huyck, who also put his name on an even worse film 2 years earlier, the unholy piece of dreck Best Defense; and 3) the obvious-in-retrospect fact that with such a huge budget, they didn't spend enough on the most important effect, making the duck look real.  If done today with CGI, a major problem with HTD could have been sidestepped.  HTD's flaws are legion the aforementioned bad duckatronics, the voice actor hired to speak for Howard (he sounds not so much cranky and cantankerous, but just nebbishy and whiny), the uber-80s fashion (I know we all dressed badly back then, but good God!), the stupid dialogue, the inclusion of a rather silly save-the-world plot.  Still, there are some nice moments poking through the flotsam, a few brief scenes which gleam with the potential of being a movie that might not have sucked quite so bad as the end result did.Still...whenever they show it on TNT, I watch the whole damn thing. Honest to God.  It has to be seen at least once. "},{"Title":"This movie is incredible!","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Whoever says that movie is awful needs to sit down and watch it again, actually pay attention this time. Tim Robbins' performance was hilarious, and Howard was great. Stop comparing it to Star Wars and just give the movie a chance. People are too uptight about everything. It's supposed to be fun, so sit back and enjoy it for what it is. It's about a duck from outer space...I mean come on, it doesn't get any better than that. "},{"Title":"A very entertaining film, yet hated by many.","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I simply don't understand what makes Howard such a terrible movie. I saw it the first time when I was six. I loved it then and love it now!! The film doesn't take itself seriously (a duck from a parallel universe that somehow winds up in Cleveland) and you shouldn't take it seriously either. It's a comedy, so treat it as one. My assumption is that many people saw the name George Lucas and Star Wars clicked into their brains. If you haven't seen this move, don't rent it expecting another serious sci-fi installment. This movie has everything to please everyone Comedy (above all), action, drama, suspense, horror, and a little romance! If you're looking for a happy, silly movie to watch, rent it, turn off the lights, turn off your brain, and enjoy one of the most entertaining movies of the 80's! "},{"Title":"Decent effects? No way!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Personally, I found the whole darned movie painful, including the special effects. It's only saving grace was that beautiful thing that Lea Thompson wore at the end. The title song wasn't too bad, either. "},{"Title":"This was great.","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Why do people hate this movie so much? I've seen it about 15 times and I love it every time. No logic? Stupid sometimes? So what? It was never meant to be the Godfather. Just pure entertainment, so sit back, drink a soda, eat some chips, unplug your brain and have a wonderful time. Definitely one of my favorite movies. "}{"Title":"Unnecessarily slated!","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How can everyone say that Howard the Duck is such a terrible film? From the moment of its beginning, the humour and the entire premise of...well, a duck stuck in the States is just really quite amusing! Sure, Tim Robbins and Jeffrey Jones ham it up as the bumbling scientists, but I think the film, if not taken too seriously, is really quite brilliant (If a stupid idea) and I would not hesitate to watch it at a relevant opportunity! "},{"Title":"Quackerrific!","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie! With his webbed foot and slicked back hair, Howard represented all of us who are a little different and a just a little sad about it. I found it inspiring the way he overcame the fact that his being a duck handicapped him in a world dominated by those without webbed feet. Go Howard! Quack! Quack!  "},{"Title":"This movie is a lame duck! This quack is whack!","Date":"14 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For all the criticism that director George Lucas gets for the Star Wars prequel trilogy; at least, it's safe to say, those movies is not as bad as the movie, he produce, call Howard the Duck! Howard the Duck is just the ugly duckling that didn't turn into a swan! Directed by Willard Huyck, and based off, a marvel comic of the same name, by Steve Gerber. The movie tells the story of Howard the Duck (Voiced by Chip Zien), a sarcastic anthropomorphic alien duck that was accidentally brought down to our world, by scientist, Dr. Jennings (Jeffrey Jones). When, Jennings attempts to return Howard to his world with his humans' deep-probing observatory laser-scope; instead of transferring Howard, an evil alien spirit was transfer into his own body. Now the wisecracking Howard, must fight this evil essence, while also finding a way to fit in with our society. Can Howard stop this alien invader or will the Earth be doom? Watch the movie to find out, if you really want to. Without spoiling the movie, too much, I found it, a bit odd, that Marvel Entertainment Group (MEG), sold millions of options to studios to produce films based on Marvel Comics characters. Yet, this movie was the first Marvel Comic to ever be adaptation for the big screen. Wow! Just Wow! Although there had been several TV adaptations of Marvel characters during the preceding 21 years, this was the first attempt at a theatrical release since the Captain America serial of 1944. I'm deeply surprised, by that. Honestly, I would have, thought, Howard the Duck would be last comic book to be adapted! Anyways, the movie was supposed to be an animated feature originally, but at the last second, changed to live action, because Universal needed a film for a summer release, and couldn't wait for long term, animation to be made. Lucas suggested that the film could be produced in live action, with special effects created by Industrial Light & Magic. While the special effects were pretty good at the time, they became very dated, with each, passing year. It shows that the special effects weren't as sophisticated as George Lucas, has thought. The animatronics for Howard the Duck by far is the best and still pretty believable today. It allow for a very good range of motion and realism. During production, a stronger emphasis was placed on special effects, rather than the story. Due to this, the story kinda lost focus and became directionless. The whole tone of the film is very differ compare to the comics. The film was market for kids, while it's clear, the comic books were made, for adults, due to its risky film noir satire elements. While, the harsh complex nature of Howard were somewhat clean up, it's still hard to figure out, if this film, was intended for adults or children! I was deeply confused by the sexual elements of the film. Why could they feature a notorious scene where a human character, Beverly (Lea Thompson) tries to seduce Howard!? Was Bestiality, alright to show in a 1980s kid's film?! By far, the most distracting and tasteless scene was the glimpse of duck tits. Why would they do this!? It's already, disturbing enough, showing Howard, working at some type of hot spa sex club! Come on! Are the writers, perverts? Younger kids might also might be disturbed by the villain's monster mutations. The movie gets noticeably darker once the Dark Overlord possesses Dr. Jenning. The absurdism levels are really high in this film. The film gets worst by having some of most obnoxious silly side characters ever. Jeffrey Jones as the Dark Overlord was laughable. He looks like an outcast demon from the 1984's Ghostbusters, mixed with MegaMan's Dr. Wily. It gets funnier, throughout the film when he sounds like G.I Cobra Commander, drinking Helium. Tim Robbins is really wasted, here as scientist, Phil Blumburtt. While, he is great actor, his character is very annoying. As much, as I love Lea Thompson, as an actress. I really didn't like Beverly, the rock-star, as well. Not only does, Beverly not appear to be smart. She seem so one-dimension cartoony with her 1980s hair rock-star gimmick. Everything about this film is dated. The classic styles, fashions, hairstyles, and trends of the 1980s are shown in all their laughable glory here. The music by John Barry is pretty catchy. It's by far, one of the better things about this film. The humor, not so much. Most of the humor kinda miss the funny bone, for me. I thought, the merciless ducks puns could had been better. Howard the Duck's 5 second appearance at the end of 2014's Guardians of the Galaxy was better than this entire movie! While, Howard the Duck laid a rotten egg at the box office and ended up earning several Razzies, including Worst Film. It's deserve its reputation as one of the worst films, ever. Overall It's just one big empty bird-dropping. "},{"Title":"It's not nice to fool with the dark overlord.","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie has the distinction of being the first feature film adaptation of a Marvel comic book. Having read many of Steve Gerber's Howard the Duck comics from the '70s, I can say they left me unimpressed in a guess you had to be there to get it kind of way. The comic was a satire on various trends from the '70s but mostly it just reads as dated now. Anyway, the movie is far from satirical. It's just a straight-up sci-fi comic adventure that requires no thinking. In fact, it discourages it. The first thing you notice about the movie is how ugly it is. Visually it is just awful. Most of it is dark and drab, kind of like the Masters of the Universe movie. The suit for Howard (which supposedly cost $2,000,000) is kind of creepy-looking and always very obviously is just a dwarf walking around in a duck costume. The special effects on the whole are unimpressive considering the budget, which was pretty big for the time.For years I thought it was impossible to make it past the first hour of this but I finally did it and I can honestly say that whatever weird charms this has, it really peaks by the half-hour mark. The voice for Howard is provided by Chip Zien, who sounds a lot like Steve Buscemi. He does about as good as you can expect given the script he had to work with. Tim Robbins stinks in a supporting role. Jeffrey Jones hams it up but provides most of the movie's few funny moments. Lea Thompson is the best part of it all. Her enthusiasm is contagious and every time I felt like turning it off she managed to keep me interested enough to keep going. The movie descends into full-blown stupidity with an extended slapstick plane and car chase sequence in the second half, which totally feels tacked-on because they could tell 'something' was missing and didn't know what else to do. There are some good parts, just not many. Space rabies, Playduck, the cheesy theme song finale, and adorable Lea Thompson are the highlights. But ultimately it's just a big bore that goes on way too long. "},{"Title":"Howard The Dud","Date":"20 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Picture this, you tell your friends you watched Howard The Duck, and they say, Hey, what is it about. What would I tell them? No feasible plot is presented anywhere in this film and the premise is absolutely inane. High production values are tainted by absurd imagery, nonsensical dialogue and a poor screenplay. Howard smokes cigarettes whilst walking around as aimless as the story he's in, and his costume is nothing more than a dollar store get up over a tiny man. Leia Thompson has a moment with Howard, and it's the opposite of pleasant. Leia is the prettiest part about this film, but pity the fool who cast her in it. George Lucas produced this for reasons probably unknown even to George Lucas. The funding is visible behind the scenes, but nowhere else. Gloria Katz is the writer who is never seen or heard from again in film after this. In conclusion, discussions over terrible marvel adaptations should forgive Ghost Rider and Fantastic Four and should forget the brutal Howard The Duck. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen.... And people actually like it?!!","Date":"24 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I can't believe today's audiences. They bash Guardians Of The Galaxy for its childish humor and stale acting. AND PEOPLE LOVE THIS??!! HTD has jokes that kids are WAY too young to be understanding, and a lot of the comedy is not only juvenile, but DISTURBING. There's nudity, erection gags, sex puns, AND MORE!! The special effects are just unconvincing and not vivid, you clearly see its animitronics and puppets and stop motion effects(which is horrible, because I love the art of stop motion). The duck wordplay is just downright unfunny and simple, and it's just to make a new song you will purchase on iTunes(iTunes wasn't alive back then, but still, it's just marketing). I can't say anything good about this film, therefore watch GOTG if you want to be charmed, engaged by the action and special effects, laugh at a lot of funny jokes. "},{"Title":"great flick","Date":"17 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What exactly did you expect when you went to see a film whose main character is a human-sized duck ?Howard The Duck is one of those films that is universally panned, although most of the opinions about this film are as follows HtD is one of those films everybody hates because it was bad. In other words, recycling other people's opinions.Me, i personally loved HtD when it came out (and i saw it in the theater); Sure, i was young, and totally OK with a talking duck, but then again this was the 80s and people who hate on this film turn around and praise such hit shows as Alf, Manimal, Starman, Knight Rider, and more, all of which were a hit because of the general consensus. So my take on HtD is that it's the trend to hate on it, just like its the trend to love the A-team; i mean, they make tanks out of broken bottles and never hit anyone with that hail of gunfire, but it's great, right?Howard The Duck is the story of your average, office-life duck who finds himself captured by a sort of tractor beam and deposited on earth (the place where ducks don't work in offices).Here on our planet, he undergoes the obligatory scientific examination a-la Keanu Reeves in TDTESS, but pulls out of it with some rude city language. From here on, its a classic 80s adventure film. He even gets the girl, or rather, talks too bold but can't back it up and ultimately gets embarrassed and (lol) chickens out. Classic scene, if you ask me.Then, there is the once again obligatory bad guy, the Supreme Overlord who, as his name implies, is really badass. Some pretty decent puppet monsters later, there is a big explosion and the heroes win the day.The whole shtick is peppered with mild, 80s-political correctness jokes (this was the era when the FCC ruled the airwaves), the same uninspired direction that nobody complained about in Ghostbusters, the same photography nobody complained about in 48 Hours, and the same puppettry that every film with an alien had back then.I don't think Howard The Duck is an amazing film; but it has a good looking chick, an easily offended duck, kung.. pardon me .. quack-fu, a killed theme tune, a joke or two, a story which makes more sense than highlander 2, a plot which actually starts, proceeds and ends (unlike, idk, Contact, for example), and a totally badass bad guy, with the best name a bad guy has ever had.My final vote (realistic) 6/10, or 7/10 if you have never seen it. "},{"Title":"A timeless camp classic","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard the Duck from 1986 gets often bashed by movie critics all over the world. It's sometimes included in lists like The Worst Movies of All Time and to be honest it's easy to understand why it has a reputation of a total disaster.Let's face it. Pretty much everything is wrong in this movie if you take it seriously. It has a ridiculous story, more than stupid characters and some really bad acting. And above all the main character just looks freaking ugly. But could this kind of horrible movie be a timeless camp classic? That's definitely the case with Howard the Duck.If you look at this piece of garbage as a real movie you won't get much out from it. But in case you're into camp/cult classics and/or bad movies in general there's no reason for you to skip this one. It's easy to recommend Howard the Duck for those who are seeking for some entertaining bad movies to watch. If I would rate this one as a real movie I would probably give it one or maybe two stars. But as a camp movie this one gets a solid rating of seven stars out of ten. "},{"Title":"Terrible...but accidentally hilarious!","Date":"21 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's amazing how far we've come with the comic book adaptation. Before this, terrible TV adaptations of Marvel comics polluted the airwaves and now we get The Avengers. That's progress! Yes, Howard the Duck is an awful film. The story is stupid, the acting is ridiculous, the robot duck is silly and the lame jokes are funny only because you realize that someone must have thought what they wrote was in anyway a passable excuse for humor. Even though this movie is awful (and somehow some actors actually were able to have a career after it) the film is an accidental brilliant comedy that is fun to watch for all the wrong reasons.Occasionally, when I'm bored, I pull this on out of the archives (yes, I own this) and laugh my butt off...and then cry uncontrollably because there is anthropomorphic duck nudity and that just scares me...but, thanks to the internet, seems a tad tame now. All the terrible, awful, and terrible again elements that make up the physical manifestation of this film work in concert to make comedy.The film is like the world of cinema was sick and Howard the Duck was what was expelled from its body but it's fun (and hilarious) to watch just to see what someone actually thought would make a decent movie and is the perfect film to get together with a group of friends and make fun of it, laughing the night away. "},{"Title":"Duck season","Date":"15 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie will stick in your mind forever, and not in a good way.For the rest of your life, you will remember the time you spent watching this movie, and have regret. You will wonder what you could have done for all humanity, for god and country, for the children... wishful deeds that were never done because you instead chose to watch this film.I urge you to think of the children. Your family. Your community, your church or mosque or local bar.. and do anything but watch this film.Some things you do not want sticking in your head, are best left unsaid. Move along. "}{"Title":"Howard the Duck is a stomach-twisting disgust most of the time and insufferably boring the rest of the time","Date":"17 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard the Duck is one of the most unpleasantly mean-spirited movies I have ever seen. It is an utterly joyless exercise, one that seems to drag on to no end, and leading nowhere good. Whenever it's not flat-out boring, it is absolute revolting, generating more twists in my stomach than most gross-out horror films have accomplished. In terms of sheer disgust, it ranks pretty close with Roger Corman's dreadful Galaxy of Terror. This may be worse, however. For Galaxy of Terror used mostly slime-coated rubber monsters and gallons of blood, but it's lowlight was an infamous rape scene involving a giant worm and a human female. Very nearly disgusting is this movie's lowlight a near-sex scene (consensual, mind you!) between a human female and a duck from outer space.The most shocking thing is that this sequence and many others are contained in a movie meant to not only be a comedy, but a comedy for children. Why, I cannot imagine. I admit I am not familiar with the original comic book material, save for a few cover photos I have seen. The Howard the Duck from the comics, to me, resembled a chain-smoking caricature of Donald Duck. Well, the duck here smokes, as well. He also cusses, is a master of Quack-Fu, is libidinous toward human females, and is one of cinema's most entirely unsympathetic so-called protagonists. The movie would like us to laugh and empathize with Howard, but my morals refused to. Straight from the beginning, Howard is an unlikable little twerp, and he remains an unlikable little twerp. I do grant that the special effects used to create him are fairly good. His bill opens and closes smoothly and with lip movement, his eyes do not merely sit in their sockets, and the suit movement is decent enough. But taking this vulgar character from the comics and making him into a likable figure was a tough challenge, and clearly the screenwriters were not up to it.Speaking of the screenwriters, is it a coincidence that the storytellers of this fiasco were the same duo who wrote Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom? Both films are unnecessarily grim, clumsily juggle whimsy with nightmare images, and are simply difficult to endure. Howard the Duck is very much the same, except, unlike Temple of Doom, it does not have a director who can produce some nevertheless redeeming features. What it does have are those same traits I mentioned above, as well as disturbing moments such as one where a group of bikers and truck drivers in a roadside café strap Howard down to a table and try to behead him with a kitchen knife. Decapitation is one of the more disturbing means of execution; it should be used sparingly in the movies, let alone kids' movies. Just the idea of it is disturbing. And what do the makers of Howard the Duck do in an attempt to soften the scene? They have Lea Thompson, who is, by the way, the duck's human companion, plead Don't kill him! He's my boyfriend! A truck driver responds That is disgusting! A true statement, but not the least bit funny.There are numerous other would-be gags, which include a female duck with creepily humanoid breasts sitting in her bathtub; a waitress saying We don't allow pets on the premises!; the constant wisecracks for citizens who see Howard for the first time; Howard scaring a group of children.The people in the movie don't fare much better. Miss Thompson is whimsical and easy on the eyes, but she's too dizzy to be charming. There is also Tim Robbins doing a decent-enough job and occasionally forcing a grin out of me. The only other person on-screen long enough to be worth mentioning is Jeffrey Jones, who is stone-faced when a scientist and goofily over-the-top when possessed by a demon from outer space. They are also surrounded by a lot of production design and special effects, some of which are dazzling. The dust we see floating around in outer space and the lights spewing from a giant proton machine are pretty, and the climax of the movie features an excellently animated stop-motion insect. He should get his own movie. But Howard the Duck is too lopsided and gross-factor-heavy to beguile an audience. It is a stomach-twisting disgust most of the time and insufferably boring the rest of the time. "},{"Title":"Don't Mess With The Master Of QUAQ FU!","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Probably one of the most So Bad It's Good B-Movies I've ever seen, above all, Star Wars creator George Lucas had created this! This movie belongs in the exactly same category as Edward D. Ward's Plan Nine From Outer Space! (Which I have not yet seen!) and of course Tommy Wiseau's The Room! (Which I have seen!) Howard The Duck is practically so bad, it is just down right hilarious! An Intergalactic Duck (Ha Ha!) named Howard gets pulled down to Earth after crashing through a wall with some Duck Breasts (Not Chicken Breasts!) exposed, he arrives in The American Town Called Cleveland where he meets Beverly! (Played By Lea Thompson From Back To The Future!) This is only the beginning of the madness, during this time, Beverly And Howard form a relationship together. If you thought that was weird, he has to fight A Dark Overlord at the end of this film! Of course at the end, he has is own guitar solo! If you are An Ammeter B-Movie Fan like I am, and you want to see something hilariously bad, then Howard A New Breed Of Hero! (AKA Howard The Duck!) is a must see!Overall Rating 6/10! "},{"Title":"A Movie About A Duck Filled With Duck Puns.","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Dedicated to Mr. Odon.The film is about Howard voiced by Chip Zien is suck down from his duck planet to my home town, Cleveland Ohio. there he meets Beverly played by Lea Thompson and Phil played by Tim Robbins who's new machine Brought Howard down Earth. Meanwhile another scientist played by Jeffery Jones gets Possessed by an alien creature and Howard has to stop it.This falls into the So Bad It's Good category. It is a movie about a talking duck what more do you want? The acting is great, the humor is fantastic and the effects are really good. If you have a chance I say sit down and check it out. P.S. Sorry this one is short.Rated PG.1hr 51min/111min.1 use of the F-word(It's Bleeped).****/**** "},{"Title":"Underrated 80's Flick!","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Lea Thompson, Ed Gale, Jeffrey Jones and Tim Robbins star in this 1986 sci-fi comedy based on the comic book. This begins in a far away galaxy, on a Duck Planet where we meet Howard (Gale). Soon, he's mysteriously pulled out of his home and flies through space landing on Earth in Cleveland. He meets singer, Beverly (Thompson) and tries to figure out how to get back home to his planet. Howard then meets scientists, Phil (Robbins) and Jenning (Jones) who try to figure out a way to send him back. Something goes wrong before Howard and Beverly get to the lab and Jenning is painfully sick. Beverly and Howard discover that he's possessed by a demonic alien called, a Dark Overlord that was accidentally transported to Earth like Howard and wants to send his race on Earth. Jenning kidnaps Beverly and Howard attempts to rescue her with Phil's help. This is definitely one of the most underrated films. Sure it's got some cheesy/corny moments, but I've always liked it since I was a kid, John Barry's score is great and Jones is creepy as the possessed, Jenning. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Lea Thompson finally gets top billing and it's not what she expected.","Date":"30 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Who would have ever suspected that the first film based on a Marvel comic would be all about a talking, alien duck. Certainly not me.George Lucas produced this bizarre film and it didn't really open to a positive reception. In fact, it's fair to say that Howard was pretty much a dead duck in terms of critical and commercial success.The story? Howard The Duck is relaxing at home when a beam from outer space whisks him backwards and pulls him to Earth. Not best pleased by this, he encounters all kinds of problems (many due to the reaction of people not used to a talking duck) but makes one friend in the shape of the pretty young rocker, Beverly (Lea Thompson). Beverly has another friend (Phil, played by Tim Robbins) who may be able to help Howard and there's also Dr. Jennings (Jeffrey Jones). Unfortunately, whatever brought Howard to our planet may also end up bring something else. Something far worse.I remember watching Howard The Duck back when it was first released and thinking that it was quite a strange movie. But I was eleven years old then so may not have known better. Watching it nowadays I can come to the conclusion that it is . . . . . . . . . . quite a strange movie. It certainly has moments of fun throughout but the tone is all over the place.Howard smokes cigars and drinks beer, he's a wise-cracking expert in quack-fu. The kind of character that just wouldn't appear in a family movie nowadays and I think that's why I have actually grown to like this movie more than I used to. The cast are all perky and/or fun. Lea Thompson and Tim Robbins spend a lot of their time talking to Howard and admirably keeping a straight face while Jeffrey Jones gets to have an absolute blast for the second half of the movie. There's an appearance from Paul Guilfoyle, as an exasperated lieutenant and most of the other cast members are relative unknowns who deal surprisingly well with a large, talking duck. Howard himself is played by a number of people, and the animatronics used works well a lot of the time, but it's Ed Gale who gets the main credit.Willard Huyck directed, and co-wrote the screenplay with Gloria Katz, and he hasn't directed anything else since (to date). That's a shame because, despite the messiness of this movie, there's enough warped fun here to make Huyck a very interesting prospect with more twisted material. After all, this movie opens with a segment that includes Howard reading Playduck magazine and then being whisked by a large-breasted duck trying to have her bath in peace. The fact that it goes on to portray a disturbing closeness developing between Beverly and Howard may, however, have been too much for most folks.There's plenty of action here, a load of wisecracks, a funky soundtrack from Thomas Dolby (though John Barry was responsible for the score) and enough to make this worth 110 minutes of your time. Just. "},{"Title":"Disaster? What disaster?","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" To my french eyes, it seems that in US pop culture when something is considered as a disaster by a majority (mainly because it lost a lot of money, ugh what a crime) you can't really make your own opinion, you have to admit the disaster first (and then if you're a nerd you say no, no, it's a CULT gem for us nerds). Why that permanent Disaster stamp? Did you personally loose some money in that project? No! So just enjoy that very good movie. I never thought the duck looked bad or inexpressive. The jokes are bad on purpose, because that character is a nihilist 30something if it was Jack Black or Adam Sandler or Seith Rogan saying those bad jokes in the 2000's, it would fit perfectly as fine stupid 2000 humor. So just forget the Howard problem, there is no Howard problem. And Heaven's Gate is just another great movie. "},{"Title":"Duck from outer space","Date":"10 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard lives his life in a planet called Duckworld, when he suddenly finds himself on planet Earth, in Cleveland, Ohio.He befriends with a young singer woman called Beverly Switzler.He wants to go back home, but everything becomes much harder, after an evil being arrives through the magic beam and takes possession of Dr. Walter Jenning's body.Howard the Duck (1986) is directed by Willard Huyck.It's loosely based on the Marvel comic book created by Steve Gerber and quoting scripts by Bill Mantlo.The movie's producers are George Lucas and Gloria Katz.It's known as Lucas' biggest flops.The original music is by John Barry, who we sadly lost last month to heart attack at 77.Lea Thompson is the right gal to play the leading woman, Beverly.She got the part because of her appearance in Back to the Future.She also does her own singing in the movie.The rest of the cast doesn't look too bad either.Jeffrey Jones plays Dr. Jenning/Dark Overlord.Tim Robbins is Phil Blumburtt.Ed Gale is Howard T. Duck.Chip Zien is the voice of Howard T. Duck.Paul Guilfoyle plays Lieutenant Welker.David Paymer portrays Larry, Scientist.Then we get to hear the voice of Mel Blanc as Daffy Duck in an archive footage.The funniest scene of this movie must be from the diner, where Jenning speaks with that voice.And Tim Robbins's character also brings some zaniness to this picture.This movie isn't near as bad as the worst reviews say.Sure this movie is quite silly.But sometimes it doesn't have to be more than that.Just pure silly. "},{"Title":"One of the major cult movies of the 1980's.","Date":"5 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In a alternative universe, a planet inhabited by anthropomorphic ducks. Howard (Played by Ed Gale and Voiced by Chip Zien) finds himself suddenly sent to an unknown planet named Earth. He eventually lands in Earth, in Cleveland, Ohio. Howard becomes an friends with an lonely, attractive, rock singer named Beverly (Lea Thompson). Like in his planet, he is trying to find an job and try to find an stable life but he is dying to return to home. When an ambitious lab assistant by the name of Phil Blumburtt(Tim Robbins) and an scientist Dr. Walter Jennings (Jeffery Jones) tries to help Howard to find himself back to his planet by using dimensional-jumping device. But when the scientist finds himself possessed by the evil Dark Overlord of the Universe. Now Howard, Beverly and Phil have to fight the increasingly violent possessed Dr. Jennings. Which the Dark Overlord of the Universe is planning to bring more of his kind back to Earth to rule the planet.Directed by Willard Huyck (Best Defense) made an enjoyable, campy, silly, live-action comedy/fantasy/adventure. Which is based on a Marvel comic book by Steve Gerber. Howard the Duck was one of the unexpected big box office flops of the 1980's. Perphas the movie was ahead of its time or audiences/critics were not ready for this type of film. I remember seeing this picture, when i was four years old. It was certainly an childhood favourite movie of mine. Over the years, Howard the Duck has an major cult following. Once in a while, the movie is always discover by audiences today than it did back in 1986.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an good digitally remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD includes two new featurettes of the movie, A Look Back at Howard the Duck and Releasing the Duck. DVD also includes archival featurettes and teaser trailers. It would have been nice to includes an filmmaker commentary track by the filmmakers and an trivia track. Howard the Duck certainly has its greatness and its flaws. Thompson is certainly charming in the lead, Jones seems to be having an great time playing two roles, Robbins as the comic relief (!) and Gale is great as Howard the Duck. Although Zien does an terrific job doing the voice of Howard. The movie is charmingly dated, its does have some cheesy moments but it is always fun, nonetheless. Don't miss one of the great underrated pictures of the 1980's. Written by the directorHuyck and Gloria Katz (American Graffiti, Radioland Murders). (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Grossly Underrated Comedy Classic","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is most famous for bombing in the box office; it has, with the exception of Ishtar' and Pluto Nash, the dubious distinction of being the most infamous movie bomb of all time. Yes, it probably wasn't the best idea to take a fairly unknown underground comic book and water it down for mass consumption. The result, however, is still fairly entertaining and campy, and is buttressed by the brilliant acting of one Jeffrey Jones, who is---and I say this without any facetiousness or sarcasm whatsoever---one of the most talented and underrated actors Hollywood has produced.Do not take Howard's humor at face value. The script is deliberately cheesy and campy. From the moment we see Howard's home world to Tim Robbins's explanation of duck evolution to Lea Thompson's budding romance with Howard D. Duck, we are shown the absolute goofiest stuff ever put on celluloid. Yeah, Howard has terrible one-liners, but they're purposefully groan-inducing, in the so bad they're good category. The viewer simply cannot take Howard seriously; it's meant to be just a fun movie. Many recent comedies try to take their messages seriously, and this is where they fail they forsake comedy for some social message or theme they try to beat the audience over the head with. On the other extreme, they forsake any pretense to clever or tongue-in-cheek script-writing in favor of fart jokes or other forms of toilet humor; or they make references to the latest fads in popular culture (watch Austin Powers in Goldmember to see what I mean). Howard is funny because of it does not rely on toilet humor and because it does not beat the audience over the head with a message, other than love is blind (between a human woman and a duck-man) or curiousity killed the duck. The movie doesn't really take off until we see Jeffrey Jones possessed by the Dark Overlord of the Universe. Why Jeff didn't win an Oscar for this role is beyond me. The Dark Overlord was a more complex and funny role than the principal in Ferris Bueller. Try growling and speaking with a Cobra Commander-like raspy voice for a prolonged period of time, while scowling at yourself in the mirror, and see if you can criticize Jeff then. The Dark Overlord's quest to satisfy his lust for power (both in the sense of lording over others and in refueling his body) is some of the best entertainment I've seen. Try thinking of the Dark Overlord scenes simply as entertainment rather than acting in a movie, and you'll enjoy it more, trust me.In short Tim Robbins does a cheesy Donald Duck impression, Jeffrey Jones sounds mighty scary in a Starscream-like voice, the Howard D. Duck voice-over guy makes lame puns about ducks, and Lea Thompson is credible as a beautiful punk-rock goddess who falls for our feathered friend Howard. Try renting Howard again, and, ignoring the cries of the critics, try enjoying it for what it is a camp classic. "},{"Title":"Sympathy for the Duck","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Having not seen this film for about 23 years, I feel a need to say something about this unfairly notorious film. All I remembered was how hot Lea Thompson and her trendy hair were at the time and the talking duck. Well, HOWARD THE DUCK is no classic but definitely worth the time for people who like unusual and original ideas. It's quirky, odd and a true amalgamation of ideas that equally work and don't work. And Lea Thompson still looks hot, though her hair in this film was truly a 1986 thing.Having just viewed the DVD, I must say I have to hand it to the technical work on the film. For 1986, the animatronic duck looks as good as anything done up till that time. The actor inside the duck did a good job of hitting his marks and the bill and the eyes were skillfully done. It's just that there isn't a great appeal to this character to begin with. He's basically a middle class guy with an attitude on his duck planet and comes off just like that type of person from our planet. They could have either gone farther with his attitude and dirty talk or totally backed off and made it more child-friendly.The same goes for the bizarre match of music. If film songs could tell you the exact style that was in for the mid-eighties, this film reeks of it. Unfortunately the songs are all mediocre and they are blended with a wonderful, but completely out-of-place John Barry score. Barry's scores on the James Bond films were great and he had a level of sophistication and adventure that few composers had then. His love theme in HOWARD THE DUCK is simply touching. Considering the subject manner, in retrospect Danny Elfman would have been a far better choice for the score (heck, his band Oingo Boingo could have done a few songs as well).The Production Design also needs to be commended - this is really a 'B' film made with 'A' money. The special effects are mostly good. The scene where Jeffrey Jones is in the diner is perfect for the time period, but the creature version of the Dark Overlord at the end is lit incorrectly and doesn't match the rest of the real background. You can tell all of the actors worked hard. Lea Thompson did her own singing and always has a nice sensitive side. Jones is great in what amounts to two roles - the competent scientist and the Dark Overlord. And a young Tim Robbins really chews up the scenery and you can see how much talent this guy really has playing a geeky and silly character - a character we would no longer see from him in future films.The most interesting thing to me looking back now is it really says a lot about the time it was made and yet it was rejected by the people in that time. I think the duck's condom and the love scenes definitely made people uncomfortable for a PG film. The idea of following a duck-man around for two hours in a sci-fi/noir also seems so contrived that it took a huge risk thinking millions of ticket buyers will latch onto it. The film seems to have basically ended the careers of Director/Writer Willard Hyuck and writer Gloria Katz that they have no other big credits after this. Lea Thompson, who was the star, was unable to rise higher despite having a still successful career. Jones, having come off AMADEUS and FERRIS BUELLER wasn't totally knocked down by it, and Tim Robbins actually was lucky he was unknown and a few years later got BULL DURHAM and carved a new path for himself.HOWARD THE DUCK is a true time capsule of a film. It is entertaining, it has a heart and it isn't like any other movie you'll see from 1986. If you appreciate good, hard film-work and can forgive the weak story and the not-completely realized concept, it's quite a curious time period piece now. And, on a side note, I have to wonder what Tim Burton could have done with this at that time as it was between his wonderfully imaginative PEE WEE'S BIG ADVENTURE and the visually stunning BEETLEJUICE. "}{"Title":"Underrated Classic","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 1st off I will not spoil the ending. People don't like the movie I actually wonder why. I like this movie. I actually saw this movie to get a benchmark for bad but in this movie I never received it. the plot is where a humanoid duck is pulled to Earth and meets there Beverly Switzler (Lea Thompson) and Phil Plumbutt (Tim Robbins whose Career never needed saving in the 1st place) and Jeoffrey Jones who plays a doctor at first then plays a dangerous Alien (Dark Overlord) sure it sounds kinda cheezy at first but the one thing that I learnt from the movie is Don't knock it before trying it. oh yes I admit it I am a Marvel Comic Book Fan but before this film I never even heard of Howard The duck (I don't Know Why it won worst picture) this is a must-see for people who like movies taken lightlyNow I give this actually 9.2/10 "},{"Title":"shoot the duck please","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I watched this in the 80s as a child & then i wasn't even impressed. I tried to watch this for the first time since then the other day & just could not. There is a reason there's a stop button on the remote for them special times when a movie is so retarded that it just cannot be watched any further. This was the case. I was a half hour in when i could not stand it anymore & out of sheer embarrassment clicked the stop button on demand TV. Never again will i attempt to watch this. The acting is terrible. The movie looks terrible & hate to say it the duck boobs are about as interesting as it get. I remember why in the 80's i hated this.Good going,George Lucus. Don't quit your day job of making Star Wars movies or helping your bud Spielburg with the Indiana Jones flick "},{"Title":"!!!Still A Classic!!!","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I grew up with this movie. It came out when i was 8 years old. I remember not getting a lot of what was going on. It FINALLY just came out on DVD, and i was so happy to see it at best buy a couple months ago! I finally got around to watching it last night for the first time in probably 18 years or so. i remembered everything like I saw it yesterday, because i saw it so many times as a kid. and it is STILL a classic! And there were so many things that i get now that I didn't as a kid. this movie is in a league of it's own if you ask me. I mean, Lea Thompson's character Beverly, and Howard almost have a love scene for crying out loud. Genius! I remember a lot of people saying how gross that was. Give me a break, get over it. I thought it was hilarious. Definetaly a 10 in my book. I can't think of any other movie out there that is like it. which is why I say it's in a league of it's own. yea, a lot of the lines are cheesy, but who cares. if you haven't seen it, i recommend giving it a try. love it or hate it, i guarantee you won't forget it! "},{"Title":"Go back to the Nexus of Sominus wannabe movie critics ! ! ! !","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Like Vinny said in My Blue Heaven - everyone thinks they have a sense of humor, even when they don't if you didn't think this was one of the funniest movies, then you don't have a sense of humor, Im sorry to be the one to tell you, but your funny bone is broken. This movie has some of the best one liners since Henny Youngman, and is truly one of the best movies to just sit back and laugh. Lea Thompson is wonderful so long Ducky, and Tim Robbins Im sure didn't have so much fun making a movie until 'The Hudsucker proxy', and Jeffrey Jones I bet liked doing this role a lot more than being the Principal in Ferris Bueller. I loved this movie when it came out, and I love it now.As for the critics who say it was poorly done, look again, and keep in mind this was 1986, and Industrial Light and magic was in its beginnings and not the C.G. (computer graphic) dependent entity it is today. The duck suit was amazingly well done, just look around the eyes, at the movement of the beak and the facial expressions, then remember THIS IS NOT done on a computer. If this movie had been done today, they would have digitally added Howard later.So go ahead and hate Howard if you must, if you have no sense of humor, if you don't understand the brilliance of how it was made, and the reason it is such a cult hit, but just know that you will never be half as funny, half as memorable, or half the Duck that Howard is. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite flicks","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard The Duck... My Father rent it at a local videostore in 1988. From the Intro to the credits I enjoyed every second of this beautiful story, which became a rescue mission at the last part of the movie. I must say I watch the German sync, what is way better than the original for my opinion, the jokes really worked in German.But what was absolute awesome how Jeffrey Jones acting the Dark Overlord. On the one side Scary to death, the other side very funny with the best sarcastic humor I ever saw in a movie. She took my eggs ^^And Tim Robbins who plays the Role of Phil, is good as Lea Thompson who played the lovely role as Beverly. The dump police guy who gives the police chief the good tip to call it a ....hunt makes me laugh every time I saw that movie(that's quiet sure over 100 times)!!The Director Willard Huyck makes the perfect movie for Saturdays hangout with your buddies with a six-pack and a lot of snacks.Don't take this flick to serious, it's good enjoyable entertainment^^ No more Mr. Nice Duck! "},{"Title":"Funny and nice.","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Film very comics, moderate eadatto sympathetic to children. Brutalmente attacked without reason. In reality should attack a good part of American films filled with special effects and messages of propaganda. I noticed that this site has a tendency to attack brutally all film that had formed the generation of children of the 80s. We live in a historical period of apathy and love for cinema, good part of American films rely on special effects and little plot. This film is an excellent film for children, I like and I am in VHS cassette. I saw on TV when I was small and friendly is the idea of making a duck humanized It 'a really good film, one of the most original films of the 80s was so attached that first sent him on TV constantly. The same goes for Dragonheart, Casper all films unfairly attacked. Bel fim, to see and appreciate. If you have made an award raids this should also give Donnie Darko. Cagata crazy. For detractors attacked other films, ah yes, you already have with horror films 80s. W HOWARD THE DUCK.ONE OF BEST FILM OF '80!!! "},{"Title":"Great film for those growing up in the 80s and most unfairly criticized of all time","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard the Duck will go down as one of the greatest films for the youth of the 80s and the most UNFAIRLY panned films of all time. It seems that most people growing up in the 80s simply loved this film and critics expected another Star Wars. Well it's simply not star wars, but that doesn't make it a bad film!This film is actually very funny, exciting, endearing, scary, has an awesome soundtrack performed by the beautiful Lea Thompson, and a wisecracking duck from outer space! What's not to love? Oh and there's a goofy Tim Robbins as the lab assistant to boot.If you go into watching it expecting a silly kids film from 80s made to simply entertain, you might appreciate it as much as the fans and I do. Maybe even watch it many many times. Give it a chance with an open mind, you'll be glad you did. And if you've got kids, rent it for them, they'll thank you!! "},{"Title":"Good and funny","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was sure that I read a negative opinion, it is not difficult to predict the reaction of critics alleged. This site films most famed and directed by famous directors are appreciated while longer shadow must be discarded. Film very nice and fun. A movie in the 80s several cost money and earned little, I like the film, is quite funny. The figure of the duck is very nice. Film good for the 80s. I reason with my head and I find this film positive. Sbaglio or is there a certain hatred for horror films and science fiction of the'80s? If detestiamo this film should also reject many action films of the 80s. Try to be critical with the great films and there accanite against less famous films that get the support of critics alleged. "},{"Title":"A great cheesy 80's flick","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard the Duck is one of those movies that's so bad it's good, it's cheesy and campy in parts but that just makes it more entertaining. The film is loosely based on a Marvel comic character, apart from the title and character Howard the Duck it's nothing like the comic since they was a little more darker and satirical. The film Howard the Duck is just a cheesy 80's flick, one difference is that the character of Beverly Switzler in the film is a singer in a rock band while in the comic book she wasn't. An interesting thing about this movie is that Gerorge Lucas (Creator of Star Wars and Indiana Jones) was executive producers of this movie and actually expected this to be a box office hit, the reason was because he spent a lot of money on the Skywalker Ranch and needed this film to be a hit to regain some of his cash. Howard the Duck however was a box office flop, it's gross was under the budget for the film. One funny thing is that the Howard the Duck costume cost $2 million to make and needed eight people to use it, that's a lot compared to the size of the costume but CGI wasn't around during the 80's so having a guy in a suit was the only possibly solution, stop motion is another effect they used for the Dark Overlord. The stop motion effects are actual effective for the character and makes it look more menacing in parts. Howard the Duck does have some really cheesy lines and scenes, some of the acting in this movie is pretty campy. The end scene with the theme song is one campy and silly part in the movie but I guess that's what gives this film such an appeal because it's entertainingly cheesy. Howard the Duck is a classic cheesy 80's flick that should be seen especially if your looking for a laugh. Check this out. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A Likable Film For Some","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It depends on what kind of movie you are into to whether or not you would like this title. On that same note, it too depends on whether or not you love to laugh in the face of stupidity, because Howard the Duck is just that, stupidity.A film about a duck from another planet, who is accidentally trans-placed into our own Earth. The plot was well undeveloped, and I think they knew that when filming, but it went unchanged. The acting was well under a Hollywood fare.Tim Robbins and Emma Thompson star in this infamous tale along with Jeffrey Jones of Ferris Bueller's Day Off (1986) fame. I believe that if given the proper treatment in writing, the film may have done well better. "}{"Title":"One of my childhood favorites!","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Although I can agree this is a very bad movie... it's really as GOOD as it is BAD. If that even makes sense.It's a total bubblegum film. It has all the fun stuff in it. It's got all the great elements of a classic of NEED-to-WATCH bad movie. It's really hard to describe how cool this movie is. You just need to watch it.When I first saw it as a kid I was amazed. I had never seen anything like it. I have yet to see another movie quite as unique as this one.If you like REALLY good - bad movies. Then watch this and remember not to be so critical. It's meant to be fun to watch and that, it is. "},{"Title":"Look at these reviews","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Look at these reviews. Five words. It...is.. a..Kids...Movie.It is supposed to be fun and entertaining, and ya know what it actually did just that. You might as well compare Monte's Quest from the holey grail with King Aurther Relax and enjoy. I sure did, the effects were fun, over all I think the best scene was the Kitplane. I thought the Moster itself was of a pretty cool design and over all really enjoyed the fact they just decided to have fun. You cant expect someone to just be able to produce a star wars hit one after another. The only reason that was a hit was cause the stunning music and visual effects. the Story itself was borrowed from a collection of old stories. That, and it was a new up coming director at the wheel. "},{"Title":"Really bad but saved (almost) by..........","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The presence and considerable talents of Lea Thompson.My son's and I stood in line for hours to catch the local premier of this movie. They have still not forgiven me.This movie is too loud and obnoxious. Noise and attitude is no substitute for a good script. I loved the Howard the Duck comics and had high hopes for the movie, especially with the participation of George Lucas so highly advertised.I know now that Lucas's name was the only reason people went to see this turkey.No, it's not the worst movie ever made. It's far from that. It, however, may be one of the biggest disappointments in the recent history of film. Compared to a truly awful big film like Ishtar or the recent Gone In 60 Seconds, HTD is at least somewhat entertaining.Fast forward to the scenes with Lea Thompson - who is one of the finer actors of her generation - and skip the rest. Without her I would have rated Howard The Duck a mere 3. "},{"Title":"Fantastic! Should be compulsory viewing!","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is my first movie review; I haven't really cared about any move enough to comment about it before but this is an all-time classic from the 80's, and indeed the same year as I was born.It's a superb family adventure with all the true essentials. The plot, although a little far-fetched is bubbly and imaginative, not to mention full of duck related puns and gags! This is the first time I have watched the movie since I was 4 years old and I still remember the punch lines and good bits. I enjoy it now as much as I ever did, if not more now that I have a hankering for duck boobies )I'm not too sure about the mad scientist, turned evil space demon though. Not quite Disney material. There is some cool animation with the dark overlords and some for-the-time excellent special effects. Note also, when Howard is in his lady friend's place, when he is playing the keyboard - Watch his 'feathered' hands very closely. You can actually see the midgets finger-tips poking through the costume. Totally spoils the magic knowing that there is actually no talking duck, just a drunkard, wife-beating, over-worked, white trash, middle class midget.A must watch, and a must have a VHS copy. "},{"Title":"Should I be embarrassed?","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Should I be embarrassed because I loved this movie? I was only 9 when it came out, and at the time I thought it was great! Yes, it's implausible and goofy, but come on, the dialogue's not all that bad, and it's actually funny in parts. There's a lot of duck puns. A LOT of duck puns. But beyond that, there's a lot of other funny lines and bits of dialogue too. My favorite part was the diner scene, with the waitress tossing off great line after great line. Howard gets into a fight. Jennings, by now already almost completely taken over by the alien, makes some comment about how the end of the world or the universe or something is coming (I can't quote many specific lines of dialogue, because it's been a while), and the waitress responds Oh, no, we get fights in here all the time. Classic. The opening scenes on the duck world are hysterical! And yes, there were some adult themes, and maybe the duck breasts were a little questionable, but I still feel that this was a kid's movie and should be judged as such (By comparison, Goonies, another classic 80s kid's comedy, had a fair amount of profanity, not to mention a tiny stone penis). Even the last time I watched it, a few years ago, I loved it! Lea Thompson playing a punk rock girl? Tim Robbins of all people as a bumbling lab assistant? The world being saved by a duck from another planet? If you haven't seen this yet because you heard how bad it was, and you ever get a chance (I don't know if it's been released on DVD, but with it's reputation, it may never be), I suggest you try watching it. It's not so bad it's good, it's so goofy it's good, and I think that's an important distinction. Sure it's implausible, but really, can you honestly say better about Spiderman or Superman or Batman, for god's sake? At least this one wasn't TRYING to be serious. More proof that George Lucas is a genius! "},{"Title":"Watch this film with your children or without!","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard the Duck is with out a doubt the most under-rated films of all times. I saw it when it originally was released, and enjoyed it very much then. And I find it equally fun now. If you have not seen this movie see what all the fuss was about. How could this gem ever be considered the worst movie of all times? Just start with the cast, Lea Thomson is at her absolute cutest as the new wave rock star,Beverly. Her costumes are worth the price of admission alone. Along with Tim Robbins as the bumbling lab assistant Phillsy and Jeffery Jones as The Dark Over Lord the film definitely has star-power. The film also debuted Ed Gale as the main actor in the Howard duck suit. Ed has gone on to become just about the premiere Little Person actors of today. "},{"Title":"One of a kind...","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't get it. Why do people hate this film so much? There has never been anything close to this EVER. This movie is so underrated, it's very sad! People call it cheesy and even go as to far as say it's slop cinema at it's worse. This is bogus! How many of you people love 80's films with effects like stop motion and potty humour? This movie has the effects that of a Star Wars film. And the direction and writing are completely original and articulate. The film is fun, heart warming, and you just love Howard. Why the hell is this not on DVD? why the hell did they never make a sequel? You want a film that defines the greatest parts of the 80s? Howard the Duck. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Not great, but not as bad as a lot of people say","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Although it has not aged well, this movie has nearly as many pluses as minuses. Lea Thompson is appealing and cute as the hopeless-romantic rocker who becomes Howard's friend and protector when everyone else wants to either run away from or kill the little guy. Howard himself is fun to watch as the wisecracking, fun-loving duck. For those of you who may not have noticed, the black member of Thompson's rock band is a young Holly Robinson-Peete. Also, one very interesting aspect of this story is that the only difference between Earth and the planet where Howard comes from is that the inhabitants are ducks. Finally, if you look closely, you'll notice that Howard likes to read Rolling Egg Magazine (an obvious spoof of Rolling Stone) "},{"Title":"funnier that it looks","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I personally think that they did a great job on this overlooked movie. expecailly the 2nd half when they have jenning turned into a dark overlord(not to be confused with starcraft) for 1986 the effects of his ablities look rather good. and the voices jones does are rather cool too. "},{"Title":"It's a ducking great film! Get it? Duck? Ha...ha...h....","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well... Yeah... Cool... Eh, don't know what to think of this movie... I fell asleep after the first five minutes. What I heard from the people who did stand to watch this .. this incredible masterpiece of everything that can be wrong in a film, that this movie is really a piece'o'sssshhh... Come on! A duck? A DUCK!? You got to be kidding me! A DUCK! And it's talking! Also the worst special effect I've ever seen since Field Of Honor (with Ron Brandsteder). I don't want to talk about this movie anymore. It's to depressing... "}{"Title":"Shut Up!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the greatest movie George Lucas ever put his name on.  Star Wars fans can kiss my ass.  The only thing that would have made this movie any better is if it had been just as crass as the comic book.  The new version of the comic book is cool too.  If some hollywood hot shot director wants to prove to me how hip he is then just remake Howard the Duck.  When is the Howard the Duck Criterion DVD coming out?  I want more Howard the Duck. "},{"Title":"There Is Just Something About It.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The definitive rotten egg from the 1980s that is so bad that it is oddly engrossing and almost succeeds believe it or not, but no not quite. The titled character is a pint-sized duck from outer-space that gets sucked into Cleveland, Ohio by accident and he must get back to his home planet with the help of punk rocker Lea Thompson, scientist Jeffrey Jones and geek Tim Robbins. However a monster from another dimension comes down to Earth the same way that Howard did and now it is up to our heroes to save the world. A really silly little film that struggles for an audience. In some respects it is a movie that caters to the youngest of age groups and at other times it is a bit rough with minor sexual situations. The cast tries hard and the direction is not terrible considering a very sophomoric screenplay. In all Howard the Duck, while not a masterpiece, is a strange little mess that hypnotizes with its ridiculousness. 2.5 out of 5 stars.    "},{"Title":"Cute!!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay , okay , so this may not be the best movie ever made, but it was cute and somewhat entertaining! The special effects, I think were pretty good for the mid-80's! Lea Thompson was a great 80's actress and she makes this movie adorable! What it boils down to is we are all Typical hairless apes.........  "},{"Title":"someone get me committed because i love this movie","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film when i was a kid and have grown up watching it and unlike some films that i liked when i was younger,which i have now grown out of,I STILL LOVE THIS MOVIE. A bit shocking but there,i still love this film i can't put my finger on. maybe because its funny,oddly charming,exciteing and inventive that's why. I know the film is far from sophisticated and has some very bad lines of dialogue in the script,but it's obviously because it's a tribute to the b. movies of the 1950's. This was never intended to be a serious film. I mean come on its about a giant beer swilling,cigar chomping,sarcastic duck for christ sake. What the critic's expected this film to be like i will never know. Its not as if it was intended to win oscars,in less they expected the next E.T. I still think this is better than most kid's films(yes it is a kids film you know) of today and dare i say it,but i'd rather watch this than sit thought toy story any day of the week. Even if you don't have kids,if you still haven't seen this undervalued gem see it know and make up your own mind.You may enjoy it It's not that bad.p.s i am mentality stable. "},{"Title":"a whacked-out plot turned in to a very entertaining movie!","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i have watched this movie since 1986 or 1987. i almost never get tired of it. the plot is just plan whacked-out,and nutty. but the movie has always been very good, and entertaining to me. i love to make fun of jeffrey jones when he turns into a demon. just the way he talks is very funny,and what he says. some parts in this movie that are not supposed to be funny are. it's great fun but for everyone's taste trust me. i give it *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"An interesting movie to say the least.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I first saw this movie in the mid-eighties when it was new, then again recently when my 12-yr-old son brought it home with him.Howard the Duck may not have been the movie of the century, but it was an interesting adaptation. George Lucas has always impressed me with his choice of projects, because he humanizes each element. Howard the Duck isn't about a duck who lands on Earth and desires acceptance, but about the people already here who are different in some way. The character of the duck faces a great deal of prejudice from many of the people he meets, rarely finding understanding from anyone. The character of Beverly (Lea Thompson) takes a chance on him.It is by no means the most intelligent movie ever made, but it does have a number of interesting moments. Like the recent smash hit Starship Troopers, this movie is very satirical in nature, and pokes fun at the basest of human instinct and intregrity, but is still simple enough for a pre-teen to understand what's going on. Most importantly, Lucas maintains his high standards of quality with Howard the Duck. There is no nudity (except for an interesting duck shot), little language, and low violence content. This is also an excellent effort from the seldom-seen Willard Huyck and partner Gloria Katz, and the costumes and make-up were very well-done for a mid-eighties movie. "},{"Title":"The cinematic scape-goat","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK, I saw Howard when I was a kid, and I loved. It has always bugged the hell out of me that people take the easy way out and called it the worst. If that's what you think, then I say you're a chump for taking it so seriously. No, it isn't a good movie, by elite standards, and it isn't supposed to be. It's cheese, and it's wonderful cheese. Possibly my defense of this movie is out of my love for the under dog, and in the morbid world of critics, Howard is the skinny kid in the playground, who everybody takes turns kicking in the face.    "},{"Title":"Coulda been worse...","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've never really understood the incredible disdain that this movie is held in.  Okay, it's fantasy/s.f., so that's a strike against it right there. But basically, it's a relatively harmless, big-budget (bigger than it should have been) piece of...nothing.  It just sits there.  It's not incredibly entertaining, but it's not going to make you want to rip your eyes out of their sockets, either.  There are some cute moments (mostly with a pre-Caroline Lea Thompson), some funny moments, and some decent F/X moments. Mostly harmless. "},{"Title":"Call me crazy but I liked this!","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard the Duck lives on an alternate world where ducks walk, talk, dress like humans. He's (by mistake) zapped the this world and has to find out why and how to get back. He saves singer Beverly Switzler (Lea Thompson) from being beaten up by using quack-foo (no I'm not kidding). She falls for him (!!!) but tries to help him get back to his world with the help of two scientist friends (Tim Robbins and Jeffrey Jones). But then the plot goes barreling out of control and the Dark Overlord of the Universe shows up...and it just gets increasingly silly.I'm SO tempted to say--This was a fowl flick but it made me quack up--but I won't) This was produced by George Lucas back in 1986. At that point in time he had done the three Star Wars films that made millions. So, he could do ANYTHING he wanted and he did. Howard... was originally a comic book series from Marvel back in the 1970s. It was (for a comic book) pretty adult and Howard smoked cigarettes and was sarcastic nonstop. For the movie he was toned down. He doesn't smoke (except once) and he isn't as sarcastic as he was. But seriously, how did Lucas think this could work as a movie? For one thing Howard himself looks stupid. CGI didn't exist back in 1986 so they (I assume) used a little person in an ill fitting duck suit with BIG blue eyes to be the character. I was one of the few people who saw it in a theatre back in 1986 and I remember people laughing out loud when you got your first good look at him. Aside from him all the special effects are excellent (for 1986). The Dark Overlord especially at the end was done in excellent stop motion animation.Special effects aside this was a mess. The script rambles all over the place. It's full of incredibly stupid jokes, nonstop car chases and tons of pointless explosions. It seems the makers decided to throw everything they could into the plot and just prayed it would work (it didn't). But, despite all the noise and bad jokes, I loved it! I was never bored and the special effects are still pretty impressive. Acting helps. Considering the plot and everything Thompson is excellent. She takes the role seriously and carries on all the way through. Also Tim Robbins plays it way way over the top. He's frantic and running around and mugging at the camera all the time. It actually works quite well next to Thompson's straight face. His first meeting with Howard was actually hysterical! Ever want to see Robbins quack like a duck? This movie has it! Jones is, unfortunately, given nothing to work with but he is fun. As an added bonus Thompson's character plays with a punk rock band called the Germ Bomb (seriously). Naturally this is Hollywood's idea of punk rock so they all look squeaky clean and play songs that preschoolers would love. Also the title tune is just horrendous.So, it IS terrible but I was never bored and liked it a lot as a bad movie. Just turn off your brain and enjoy it. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"In the beginning, there was Howard the Duck!","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There is no longer any point to bash this movie. If only people could take it as a comedy and as a fantasy (rather than a political statement!), they'd realize what a work of genius it is. Howard is a beer-swilling, cigar-chomping waterfowl from another planet who gets transported to Earth, befriends a struggling rocker (Lea Thompson, who gives the best performance of her career, I kid you not), and finds enmity in the form of an evil Dark Overlord.When it was released (and every day since then), HTD acquired a strong build-up of loathing from critics and viewers everywhere. Most people jumped on its cheesy one-liners, bad visual effects, numerous bestiality gags (those are pretty bewildering, I'll admit), and probably an early scene in which a female duck in a bathtub is shown with eerily bizarre anthropomorphic bosoms. But those (except, again, the last two) are the reasons why the film is so great.Nobody laughs at a master of Quack Fu! Desperate ducks commit desperate acts! What's white, ovoid, and reminds me of my birthday?- The eggs! Ducky also has a fantastic soundtrack, both in John Barry's score and the Thomas Dolby-produced original songs (both Hunger City and Howard the Duck have to be two of the best movie songs of all time). And the visual effects at least look semi-realistic-- or they would, if such things were physically possible. Today's technical FX wizards have but to punch computer buttons and things just appear for them; I appreciate the fact that these people put in some real effort.Unfortunately, it was quite clear that these people *couldn't* make it in Hunger City, and the film will never find its niche. But as far as Lucasfilm movies go, it's better than most of the Star Wars movies and every horrid second of THX 1138. It's even better than Willow! So check it out. "}{"Title":"I knew I remembered seeing Duck Boobs!","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's been easily over ten years since I've seen Howard the Duck. I remembered enjoying quite a bit as a kid. But, we all know over the years, movies tend to change a little bit. Back then the humor was silly one-liners, now the funny thing to do is ramble until you get a laugh. In any case, I saw Howard the Duck available for free OnDemand, so I had to jump at the chance. And surprisingly enough, it still has the charm I remembered it having over 10 years ago. Though it's not as funny, or as entertaining as I remember it, it still has that 80's charm.As you know Howard the Duck was accidentally brought to Planet Earth through some Laser-Science thingy. He ends up meeting Caroline in the City and they set forth to try to get him home. But obviously that's side-tracked to silly 1980 rock concerts, nerdy scientists played by Tim Robbins, themes of bestiality, and so much more. Eventually an evil Warlord is also brought back through another Science-Thingy mishap and now they have to stop him and save the day. Or something like that.Howard the Duck is known as being an awful film. And that's just not the case. Sure it has crappy corny jokes revolving around being a duck and what not, but it has a fun feel to it also. You've got Tim Robbins playing a silly part as a scientist, Caroline in the City showing off her tight little bod in her undies. You also, I think got the guy who got in trouble with Pee Wee Herman concerning child porn playing a great part as another scientist who's body has been taken over by a demon Warlord. You also have those great 1980 special effects. The electricity special effects that you've probably seen in Masters of the Universe etc. And a great monster at the end, that's not in CGI. The movie is 80's gold, and I'm sure it'll be thought that way for a long, long time. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was one of my high school favourites, I love the concept of the creation Howard the duck, all the way through the film from the moment we see him on his planet. My opinion does not require the criticism and scrutiny of others, Jeffrey Jones, Tim Robbins, Lea Thompson, and all the cast and crew who made the amazing reality possible within this film deserve great credit. I am surprised that Willard Huyck has not done more similar work. This mythos would definitely do very well to have a remake or a sequel with today's ILM team or some one similar to do it justice. Let's not forget also the great performance of Ed Gale who made Howard the ducks character so enjoyable and funny to watch. Kind regards,Matthew. "},{"Title":"One of the 80s greats!","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of the only things funnier than this movie is reading some of the negative comments about it in here. Are these people serious? Howard the Duck is a fantastic sci-fi comedy romp with a cool plot, awesome special effects, good acting. Sure it may not be everyone's cup of tea, but it definitely is well made as you would expect from George Lucas. Leah Thompson puts on a good performance and so does Howard. There is even a young Tim Robbins in there. The movie mostly is a comedy but with some sci-fi and horror elements (my younger brother freaked when he saw the cigarette lighter bit) but still it is suitable for all ages - perhaps with parental guidance for the young ones. Don't take my word for it that this is a fantastic movie - watch it! "},{"Title":"Thanks Lucas!","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Few things are more imposing than a midget in a duck suit, Lea Thompson with big hair is one of them. Don't get me wrong, pretty girl, she just doesn't look right with Van Halen's hair. Enough about that, we've got a great ducking movie to review! (You saw it coming.) Howard is living happily on his planet when a strange phenomenon sucks him through space, landing the poor waterfowl in Cleveland. Taken in by the talented, but mismanaged rock singer Beverly he begins setting things right. First he gets her out of a dead end record contract, then the drake begins searching for a way home. Constantly forced to defend himself from the evolved apes occupying Ohio's premiere city, Howard resorts to Quack-Fu or biting sarcasm. Personally, if a three foot duck offers me a banana, I'm punting the quacker. (There's another one! On a roll today.) Through Beverly he meets Phil, who after insulting everyone's intelligence by trying to communicate with our feathered hero by quacking at him actually discovers how the duck came to Earth. A research team led by Doctor Jenning was using a new spectroscope and it created a passageway between worlds! Bad news for mankind though, a second experiment has teleported in one of the Dark Overlords of the Universe. (No, not the people who run NBC.) Using a golf cart packing more firepower than most tanks Howard blasts the stop motion baddie into oblivion. The number of visual duck puns is astounding, Howard reads Playduck and carries a Mallardcard in his wallet. In addition we have the possessed Dr. Jenning, who feeds on electricity, plugging his tongue into a truck cigarette lighter and generally being a public nuisance. Jenning cracked me up during his possessed phase, one minute he's exclaiming in a dark voice, This will mean the extinction of all existing life forms. and the next he's sad because the waitress took his ham and eggs. Seeing Lea Thompson, in her bedclothes, getting amorous with Howard was a twist too. (He's hung like an Ostrich!) Most people either hate this film, or love it. The movie is ridiculous, it's eighties, and it's a special effects bonanza - I'm with the latter crowd. "},{"Title":"Howard the duck","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i love this movie. all of it was great.the duck part was funny and cute. my kids have watched it and they watch it all the time.i did not like the person who played the doctor. lea Thompson was good in it too. if you didn't like the movie you must be crazy.i was about 14 when i first saw it. now I'm almost 30 and i still love to watch it.there's not much more to say about it. its a very very good movie. i can say its better then some of the movies they make now. my son is 3 and my daughter is 6 so it must be a OK movie for them to watch it all the time. its OK if you didn't like it but i did.well thats all i have to say about that.maybe some other person liked it to just as much as i did and my kids. "},{"Title":"the critics were wrong","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Take notice, people. This flick has more loved it reviews than hated it. I urge you to take notice of this monumental moment. Of course the film has flaws, but it's a film with a talking duck!! It kicks the snot out of Kangaroo Jack, destroys Andre, and pummels Operation Dumbo Drop.Meet Howard everyday schmoe on his home planet filled with ducks. After some Douglas Adams-esqe exposition, Howard finds himself on our world circa 1986. The plot follows your basic fish out of water story until the planet is threatened by a horde of scorpion-like beings bent on possessing the planet.Certain flicks have that rare quality of having everything. I don't literally mean everything. What I mean is that it has everything within the confines of the story. You get a beer-swilling midget in a duck suit, a punk-rocking Lea Thompson, French kissing a cigarette lighter, ORIGINAL soundtrack, a neutron disintegrate, and Quack-fu. There's tons more but you get the idea. This flick rocks like Wilma Flintstone giving birth to Bam Bam.I seriously doubt that anybody who liked the first Star Wars prequels will appreciate what Howard the Duck represents. This is all according to the ebb and flow of popular culture. Films like Big Trouble in Little China, Buckaroo Banzai, and Blues Brothers (at the time of release), were all panned. At present they all attain a crowning supremacy. Howard the Duck is not a perfect film in that it suffers from typical formulaic writing. The mistake was trying to make it appeal to the general public. I guess that makes sense if you've spent over thirty million on the budget. It should have ended with something less spectacular than an intergalactic invasion in order to lower the budget, yet appeal to a smaller market.Everything else aside, this film is worth multiple viewings in that it presents a totally fictitious story with some blatant reality. For instance Howard lands on Earth and immediately ponders about getting employment. This film actually takes into account the necessity of getting a job. Howard actually weighs the options of returning to Duckworld versus remaining on Earth whilst the bad dudes are immanently about to arrive on said Earth.You are a fool to ignore the reviews on this site. Do not believe the hype that this film was a mistake. I have read the comics and they are far better than the film. However, just because the film does not live up to the comic does not mean that it is trash. You douche bags will sit through Waterworld, Episode I-III, and Hanibal. Give Howard the Duck a chance. You cannot honestly spend an evening renting Malibu's Most Wanted or the latest Jack Frost sequel. Do yourself a favor and get Howard the Duck. You will laugh your ass off and fund something worth a sequel. Beer may be involved in your viewing, but remember that George Lucas pays his electric bill with money from your slobbering attention to his worthless prequels to Star Wars. "},{"Title":"The Duck ain't so bad","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard the Duck is one of the best movies of the eighties. Many people hate this flick, but I feel it has gotten a bad rap. Yes, it was one of the biggest box office disasters - It came in third it's opening weekend, both Aliens and Friday the 13th Part 6 beat it on it's opening weekend (August 1st 1986) - But, many people need to realize that this movies biggest downfall at the time was it's inability to understand it's audience. Howard the Duck had nudity, and for a movie designed for a younger audience, it just didn't fly at the time. However, this movie has some good things going for it - the special effects, the background score, and the ending battle with the dark overlord, makes up for any short comings the movie may have.If you want a real summer movie, check out Howard the Duck. You may be pleasantly surprised.I still believe to this day, that if Howard would have been released on MAY 5th 1986 it would have faired better. George Lucas underestimated his competition that year. "},{"Title":"George Lucas' second-best film","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, I'm bitter. George Lucas single-handedly killed off Howard The Duck (the comic book). On the other hand, the comic-book version of Star Wars is the only version that works for me.A bit about my tastes I walked out of 'Star Wars' (the movie) because the acting was so bad - much worse than Howard The Duck, by the way. 'American Graffiti' is the only other Lucas film that I find watchable a second time.The good Jeffrey Jones as the villain. Truly scary in a believable way. Lea Thompson as the Disneyesque punk rocker. She could have been a singer. The first part of the movie, where they, for the most part, follow the comic book. Tim Robbins does good as the heroic janitor.The bad the special-effects guys. ILM cost millions on this movie, when 'Plan 9' effects would have sufficed. In other words, someone other than George Lucas should have made this movie. At $7 million, it would have been a minor flop. But, at $37 million, with the Lucas name, mega-box-office flop.The ugly the script-writing. This isn't Speed 2', or 'Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom' bad, but it's close. A chase scene is not a script, no matter whether it's box office gold or lead. Not as bad as the first 'Star Trek' movie, where the writer had claimed never to have watched an episode. We think she watched one - the one she cribbed the plot from. But I digress.Overall I give it a 10 out of 10 - original concept, flawed execution, great acting. Next time, hire Steve Gerber as technical consultant.Lea, how about making a sequel to the greatest science fiction movie of all time?  "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure--the first and last parts, anyway","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm forced to admit I did enjoy parts of this movie.  The first and last parts. The first part is actually rather cute, when you see the Duck World with its two moons, duck-sized stores and cars, and duck inhabitants.  From there, Howard the Duck is magically transported to Cleveland, Ohio, planet Earth, where he's shocked by the hairless apes that live on our planet.  The fun continues through the part where we are in the museum, visualizingThe Ascent of Duck from the original species to the bipedal Modern Duck that Howard is.  I even got a laugh when Howard gets aroused when Beverly gets in bed with him.And that's it.  From then on, the plot collapses due to really bad writing--and there goes the movie.  I fast-forward past all that to the end, just to watch Howard the Duck give a rock music performance with the punk-rockers.   "},{"Title":"Howard- The Duck, Yeah!","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this film.  Admittedly, it isn't very well written, but it's fun!  Lucas produced it which means you're gonna have some comic book campiness, which is ever-present.  The action scenes are neat, I think, with the story just as neat.  Nothing great about this, but I have fond memories, and still try to get Howard the duck in the Hall of Fame at my local 24-hour Movie marathon.  Willard Huyck's last movie, but then again, you don't put a bunch of midgets in duck costumes in Cleveland, and expect to be allowed to continue making movies. "}{"Title":"Horrible film","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of the worst adaptations from a comic book ever made. The comics from Howard the Duck were great, but this movie is terrible and don't make any justice to the original material. Howard the duck looks horrible in this film, played by some stunt actors in a duck suit. Even as a kid, I couldn't but consider it creepy and ugly. The plot is way too stupid and the script is one of the worst I've seen in a movie. None of the jokes worked, all of them were dreadful. No wonder why so many people hate this film, considering that is easily one of the stupidest films ever made.I can't believe that George Lucas produced this atrocious film. Howard the Duck is one of the worst fantasy flicks ever made.0/10 "},{"Title":"Someone cry Fowl, George you've sinned!","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Lets get the good stuff out of the way first.Lea Thompson not wearing very much in bed, thats a nice thing! the special effects for the day were quite OK, the stop motion of the Overlord at the end was OK and doesn't look laughably bad today.That is the good stuff out of the way.The rest is an absolute mess. The comedy is poor, the dialogue dire. Jeffrey Jones' character as the Overlord is over the top and hammy acting at its worst. The flight scene is too long, the fight scene in the diner is too long, the film is too long! How this could have been conceived by George Lucas is a mystery.If this ever gets released on DVD, I would avoid the need to buy it, and if it does, then the Special Features should come with an option to erase the disc!! "},{"Title":"A humorless mess","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This may not have been the worst movie that I ever saw in whole or in part, but it's close (Inchon!). Supposedly it's a comedy about a hapless alien, but it's hard to feel any empathy for a wise-cracking critter. This is Donald Duck with an unsavory attitude, E.T. without charm. One laughs at Howard, not with him. It's the diametric opposite of Charlie Chaplin's Tramp character, who is at least better than his environment and attracts our empathy for it. The movie makers could have learned a few things from Charlie Chaplin's Tramp character, who is ordinarily a hapless fellow in the wrong place at the wrong time. Good movie-making is, above all else, good story-telling, and if there is any element of adventure, one must have cause to cheer on some hero. That's why the Indiana Jones and original Star Wars trilogies succeed and this one fails miserably. It's best watched in bits and pieces, and probably best appreciated drunk, on drugs, or with a low IQ, if at all. The human characters put together a maudlin story of witless stereotypes. I'll give this a 2 so that a 1 can apply to something not only bad but extremely offensive or even harmful (Tell Your Children, a/k/a Reefer Madness). "},{"Title":"HAHAHAHAHAHAHA!! THE GREATEST MOVIE EVER MADE!","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have *actually* witnessed a film that rivals the awesome badness that is Battlefield Earth.This thing has *got* to be the most horrendous flick ever produced in the 80's. I can suspend disbelief when watching science fiction films, but this flick sank right into the deepest depths of Utter Stoopidity!The most notorious things that tried my patience (warning! spoilers)1) The duck (-oid) did not look at all the way I expected him to look. He just looked like a midget (or possibly a child) actor wearing the ugliest duck costume I've ever seen2) The Punk Rock Girl (PRG) with the ridiculously huge hair our duckoid hero rescues. He hates humans and calls them 'hairless apes', but he soon falls in love with a female 'hairless ape'. He somehow manages to get PRG to fall in love with him - and proceeds to get her laid3) PRG is supposed to be this tough, street-wise bad-girl but she's probably the wimpiest punk rockette I've ever seen4) The truly hideous musical number at the end - with the duckoid playing Air GuitarThe most hilarious thing is George Lucas was the producer behind the birth of this movie. Since he has a love of the truly pathetic (Ewoks, Jar Jar Binks and Brownies) it doesn't surprise me at all he would be responsible for the Creation of this...er... Movie.Even more hilarious is Mr Lucas virtually disowned this flick after it tanked at the box office. To add insult to injury, this movie then started mopping up the Razzie awards!Was only a teenager when I saw this on video, I don't remember it coming out in theaters over here.  What I do remember is this movie lagged way behind in the footsteps of far superior movies at the time (and ripped them off i.e Short Circuit anyone?)Guess this thing went straight to video!MY CONCLUSION? It ranks right up there with the greatness of Battlefield Earth! MR LUCAS! THIS WAS YOUR WAKEUP CALL! WHAT HAPPENED??1/10  "},{"Title":"The Ed Wood award winner from the 80's (hostility is, like, psychic boomerang!)","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ed Wood, who made some of the worst movies of all time, came to mind as I watched this again.  It has it's bad acting, lurid visual effects, lines so cheesy you can lick them off your fingers and humor that is strangely above par.  Howard the Duck is a stab of bad moviemaking, but if you have a sense of humor you'll have fun.It also brings to mind of George Lucas, and his Holiday Special. This, like that, will horrify fans but will bring laughs to those who can take a joke.  It seemed as if Lucas couldn't, but you can't blame himHoward the Duck tells the story of a 3 foot 1 (3 foot 2 thank you) talking duck from Marshington DC who travels to earth unintentionally and along with Beverly (a cute Lea Thompson), and Phil (Tim Robbins in a reason why he definitely needed Shawshank) has to stop a dark overlord of the universe, played by Jeffrey Jones (yes, Jeffrey Jones).  Surprisingly, it might appeal on a level for kids if they havent been subjected to real movies, and while many may want to beware, it has its audience somewhere...Between B- and C+ "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't think I've seen another movie as bad as this. The acting, characters and plot combine to give a truly unparalleled awful experience. I feel sorry for all actors and others involved with this movie. They should be ashamed of themselves. "},{"Title":"Yuck!","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie sucks! Plain and simple. The plot is thin and the idea of a midget in a duck suit is just not plausible. And that oh-so 80's music in this movie is just dreadful. Howard ranks up there with Alf for the most annoying alien. (Ironically, they were both released in 1986.) "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Experience EVER!!!!!","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie with my new husband and his brother. I spent 45 minutes trying to pretend that the movie had my attention, and then spent the rest of the movie sitting in the lobby waiting for the boys to come out! I only stayed that close to the movie because I didn't drive. The bathroom and lobby were more entertaining than the theater. I can't believe you can even buy this movie. Has anyone bought it? WHY!!I enjoyed Earthquake more and that made me throw up at the age of 12. Why hasn't this movie won the Worst Movie of All Time?If anyone considers this a classic, have them checked out - SOON!!  "},{"Title":"I am so ashamed...","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Shame, shame on me for being stupid enough to actually pay to see this incredibly wretched dreck. I can honestly admit that I did only pay matinee' pricing, which when this bomb was dropped was like $3.50. Almost ZERO good about this film aside from seeing Lea Thompson in her underwear, and one joke, one stinking joke that was funny. Being as I was about the only person in the theater that ever saw Tora, Tora, Tora I was the only one that laughed. The plot was ridiculous. The dialog insipid. How any one associated with this film ever got a job again is truly a miracle. To paraphrase the late Marlon Brando as Col. Kurtz  The Horror!!!!, The Horror!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"No More Mr. Nice Duck!","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS        Our story begins on a planet deep within our galaxy. On this planet lives a race of beings. They walk like people, they talk and do other things like people, only they're not people! They're ducks! One particular duck, Howard T. Duck, returns home one evening after a hard day at work and sits in his chair, pops open a beer and lights a cigar and enjoys the latest issue of PlayDuck when all of a sudden, Howard is pulled by a strange force right out of his living room, up into the sky, through space and finally ends up on the planet Earth in Cleveland, Ohio. He is frightened by everything he sees but he bravely comes to the aide of a young singer, Beverly Switzler, when a gang of punks pick on her. Beverly invites Howard to her apartment and offers to help him, so they take him to a museum where a lab assistant, Phil Blumburtt, works. He is of no help at all and Howard runs away from these people and finds himself sad and alone in this strange world.       Howard came to the aide of Beverly again by getting rid of her sleazy manager. Phil Blumburtt's college, Dr. Jenning, knows how Howard arrived on earth at Dynatech, their all-powerful laser spectrescope had been positioned to Howard's planet by a strange source of energy and caused Howard to be pulled to earth. Howard was just eager to get home, but at the lab, chaos ensues! Apparently something else had also been pulled in from space. Something dreadful. It embodies Jenning and soon reveals itself it's a Dark Overlord with plans to rule Earth. He kidnaps Beverly, so Howard finds Phil and together, they take a small plane back to Dynatech to save Beverly and stop the Dark Overlord from bringing more overlords down to rule Earth. Phil had an idea the laser neutron laser. It had destructive power. Howard used it to destroy the Dark Overlord, but more overlords would be arriving in 30 seconds! So Howard destroyed the spectrescope, saving the world but forever ruining his chance to get home. Oh well, Howard had adapted nicely to mankind and became Beverly's new manager, so all was well again.         In my opinion, this was not a good movie. It was a real waste of time for both the people making it and the people watching it. Although Lea Thompson was a real cutie. Can you believe George Lucas worked on this? This movie was an all-time box office bomb! I know. I've seen it! So anyway, in conclusion, I strongly recommend you avoid this movie! Do not see it! It's very bad!- "}{"Title":"A stinker for the ages!","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the all-time stinkers. Howard the Duck just might be the worst big budget movie I've ever seen. This film ranks as one of the biggest bombs in film history. It cost around $40-50 million dollars to make this idiotic mess (expensive by 1980s standards; if this was made today, it would have cost over $100 million). Howard the Duck is based on a comic strip, and it should have stayed there. I don't know what was on George Lucas' mind when he agreed to executive produce this. He eventually disowned this stupid movie, but I wish I had never seen it. It stole two hours of my life. TWO HOURS I'LL NEVER GET BACK!!! No stars (out of four)  "},{"Title":"It made my worst movie list","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've seen bad movies before. Even the so terrible that they become funny movies such as Pirahna 2. But this isn't one of them. It just sucks. Good acting, direction, special effects, where were they? Don't even bother watching it. It has now become a quest of mine to sit through the entire movie. I've tried twice and failed. I got about an hour into the movie but just couldn't stand it anymore. Damn you George Lucas!!! This movie joins Jason X, which at least provided a so bad it's good experience and the Hulk, which also just sucked. The costume effects are also lacking, which is important when the main character is in a full costume for the whole movie. I guess the movie's plot is so poor that the rest of the movie just could not succeed. "},{"Title":"C'mon","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How can this movie not be on the worst 100 list? Because it's based on a comic book from Marvel? Because it was produced by the Great George Lucas? C'mon! I had the unfortunate luck to be in Cleveland on business and (I thought) this was the only thing worth watching in the hotel. God almighty was I wrong. Not even good as camp. And I can't imagine a bunch of retard sci-fi convention geeks ever making this even a cult classic. But I guess you never know. There are a lot of stupid people in the world. If anyone ever recommends this film cut off your relationship and perhaps have the person committed. They're obviously not in their right mind and have no right out with normal people.  "},{"Title":"HAHAHAHAHAHA! THE *GREATEST* MOVIE OF ALL TIME!","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have *actually* witnessed a film that surpasses the awesome badness that is Battlefield Earth. This thing has *got* to be the most horrendous flick ever produced in the 80's. I can suspend disbelief when watching science fiction films, but this flick sank right into the deepest depths of Utter Stoopidity!The most notorious things that tried my patience (WARNING! spoilers)1) The duckoid did not look at all the way I expected him to look. He just looked like a midget actor wearing the ugliest duck costume I've ever seen2) The Punk Rocker Girl (PRG) with the ridiculously huge hair our duckoid hero rescues. He hates humans and calls them 'hairless apes', yet he falls in love with a female 'hairless ape'. Somehow PRG falls in love with him - and he proceeds to get her laid (!?)3) PRG is supposed to be this tough, street-wise bad-girl but she's probably the wimpiest punk rockette I've ever seen4) The truly hideous musical number at the end - with the duckoid playing Air GuitarThe most hilarious thing is George Lucas was the producer behind the birth of this movie. Since he has a love of the truly pathetic (Ewoks, Jar Jar Binks and Brownies) it doesn't surprise me at all he would be responsible for the Creation of this...er... Movie. Even more hilarious is Mr Lucas virtually disowned this flick after it tanked at the box office. To add insult to injury, this movie then started mopping up the Razzie awards! Was only a teenager when I saw this on video, I don't remember it coming out in theaters over here.  What I do remember is this movie lagged way behind in the footsteps of far superior films at the time (and ripped them off i.e Short Circuit anyone?) Guess this thing went straight to video!MY CONCLUSION? It ranks right up there with the greatness of Battlefield Earth! 1/10 "},{"Title":"Transported","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sometimes a film is bad in uninteresting ways, so you are doubly cheated. Truly bad films are a special pleasure for me because they allow you to examine your limits in ways that the cozy ones don't. And when they relax in competence, sometimes you can fill the voids and create your own success outside the lines.Even when things get the bleakest, you can fall back on wondering how you could fix the thing. What is the shortest path from this failure to a film that works. Usually in this game, there's the task of removing what offends and then exploiting the one, usually one device that could reward.The reward here is the one that Napoleon Dynamite Igby Goes Down and a host of John Hughes movies exploited, the notion of a familiarity with unfamiliarity. Something deeper than different. Its the one thing that Marvel comics understood and they hammered at it from all sides. If they were a political party, they'd be in and dealing with human needs instead of finding war.So the potential reward is uninteresting, as uninteresting as political dialog. Where does this thing go wrong? The answer is uninteresting in the extreme, I fear. In matters like this, you count on the filmmaker or writer to have a sense of place in the humor. Sometimes it doesn't have to actually be funny, but if that place is well founded and presented with confidence, then you go along for the ride.In fact it may even be better that way that's why people like Ed Wood so much. Corman. The thing knows what it is and lives. This is a collection of glancing hits. None of the arrows stick. No one found a groove.There is one interesting scene. We know that our savior is a girl so the salvation will be through sex. And we also know that she is a performer so that the construction of the thing will have her show Howard how to perform in the play that is his little life.So we have a sequence where she discovers a condom in his wallet. Then she teases him with her dancer's body and he responds. They commit to sex, at which point the story turns, the inner stage substituted for the outer.If this film worked, if it had been presented with confidence even, that one scene could be on my list of the great ones. Its a great, deep idea, worthy of the guy who wrote American Graffiti and the best Indiana Jones movie.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Just really, really, really bad","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I honestly don't know how I've managed to sit through this P.O.S. movie even once; it sucks so bad that it's impossible to know, or even speculate, how on earth it got through the entire production process, and all the way to the movies. The fact that this film isn't on the bottom 100 list here on the site is both astounding and scary. The movie is carried by usual 80's action/adventure clichés, bad acting, awful special effects, a wandering plot that barely makes sense no matter how you look at it, or how much you suspend disbelief. Believe me, the ridiculous dialog(with lines like No! He'll hit you! Duck! And proud of it!) is just the nail in the coffin. Seriously, what was wrong with the people who made this movie? They get almost painfully attractive Lea Thompson(probably best known as Caroline of Caroline In The City), place her in a scene in her underwear, and then they stop there. What's wrong with these people? A talking duck? Come on... I know that this was based on a comic book, but judging from the movie(and its success, or, rather, lack thereof) it should have stayed as a comic book. The film even makes Tim Robbins, a very good actor, look like a complete and utter moron, not to mention a poor actor(which he definitely is not). The film is just so horribly dated and poorly done that it's ridiculous. Granted, it's somewhat original, but originality does not equal greatness. The film is basically a tour of the 80's, and a great example of how (poor) movies were made in the 80's. At least it did terrible at the box office, so we weren't forced to tolerate a sequel to this crap. Some might enjoy this, but I certainly didn't. I recommend this only to huge fans of typical 80's movies. Everyone else; stay away. Far away. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Just ducky","Date":"14 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I know zilch about the source material, but I've always found the bubonic plague-like reputation of 'Howard The Duck' to be (somewhat) unfounded. I mean, is it a great movie? No. But I do believe this jauntily paced oddity is deceptively clever at times. Here are just a few of the things I enjoy about it.- That Cleveland is imagined as this nearly post apocalyptic New Wave nightmare filled with people who look like they just stepped out of 'A Clockwork Orange'.- Jeffrey Jones. Yeah, yeah, I know, me too. But I must say he absolutely owns here.- Howard feels like a real... duck. Yes, it's a dude (or dudes) in a costume, but the animatronics are just good enough, and combined with what I consider to be a fantastic voice performance from Chip Zien, they really bring the character to life.- Some great songs written by Thomas She blinded me with Science Dolby.- And Lea Thompson. Not only is she drop dead beautiful in a girl next door meets Madonna sort of way, she really gives a lively and charming performance. And, like Mark Hamill with Yoda in 'The Empire Strikes Back', because she believes in Howard, so do we.Again, good movie? No. But 'Howard The Duck' is a zany good time. "},{"Title":"Kinda torn; not really bad and not really good","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" HOWARD THE DUCK seems to be either love-it or hate-it, but I've never swung in either direction. It's just kinda . . . there, like a bemusing artifact from the '80s. There's great Phil Tippett stop-motion work, effects of the George Lucas brand, and a smokin' Lea Thompson; and there's also some really bad comedy, the acting's not great, and some eye-rolling lines. Jeffrey Jones' dark lord shtick feels ripped off from BUCKAROO BANZAI (maybe it was in the original comic, I dunno), and the action-filled road movie weighs heavy on the rest of the flick.Some of it works in a kitsch way, a lot of it does not. I didn't expect to hear Lea Thompson's actual singing voice, which was a nice surprise. And I kinda wish Joe Roma's Cajun Sushi was a real place. Does it merit the hate? I can see where it rankled many back in the '80s. Now it just stands as a bad idea from a few decades back that finally provides enjoyment to just the right cult audience (this'd make for a hell of a midnight screening).5 shrugs out of 10 "},{"Title":"Howard the Duck","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This (also known as Howard A New Breed of Hero) is talked about a lot as being one of the worst films ever made, and I knew that George Lucas produced it, having seen one or two clips I was up for challenging myself to see what I would think. Basically in a world of anthropomorphic ducks, Howard T. Duck (voiced by Chip Zien, portrayed by Ed Gale, Tim Rose, Steve Sleap, Peter Baird, Mary Wells, Lisa Sturz and Jordan Prentice) is a twenty seven year old who lives on Duckworld, and one night while looking through Playduck Magazine his armchair starts quaking, and then all the sudden while sat in it he propels backwards, being pulled into outer space. He eventually lands on the planet Earth in the city of Cleveland, Ohio, and after being thrown out of a club he ends up in a trash can in an alley, he sees club singer Beverly Switzler (Back to the Future's Lea Thompson) being assaulted and confronts the thugs with his own brand of Chinese Martial Arts, or Quack Fu, she lets him stay the night at her place. The next day Beverly takes Howard to supposed scientist Phil Blumburtt (Razzie nominated Tim Robbins) in the hope of helping him return to his own planet, but Phil is only a lab assistant, so Howards shuns Beverly's help, accepting he may have to stay on Earth he tries to get a job, this also fails so he goes to make up with Beverly, she sings in the band Cherry Bomb, and he confronts their sleazy manager to release them from their contract. Beverly suggests Howard becomes Cherry Bomb's new manager, they are interrupted while flirting by Phil who has brought along his colleagues Dr. Walter Jenning (Beetlejuice's Jeffrey Jones) and Carter (Miles Chapin), Jenning explains that Howard came to Earth because scientists were experimenting with a dimensional-jumping device that happened to be aimed at Howard's universe, he was sucked to Earth by mistake. They think there is a way to reverse the process and send him home, but arriving at the lab the laser is they find it is malfunctioning, and it causes Jenning to be taken over by an alien from the Nexus of Sominus, this creature in the doctor's body introduces himself as the Dark Overlord of the Universe and displays supernatural powers, and he kidnaps Beverly, and Howard goes to find Phil to help him rescue her. Back at the lab the Dark Overlord has tied Beverly onto a desk under the laser, Howard and Phil race to the lab in an ultralight aircraft, and elsewhere in the lab they find a neutron disintegrator, they shoot this military tested weapon at Jenning and force the alien out of his body, the Dark Overlord turns into a large and hideous scorpion like creature. Howard fires the neutron disintegrator again destroy the Dark Overlord, but more Dark Overlords are approaching Earth, he must destroy the laser and stop them, but in doing so he will not be able to go home, he chooses to do this and banish the monsters back to their dimension, Howard becomes the manager for Beverly and her band, and Phil is a crew member for their tour. Also starring Paul Guilfoyle as Lieutenant Welker, Liz Sagal as Ronette, Dominique Davalos as Cal, Holly Robinson Peete as K.C., Tommy Swerdlow as Ginger Moss and Richard Edson as Ritchie. I had no idea that this was based on a Marvel comics creation, that maybe explains why it was made in the first place, some sarcastic lines from the lead character, pop culture references and good special effects towards the end are not enough, some of the music is cheesy, the story is predictable and unengaging most of the time, and the acting and dialogue is terrible, there was a tiny part of me engaged, but maybe that's because it was so ridiculous, a silly comedy fantasy. It won the Razzies for Worst Picture, Worst Screenplay, Worst New Star for the six guys and gals in the duck suit and Worst Visual Effects, and it was nominated for Worst Supporting Actor, Worst Director for Willard Huyck, Worst Original Song for the title song Howard the Duck and Worst Picture of the Decade. Pretty poor! "},{"Title":"Cult comic book deserved better","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of the burning questions in comics-dom was why did George Lucas and cronies decide to take Steve Gerber's unique existential comic metaphor and turn it into a generic 80's action comedy? Howard is a duck out of water in a world of humans, and in the comics this is the starting point for sometimes grim social satire. In the movie, the 'why am I here and why are humans so weird?' ruminations are shoved aside in favor of expensive, noisy chase scenes and outrageous creature effects better suited to low budget B-movies. Comic book Howard's bitterly ironic sarcasm is replaced with 80s action movie throwaway one-liners. The final result is so different from the cult comic book that one wonders why they even kept the title... "}{"Title":"An awful mess","Date":"3 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- 1986, An extra planetary human size alien looking-like male duck is transported on an experimental laser beam to Earth. He causes a lot of drama and wants to go home. When the laser beam is started for the return process another evil dangerous alien arrives to make things worse.*Special Stars- Jeffrey Jones, Tim Robbins, Producer George Lucas*Theme- E.T. phone home.*Based on- Steve Gerber's sarcastic comic book character.*Trivia/location/goofs- This film is Lucas' biggest movie 'bomb'.*Emotion- A somewhat forgettable comic book character turned into a live action film in sets built in Cleveland, OH. This film is an awful headache for an awful mess. "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure!","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" An Anthropomorphic alien duck named Howard (Played by Ed Gale and voiced by Chip Zien) was having a miserable life back on his home planet. Until one night, he is accidentally sucked up by a mysterious beam as he is sent to Earth where he discovers that he's in a world of talking hairless apes. He does however fall in love with a beautiful singer named Beverly (Lea Thompson) but needs to find a way to get back home even with the help of a bumbling lab assistant named Phil (Tim Robbins) as he must deal with a scientist named Dr. Jennings (Jeffery Jones) who is possessed by an evil alien from space as Howard must save the world.A highly entertaining Sci-fi comedy from executive producer George Lucas is based on a cult Marvel Comic Book series by Steve Gerber. This movie was an expensive movie that took two and a half years to make and was a much hyped movie at the time, unfortunately it was a box-office bomb and was panned by many critics and some audiences at the time of it's theatrical release. It has retained a cult following over the years thanks to video and cable showings even by kids of the 80's such as myself, sure the story is stupid sounding and the acting is bad with some dialog but hey this is a fun movie. It's a silly, campy and enjoyable cult b-movie that has some charm for it's not so bad nowadays compared to those garbage parody movies like Epic Movie, Date Movie, Meet The Spartans and Disaster Movie which are FAR FAR WORSE then this one. Lea Thompson is soooo smokin' hot in this movie especially with that erection inducing scene where she wears those hot night clothes and i've always had a thing for her for many years, i remembered when i was 5 back in 1986 living in St. Louis my mom and dad took me to see this movie in theaters and i loved it. I got it recently on DVD and still love it for it's such a nice guilty pleasure that has quality entertainment that the whole family can enjoy together.Suspenstion of disbelief is required when watching this movie for it must not be taken seriously, just have a good time with this film and forget about it's past bad reputation for it's a great b-movie for what it is.A must see for families! "},{"Title":"A must see!!!","Date":"29 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This has to be the best example I've ever seen of a movie that's so bad it's good. The special effects are pitiful, the story line is cringe worthy, the jokes would make Jerry Lewis flinch, and worse of all it was high budget. I also like how this movie manages to knock one of Hollywood's most overrated icons down a peg (What was George Lucas thinking putting his name on this) This movie is about a duck being pulled through space from his parallel world that has ducks instead of people. The plot doesn't make a lot of sense and seems to take it self too seriously which makes the movie all that much funnier.All in all a funny movie where the biggest joke seems to be that someone made it in the first place. "},{"Title":"If you have read the comic book, then avoid this.","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you have asked someone who has watched the movie Howard the Duck, the answer that you will get one will be similar to these items listed below1. That film was horrible. 2. Worst film of the 80's. 3. The comic book was better than the movie.It's almost impossible to find Howard the Duck in stores, mainly because it was released on VHS, and any DVD version of it you find, is a HK (Hong Kong) version which has VHS quality. One day when I was looking at free movies on my cable provider. I saw that Howard the Duck was on there for watching. So later that night I selected Howard the Duck, and enjoyed the film. If you have read the comic book, then you will probably hate this film, as most people who hated the film read the comic book. Basically this film is about Howard the Duck who comes to Earth by accident from a world that is very similar to Earth, however ducks evolved instead of people. Now Howard must find a way back to his planet, while trying to survive on Earth. For the most part the cast was well chosen, and everybody did their job to play their parts to the best of their ability. What got me was the script. The script was bad as times and they way the script was written most of Howard lines are some the worst lines in the film. Some of the lines are just corny which is okay, but some are just outright bad. The special effect are pretty good considering that this film was made in the 80's. The best characters in this film in my opinion would be Beverly and Dr. Walter Jenning. The only part of the film that really made me a little unhappy was the Beverly and Howard scene where Beverly in her bra and panties and is close to hinting seduction to Howard. Now from my research in the comic books is is hinted that Howard and Beverly do have a sexual relationship. The film decided not to make it outright that do have this type of relationship or don't but make it so that it not quite right. If you like bad films and have not read the comic book, then you will probably enjoy this film. If you have read the comic book then ignore this film, you will most likely hate it. "},{"Title":"Another Movie from the 80's Destined for DVD - Gets My Vote!","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ah, the eighties! What precious movie gems and memories galore! Howard the Duck was by no means the best movie of that era, nor in any era thus far, but it has been on my list of MUST HAVE DVDs and I'm still waiting... patiently. No. Howard's not for everyone, and if you remember him from his Marvel Comics appearances, you may have boycotted the film for lack of vulgarity. Tsk. Tsk... a pity. Nonetheless, Howard the Duck is a classic and, in my opinion, deserves to go on DVD as well as be considered for a remake or even a sequel. Come on! with all of the magic they can do in movies these days with CGI and digital effects, Howard the Duck should be a no-bird-brainer! Note You don't have to have read the comic magazine to appreciate Howard the Duck. Just get a hold of this movie and watch it to see many of your favorite stars like Lea Thompson, Tim Robbins, Jeffrey Jones, etc. Oh and if you are a Ferris Bueller's Day Off fan, you'll dig the fact that three of that movie's stars appear in this flick too! Okay. Okay. Enough of my praise for this movie. Just go rent it or better yet, buy it and add it to your movie collection, especially if (WHEN) it hits DVD! - 'nuff said. "},{"Title":"Family film","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I wouldn't recommend this for just a one person showing. I'd recommend it for the entire family. At least you'd be able to have so family laughs and giggles.A duck from a distant planet is shot into space and is brought through a portal to Earth. He encounters punks, biker women, even cranky shop owners. He finally meets up with a gal that changes his life. He meets Beverly, a singer that isn't really treated well.Along with this we have monsters that come from another world to terrorize our hero's new life. Horward doesn't let that stop him. He destroys the dark lord and sends his pals back at a horrible price. He now is to remain on Earth.Along with a few laughs we also have a few words and some sexual tendencies. So this isn't for young children. More or less for children that are 11 and up. "},{"Title":"This duck simply was destined not to fly.","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was a bomb when it was released, but fortunately over the years it has attained a sort of cult following so there are people who enjoy this film. I am not one of them, however, I found this movie a bit boring with a rather stupid concept. Not that it doesn't have anything to it, I actually chuckle at some of it, overall though it is not much of a ride. I have to agree with the one reviewer that said one of the problems with this movie is that it looks cheap. Which is surprising considering we have the man who made the Star Wars trilogy behind this film. Unfortunately, you can't tell he had anything to do with this movie as the effects look like a cheap science fiction television show's special effects. The duck, the star of the show is annoying and the star of the show should not be a character you tire of hearing from during the course of the movie. Then there is the switch in the flick from a bit of a comedy to strange alien invasion movie that adds seriousness and action to a movie that would have probably benefited greatly from more comedy and a change in the way Howard spoke. Then the movie ends with a rock concert ending that is so lame you will roll your eyes and turn off your tape or change the channel before it finishes. It is funny though that I think this movie originated from a comic book. At the time there were so many comic books that had yet been translated to the big screen, I wonder why they decided to make this one? "},{"Title":"The best 2 hours I ever spent watching a motion picture!!!","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Perhaps one of the best movies of all times, it has a childlike simplicity and charm. One thing should be clear though, this movie is meant for children or a very young audience.Many adult/older people will feel their ideals challenged since this movie plays with a variety of themes, settings and characters. This can cause a severe reaction, but the problem does not exist in the movie itself. If you are not an open minded person, do NOT watch this movie.I can relate to this movie since I love ducks, built several airplanes after watching the ultra-light airplane scene and totally love astronomy. It has some nerdy star-trek type words which are so cool!!! And its hilarious because Howard is the evolutionary advanced duck that can't even fly P "},{"Title":"Rock star Lea Thompson","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I think that lea Thompson out all of the characters in this film are fantastic she is Rock Star and that is why i like her Really a lot she defines the Perfect Rockl star and she is really a great singer to just not good at friendships with Howard the duck when they fight and he Returns to find her she needed to be more Friendly and Help Howard the duckier find his way Home which did not Happen because of the Rocket ship which brought Howard the duck to planet earth became wrecked by a deadly explosion in Cleveland Ohio and they travel to North Dakota to find another Rocket to take Howard the duck Home not really achieving what they really intended to do Howard is forced to stay and live with the Rock star Lea Thompson and be a Rock star to....................... "},{"Title":"loved it as a kid, delightfully appalled now","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Wow back when I was 5 in 1986, I loved this movie, I thought it was great, I even liked the crappy song at the end of the movie. I have owned a VHS copy of it all these years that hasn't been viewed since the 80's. I recently watched it for the first time in years and I must say I was laughing so hard at how ridiculous it was that I almost peed. It still hold up as a classic bad 80's movie and I must say it is still hilarious and a bit twisted. How Lea Thompson is supposed to have a sexual relationship with a duck is beyond me and my biological understanding of birds but it is still a fun time. So check out the movie; grab a six pack and a good humored friend and go to town! "}{"Title":"An ILM Audition Reel!!!","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Momma always said, `you learn more from your failures, than you do from your successes.'  I think Momma has a point.  Sometimes failures can point the way to the future.  The 80's were a good barometer for that, and no other movie has blazed the trail of failure quite like Willard Huyck colossal miscalculation HOWARD THE DUCK. A movie that is inept and pointless, and yet so full of innovative and yes even breathtaking special effects.HOWARD THE DUCK tells the story of a duck named Howard (voiced by Chip Zein, and played by a bunch of little people in a duck suit) who lives on a planet much like earth, except Duck's are the top of the food chain.  He's a failed rock musician who's finally given up that dream and has settled into the mundane life of an advertising copywriter.  On one particular day, he's just gets home from another day of the daily grind, when he's sucked into a giant laser beam and transported to Cleveland, Ohio on our earth.  Let the comic hijinks begin&#133;well okay let the less than stellar puns begin.Howard meets Beverly (Lean Thompson) a struggling rock musician and takes up `roost' in her apartment.  After a day or so they fall in love.  There's also a young Lab Assistant named Phil (Tim Robbins in a star-making performance) and Dr. Jennings (Jefferey Jones) whom want to help Howard get home, via the giant laser beam that brought him to earth in the first place.I stop there because the second half of the movie has to do with this wild alien and I'm not quite sure I can do that part of the story any real justice.  Suffice to say there's an alien threat and Howard is here to stop it. Actually he kind of runs away from it as the alien menace and the cops try to stop him.HOWARD THE DUCK is based on a far more interesting and inventive comic book series created by Steve Gerber.  This movie and that series have absolutely nothing in common but the name.  In fact the movie ruined the comic book series that poor Steve Gerber sued Universal and George Lucas, and then killed off his Duck for a long time.  How's that for fair.Wait a second you say, go back just a minute, did you just say George Lucas?  Yes ladies and gentlemen.  George Lucas was the executive producer of this film and it shows.  His fingerprint is on everything and more importantly Industrial, Lights, and Magic have designed this film as their audition reel.  They throw everything into the pot, creature effects, stop motion, animation effects, makeup effects, an elaborate chase sequence (that I'm convinced was shot for shot re-created for the freeway chase in the MATRIX RELOADED, well not really but It's nice to speculate.) involving a small personal aircraft, and all of it is breath taking.But why?  Why did ILM and George Lucas waste all that time and energy?  The only thing I can think is that they were doing tests for Lucas's next big project WILLOW.    You're probably now asking why doesn't the film work?  The biggest problem is there is absoulty no screenplay.  The first 20 minutes of the film fly by, barely allowing the viewer to breathe.  The characters have time to meet, time to fight, time to get back together, all before the story begins to take shape.  By the time it does it shifts radically into a completely different movie involving giant space creatures.They started out with a promising idea; it's ET in the city.  How does this duck adapt to his surroundings?  That should have been the movie.  But there's no room for special effects that way.  So on comes Act 2, and so many effects shots you shake your head.I was also a little disgusted by the Human/Duck love scene of course you see nothing, but the implied relationship makes even less sense then the rest of the movie and is really there just to make a silly joke anyway. This is the key to why this film fails.  It doesn't set its tone properly.  Every other line is some comic zinger that falls flat because the movie doesn't know whether it's a comedy, or an action picture.  There satire, and drama all thrown out there but it goes nowhere.  This effects all the acting as well.  The human characters are robbed of any humanity because the script is so disjointed.  They overreact to everything and poor Tim Robbins is forced to mug for laughs when the audience already knows that there are none.  The script by director Huyck and his writing partner Gloria Katz is so bad you forget that these are the people who hit just the right beats in their more successful film AMERICAN GRAFFITTI.The films biggest flaw is that it has no audience.  It a tad bit vulgar for little kids, and if you reach the age of 8 you'll be far smarter than this movie is.  As for adults there is nothing of substance in the movie for people to grab onto.  But I guess in the end could HOWARD THE DUCK been a good picture?  Maybe!  There were definitely moments of light in the picture.  Moments that seemed unforced.  I especially loved the early scenes involving Howard and Beverly.  An interesting story could have unfolded.  But the films exciting visuals were more important to the bottom line.  In fact the bulk of the film contains this huge chase scene involving airplanes, cars, 18-Wheelers and lots of destruction. Sure the scene is cool to look at but it's not worth the Journey.Stay away from Howard the Duck.** Out of 5    "},{"Title":"Great special effects..........but the screen play is a nightmare.","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A scientific experiment unknowingly brings extraterrestrial life forms to the Earth through a laser beam. First is the cigar smoking drake Howard from the duck's planet. A few kids try to keep him from the greedy scientists and help him back to his planet. But then a much less friendly being arrives through the beam, and soon the dark lord (A giant monster) is trying to take over the world! Howard the duck is a bad movie--the plot is crap, the acting is pretty bad, and worse is the script. However, I was strangely engrossed by this film, and it does have several things going for it--the special effects are excellent, the production values are top-notch, and the film is set at a decent pace. This said, it's not a very good movie, in fact I'd go far enough to say children probably wouldn't be amused, though it has been a guilty pleasure of mine since I was about 6 years old...... 4.5/10. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but that's all","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a strange film. It's humorous enough and I enjoyed portions of it quite a bit, but overall, it kind of drags. There are humorous moments, but not enough to carry the film. The plot has so many holes in it that it can't carry the film when the humor fails. This is one that you might like if you're really down in the dumps but it's not really worth bothering with overall. I gave it only a 5. "},{"Title":"not as bad as a LOT may say it is","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Howard the duck is one of my favorite child hood movies although I haven't seen it like in 10 years or so. it's always been one of my favorite movies. I found a another gem recently Moving Violation that's been out of print for years. that's another classic, I don't know why people hate this movie so much. there's movies that are out now that are worse. the special effexx for the 1980's weren't bad even for a b-movie which I'm guessing it is. it's kind of hard to distinguish what would be described as a b-movie these days on how much movies are being made for. when i was a kid i always wanted to see a sequel for this. my ratings 5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"The best movie about a duck in 1986 Cleveland","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Howard The Duck.The best movie about a duck trapped in 1986 Cleveland....by far!Who knew ducks could talk, or that Marty McFly's Mom moved to Cleveland and became a punk rocker??On a sad not though, the only thing this movie was missing was Crispin Glover.  He'd have been a hoot.I sent myself on a cultural collision course and rented Howard The Duck and Citizen Kane on the same night.  Ah!!!  America!!I urge all of you to do the same.  It will actually put you in awe of the places films can go. "},{"Title":"This movie is toxic waste!","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"    If you're in the mood to see a fanasty/sci-fi movie, stay away from this one!  You will regret that you've ever laid eyes on it!  This movie was about a duck from outer space and he lands somewhere in Cleveland.  He finds loves after rescuing a wimpy punkette (Lea Thompson). The very thought of that idea made me and still makes me shudder!  This movie is full of nonsense and terrible special effects!  The dumbest and most laughable part was when that policeman got zapped by The Dark Overlord's laser gun!  And all the dialogue was ridiculous, too!  He kept using all these silly and unfunny puns, and he even gets his punkette friend doing them, too.   This movie was so stupid that it was laughable.  I have never liked George Lucas's films at all, but out of all the other films he produced, this one was the lamest of all!  Too bad the Dark Overlord didn't come back during the closing credits to turn Howard into Duck L'Orange!   This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen in my life!  I think this movie should be used to torture war criminals and death row inmates. "},{"Title":"great crappy movie","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  as much bashing as this movie gets, you'd think it was 'ishtar' or something. of course 'howard' was bad, so was the comic book. it's not lucas' fault that the idea, story and movie are bad. but knowing all that makes the flick that much more enjoyable. sure tim robbins was bad, but it didn't stop him from getting better. the same can be said for lea thompson. ok, at least those two went onto better things, but i'm tired of everybody trying to bash lucas, just to even out his mega-success ('star wars') with his utter failures ('willow'). it's not fair that a great little crappy movie get roasted just because somebody is p***ed at the fact that you can't make great movies 100% of the time, not even hitchcock did that. "},{"Title":"Good lord!","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" George Lucas was the executive producer of this mess? What was he thinking? I missed Howard when he hit theatres 12 years ago and boy was that one of the smartest moves I ever made! I'm not very familiar with the Howard the Duck comic strip but it had to be better than the movie. And the ad line for the film...Trapped in a world he never made..., What in the world is that supposed to mean? Back acting, bad story, bad characters,  (cool effects though), bad idea. Howard, go home!No sequels please!  "},{"Title":"An excellent movie if you're the right age!","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was 8-years-old when 'Howard the Duck' came out in theaters. To a child under 12 at that time, Howard the Duck was a fascinating, entertaining movie that captured a youngster's imagination. I wouldn't expect an adult in 1986 to have found the movie particularly captivating. I think that Howard the Duck is unfairly criticized because it was never intended to be a legendary movie like 'Star Wars' in spite of being a George Lucas film.My friends and I liked the film and we still enjoy watching it to this day because it's nostalgic. It takes us back to the time of Garbage Pail Kids, and Howard the Duck closely resembles the G.P.K. character Fowl Raoul. "},{"Title":"A 'great' achievement in the world of bad cinema","Date":"18 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was very fun to watch even though the ending was over the top and Howard the Duck himself looked incredibly fake (especially in broad daylight). It's a nice, cheesy popcorn flick of the late 1980s. Too bad it was a complete box-office failure and got heavily lambasted by critics. True, George Lucas was way over his head in making this film and should have stopped at the mention of talking duck,comes from outer space. I actually enjoyed this film right up until the big chase happens with Howard and Tim Robbins on the flying machine. Before that point, the movie seemed to be going along at a nice pace. We meet Howard, who is a kind, hard-working duck, just returning home from a tough day and about to relax. Then he gets pulled from his homeland to Earth and has to adapt to his new world. He meets a friend in Beverly but it soon starts turning into love and quickly snaps back to normal. We learn that a giant laser that malfunctioned is responsible for Howard's arrival. A Dr. Jennings is embodied by something known as the Dark Overlord and plans to call fellow aliens down from space. (BTW, Jeffrey Jones' voice of The Dark Overlord is classic and very well executed).Back to the chase. That's when things got out of hand. Everything started to look unreal and weird. The final scene where the evil Jennings sets his plan to take over the world in motion was laughable. And when I finally saw the actual Dark Overlord I merely chuckled. It was so incredibly phony looking and not at all scary. The 'Howard the Duck' song at the end was the worst thing I have witnessed but it was a nice ending to a pointless movie anyway. This film had it many faults but I do say it had some charm and humor to it. It was a cute film that might have been good for children minus the controversial bed scene between Howard and Beverly. "}{"Title":"This movie suffers from the self-fulfilling prophecy phenomenon","Date":"22 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" We all know there are really good movies and really bad movies. However, there is a small subset of movies that suffer from what I call the self-fulfilling prophecy phenomenon. What this means is if a movie garners enough academic opinion about itself and this opinion is able to snowball it strangely tends to stick even if this original view of the movie is actually misguided or simply incorrect.The most classic example of a positive snowball is Citizen Kane. Most would agree Citizen Kane is a very good movie and a very well made one especially given the time period and technology available. However, even though I'm an extremely well-versed movie buff, I've always had trouble agreeing with the well-established belief that Citizen Kane is considered the best movie ever by most rating systems.What I think happens with Citizen Kane and also Casablanca is that there was that very early belief about this movie that dug-in like a tick and has stuck ever since. So anyone who sees the movie, regardless of how they feel, convince themselves it's a very good movie, in fact the best, after all how could so many people be wrong? They may even hold this belief BEFORE seeing the movie.This is where the self-fulfilling prophecy comes in to play. If that many people continue to auto-agree or refuse to disagree, then the cemented opinion only becomes more permanent. Now was the original opinion of the movie correct during the time it came out? That's most likely believable. But considering the general consensus has been unchanged for nearly 75 years shows there must be other factors affecting its status. Maybe there's a subconscious respecting of elders that helps to keep the snowball rolling forward.Now, as far as Howard the Duck goes, I think it suffers form this same phenomenon in the negative direction. There was most likely a determined core of anti-Howard the Duck critics in the early days of this film who were hell bent on making sure this movie was permanently known as a bad movie. Most of us can agree that this movie certainly isn't the worst movie ever, and a large portion of us really like this movie. So, try to keep an open mind about movie reviews and any possible social phenomenon that might be occurring simultaneously. "},{"Title":"How could this be marketed as a Children's film?","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film is just obnoxious in every meaning of the word. It's dull, it's unimaginative, it's totally unconvincing and furthermore, it has no real qualities that would allow it to be marketed as a film for children, with many violent bar fights and lots of innuendos to adult humour. Howard the Duck himself looks like a Gerry Anderson Puppet, but at least Gerry Anderson kept his puppets in the model world. Apart from that, he is loudmouthed and overly sarcastic with the worst run of one liner's since Mr Freeze in Batman and Robin. Also, the idea of normal people being horribly killed and mutated into aliens seems rather dark as well, and I wouldn't expect something of that calibre to be in a kids film, but more something with at least a 12 Rating, it's just a lame and silly film that really isn't fun to watch. "},{"Title":"George, oh George, it went from star wars to this?","Date":"21 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Warningmay contain spoilers.I am sorry if this offends anyone but Howard the Duck is probably the worst movie ever, and if it isn't it sure comes close. This movie is painfully bad and I am guessing that whenever someone brings up Howard the Duck to Lucas he tries to change the subject as quick as he can. I honestly can not see how anyone could possibly like this. I mean come on, a duck from outer space, and dark overlords coming down? And the special effects are the worst. Everyone in the movie acts as if he actually looks like a duck, but come on he is so fake! And when the dark overlords are coming down you can see how fake they look! I just cannot believe how bad this movie is. "},{"Title":"Love as a child, hate as an adult, part 2","Date":"1 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Many of my childhood favourites have held up wonderfully, films like Disney's Beauty and the Beast and The Wizard of Oz. Howard the Duck is not one of them, in fact along with 1996's Kazaam it is one of those films that I cannot believe now that I loved as a child. It's not even so bad it's good, for me it is just excrement, and a fine example of a film that aimed to quack me up falls fowl. It does start off alright, but the last forty five minutes especially is so weird, creepy and dull it spoils the whole movie on its own. The production values are not that good, the special effects in particular look as though they were made on the cheap. The whole film is poorly scripted with jokes that made me groan rather than laugh, the story is bizarre in a distasteful way and the acting is poor. Howard is annoying, Lea Thompson plays it straight to the point you want to give her a steroid shot and Tim Robbins mugs embarrassingly. All in all, a real mess. 1/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The consensus is memorably bad, and i have to join them in agreement now!","Date":"6 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It is funny how revisiting a film you remember well as a child is completely marred by seeing it through adult eyes. I guess I thought talking ducks were kind of cool. I used to think that 'Howard the Duck' winning the Razzies was actually pretty harsh because of this childhood memory! I mean, it was a kid's movie, right? I only saw it once back then, and decided to be quite nostalgic sometime ago and popped in the DVD to watch it again.Boy, big mistake! Originally I didn't pick up on how detestable and annoying Howard actually was, and that he looked freakishly messed up with sub-par visual effects! Nor did I pick up on the terrible special effects overall, and the overuse of 80s fashion to the extreme. But worse still, the awkward and inappropriate spark between Howard and Lea Thompson- churned out with crappy dialogue and a duck-sized condom to boot! Could it get any worse? I remembered cliché bad guy in Jeffrey Jones being in the movie (who is actually quite decent even with the 'voice'), but had no idea that Tim Robbins was in this disaster, as a nerdy scientist before his claim to fame. His performance is embarrassing, but I still wanted him to pull out a gun and shoot the heck out of Howard! Eventually, after suffering through my curiosity again, I switched it off, and had to space out my torture to watch the ending later. I really can't believe I had a fond memory of this! * out of *****! "},{"Title":"My eyes couldn't take anymore so they ran out of my head.","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have no idea on earth I sat through two hours of this awful embarrassment of a movie. George Lucas must have been on some serious acid when he came up with the idea of a talking duck that fly's through space and ends up in Cleveland. Someone should have stopped him when he spent all that money on the duck costume. George, you're going too far! Nobody stopped him and therefore this pile of crap was puked out. I couldn't take the horrible jokes that the duck made or the stupid things that Dr. Jennings said when he was a space alien. My ears caved in because they could not endure it anymore. Then there is that just so nauseating part where Beverly and Howard start to make love. She must have been hard up for a paycheck when she read the script and saw that she would be making love to a duck. Ugh! How could anyone stand this? At least it didn't ruin Tim Robbins Career. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Why do people who enjoy films have to be pretentious and oh so cool. What is wrong with a bit of kindness fun and LOVE.What is so wonderful and artistic about being an old misery?In their time ABBA were despised by an older generation of hippies and rockers. They mumbled in their beards just like the old boys who opposed and moaned about them. The same happened with Grease. Yet today such artists and films bring families and generations together with enormous enjoyment.What is so great about music and films that act to cause disunity and misery?This great little film had a marvellous happy sense of fun.Why despise it?Cool (if brilliant) people like Lenny Bruce and Janis Joplin and Sid Vicious land up dead - is that a result?Come on fellows I love rock blues protest music and folk.But is Love in a Film such a threat to you?Enjoy this simple little film and be happy.... or have you grown old and grumpy already?Cheers all. "},{"Title":"you have to have an imagination!","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" the people who don't like this movie are people who don't have an imagination. this movie is for kids, i think they should let the kids watch and rate it, not and older person. i would like to watch this movie with my 9yr old daughter she loves these kinds of movies; and she loves it when we watch one of my favorite childhood movies together.I'm sure you know this movie was made in the 80's movie remember that while watching. the Howard the duck song at the end has always stuck with me every since i watched it. i thought for sure this movie got a better rating than that. why don't people like this movie? i wonder if they were young when this movie came out or were they old? "},{"Title":"Lea Thompson's best science fiction movie why no sequel?","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Lea Thompson's best science-fiction movie ever! Also, George Lucas only made two watchable movies - this and American Graffiti.Howard, as the Duck who fell to Earth, is a bit too kind and optimistic. Lea Thompson, as lead singer of The Cherry Bombs, is awesome as Beverly Switzler. Jeffery Jones is absolutely spot on as the mad scientist/Evil Overlord Dr. Jenning. He owns every scene he's in. Tim Robbins, however, did a poor job as Phil the janitor.THe beginning of the movie, in Duckland, is positively hilarious. Then Howard gets sucked out of his recliner by unknown forces and taken to Earth. Here he meets and defends Beverly against two goons,excellently played. Chip Zien does mighty work as the voice of Howard.Unfortunately, Tim Robbins acts like he punched his scenes in, with no vitality. George Lucas felt obligated to bring in ILM (Industrial Light and Magic), and millions of dollars were spent on an overly log chase scene (which appears to have been copied shot-for-shot by the movie Speed), money which would have been better spent with a better actor than the miscast Time Robbins, and using the talented writing of Steve Gerber more than Gloria Katz and Willard Huyck, who, apart from the opening, fell short of the Howard the Duck standard. But that's Hollywood.Excluding the chase scene (yeah, I know it's in there), this movie is better than the first Back to the Future (which is in my top ten movies ever), so I give it a rating of 10. Unfortunately, since the movie cost some $37 million in 1986, there has been no sequel.Put this out on DVD - I wanna see Lucas' director's cut! and then make a sequel, if Chip Zien and Steve Gerber are available. "},{"Title":"Great 80's flic","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I love this movie. I can't believe so many people didn't like it. It's not a movie to take seriously and if you just sit back and watch it's entertaining. The soundtrack is excellent and Lea Thompson (Beverly in the movie, also the chick in Back to the Future that plays the mom) actually sings some of them. I definitely recommend this movie. The movie progresses quickly which kind of gives you a feeling that it should have been longer and more developed. Also, it's funny that they use some of the popular terms used in the 80's. Many of the lines are really cheesy but they are suppose to be that way. Anyways, I think this movie is great and recommend it. "}{"Title":"excellent","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i think this film is awesome, it is one of the best films i have ever seen and certainly the best film of its time. i am a bit disappointed though that there was never a sequel as i think a howard the duck 2 would be really good especially considering the kind of special effects that can be used today.the film is about a duck who gets pulled through space by accident when scientists at the Dynatechnics Lab in Clevland run their first full scale test of the laserspectrascope, later when they try to send Howard back home they accidentally release one of the Dark Overlords Of The Universe from the Nexus of Sominus where they have been exiled for eons. now only Howard can use the Neutron Disintigrator to stop the Dark Overlord from freeing his racing and causing the extinction of all life on earth.a great plot and a fantastic film a must see for all.  "},{"Title":"When The Mighty Fall, They Fall Mighty Hard","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's not just that HOWARD THE DUCK is a bad movie. That would be fine -- I love bad movies, savoring them the way a connoisseur might linger over a fine wine, porterhouse steak, or other delicacy. Bad movies are my life to a degree GALAXY OF TERROR, WEB OF THE SPIDER, Spaghetti Westerns, Turkish made super hero ripoffs with guys running around in skeleton suits, Mexican wrestling horror with some freak in a silver mask fighting vampire babes. Love 'em.The problem with HOWARD THE DUCK has to do with proportions. You might even say Less is More when it comes to a good grade C minus movie, especially if it manages to leave you wanting more. With HOWARD, you want less. Far less. After about the third car chase, the fifth fistfight, countless pyrotechnic telekinesis attacks, the ultra-light aircraft chase, the runaway Mack truck, and the big climax at the exploding nuclear plant, you sort of want to reach into the screen and make it all stop. And even then the movie isn't over, as we are treated to a genuinely nightmare inducing scene of Howard wowing the audience at a rock concert with his Chuck Berry impersonation as his unspeakably jaw-dropping awful signature pop song plays.Who thought this movie was a good idea? George Lucas? He can't solely be to blame. Gloria Katz? She had co-written American Graffiti and Indiana Jones in the Temple of Doom. How did she have also written this? Or better yet, WHY did she right this? Her husband, director Willard Huyck? His career was more or less finished after HOWARD THE DUCK (shades of You'll never work again in this town.) even after he too had co-written American Graffiti & the Indiana Jones movie. In 1972 Huyck directed a marvelous little grade C zombie schlocker called MESSIAH OF EVIL (originally titled DEAD PEOPLE) that has one of the most insanely brutal & artistically unexpected endings to a horror movie ever. It's a marvelous little horror thriller, deserves to be resurrected, but THIS is the film he will be remembered for.It's a shame, see, because on their own -- even with former film school classmate George Lucas in cahoots -- they could not have raised the $36 million dollars ($50 million in today money) it took to finance this movie, and the additional nine million to promote it $45 million dollars, down the drain. Urban legend has it that some poor schmuck of a Universal Films studio chief who green-lighted the project quit and eventually attempted suicide over the 100% deserving negative reaction that HOWARD THE DUCK engendered within those who, for whatever reason, were compelled to see it. The public very wisely stayed at home, yet HOWARD inexplicably accumulated a passionate, massive cult following as a video era relic that I am at a loss to account for.The point being that not just someone, but **LEGIONS** of devoted, thoughtless, sycophantic film industry professionals, craftspeople, and talent apparently did think that HOWARD THE DUCK was a good idea. Track down the German DVD and check out the Duckumentary Teaser where Hollywood big mouth actor Tim Robbins speaks raves about HOWARD. He was convinced it was the movie experience of the year, maybe even his lifetime, and indeed Robbins pours his heart and soul into a frenetic, meaningless performance as some sort of biologist who helps Howard save the world from a giant mass of protoplasm & tendrils that looks like Jabba the Hutt turned inside out. At least Jeffery Jones has the insanity clause working in his defense if HOWARD THE DUCK ever comes up during a job interview.The movie is a loud, annoying, incoherent, seemingly never ending mess. It goes on and on, with more mayhem and destruction staged for untold millions of dollars that all amounts to absolutely nothing. The most disturbing aspect of the film is actually Howard the Duck himself, a two million dollar animatronic duck costume inhabited by a series of little people ... and because little people move in a certain way, whenever Howard is on screen you are painfully aware that what you are watching is an effect A dwarf in a really expensive duck costume. He never convinces as a character and will seep into your nightmares as he scuttles across the floor, dodging an exploding golf cart or piloting an ultra-light aircraft overhead as police cars careen & crash into bits, wasting millions of dollars of needless waste in their swath of destruction. And then there are the expensively detailed sets, props, effects sequences, stunts, robotic thingamajobs, and exploding electronics that punctuate every possible frame of the movie's gob smacking 140 minute length. The level of waste and manic futility is biblical in nature; this movie is bad on the scale of Iraq, the Dark Ages, Kraft Foods, graduate school, and MySpace all wrapped up into one self-indulgent, nauseating craptacular.There is no way to verbally describe how annoying, excruciating, and utterly un-enjoyable this movie is to sit through. It can't even be enjoyed as a good bad movie or inspire drinking games to turn it into a lark. You have to endure it the way one endures doing your taxes, or maybe having a manual prostate examination. There are certainly worse movies, but not many that are on the same scale. That's why it will forever be regarded in hushed awe when other mega-bomb stinkeroos like the remake of ROLLERBALL, JOHN Q., and CROSSROADS with Britney Spears have long been forgotten. And yet by all evidence available from the time of release, everyone involved with the production was 100% convinced that HOWARD THE DUCK would be a blockbuster hit. Why??2/10 You're also crazy if you live have to have this on DVD, and I am frightened by how many people apparently do. "},{"Title":"Maybe not the worst movie EVER- but definitely the worst I've ever seen","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I was seven years old, I was badly injured by a four wheeler that clipped me while I was on my bike. I lost control of my bike and suffered a head injury, hanging onto my bike for dear life over a ditch. I was then rescued by the school bus driver and brought to the general store where I was laid out on the front counter and told to squeeze fingers if I could understand the people around me. I suffered scars, a concussion, and amnesia... all incredibly painful things... But nothing was more painful to me than during my recovery,I asked my dad and brother to pick up a Donald duck video for me to cheer me up. They came home with HOWARD THE DUCK. God knows why they thought this movie would be appropriate for a seven year old, brain injured girl who just wanted to be entertained by DONALD DUCK. If they had read the back of the video box... would the plot summary have convinced them? Maybe it's the cigar smoking duck on the front cover? I don't know, but I do know that we all watched it together as a family. Or at least we attempted to. Between attempting to figure out what the heck was going on, the lousy and distracting music, the weird and uncomfortable sexual chemistry between Howard and Lea Thompson, the bad acting and lack of any plot that makes sense, I couldn't believe what I was seeing. Even now, 17 years later, the memory of my entire family shaking our cocked heads in disbelief at what we were seeing and dropping our jaws at the incredibly bad acting, bad special effects and horrible dialog, persists in my head. It's rather comical if you use this movie to play a joke on your friends. Tell them your going to see a really good movie. Wait about five minutes for them to say something negative. Then tell them it gets really good a little more in. See how long they can stand this movie before they give up on it and either burst out laughing or run from the room screaming, this is the worst movie I've ever seen. As a platform for your own entertainment... I guess it depends on how much you like movies that are so bad... their just bad. I personally think, aside from playing that fun trick on friends or family, Howard the Duck, the original copies, duplicates, videos and DVDs? (are there any?) shouldn't even remain on this earth to be destroyed. We should shoot them into space, and hope and pray that the sun will eventually extinguish them from our consciousness. "},{"Title":"Sometimes a bad movie is just a bad movie","Date":"22 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Don't be fooled by any attempt at resurrection or redemption. Howard The Duck is not a good a movie. True, the first half of it isn't nearly as bad as its infamous reputation. That second half, though&#x85;ye gods. The first hour is like a lame 80s sitcom in tone and tenor. Imagine My Two Dads starring a little person in a duck costume and you've got an idea of what it's like. The second hour is one of those epic crapfests where the film got completely away from the filmmakers and they didn't know how to get it back. It's also evident that the people who made Howard The Duck did not understand the way Steve Gerber's embittered everyduck was bound up in the zeitgeist of the 1970s and doesn't really work outside that era. Throw in an at times mind blowingly inappropriate soundtrack and you've got a motion picture that does deserve most of the disdain directed at it over the years.In the comics, Howard was an anthropomorphized duck from another dimension transported to Earth and trapped in a world he never made to be the cynical, struggling centerpiece of writer Steve Gerber's surreal social satire. His adventures became one of those mini cultural sensations that flare up and disappear almost as quickly, like the Adam West Batman show but on a much smaller level. There's only one scene in this movie that reflects Howard's comic book sensibilities. The rest of the time, this story could have been about Daffy, Donald or any other duck.In this film, the three foot high waterfowl finds himself transported from Duckworld to Earth, where he quickly meets Beverly Switzler (Lea Thompson), the lead singer in a girl band. She takes Howard in and leads him to over excited lab assistant Phil Blumburrt (Tim Robbins), who eventually connects Howard to Dr. Walter Jenning (Jeffrey Jones), the man whose experiment brought Howard to this planet. After trying to recreate that experiment, Dr. Jenning is possessed by an alien monster and Howard and company have to stop him from bringing the rest of his kind down and destroying the world.The list of good things about this movie isn't very long. Lea Thompson is cute as the dickins and admirably plays along with these filmmakers' poor sense of humor. Tim Robbins also eats the scenery with aplomb and Ed Gale and a set of other little people do an okay job of giving Howard a physical personality.As for the rest&#x85;oy.The musical score to Howard The Duck is one of the most unfortunate ones I've ever heard in any film. Imagine if Ghostbusters had had the soundtrack from Out of Africa. Now imagine if Ghostbusters also wasn't funny. That's what the music here is like. The writing is full of willful clichés, unearned sentimentality and lazy plotting. The direction is sterile, never giving the audience a defined point of view. We aren't shown the world through the eyes of Howard or any other character. The camera is always at an emotional and intellectual distance, which only highlights the dull-witted attempts at comedy.Even if the talent fairy had waved her magic wand and gotten the people behind this film to fix every other problem, it still would probably have been doomed by the terrible miscasting of Howard's voice. Chip Zien gives the curmudgeonly mallard all the depth of an infomercial host and all the edge of a Mormon candidate for President of the United States. Zien sounds like one of those bad standup comedians who get a TV show that airs for 6 episodes and then are never heard from again. Given the technical limitations of the day in regard to Howard's look and expression, getting the right voice for the character was absolutely essential and they blew it as bad as it could be blown.Some folks may try to tell you that Howard The Duck is a cult classic. They're wrong because the first half of the movie isn't nearly bad enough to qualify as cult. If you're in a forgiving mood, you might even like it. Not even Nelson Mandela has even forgiveness in him to tolerate the second half, but that has too much hackneyed, conventional Hollywood nonsense in it to merit cult status either. This is just another failed comic book adaptation, notable only for being one of the more eccentric comics to ever be brought to the big screen. "},{"Title":"The Horror, the horror!","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was supposed to be a comedy, but it wasn't funny once, not even by accident.This movie is proof that George Lucas needs adult supervision. Howard the Duck was the illegitimate father of Jar-Jar Binks.Words cannot describe the awfulness of it all. You have bad animatronics, you have Lea Thompson threatening interspecies sex in a PG movie. (There is also a scene with female duck nudity!) I think, and I might be spitballing here, is that someone saw Ghostbusters make a crapload of money, and figured there was space for an off the wall Sci-Fi comedy romp, and the comic book was popular, so why not? But what you got was a movie with unfunny gags and a puppet head on a midget that looked fake. (Well, on the brighter side, if George Lucas decided to do a special Edition, he'd replace Howard with some awful CGI Crap.... oh, no. Forget I said that. It might occur to him.) "},{"Title":"Still a terrible movie!","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I love reading all the reviews that tell us what goes on in Howard the Duck like the people are writing a school report for some film class. I also enjoy how so many people now think Howard the Duck isn't so bad when you consider it through nostalgic 20/20 hindsight. BAH!Now imagine taking your girlfriend back in 1986 to a movie you heard was produced by George Lucas. Imagine also having to argue with the girlfriend about the choice, because she most likely wanted to see something else not duck related and without the visual competition of Lea Thompson. And finally, imagine how smug my girlfriend was when I could not stop screaming what a waste of money we just spent watching Howard the Duck.I just watched Howard the Duck on the Universal Channel here on Russian cable for the first time in decades. Yeah, there is some nostalgia one feels, but only at how bad this movie really is, not because I longed to be back in the 1980's. I'm happy to say that I won't feel the need to watch Howard the Duck again for another couple of decades! "},{"Title":"No wonder it's forgotten.","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I never heard of this movie until I looked it up on George Lucas's filmography. I learned it was a flop of it's time, and didn't see the whole film till 2008.Howard the Duck is about a duck who got tractor beamed from his planet of the Ducks to Earth. Where he was about to witness a world that's similar to his except ducks aren't the superior species on the planet, but humans. Alone and chased by those who find him to be a mutant. Howard eventually befriends with a diva who was trying to get her all girl band to become popular. After meeting Howard she tries to find a way to get Howard back to his home planet.This is one of those movies that couldn't be done successful on live action format. If it were animated it probably wouldn't be any different since the script need a lot of grading to do. I heard that the comic is different from this movie. But I doubt I would find the time to read a lesser known comic series.Just to be brief, there's nothing special about this movie. Even if it's left open for a sequel. That will never happen in this life time. Cause the whole idea and plot of this film are hideous and sloppy. It's not something to watch a second time. To me this movie would of been better if the script was re-written so that way it would be more bearable to watch. Plus Duckman was way more cooler than Howard is. If it weren't for this movie, George Lucas would of had more money in his pocket & the original CEO of Universal wouldn't of gotten the boot back in 1986.Since it's so unpopular it's unlikely we'd ever see a DVD release of this film. Even if there was one it just be one of those bone dry DVD bargains that have zero features to them. And you'll bet this will not likely to be released on Blu-ray either. Cause presenting this film in better definition won't save it from the trash bin.In case you're so curious in seeing this film, I won't stop you after giving out so many cautions. You'll only be able to see this film on used VHS tapes that are less than a penny. "},{"Title":"* out of 4","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard, a duck the size of a human man, is accidentally brought to Earth through a laser beam in an experiment being performed by a Cleveland physicist Dr. Walter Jenning, and his assistant Phil Blumburtt. Howard ends up in Cleveland, where he rescues singer Beverly Switzer from a group of thugs. Beverly and Phil are friends, and when the government is told about Howard, she helps Phil and Dr. Jenning hide Howard from the authorities until they can get him back home -- but then an evil being arrives through the laser beam and takes possession of Dr. Jenning's body, putting Howard, Beverly, and Phil in a fight for their lives.This is a bad film. If you want a bad film, watch this. I got this in a trade and It's bad. It's kind of a guilty pleasure though. I mean, it's like Kazaam and Troll 2. And also, why is this not in the IMDb Bottom 100? And that's not enough for me to give it an awful rating. I'm sorry, but this is just not fun to watch.Awesomely Bad Scale * * * out of 4. "},{"Title":"Duck saves earth.","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't know what all you degenerates are smoking out there but you better ease up on this movie.This flick is filled with talent. we got Lucas, Robbins, Jones, Thompson, and plenty of dark overlords of the universe. The story is imaginative and the effects are very impressive. The only problem the public had with this movie is that it starred a talking duck. This is what happens when you set the bar too high for someone like George Lucas. MOVIES ARE SUPPOSED TO BE CREATIVE AND ENTERTAINING. Sure it was a box office flop but so was Last Action Hero (need i say more).>IM THE PARTY POOPER "},{"Title":"Midget in a Duck Suit","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Lea Thompson as an 80's Rock Chick, Tim Robbins as a Vivisectionist Janitor, Four Midgets in a Duck Suit, Undertones of Bestiality, Produced by George Lucas, Directed at an Audience of Under-13's, and all Written by the same guy who wrote 'American Graffiti' and 'Indiana Jones & The Temple of Doom'?What is not to like about this film other than the fact that it's one of the worst train-wrecks ever put on celluloid for the entire world to see?This film has everything you could ever want in a film. I mean, a talking Duck from a parallel universe to ours is jettisoned through space and ends up on earth, gets involved with a really sexy girl named Beverly (Lea Thompson), gets a job at a 'massage parlour' but quits almost immediately, becomes the manager of an all-female 80's rock band, meets a group of scientists (including Tim Robbins and Jeffrey Jones) who can send him back to his planet using a giant laser but in the process bring through 'The Dark Overlord of the Universe' (also Jeffrey Jones) accidentally, the sexy girl gets kidnapped by 'The Overlord' and is strapped under a laser beam, the scientist (Tim Robbins) teaches the Duck to fly a plane, the Duck shoots a rocket at the laser and saves the universe, and finally the Duck joins the sexy girl's band and becomes an expert guitarist....and that's it.Let me tell you, 'The Godfather' this is not, it's not even 'Manos The Hands of Fate', baby.Now, Tim Robbins - In 1994 a film was made that was so brilliant and so touching that it has gone down in history as one of the most under-appreciated films of all time, 'The Shawshank Redemption', and Tim Robbins was in it. He also produced, wrote and directed one of the best films of the past 20 years, 'Dead Man Walking' and has been likened to Orson Welles for the versatility he shows to his craft. Despite having such a highly acclaimed career, I will always remember him as Phil Blumburtt, the Janitor/Vivisectionist Lab-assistant is 'Howard the Duck'. His performance in this film deserves every credit it got, including the nomination for the 'Worst Supporting Actor' at the Golden Raspberry Awards in 1987. I cannot begin to go into detail about what's wrong with his performance, you just have to see it for yourself, but by god, don't pay to see it.George Lucas - Sci-Fi nerds look at him as a God, they view him as the Messiah, the genius of modern Science Fiction films, the man behind the legend that is 'Star Wars'. George Lucas rarely talks about 'Howard the Duck' but when he does, he often fails to discuss the $21,000,000 loss at the box-office for this film and critical objections, and rather chooses to discuss how the character Howard would have been better if it was entirely computer generated (CG). Whenever Sci-Fi nerds talk to me about George Lucas, whenever they talk about him in such high appraisal, I always tell them about the two alternative legends - 1. The Star Wars Christmas Special, and 2. Howard the Duck.I give this film a 10/10 rating because it shows just how simple it is for such highly regarded Hollywood people as George Lucas and Tim Robbins to screw things up, and thus providing people like me endless hours of discussion about the fallibility of the Hollywood machine. "}{"Title":"I saw this movie too. Easy target as it may be, now I get to express MY HATED... I lost seconds of my life, too!","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" by Dane YoussefOh, Jesus...What can possibly be said about this movie that hasn't already be said a thousand times? It almost seems redundant and tiresome to keep shooting such an already over-satirized target... though this movie took moments off my life I will never have back. I watched it simply to see what all the fuss was about.I understand now...Ughhhhhh....I actually feel like I'm suffering from motion sickness just THINKING about this movie...Special FX Master George Lucas disowned this film. I know Willow wasn't great... and neither was Radioland Murders Or Star Wars Episode II...But here is a movie... that brings us all together... unifying us... in anger, disgust and hate... and annoyance...Too stupid and lame to be fun and thought-provoking... takes itself too seriously to be campy fun (even by the standards of schlock '50's sci-fi/action movies--now some of THOSE are fun!)Too poorly filmed and horribly shot and embarrassingly acted to a fun family movie...too awkward and straight-faced to even be unintentionally funny.......and the bestiality thing with Thompson and the duck... well, there's just NO genre for that, now is there?This was not a good day for film. It's like a full-length version of ALF....But with none of the charm, innocence, sweetness, much grosser, much raunchier... and special FX that even for their time, look cheesy and crummy and like rolling static.And this came from Lucas, who's special FX company ILM is the finest on the planet? The effects are phony and ugly and hideous and horribly unconvincing... and that's the last thing we'd ever expect from George Lucas.It's all too easy (to quote the great Darth Vader) to point out what a hideously mismade, tacky as can be blunder. One can go on and on about what a monumental waste of film, time, money and other precious human resources. Hell, look at all the time and effort Lucas' other company, Industrial Light & Magic put into this one. Why didn't they just set it all on fire and dump it all into a cesspool? Would've saved time and cut-out the middle-man. This little piffle was written by Gloria Katz and Willard Huyck, who are no strangers to Lucasfilm projects, having written several Lucas' projects (American Graffiti, Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom and Radioland Murders). They're obviously favorites and friends of Lucas and clearly they wanted to make a special-effects sci-fi extravaganza of their own. And you have to love Lucas for giving them the shot. But it's a disaster. Willard Hyuck has proved to be necessary and crucial script doctor polishing Lucas' stuff so he seems like a superhuman Greek god of film. But every film he's ever directed is not just bad, it becomes renown for being such a low point in cinema history. His catastrophes include Best Defense, Dead People and this steaming pile. (OK, I'll concede French Postcards. Hell, I guess even a broken clock is right twice a day).Does anyone here remember the scene where Jeffrey Jones as the Dark Overlord in the biker bar... the final showdown where the demons may enter through the portal to our dimension... the scene where Howard brawls with the guy managing the group... all had me shaking my head in disbelief...And the rolling credits over the musical montage concert at the end... didn't come soon enough.Former accomplished ballerina-turned actress Lea Thompson has recovered from this abomination thankfully. Though I certainly have not.It still haunts me...--Wishing Howard Got Home, Dane Youssef "},{"Title":"Please don't watch it.","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so weird. It stars a duck who looks like a human in a duck suit, and he lives on a planet exactly like earth except for ...ducks. Caroline in the City is in it, and she has this intimate relationship with the Duck. Unlike some bad movies, this will actually steal two hours of you life as well as your soul, and will leave you cowering in front of your TV, unable to speak or stop crying. "},{"Title":"It was a good movie if you like terrible things","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Howard the Duck was one of the worst movies of all time. It was very comparable to the absolute drivel which is the Relic. Terrible plot/acting/script/etc.... On a scale of 1 to 10....do negative numbers count?  "},{"Title":"A great example of a classic 80's Movie","Date":"10 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I must say after watching this film again I must admit that it actually isn't all that bad a film, though I am still deciding whether it should go into my keep collection on get put into my 'go and sell at Cash Convertors' collection. In a way I guess I can do without this film, though it is one of those classic 80's films that do bring back memories of a period in cinema where the special effects weren't digitalised yet still were realistic enough that they were able to create a pretty good film.This is what one would call a Fish out of Water film. Poor old Howard, who happens to be a duck, but not any ordinary duck but a duck that had evolved to be, well, like a human. On his world (which happens to be shaped like an egg) Ducks evolved as opposed to apes. However, one day, while sitting in his comfy chair, smoking a cigar and drinking a beer, he finds himself sucked into a vortex and dragged all of the way to Earth. Suddenly, he finds himself in a situation that he realises that he is out of his depth.It is not that Howard is any better that the people around him, just different. He is an evolved duck, and even then he cannot fly and he cannot swim (the first because he has evolved beyond wings, and the second because, well, he never learned to swim). Mind you, this movie isn't just about Howard wondering around trying to get used to Earth, that is only half of the movie. The other half involves him coming up against the Dark Overlords of the Universe. However, I suspect that many of you, at least those of you who are as old as I am (and I am not going to actually tell you how old I am) will already know this. Another, thing that I just thought of, this movie is pretty much an 80's version of Ted, except that Ted is a soppy feel good movie, where as this movie has The Dark Overlords of the Universe. "},{"Title":"Duck Boobs?! Duck Boobs?!!","Date":"30 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" George Lucas, what were you thinking?! You were the genius behind Radioland Murders, Star Wars, and Indiana Jones for goodness sake! Why did you have to create a bad movie like this?! This movie reminds me of a bad episode of Goosebumps where everybody's a duck! How many men do you think play Howard the Duck? Eight. That's right, eight men played the role of Howard the Duck(One did the voice and seven wore the costume on screen). The jokes are very stupid. They all involve duck puns! What does this movie think it is, The Super Mario Bros Super Show(The difference is that this involves pasta jokes)?! Wait a minute! Did I see a female duck with no clothes on?!! I'm not lying, I'm seeing duck boobs!! It's disgusting, it's revolting, and it's not suitable for kids! It's like Daisy Duck getting tired of her cartoon career at Disney and decides to go to an Adult Film Industry! And then, there's this nerdy numb-nuts played by Tim Robbins. Now I know what you're thinking What's so bad about this guy? Well, first, when supposedly attempting to translate Howard's speech, he sounds like Donald Duck trying to speak Japanese but fails to do so! Later in the movie, he speaks to Howard again and goes Wakka-Wakka-Wakka-Wakka. WHAAAAAAAT?! I can't even understand what he's saying! He sounds like Fozzie Bear with a severe sinus infection! And get this, he dates one of the singers. Oh sure, like a girl would have the hots for a loser who impersonates Donald Duck failing to speak Japanese and go Wakka-Wakka-Wakka-Wakka like one of the Muppets. Whoever got this movie made is a real quack(No pun intended). You must be completely stupid or high if you like this movie. Bottom Line Abysmal acting, idiotic humor, or no likable characters are the reasons why you should avoid Howard the Duck. "},{"Title":"Bad But Not As Bad As Its Rep","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Howard the Duck (1986) * 1/2 (out of 4) Notorious flop about the wisecracking duck Howard who gets sucked to Earth where he meets a wannabe rock star (Lea Thompson) as well as a couple scientists (Jeffrey Jones, Tim Robbins). Soon a vicious monster threatens to take everything over so the group must destroy him while trying to get Howard back home. This was my first time watching this film since I was a kid and it really didn't shock me to see how bad the movie was. I remembered it being pretty bad and I remember seeing it in the theater and how the majority of the people either left or simply fell asleep. Seeing the film today, now somewhat of a cult item, is rather strange because of how rude and rather dirty this movie is and by the fact that it was marketed for kids. I'm not going to sit here and say this is the worst movie ever made because it's not even the worst film of 1986. I'm also not going to try and say there's nothing good here because there actually is. The main culprit here is the horrendous screenplay that takes an hour to get going and then makes an even bigger mistake by going on for another 50-minutes. Whoever thought this story deserved a 111-minute movie must have been off their rockers or perhaps they had some sadist desire to torture viewers. The film contains amazingly long sequences that should have and could have been cut down a lot more than they actually were. Just take a look at the incredibly bad sequence inside the diner as Howard starts getting picked up by some rednecks. This follows with an even longer sequence of Robbins and Howard flying around for what reason I'm still not sure. Perhaps they just wanted to run the budget up? The film is pretty confusing as well because it's meant to be a kids movie but we get all sorts of sexual humor and not to mention an early scene with one of the duck women appearing topless, which I'm sure will be a site for young kids. There's a rather vomit-inducing sequence with Howard and Thompson in bed where she's pretending to want to have sex with him. Speaking of Thompson, she's actually one of the good things here as she never comes off looking too bad and she does bring a sweetness to the role. Robbins, on the other hand, is pretty bad here but the screenplay really didn't give him anything to worth with. The same could be said for Jones who is also wasted. As for Howard, I admit that I like him. Sure, the dialogue and jokes are pretty poor but that's not his fault. I actually liked the costume and thought he was cute enough in a weird sort of way. With that said, this is still a very bad movie that should only be viewed by those brave enough to witness the terror. "},{"Title":"Big belly flop!","Date":"8 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Had to be the biggest belly flop of a move ever made! Reportedly costing a ridiculous $50 million to make, Howard the Duck crashed and burned immediately upon its release. Luckily for most the damage it caused to reputations is all but forgotten some twelve years on; but how on earth did George Lucas manage to get involved in this glaring eyesore?Perhaps he was doing colleagues and writers Gloria Katz and Willard Huyck a favour, yet from the producer of the Star Wars and Indiana Jones series, this was a disastrous piece of misjudgment.Lea Thompson probably completely wiped her career with one foul swoop here, and if Jeffrey Jones ever had a promising future, it was gone after this. The only cast member who went on to better things was Tim Robbins, who was probably unrecognisable as the bumbling lab assistant anyway. Even composer John Barry wasted a perfectly good score on this film.Oh, by the way, was the film really that bad? Yes! It was a stinker!Tuesday, November 3, 1998 - Video "},{"Title":"best movie ever","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i saw this movie 35 times and i quit watching it just because someone recorded on the tape by mistake , the movie was gr8.comedy action romance thriller adventure sci-fi.i recommend to everyone to see it.i even learned my English from its simple language. the cast was very good the duck was really funny and inspiring with its fighting like saying being short is no matter u can be effective.the acting was great. the director was accurate. and even the sound effect and music was professional.just go and have a nice evening with it "},{"Title":"Why!!!???!!!","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I notice that this movie, Leonard 6 and Ishtar all seem to tie on people's list as the worst movies of the 80's. I guess I'm lucky because I've only seen this movie of the three. Howard is a annoying character. The movie tries to make him cute, but he's just irritating. Plus watching a guy in a duck outfit is not my idea of great cinema. The plot stinks. The puns are awful. Lea Thompson is wasted. The whole movie is just not entertaining unless one is a glutton for punishment. I used to hold the believe George Lucas was God untill I saw this on TV. The truly scary thing is this is one of my boyfriend's favorite movies. Now that is truly terrifying. "},{"Title":"Still makes me nauseous 20 years later...","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If this movie could be given a negative rating it would deserve a -10 out of -10.I haven't seen this god-awful sickness since the 80's, but even when I am reminded of it, I feel the same sense of queasiness that I experienced watching it way back then. I suppose that is something to recommend it, in an alternative universe, prison-camp-hell sort of way.If you find fake plastic puppets believable, have a tendency to lose control of your sexual inhibitions over a large yellow duck's bill and webbed feet, and enjoy fantasizing about such a puppet having the smarmy vain personality of the creepiest 'ladies man(?)' ever hammed up - plus enjoy watching a virginal girl-next-door actress (a rather sweet gal who didn't stand a chance of redeeming herself in this creep-fest) reduced to displaying hard-to-watch horniness for this dork...I mean, duck...then Hey, your stomach is stronger than mine.(I felt sorry for Lea Thompson at the time - it was hard to watch - she had this pretty solid 'image' going from the successful BTTF series - likable and talented - then to see her get trashed - likened it to seeing her in a porno or something. I give her props for her desperate attempt to portray as believable a direction that seemed to be coming from a drug-fueled, sadistic, pervert bent on humiliating her. I mean, it was that bad.) Nauseatingly fake, fake, fake, fake, fake - made worse by being washed over with creepy sexual tension.... "}{"Title":"Some thoughts on 20 years, straight from the duck's beak (as told by Howard T. Duck to People Magazine)","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" *So this big-shot producer says, 'I wanna give you a break, drake...'* I never should have listened to that studio exec, but those guys can talk a goose out of flying south for the winter. My friends all warned me. Supergirl called, whimpering. Doctor Dolittle called, screaming Danger! in my native tongue. Little Orphan Annie called, howling like Sandy at the moon. The Lone Ranger sent a tarnished silver bullet. Sergeant Pepper sent a tarnished silver cornet. Popeye sent an empty, rusting spinach can. Chitty Chitty Bang Bang sent a flat tire. Frank Herbert just stuck his head in the sand when I asked him about David Lynch and DUNE. But come on. You'd have done the same as me if it was George Lucas, Mister-Star-Wars himself, who offered to put your name on a movie. After HTD he was going to make PLANET OF THE DUCKS and THE ADVENTURES OF QUACKAROO BANZAI, or something. So I plucked out a quill-feather and signed away. Basically, his company promised THE MALLARD WHO FELL TO EARTH. Even more basically, it turned out to be XANADUCK. That turkey (no pun intended) went down harder and faster than my Uncle Horace the day he took both barrels of a 10-gauge. The papers called it a base canard. Frank Price, who ran the movie business at Universal Studios, quit. VARIETY's headline read, 'DUCK' Cooks Price's Goose. But, hey...Was it my fault Lucas hired a midget to play me, then blew $2 million on a duck-suit? Was it my fault director Willard Huyck gave me the emotional depth of a feather-duster? Was it my fault Huyck and his co-screenwriter Gloria Katz wrote in so many lame duck puns that I nearly quacked up? Oh, I'm plenty tough...no Mahatma Gander, so Huyck and Katz at least got that part right. But they turned me into something totally indifferent and uncaring--practically human.(For those of you who didn't do your own homework, Huyck and Katz are two old friends of Lucas, who wrote the screenplay for his movie AMERICAN GRAFFITI. Tragically, they also wrote the screenplay for his movie INDIANA JONES AND THE TEMPLE OF DOOM. Nobody's perfect, but that still should have been a sign, don't you think?) I'm a little down now, I admit it. These days, people want a duck, they don't call me; they call Daffy, who ain't got the brains of a decoy. My agent calls up the other major studios, and they keep saying, Howard the Who? *Nobody* wants a duck whose picture cost $50 million and lost $35 million.Lately, I been hitting the sauce pretty hard...And that orange sauce is a killer; I can't tell you how many ducks I seen lying face-down in the stuff. Who would have thought Howard the Duck, that webbed wit who conquered the Incredible Space Turnip and the Horrible Hellcow, could be finished off by something as ridiculous as Hollywood? "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Duck Movie","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember when this movie came out. I only wanted to see it because my friends told me that there would be a naked duck in it and I was convinced. Needless to say there was, but for a brief moment. The movie, though frowned upon, was actually pretty good. The acting wasn't top notch, nor was it bad and the whole concept was wacky and entertaining. I liked some of the sarcastic comments that Howard made and I like some of the reactions people had to his being.Jeffery Jones, after being taken over by an alien, was funny and convincing. The special effects were okay and the Lea Thomson was pretty good a struggling female rocker. Tim Robbins was great as a geeky scientist who was in love with Beverley.But the downsides are, it may have been to soon for a not yet ready public. The design on Howard was a little poor and the monster at the end was a let down, after it was built up for the entire movie. The climatic battle was sort of predictable and the end concert scene was corny and cheesy. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the worst movie I've ever seen. Stupid story and ridiculous acting. This movie should have never been made! I too cannot believe it's George Lucas? George what were you thinking......The only thing worse is Attack of the Killer Tomatoes........ "},{"Title":"That's it, no more Mr. Nice Duck.","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After watching Cobra, I got the opportunity to see the film that beat it for worst picture of 1986. I wish I hadn't! Of course, it was not only the worst picture, but the worst screenplay and worst visual effects. It was also nominated for worst director and worst original song, and Tim Robbins got a worst supporting actor nomination for his part. believe me it deserved every accolade it got. Of course, if it wasn't for Mommie Dearest, it would have been the worst picture in the 80s.Of course, the time wasn't a total loss as Lea Thompson (Back to the Future, Back to the Future II) was a delight to watch.George Lucas must be hanging his head in shame. "},{"Title":"Nikolai Gurdian gives this 2 feathers up!","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" On a lame Friday night in we decided to rent a movie. Our roommate Nikolai Gurdian was raving about this movie. He tried to explain the plot to us, did a horrible job, so we still thought that maybe we could watch the movie. mind you it's 2006 and we're 25 and yet somehow we agree to watch a movie about a giant duck. after the first 2 minutes i can safely say, unless you have watched this movie when you were younger and you want to relieve your days of the past, you are NOT going to enjoy this movie. sorry, but thats just the way it is. If you Do indeed enjoy the movie, however, I'm guessing your last name is Gurdian. "},{"Title":"Don't believe them,...they must all be George Lucas' family members!!!","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I checked out the reviews for HOWARD THE DUCK, I was flabbergasted to see that many people actually had the nerve to give this turkey of a film a 10. Now it IS possible for someone to like this family (after all, some people liked The Spice Girls and New Coke), but only a complete and total nut or a member of George Lucas' immediate family would consider this film to be on-par with GONE WITH THE WIND or CASABLANCA!!!! Ignore the sad individuals who deliberately over-score this film in order to boost it's overall rating to a still pathetic 3.9--it is a truly awful mess of a film.Much of the cause for this monstrosity of a film can be placed on two major problems. First, making a movie out of the comic book was practically impossible and few people out there even cared about the concept in the first place. Second, with more money thrown into this than the space program, it couldn't help but create a huge backlash--people waiting to say wow--they spent THAT much money and it SUCKED THAT badly!!--and sucked it certainly did.The movie also suffers from a horrid and often sick script. Double-entendres abound as well as naked duck-ladies from Howard's home planet (complete with boobs--a sight so disturbing I felt ill when they appeared out of no where) and references to sex between the duck and Earth ladies (yeccch). So, for all those who naturally assumed this would be a kids movie, it was insulting and gross and certainly NOT a film for the younger crowd.Nasty, stupid, poorly scripted and with some of the worst dialog of any film I have ever seen (including many of Ed Wood's)--this is a mistake of monumental proportions. About the only mistake George Lucas made other than producing this abysmal film was his insistence that the public loved Jar-Jar Binks. Jar-Jar and Howard the duck are, collectively, Satan! "}]