[{"Title":"One of the saddest, most shocking and realistic stories you may ever see.","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"47 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  River's edge is not a PLEASANT film to watch but it is an incredible one. Having viewed it many years ago I truly think it would still have the ability to shock were it to be re released or remade or something. Perhaps no movie ever made has captured the essense of young suburban inertia like this distrubing frightening movie. Given that this is based on a true story it is even more disturbing. Very well acted and just UNPLEASANT at many times to watch but also a little known masterpiece and a truely important film. Should be a mandatory to watch shown nationwide in all highschools. Fantastic. "},{"Title":"A Study in Interactive Psychology","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie for the second time.  I first saw it back in the mid-90's as a Vanguard Video selection.  It has retained it power.It is interesting from several aspects.  One is that it is based on a true story.  Two is it is a launching pad for two interesting actors Keanu Reeves and Crispin Glover. And three, it has Dennis Hopper in one of his better social misfit/psychotic character roles.The movie is also a study in the way people act in different settings.  You have characters in one-on-one, family, peer group, school, general society settings, etc.  The story does well in demonstrating how a person will act in each setting.I wish I could find the details of the actual murder to compare to the movie.  I saw a short bit that indicated it occurred in California and that several schoolmates were taken to view the corpse.  This is a good choice for a rainy night video rental.  Be prepared to feel unsettled at the end. "},{"Title":"Teenage apathy at its extreme. (spoilers)","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Less Than Zero could have been the 80s movie that reveals teenage apathy in its most extreme form had they actually stuck to the damn book. But, where they hadn't, this movie presents does the job, and leaves you with the creepiest feeling when its all over in ways not done until the late nineties with Larry Clark's movies 'Kids' and 'Bully.' Societal outcast teens are faced with a rather curious dilemma (they don't treat it much like one) when their estranged friend (Daniel Roebuck) boasts to them that he killed a teenage girl near the river's edge in their suburban town. Keanu Reeves may be the only civilized character among the bunch, the only one willing to exhibit any sort of conscience, anyway, while the others either don't do anything about the girl's death or want to help their friend hide the body. I don't know who is more sick in this film--Crispin Glover--who becomes nearly obsessed and quite paternal in trying to protect the friend and hide the crime by smuggling him out of the state. Dennis Hopper, an on-edge drug dealer (who clings to a female blowup doll) that befriends the teens (as a dealer, of course) and suddenly becomes involved in the events. Or, Josh Miller, who plays Reeve's little brother, Tim. He appears to be the most apathetic of them all, at least until his emotional breakdown at the end. It is definitely not peppy 80s teen fare, obviously. And certainly makes the point strikingly clear about the serious detachment these kids deal with (despite a bizarre series of events) thanks to many great performances all around (even Reeves proved some acting capability).Help yourself to a comedy to recover if it rocks you too hard. "},{"Title":"Chilling and effective examination of alienation and ambivalence","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tim Hunter made a masterful film in River's Edge, one of the most serious and thoughtful dramatic studies of teenage life I have ever seen.  So many elements of the film have a cult following (chief among them the performances of Crispin Glover as Layne and Dennis Hopper as Feck) that I will comment on my own personal favorite moment the harrowing sex scene between Matt (Keanu Reeves) and Clarissa (Ione Skye).  Entwined in sleeping bags with a six pack while police search for their good friend, the two try to find respite while the overwhelming events of the day coil into a vacuum of solitude and silence experienced by children who have sex without knowing each other or themselves.  Some will argue that Hunter is heavy-handed with the close association of sex and death, but to see Matt writhe helplessly under Clarissa while elsewhere John (Daniel Roebuck) describes to Feck what it was like to strangle his girlfriend always sends chills up and down my spine.  "},{"Title":"Disturbing Creepy 80's apathy!","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"27 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is one of the best of 1986 with creepy, yet intriguing performances from Crispin Glover and Dennis Hopper!  The Reagan years were pretty bleak for a lot of people, not just teenagers, but this flick really captured the desperation and despair.  Well-directed with great script (apparently based on a true story), I don't really see any weaknesses in this.  The opening shot was brilliant.Keanu Reeves was decent for a change and Miss Skye was right on the money.  Hopper had three other great performances that same year (Blue Velvet, Texas Chainsaw II, and Hoosiers).  I imagine this has a cult following and I wonder how this picture would fare if it was re-released.  Super stuff! "},{"Title":"Good movie!","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just watched River's Edge for the very first time tonight and I couldn't believe how good it was! I had heard about Crispin Glover's performance in this movie and, being a recent fan of his, I had to see it. I was truly amazed. He is a very talented actor. I had seen him in the movie Willard and that was what got me interested in him. I loved his wild hand gestures and his sudden outbursts. His rapid speeches and the way his eyes would grow wide during them were quite amusing. He played his character Layne as if he were him. Very brilliant. But I also liked the rest of the cast. Daniel Roebuck's character as John, the boy who strangles his girlfriend for no apparent reason, was to me, the most disturbing performance of this film. He felt no remorse for the horrible crime he committed. When he looked at the corpse his eyes were expressionless. It was haunting to see how emotionless he was. Gripping.  Keanu Reeves was great. In my opinion, he was the only one of the gang who was hurt by the murder. I don't think he actually knew Jamie (the victim) but he was truly haunted by the sight of the corpse. He told Clarissa (Ione Skye) right before they made love that the image of the body was still frozen in his mind. That would happen to me too! I also found Dennis Hopper's performance as Feck very brilliant. He was a killer too but he was sorry for what he had done. I was shocked when he killed John. John had told him the whole story about Jamie's murder and Feck knew John had to pay for what he had done. Very moving. I really found the performances of the young children very brilliant as well. Joshua Miller's character as Tim will probably scare the living daylights out of you. I couldn't believe how loveless he was! And as one person commented on this board, it is disturbing to think how there are actually 12 year olds out there like that!   But River's Edge is a very good movie and should be viewed by any movie fan. Thanks for reading my review!  "},{"Title":"This was considered radical when it first came out...","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I can remember a college professor commenting as to how disturbing this film was, reflecting the apathy of adolescents (this was before Generation X).In a way, most of us are products of the same consumer culture; these high school kids spend their time drinking, getting high and wondering what to do about the body left on a riverbank.What would they do today? Would things be different?. Some very important questions. There are some excellent scenes with Keanu Reeves, and the dysfunctional family he lives with; his 11 year old brother going out to get wasted; the mother has no idea what to do- spends her time drinking with her boyfriend.This film was a bit before its time in that it addresses the problems in lower class American society; these kids had no outlet; what is available for them in this dirt-water town? . All in all a few interesting social commentaries are presented, and there are no solutions. 9/10. "},{"Title":"An important film about apathy","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I once read Roger Ebert's review of River's Edge. Then years later, I read it again, and again...and again. I became increasingly curious about this movie since it was inspired by an actual murder case. However, it wasn't until early 2004 when I finally rented the movie, and watched it for the very first time. I watched it again a few weeks later, after buying a copy of it on DVD. The movie is not a docudrama. It is just a fictional story whose plot was inspired by a real-life murder. It was the 1981 murder of Marcy Conrad, who was killed by Anthony Jacques Broussard. Broussard bragged about the crime to his high school friends, and brought them over to the ravine to view the corpse. The disturbing thing about the case was that the none of the kids, who learned about Broussard's crime, went to the police. That's what River's Edge is all about teenagers deciding to protect their friend, in lieu of reporting his misdeed.I recommend River's Edge. It is a young adult drama that stands out in my mind, and whenever I feel compelled to talk about it, I do so. River's Edge is a story that shows just how apathetic some people can be. "},{"Title":"Disturbing, compelling movie.  Possible spoilers.","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie a number of times and find it very compelling and sad. The lack of real emotion from most of the characters is very disturbing. They seem empty, hopeless. The story is based on a real event.A teenage girl is murdered by her boyfriend for no obvious reason - apparently he just felt like it. Then he boasts about it to his friends and as they don't believe him he takes them to view the body - a number of times. No one reports the murder. There are two strong leads - Keanu Reeves and Crispen Glover - Crispen Glovers character is seriously annoying.Keanu's character Matt appears to be the only one who has a sense of right and wrong. This is Keanu at his best - a flawless performance and very believable - anyone who thinks this man can't act should watch this movie. Matt's little brother is almost the most disturbing character in the movie. Only twelve and no compassion or love factor in his life. It is very sad to think there are kids out there like this. It really makes you grateful for what you have. 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Award for Most Disturbing","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Samson 'John' Tollet (Daniel Roebuck) is a strange guy. But nobody foresaw that he would kill his girlfriend Jamie. He left her naked body on the river's edge. When he tells everybody, nobody believed him. When people actually saw the body, everybody must deal with it in their own way.The friends are all heavy metal listening slacker disaffected teens. Keanu Reeves plays the nice guy Matt. He's conflicted about Jamie's death. He knows something is morally wrong but he's unable to voice it at first. Keanu is able to inhabit this role perfectly. His uncomfortableness with Layne afterwards is amazing. Ione Skye plays Clarissa the sweet girl who just can't get up the courage to call the police. But it's Crispin Glover who steals the show playing Layne. He is the complete amoral weirdo. It's almost as if he enjoys the rush. It's more than a simple great movie. It's actually giving a slice of humanity and inhumanity without being preachy. It is unique. "}{"Title":"Wonderfully perplexing","Date":"22 February 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" River's Edge is a very perplexing movie. The most striking feature of the movie seems to be the universally apathetic characters. In the opening sequence we learn that Samson, a very large, uncontrollable teenager has killed Jamie, a member of his group of stoner friends from school, and left her naked body by the river's edge.While there are many movies about heartless killers, Samson is fully realized, such as he is, and I was struck by the utter lack of any rime or reason to his actions, any Hollywood touches to humanize him or explain what he did. He killed a girl and really doesn't care. There was no planning, before or after, no moralizing, at most he is amused by it.Samson (also called John because of his last name) tells his friends, who display apathy that might be shocking. The only one who seems to care is Layne (Crispin Glover) who wants to cover it up so his friend doesn't get arrested and executed. But the rest don't really seem too shaken by it, they don't get mad at John, they even justify his actions, and they certainly don't go to the police right away.River's Edge works because there is no clear message. I'm sure many people can find one in it, but it's definitely not a movie that hits you over the head with some moral. It presents some very strangely behaving people, who are often over the top but depicted with just enough realism that you have to take what is going on seriously. The fun in this movie is that you get to float around in this shockingly apathetic teenage wasteland for an hour and a half, and see what you can make of it.The main problem I had with the movie was the direction and soundtrack, which coincide to create awkward transitions and moments where River's Edge feels like a crappy low-budget flick you'd find being mocked on MST3K. None of the dialogue or plot falls into that category, but it's the transitions between scenes, where they often just kind of end unimpressive and cut to the next one.The soundtrack also kept drawing me away from the movie. It includes some edgy metal for 1986, which is perfectly fine for the movie, but it doesn't do much with it, and instead most of the music is an orchestral soundtrack. Parts of it are very atmospheric and perfect for the movie's feel, but at other times it is hitting cliché film score notes during tense scenes and really seeming quite cheesy. I contrasted this movie with Picnic at Hanging Rock, a spiritual cousin of River's Edge I would say, where the score was so utterly perfect at always building the mood, and really think River's Edge could have been an incredible movie with a score that consistent.River's Edge isn't perfect. I had honestly never even heard of it until I saw it mentioned as a superior film with the same basic themes as Bully by Larry Clark. I am very glad I rented it, and am a bit surprised I'd never heard of it. It deserves to be better known. It has some flaws and not everyone will like it, but there is a lot of depth here, and of course its cast includes several famous people in early or debut roles. "},{"Title":"missed point","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After reading some of these reviews, it is apparent that some have missed the point. What is great about this film (here comes the point), what is incredible about this film, what is astonishing about this film is that there is no proselytizing. There is no preaching. There is no preaching. There is no preaching. Life goes on. It is a masterpiece in letting an audience think for its collective self. These are just kids doing what kids do - without consciousness. We all went to school with kids like these. We are being numbed by fiction-/movie-/tv-/news-based reality/invention.Feck's (Dennis Hopper the great) girlfriend alone and his relationship with her is worth the price of renting this movie.There have been few movies before or since that measure up to the intelligence of this film. AMEN. "},{"Title":"Roebuck really makes this movie...","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Not to take away from anyone else, especially the writer Jimenez and the director Hunter, and the high school teacher and a lot of other people that make this movie really good, but I have to say I found Daniel Roebuck's performance completely riveting. He should have been nominated for it. He's big and brutal but also young and self-pitying and yet careless about his own fate. Those gestures, the tossing of beer cans and breaking into the ammo shop. Really well done.That scene w/Hopper and the doll by the riverbank was one of the better moments of cinema I've seen in a long, long time. Why was this movie so under the radar compared to other 80's movies? That's what I want someone on this board to answer. The critics kind of mystify me, I guess. I agree with a lot of the postings here that this movie is underrated. Buy why? "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever made","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" IMDb forces reviewers to type a certain amount of lines, but all I really want to say is -- This is an incredible film, and you can't consider yourself a film fan without having seen it. You ought to just trust me on this one and stop reading this review and get the movie and push play. But I have to type something. So, let me point out the following (1) River's Edge contains what still may well rank as Crispin Glover's all-time funniest and best performance in a film, and if you have been following Crispin Glover at all, you know that that alone justifies giving it a 10. Funny lines galore.(2) River's Edge contains the second-most memorable performance of Dennis Hopper's career (other than the one in Blue Velvet), and it is really excellent. Dennis Hopper is really funny.(3) River's Edge contains the best performance of Keanu Reeves' career, and it is excellent. It was the role he was born to play. He has plenty of good lines, but one in particular is really really funny. Listen close when his character and the step-dad are talking to one another.Still the best stoner film, it is much more than just that. It tends to show up in the drama sections of film-rental stores, but if this is a drama, it's the funniest drama of all time. "},{"Title":"A Powerful,Dark,Unforgettable,Underrated Classic. One Of The Best Teen Films Ever Made.","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" River's Edge is one of the best Teen films ever made and also one of the darkest Teen films ever made. Filled with terrific direction,great performances,a wonderful screenplay and a dark,unforgettable soundtrack,River's Edge is an Underrated classic that you won't forget.Set in California and Based on the true story of the 1981 murder of Marcy Renee Conrad who was murdered by boyfriend Jacques Broussard,River's Edge tells the story of teenager Samson 'John' Tollet(Daniek Roebeck)who murders his girlfriend Jamie(Danyl Deats). When John goes to school and tells his friends he killed his girlfriend,his friends don't believe John until he shows them the dead body. Realizing the danger,John's friend Layne(Crispin Glover)wants to protect him and leaves John under the watch of Local drug dealer Feck(Dennis Hopper)while John's other friends Matt(Keanu Reeves)and Clarissa(Ione Skye Leitch)are conflictedturn John in or be conflicted about it.Released in 1986/87,River's Edge was a great film because it was different from other Teen films at the time because it was not a John Hughes film or a Brat Pack film,but a dark Teen film that stands right next to Heathers as the darkest,Nihilistic Teen film of the 1980s that paved the way for films like Alpha Dog,Bully and Mean Creek. River's Edge is a powerful film that right from the start gives viewers a world that is bleak and filled with sadness and hopelessness and where you feel like the Teen characters have no future and will have nothing going for them and the only things that the teens can do is get stoned or drunk and have no emotion where the characters home life and town are broken and very downbeat. The teens in this film are not interested in going to the prom or getting a date but are focused and interested in doing nothing with their lives. What is shocking and disturbing about River's Edge isn't the murder itself(which is horrible)but how the characters react and feel about the murder. When the murder happens each character has a different feeling about it. Layne wants to protect John at any and all costs despite John murdering Jamie,John doesn't care about himself or the murder,Matt and Clarissa are conflicted and Feck cannot understand why John is so uncaring. Throughout the film there is a dark feeling of apathy and carelessness because despite Jamie being murdered the film's main characters act like the murder never happened or Jamie never existed or that the kids are too dazed and confused to care. You can say that RE is a Horror film in some ways not just because of the murder and dread surrounding the film but a Horror film about feelings and human emotions in society and how we as people deal with the harshness and darkness of most human beings. This film is a dark and grim study of human nature and apathy and how we as humans deal with things in life and you can say is true to the term disaffected youth because the teens don't know how to feel or react to the situation. What I also love about the film is the movie's offbeat and dark Humor which is thanks to the characters Lanye and Feck with Lanye trying to protect John at all costs and saying funny dialog and Feck whether it's scenes when he's dealing drugs to the kids and saying funny dialog,watching John or having conversations with his plastic sex doll Ellie. While the film is a drama River's Edge has a quirky sense of Humor. The screenplay by Neal Jimenez is excellent with Jimenez giving the film and the main characters well-written dialog as well as great depth and personality. Jimenez says the characters were based on friends that he knew and I really believe him because the characters feel real and truthful and the dialog doesn't feel forced but natural and honest. The ending of the film is excellent because of it's ambiguous nature and how it makes viewers asks questions rather than easily answering them for us and it's one of the things that makes River's edge a great film.The whole cast does great in their roles. Crispin Glover is brilliant,funny and over the top as Layne,the one who wants to protect John. Keanu Reeves is wonderful as Matt,with Reeves bringing depth to the role. Ione Skye Leitch is fantastic as Clarissa,Matt's love interest. Daniel Roebuck is great and bone-chilling as John,the killer of the film. Dennis Hopper is amazing,funny and over the top as Feck,a local drug dealer,with Hopper making Feck the most sympathetic character in the film. Joshua Miller is disturbing and memorable as Tim,Matt's little brother. Tom Bowler(Bennett),Jim Metzler(Mr. Burkewaite),Leo Rossi(Jim),Roxanna Zal(Maggie),Josh Richman(Tony),Phillip Brock(Mike),Constance Forslund(Madeleine),Taylor Negron(Checker) and Tammy Smith(Kim)give good performances as well.The direction by Tim Hunter is excellent,with Hunter bringing a dark,eerie,somber and gritty tone to the film and uses great camera angles and shots. Great direction by Hunter.The score by Jurgen Kniper is masterful,dark,big and powerful and definitely fits in with the tone of the film. A great score by Kniper. The film also great songs on the soundtrack from Slayer(Die By The Sword,Evil Has No Boundaries,Tormentor,Captor Of Sin),Fates Warning(Kyrie Eleison),Hallows Eve(Lethal Tendencies),Agent Orange(Fire In The Rain),The Vipers(Let Me Know),Burning Spear(Happy Day)and Hank Ballard(I'm Gonna Miss you and Let's Go,Let's Go,Let's Go). Great soundtrack.In final word,if you love Teen Films,True life films,Drama films or films in general,I highly suggest you see River's Edge,a powerful,underrated classic that will stay in your mind after you watch it. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"kind of disturbing, but a good movie, can't keep your eyes off of it.","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really don't have any complaints about this movie, except for the disturbing scenes with the body. I fell upon it while switching around the tv one night. The acting was actually amazing, I didn't expect it to be better than it appeared! I thought Keanu's(who looks the SAME since 1986, which is a very good thing hehe) acting was really *great*, and Crispin played his character perfectly! This movie is a hidden gem! Its a fresh awaking of reality to the '80s, compared to the other teen movies done by the brat pack(even though I do like those moives alot too). All in all, I give it thumbs up!  "},{"Title":"Suburban Anomi.","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" As warnings about our miscreant youth go, this one isn't bad. It's not new. It's just not bad. In the 1950s, the earliest era I remember, there was a crusade against rock and roll, said to be corrupting the morals of our otherwise pristine youngsters. On the Ed Sullivan Show, Elvis Presley was only photographed from the waist up because, it was thought, he did suggestive bumps below his belt. To be sure, Presley argued, I don't make no dirty body movements. A decade later, there were sex and drugs added to the rock and roll. Oh, and long hair. But none of that was particularly new either. Here's a complaint by Socrates from Plato's Republic.I mean such things as these when the young are to be silent before their elders; how they are to show respect to them by standing and making them sit; what honour is due to parents; what garments or shoes are to be worn; the mode of dressing the hair; deportment and manners in general. You would agree with me? Yes.The teen agers we see in River's Edge aren't really rebelling against anything. They're not like James Dean or Marlon Brando. They don't have anything to rebel against -- no poverty, no restrictive environment, no lack of material goods, no mean teachers, no oppressive moral structure -- just boredom and a lack of guidelines. Well, that's what anomi IS. The absence of guidelines. And it can be very stressful, like driving across the huge parking lot of a shopping mall, only all the yellow lines and arrows on the pavement are missing. It can drive anyone nuts. Daniel Roebuck, a plump and rather disturbed high school kid, has strangled his girl friend and left her naked body on the bank of the local river. He tells his friends. At first they don't believe him but then they investigate and find the remains, now pale with death and being visited by the occasional insect. Nobody knows what to do. They all knew poor Jennifer. They're all upset but more puzzled than anything else. I mean, why did John kill her? Should we inform the police? That's squealing on a friend, isn't it?The movie meanders around along with the handful of students that it aims to keep track of. The dead naked body doesn't exactly fade from their consciousness but its priority drops a few notches. They drink beer, smoke dope, get laid. The kid who is most worried is Crispin Glover. His aim is to protect the murderer, maybe get him out of town, if he can scrape together a car and enough money for gas. Glover overacts outlandishly. His every statement is an emphatic shout, as if the others are deaf. He waves his hands like a lunatic and his face is hawklike and red lipped, resembling Dracula possess by a dybbuk.The two prettiest kids are Keanu Reeves, who's no more than adequate, and Ione Skye, who is beautiful but as airheaded as the others. The most bizarre character is Dennis Hopper (who else?), the ex biker with the wooden leg and the plastic sex doll he carts around with him wherever he goes. Sometimes he dances with it. It's name is Elsie. He shoots someone else, it seems, partly because that someone else was using Elsie for the purpose for which she was designed and Hopper got jealous. The final scene is at Jennifer's open-casket funeral. She looks like a virgin, all in white lace, pure as a patient etherized upon a table. The camera gives us a glimpse of the frieze above the altar, a flamboyant pink Jesus surrounded by clouds and cherubim. One by one, a few of the kids walk past her casket and look down at Jennifer, then seat themselves. Their expressions tell us all we need to know about what they're feeling -- not much.No reason is given for the confusion, the lack of concern. Towards the end, one of the kids manages a few analytic sentences about the bomb and how, tomorrow, we might all be dead, but it's much like somebody deciding to buy an SUV, then sitting down and trying to figure out why he's doing it. "},{"Title":"Prophetic Insight","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Reflecting an increase in American teen violence in the 1980s, this film foreshadows school killings, like the Columbine tragedy, in the late 1990s. The film thus presented viewers in 1986 with a warning about future social trouble, a warning that went unheeded.With its ensemble cast, the film tells the story of a handful of aimless, desensitized high school students who, over the course of a few days, try to cover-up the murder of one of their peers by another peer. The murder occurs on a riverbank ... hence, the film's title. In their behavior, these kids display callousness and a frightening lack of responsibility and emotion. Their cover-up leader is the spaced-out, bug-eyed, super-animated Layne, irritatingly overplayed by Crispin Glover.Except for youthful Matt (Keanu Reeves) and his little sister, none of the characters are sympathetic or likable. The androgynous younger kid, Tim, is downright repulsive in his cruelty, especially toward his sister. The film clearly shows the disconnect between students and adults, which is a major factor in the kid's amoral behavior. These are your stereotyped, hip teens of the MTV generation, doing drugs, and acting cool, apathetic to the max, a grim reminder of what happens when parents, schools, and other social institutions ... fail.Conveniently, for the plot, an adult murderer named Feck (Dennis Hopper), who has evaded capture for years lives, with his blow-up doll, just down the street, and helps the kids in their cover-up. Feck also supplies them with drugs.It's all rather grim and depressing. Keanu does a really fine job in his performance. And I appreciate the significance of the film's social message. But the screen story is so drab and depressing, and the characters are so obnoxious, the film is just not that enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Creepy, weird and strange well what can i say Crispin Glover is in it","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not sure whether i like this film or not. I think it is creepy and completely weird.Crispin Glover as always gave a great performance as Layne. I think his performance was really good and one of his best, but i don't like the character at all. Keanu Reeves performance was really good, and i truly felt for his character. Over all i think the whole cast gave great performances as felt like the characters were real. I disliked some, but genuinely felt sorry for others (Keanu Reeves). I would like to know if that was the original ending that the film was supposed to have as it didn't end how i expected it to. I was disappointed in the ending and i don't feel that it did the rest of the film justice. If you are into creepy, weird and really well different movies, go for this one. If you like things that are normal, please stay away. "},{"Title":"A shocking movie; still relevant today","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Apparently this movie was based on a true story. I'm not sure how accurate it is, though. But it really reminded me of how when I see that someone has been murdered on the news, it's amazing how much it doesn't affect me. Sure, I think it's terrible, but I honestly don't care. I move on. It seems that murder is trivial now. This is what River's Edge shows. Nobody really seems to care about this girl and her death, not even the killer. Then what's the point? The killer in this story is John, and for the large amount of the movie he hides out with another killer named Feck, played by Dennis Hopper. Feck is older, and you can see the generational gap. He says he loved the girl that he killed. When he asks John if he loved the girl he killed, he simply replies, She was okay. The movie only seems to offer one solution life is more important than death. A character's life is spared, people get second chances, and one hopeless case is killed.The acting is really good. After watching this movie I could only come to the conclusion that Crispin Glover is either a brilliant actor, or a terrible actor. I still have no idea. He was my main reason to see this movie, though. But the best performance is clearly given by Dennis Hopper.Even though the fashion is really 80's and characters sometimes mention then-current issues, I still think River's Edge is as relevant today as ever.My rating 10/10 "}{"Title":"Didn't (really) work for me.","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The premise is promising, but things go wrong pretty much straight away with a lot of dubious and bad acting and even more dubious and bad dialogues. I mean, who really thought for a minute you could get away with a character like Layne is played by Crispin Glover? Maybe if you had a comedy in mind... But even the performance of Dennis Hopper is none too convincing.What I díd like was the setting of the '80s smalltown (inlcuding all kinds of smaller or bigger accessories), the metal music of Slayer, Hallows Eve and Fates Warning and the theme of 'modern day' indifference vs. giving a sh*t, but that will never be good enough when you come across such flaws before-mentioned.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Rare gem from the 80's","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was a fine unexpected surprise, I wasn't betting too much on it, since I had never heard of it (I stumbled upon the title casually, while watching a Dennis Hopper interview about Blue Velvet), but coming to think of it, why shouldn't anyone bet on it? It's got a great cast and an interesting plot. Unfortunately, I think today it files under the lost gems of the 80's label, but lucky are the ones who can dig it.If you look in the surface, it's a crime story with an interesting outlook on youth, including some (always welcome) weirdness by Crispin Glover and the late Dennis Hopper. But, after reflecting some more about it, it struck me that it's in fact a story about coping with death. We have a group of high school friends who are suddenly put against this insane situation, where one of them kills his girlfriend and starts bragging about it in school. What we see developing on screen afterwards are the effects that this scene, their friend's naked dead body near the river's edge, has on each one of them.After the first reaction, which can't be anything else but shock, each one of them deals with it in a different way, be it keeping quiet about it, telling the police but later regretting it, or even going into a sort of crazy breakdown &#x96; which is what Crispin Glover's character goes through, creating a fantasy in his mind that he has to save and help his friend escape no matter what. On the other hand, we have Dennis Hopper's character, Feck, who seems to be the only one who has been in touch with a death situation very similar before, and we can see where it's taken him. He is forced to face a situation like that again and, in his own way, too, will have to learn how to cope with death. Later on, we find out that Feck ended up killing John , because he couldn't accept his reasons for killing his girlfriend, which were different than Feck's, who killed his own because he loved her. The fascinating thing about this scene is that it shows that, the same way people react differently to the death of their loved ones and to death in general, people also kill for different reasons, and those reasons might as well not connect at all. "},{"Title":"Why do you think Russia is gearing up to kick our A$$e$ right now?","Date":"24 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When you're a confused teenager who has just killed your girlfriend, sometimes the only person you can count on is George McFly. Of course, I'm talking about Crispin Glover. Crispy steals the show here as Layne. His character is a winning combination of brains and good intentions. He is a true original with his slacker initiative and punk patriotism. This may be the 80s, but as true blue as Cookie Crisp is he is not going to play by Reagan's rules. To this bug-riding burnout, the only thing more ridiculous than conformity is no doubt, gloves with fingers.In an uncertain world, he is certain of one thing and that is the bond between two delinquent buddies. Crispin knows that he's got to look out for his friend. Unfortunately, Keannu doesn't know how to be a team player and that's where the main conflict of this film lies. When faced with a dead naked girl, do you do the right thing or do you do a half assed job of hiding the body? Dennis Hopper is a Fecking delight in this film as a Hopping crazy drug dealer with an affection for inflatable babes. But it's the younger generation of angstniks that shine in this movie and Crispin's leather jacket alone shines brighter than any bratpacker could ever hope to. "},{"Title":"It's more shocking if you know this is based on a true story...","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I didn't know this movie was based on a true events when I first saw this film. But now knowing that it is based on a true events adds to the value of it. Because even if it isn't based on a true event, it's still one of those shocking suburban movies dealing with teens inner-self and rebellion. The story is basically about a dead body and couple of teens that witnessed a dead body. And the thing is they know the murderer because he went around bragging about it. But took quite a while before someone reported the murder. Now again I saw this film without knowing it's based on a true story, but if you do watch this while knowing it's based on a true story it might add to the shock factor of it all. This sort of made me think about the human conscience and unstable people out there. Now this film will probably known for having Keanu Reeves when he was at his peak when it comes to his looks. But the show stealer is Crispin Glover, who is the most memorable character in this film and his freakouts are just so darn humorous. Yeah, I kinda feel bad about adding the word humorous for a movie like this, especially when it's based on a true event. But he does add a bit of humor to this movie as this over obsessive guy that spas out occasionally with motives and intentions that is so darn awkward. Or just doesn't make much sense. Any fan of Crispin Glover should check this film out. It's a shocking and engrossing film about teens with disillusioned thoughts and warped conscience. There is also one of the most annoying 12yr old kid character in this.8/10 "},{"Title":"This is a true story...","Date":"22 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A lot of people don't realize that this is based on a true story. I knew and went to jr high and high school with the people involved. This actually happened during our first year of high school. The characters were exaggerated a bit. I remember the kids coming back to school and talking about seeing a dead body and poking it with a stick. The girl who was killed was actually a very quiet and sweet girl who happened to befriend the wrong person. A lot of people were afraid of him and thought he was weird and avoided him. He wanted to be more than friends, she wasn't interested so he killed her (so the story goes). Google Marcy Conrad to get the real story. For me knowing what really happened and seeing this movie don't jive but overall it was a decent movie. "},{"Title":"A damning indictment of the MTV generation","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There were two films released in 1986 whose youthful protagonists confronted death in the form of a dead body. The first, Rob Reiner's coming-of-age drama, Stand By Me, was set in 1959 and followed three friends on a journey simply to witness a dead body, what they find (as the narrator advises) is themselves and each other. But what this film also highlights in the closing moments, is that these three kids, are the generation that will almost certainly be confronted with death in a more profound way, in Vietnam. Following shortly after Stand By Me, River's Edge was released, which tackled, not the nostalgic journey of three kids, who spend an encapsulated moment of perfection before innocence is lost, but portrayed a very contemporary place where the teenagers (the kids of the men who went to Vietnam) seem completely detached from death desensitised perhaps. Vietnam was, after all the first televised war in world history.This is a generation completely alienated from, and of course (as teenagers do) suspicious of the adult world, like no other generation before. These kids are from broken homes. 'John', a tall, bulking, detached guy nonchalantly tells his group of friends that he has killed a peer, Jamie (Danyi Deats), and left her naked by a river. Of course the friends do not believe him at first, but as they are all gradually taken to the site where the body lies, the event is proved. However, with such a fundamentally deep and seemingly unbreakable barrier between the adult world and the young, the murder is kept within the circle. Crispin Glover's Lanye (with his usual jittery, yet brimming style), takes the lead in covering up the conspiracy, but the group inevitably fractures and that adult wall is opened. Once this opens the adult world is confronted with a teenaged generation that is numb; that is, these 'young adults' have shown no emotion to the death of one of their fellow students.It's a damning indictment of the MTV (or Gen X) generation, whose diet of consumption in all of its capacities, had seemingly completely detached from society. It had seen it's parents generation fail in revolution, only to be eaten up be 'the system', becoming the executives of the money hungry 1980's. The only adult character that the group has any genuine contact with is a recluse, who's girlfriend is of the blow- up variety, selling weed to them, perhaps still living that '60's dream? Dennis Hopper's Feck provides this anchor between the generations - but his clearly boarder line mentality simply highlights that the dream has gone.With some decent performances from the likes of Keanu Reeves, Joshua Miller (whose precocious performance probably lead to him being cast as a 50 year old vampire in Katheryn Bigalow's Near Dark (1987), and particularly the killer, 'John', played with distance, and genuinely hauntingly detached looks, by Daniel Roebuck. Along with some beautifully stark cinematography by Frederick Elmes (who had collaborated with David Lynch on Eraserhead (1977) and Blue Velvet (1986)), the project also seems aesthetically and thematically linked to the later Twin Peaks televisions series (for which Tim Hunter directed some episodes). The film leaves you with a sour taste, perhaps the start of societal detachment that might later lead to events such as the Columbine shootings Writer Neal Jimenez did loosely base River's Edge on a real life incident involving 16 year old Anthony Jacques Broussard in Milpitas, California on November 3 1981.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Very good, almost brilliant","Date":"16 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Remember of Stand by Me and the whole thing of the four kids journey trying to find a dead body and on the way evaluating their lives up to that point? Now, picture this scenario what if one of the kids was involved in a murder and keep bragging to everybody about his act showing a corpse as a way to prove that he killed someone? River's Edge pretty much covers such topic except that instead of kids we have a bunch of teenagers (and some kids too) getting involved in a complicated situation. One of them killed a girl and for whatever reasons he decided to share this with his friends who don't know how to respond to such problem. A part of the group who saw the body wants to protect their killer friend (Daniel Roebuck) like his buddy Layne (Crispin Glover), while others more doubtful of the whole thing like Matt (Keanu Reeves) and Clarissa (Ione Skye) want to do the right thing and let this being handled by the cops. It's only the beginning of a snowball effect that will become an avalanche sooner or later when other people get stuck with them in this case such a dangerous lunatic (Dennis Hooper), Matt's younger brother and plenty of others. Dramatic and thrilling enough to make you care about it River's Edge is a good film while dealing about the teen angst and how they try to cope with adulthood and its problems (here, throughout this crime they'll learn the value of friendship and also some moralistic lessons). The greatest thing covered here was the lack of communication between the teens in certain moments, when they couldn't express what they were feeling about everything happening to them, that was incredibly real, this anxiety of wanting to say and show something but not being able to do it. Other good point that must be raised is their immaturity, also very credible. They're dumb characters but not dumb enough to let you hating them like some flicks tend to do; you'll understand their idiotic moves and actions as being completely natural to them who are more interested in getting stoned and causing trouble then realizing the consequences for their acts. Sadly, this could be an great movie if wasn't for the creative flights of imagination from its writer and director who put unnecessary and unrealistic things in a story that sounds so real, so credible. Examples the kids reaction when they see the body for the first time. I mean, do people wouldn't freak out a bit in seeing a friend that was killed by another friend?; the teacher's lousy reaction asking his students how they felt about the girl's murder, that was over-the-top and fake; the whole segment involving Keanu's little brother wanting to get revenge on him because he was beaten by him was very unbelievable, however it's interestingly presented, it's a good thing.What could make this movie better than it is would be erase Matt and Clarissa's date night when the whole disaster wasn't solved, that was distractive (and Keanu's face while getting laid. What was that?). Instead of these expendable tender moments the film should be longer and present more about the character's past, develop them in order so we could know how they were as friends, this sense of company, if they were so close to each other or if their friendship was always moved by some interest. The acting in this film is quite difficult to be analyzed, the result will vary depending of the viewer. I enjoyed the at times over-the-top performance of Crispin Glover, other people say he ruined the film. He's very good in playing this twisted junkie who wants to help his friend, trying to be the lead of the gang. Keanu is quite bad in this, emotionless. Having his role being played by Johnny Depp, even at that time when he wasn't all that famous, and we would have a different and good performance. The rest of the cast goes in between's, some good, some bad.It's well made and it makes some outstanding and relevant social commentaries on youth, family, and what growing up really means. Check it out some time. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Who can be blamed for the plight of teen generation ?  bad parenting or living in a small town existence from which there is no escape.","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" River's Edge is an extremely disturbing film written by acclaimed American screen writer Neal Jimenez.It is based on an actual event which happened at a time when most of American youngsters were trying to make sense of their lives.This is one of the most outstanding films made by American director Tim Hunter.Much of film's attention is focused on a reckless murder committed by a feckless teenager.This unfortunate event sets in motion a whole range of questions about real motivations of youngsters in American society.Those who saw this film during its initial release must have had vivid memories of great actor Dennis Hopper in a confused role as a sympathetic social outcast. Matrix star Keanu Reeves also looks good as one of the teenagers before he reached star status.At a time when teen flicks are made without any kind of serious preparation,it is hoped that River's Edge cannot simply be ignored as just another silly teen flick.It had massive impact on people who lived during turbulent times of the past when being an inhabitant of a sleepy town was akin to not having being born.For today's generation with their heady overdoses of Internet props such as Facebook,Twitter and Orkut,River's Edge might appear to be outdated but its importance cannot be denied by any serious film admirer. "},{"Title":"I feel&#133; nothing?","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A teenage film about angst, friendship, loyalty and growing-up&#133; but this isn't a happy outing on its part due to the circumstances and life-changing dilemmas surrounding the premise. What eventuates is quite numbing, haunting and downright cold. However I was expecting something a little more powerful and effective and while engrossing and unforgettable it didn't entirely stir up much in the way of emotions. The performances are reasonably a mixed bag, but there's a brutal honesty to them all. Dennis Hopper and especially Daniel Roebuck are amazing&#133; Crispin Glover eccentrically over does it and Keanu Reeves' dead as wood turn seems to pay off in his custom slacker role. Joshua John Millar is quite good and so is Ione Skye. Jim Metzler chimes in with a short, but highly engaging performance. The story is dramatically confronting, character-laced and harrowing in its eventual breakdown where it infuses a gritty and painful punch. Jürgen Knieper's swirling music score is simmering with anxiety, tension and wonder as the morals and commitments are tested and learnt. "},{"Title":"Truly great","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I didn't expect much from this movie, it was just one of those movies I thought I'd just watch because it was on television. i certainly underestimated this movie. It's about a guy who kills his girlfriend and brags to his friends. I was very happy with the acting, they had the characters played well. It was a particularly great scene when Feck(Dennis Hopper) and John(Daniel Roebuck) are talking to each other about why John killed Jamie. It's upsetting to hear how he explains that he wanted to feel control and thats why. But Feck had loved the girl he had killed. Feck felt remorse while John felt nothing, hell he was proud of what he'd done. It really makes you think about people. Keanu Reeves did a great job as Matt, and Ione Skye was good. It's weird to see her as a valedictorian in 'Say Anything' and her as Clarissa. Every actor did great at .....acting. It was real nice for a change. It was a great movie and I would definitely say I recommend it. "}{"Title":"Repellent but undeniably compelling look at a new kind of Blank Generation...","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A group of hardened young people have different reactions when a friend in their circle strangles his girlfriend and then shows off her lifeless nude body without any remorse. Depressing subject matter, filmed in chilly, dank surroundings, is aimed at exactly the type of troubled kids depicted on-screen. Perhaps taking his cue from Jonathan Kaplan's Over the Edge from 1979, director Tim Hunter doesn't make these characters sympathetic, and their slangy, nonchalant dialogue about the murder is nearly as chilling as the killing itself. With all this going on, we didn't really need Dennis Hopper as a wacko with a blow-up doll fetish, and another plot regarding two degenerate boys gets tiresome fast, yet the picture spoke to a whole generation of disenfranchised youth and continues to hold a spell for the young and misunderstood. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"one of my favorite movies of all time","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I hope the writer, director, editor, and composer (and let's not forget producer) read this... because their work was truly incredible on this movie. Let me start by saying that I am in no way affiliated with this movie. I am only a regular guy who has been a fan of this movie for about 12 years and have seen it about 8 times.Every second of this movie is touching. Every scene is classic. The acting is real. The movie is honest. You can relate to these characters as people, not actors.This tale follows three distinct killers at different stages in their lives. The story is carefully thought out and every sub-plot is intertwined and woven together, culminating in a message that leaves us pondering the values of right and wrong that each of us carries inside.Crispen Glover, Daniel Roebuck, Dennis Hopper, and Joshua John Miller (as a 12 year old boy) give absolutely amazing, real performances. I've seen this movie about 8 or more times and I still get so absorbed in their performances that I forget I am watching a movie. It's that good. Great job everyone who worked on this. Great job.The music is also wonderfully matched and haunting. With the chosen cast, the carefully timed editing and pacing, the mood and tone, and even the subject matter, the director made some of the best decisions for a movie I've ever seen.This movie is real. It's honest. It's a true movie experience which I will never forget. You may not be into the subject matter but it is something you cannot ignore. Ultimately, it's about people being people... and everyone can relate to that. I recommend this movie to fans of drama, suspense, and horror above almost every other film. "},{"Title":"An over-looked masterpiece.","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Before the wraith of Eric Harris and Dylan Klebod, who slaughtered some of their fellow students at Columbine High School in April 1999, Anthony Broussard, a dead-end teen, killed his girlfriend, Marcy Conrad in 1981, in the town of Miltipas, California. He bragged and showed his friends his dirty work; they didn't narc to the police for a few days. A 18-year-old student had a conscience, though, and Broussard was sent to the slammer.Tim Hunter's River's Edge is based on that same story and still remains scary, riverting and powerful at the same time. John Samson Toilet (Daniel Roebuck of Nash Bridges) is a fat, non-empathic fool who strangles his girlfriend after she demeans his late mother. He shows his buds the naked body and they divide over Samson's fate. Crispin Glover's Layne is electric and stupid. He protects Samson like a big brother (or a lover?) from the cops while Matt (played by a young, surprising good Keanu Reeves) is haunted by the image of the dead girl and does the right thing. He even get laid by Clarissa, one of the girl's close friends, played by Ione Skye, who shares Matt's feelings over the killing. Some people may disgusted by the film's comedy, but it's needed to help the audience deal with the situation. Dennis Hopper as the one-legged ex-biker-turned-free weed-dealer is a hoot. So is Glover. But what makes the film haunting isn't Roebuck (who admits his crime to Hopper in an spine-tingling scene), it's Tim (Joshua Miller), Matt's brother, who looks to John as a better role model than Matt in the film. Fortunately, at the end, the bond between idol and fan is broken.Watch this film with an open mind. Especially if you're a parent who has a troubled kid. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is so 1980's and that is what I like so much about it. It does an excellent job of conveying the feel of that odd decade. The reality that Russian nukes could wipe you out at any time. Reagan in the White House telling everybody that things were great, while more and more social programs were slashed. Young people dropped out, but not as far as their parents of the 1960's did. Young people still went to school, they just smoked so much dope that their sensetivities were all but dead. Nothing effected them, not even the death of one of their classmates at the hands of one of their friends. How weird is it to realize that the murder was wrong, but you are not sure why. Watching the characters deal with the crime is fascinating and telling of a very sick society. Glover is great, Keanu is great, Hopper is incredible. One of the most memorable movies I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"I'll be your friend","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"   I finally saw this on video, after years of hearing about it. It is by no means a perfect movie, but it is oddly hypnotic - one of those rare, special films that creates its own world. ***SPOILERS***  First, the bad stuff. The scenes in Burkewaite's class are excruciating. Even if the subject is Social Studies, this guy is WAY over the top. His speeches are so overwrought they are laughable. And no teachers I ever had would grill their students like that, and tell the ones who protest to Shut up!. These scenes are brief, but they break the mood and pull the viewer out of the story. Next, how the heck does Layne just walk out of the police station near the end? Also, what happened to Samson's car after the first scene of him riding into town? He spends the rest of the film being chaffeured around by Layne or Feck.  ***END SPOILERS*** Ahhh, Feck...this guy is great. Dennis Hopper effortlessly steals the movie. Check's in the mail, I love company, you're my friend - every line is a classic. He gives Feck an internal logic that makes the story work. Incredibly, he actually makes the audience feel empathy for this guy, especially when Samson talks about his (Samson's) future.   By contrast, Crispin Glover is hard to take sometimes. Yet the scenes of him driving around in the Beetle are perfect - kids with cars in high school always have something to do, and buds to do it with. Matt's low-key attitude makes a good foil for Layne - their friendship is believable. Glover's mannerisms are a little much, but he is consistent throughout. He drives the plot and exudes a sense of urgency that no one else does - just try to imagine this flick if Layne were as much of a zombie as Matt or Samson - snoozefest! ***SPOILERS***  What makes River's Edge unsettling is the fact that Samson is not really evil, in the usual sense. He is kind of a boring guy who got sick of being taken for granted - in other words, he is like thousands of other boring guys. After he kills Jamie, he starts to unravel, which creates some suspense as we wait to see when he will snap again. ***END SPOILERS***Part of this movie's appeal is the way the action stays centered around the teens and their point of view. The parents are comic relief - Clarissa's mom, Tony's dad - or overwhelmed - Matt's mom. This underlines how the kids hang together for the attention no one else gives them. It keeps the story focused on the relationships within the clique, and emphasizes that the only adult they can relate to is Feck. River's Edge is a textbook on alienation. It conveys how awkward, mysterious, and disconcerting adolescence is like no other film.  "},{"Title":"Good movie with GREAT look","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although I was hoping that I'd like it a little more, this was still certainly an impressive film.  There were great performances by all the leads, and the story, while not what I'd call chilling, was still effective and it kept me interested.  For me, the best part of this film was the look of the picture, for it always looked cold and damp and it just really seemed to suit the film well.  I also thought that the low budget suited this movie, for I don't think that a crisp picture and clear sound would have worked as well in a film this grim.  All things considered, it fell a little short of my expectations, but I'm still very glad that I finally sat down to watch this movie.  "},{"Title":"Classic! Kick-Ass! Disturbing, yet hilarious, and not a single dull moment!","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's often difficult for me to put my finger on every reason why I ADORE this flick. It really hits home with me, the way that it presents its grim, depressing subject almost as an exer- cise in deadpan comedy. It appears to take itself seriously, yet maintains a certain level of pulpy hokey-ness that makes it fun, and hilarious. Crispin Glover's portrayal of Layne is one of the coolest, most hysterical things I have ever seen. I will never forget this character, or a single one of his reverently-quoted lines! The flick is not particularly realistic in its portrayal of the kids' problems, but who said it had to be? It did capture the sadness of people so detached from real life, and from themselves, that they feel the need to create, and surround themselves with, chaos and melodrama, looking to give their empty lives some meaning. But the visual style of the film, along with the kids' corny-campy dialogue, and the hilariously cheesy heavy-metal soundtrack, have irrevocably endeared me to every single frame of this movie. Jurgen Knieper's original score is absolute perfection, one of the best I have ever heard. Last but DEFINITELY NOT LEAST, we have the absolutely priceless Joshua Miller(whom I have adored since the 1st time I saw his performance as Tim), having a BALL as the kid-brother-from-hell! All in all, sheer cinematic perfection! I know I will NEVER get tired of seeing this flick. My hat's off to anyone who had anything to do with it!!!!!  "},{"Title":"wow... pretty bad","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this a long time ago and had neutral-to-positive feelings about it. When I saw it on the shelf at the videostore I rented it again.I made it 53 minutes and 57 seconds into it, before losing interest and growing tired of the heinous acting. To say the least it's not aging well. Quality-wise, it's a heavy-handed TV movie of the week with a grade-Z horror movie score. The antagonist is Keanu Reeves little brother, who appears to be the world's first seven year old transsexual. A supposedly dead body breathes and is unaffected by decay or rigor mortis. One actor's portrayal of bad cop is anus-clenching-ly bad.Crispin Glover can be singled out for another atrocious, overacted performance. I wonder when the mothership is due back for him. "},{"Title":"Excellent drama with a commentary on modern society","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" River's Edge is an excellent film and it's a shame that it hasn't made more of a mark for itself in cinematic history. There were a number of gritty films based around school kids made in the eighties, but of all the ones I've seen; this is certainly the most nihilistic and disturbing. The film takes a storyline that is disturbing in its own right and adds the theme of teenage slackers and their uncaring attitude about things, which takes the story onto another level. The film works because the central story is interesting and it's played out by complex characters. The film begins with a murder. We then follow the murderer, nicknamed John, as he goes back to school and tells all his friends about what he has done. Rather than give the expected reaction, most of them hardly react at all and the strongest reaction that the murderer gets comes from Layne; who makes it his number one priority to help John clear up the mess he's in and get him out of it. The other friends mull over the crime, and before long one of them goes to the police...River's Edge features a host of great performances from its young cast. Keanu Reeves has a reputation for wooden acting, and for good reason; but he fits in very well to this early role and this performance is easily one of his best. Crispin Glover is the biggest standout as the slightly insane Layne. Glover always stands out in every film he's in, and while he does go over the top a little bit; he convinces well as the lead in this movie. Reeves and Glover receive good support from a talented young cast that includes Daniel Roebuck and Joshua john Miller, as well as the great Dennis Hopper in another wild role. The film features a very gritty picture which bodes well with its nihilistic tone. The central characters are all of the 'slacker/stoner' generation and the way that they genuinely don't seem to care about the murder of their friend is more shocking than the murder itself; and the point that the film tries to make about modern society is both strong and well defined. The film is also rather funny, owing to some of the characters' lines; but the humour is pitch black and clearly this film was never meant to be a comedy. Overall, this is an excellent and memorable film that is definitely worth seeing! "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie Of The 80's","Date":"12 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The acting and writing in this movie are so over-the-top that it cannot possibly have been meant to be taken serious. Crispin Glovers' wild-eyed affected performance is not to be missed. It is the pinnacle of his career. Dennis Hopper is perfectly cast as Feck, the aging biker who claims to have killed a girl in the past but that he loved her so it's OK. The psycho kid with the nun chucks is hilarious in a totally non- speaking role. And Keanu Reeves acts like, well, Keanu Reeves. This movie boasts line after line of quotable dialogue. The killers' nick name is John because his last name is 'Tollet which sounds like toilet. Check out the reason John killed the girl. You will never get tired of this movie. A classic! "}{"Title":"Take it to the edge","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" River's edge was shockingly disturbing in the sense, it was one of unfeeling. That's how I felt about when it first came out. And that's how I pretty much feel about it today. I guess just some parts of that memory faded. With that being said, it still was one of 87's best films. Shockingly enough, this was based on a similar incident. A big bull of a guy, psycho student, Roebuck, who doesn't take too kindly to people insulting his dead mother, sits by the edge of the river, chanting. Reason being, he has just strangled his naked girlfriend. He returns to school and openly admits this to his friends that include Keanu Reeves, really good here, and Crispin Glover in one of the best performances. So him and his friends go out to the river's edge, on their friend's ute, to confirm their doubts, where their doubts are replaced by looks of shock. It was Glover's reaction to this, that got me. It was kind of a thrill for him, with really only little shock in his initial response if that. As he quoted It's kind of cool. I feel like Chuck Norris, you know That bit of dialogue sounded out of place, but I think he could of used some other actors name instead of picking on Chuckie. And we're left with the situation, Who's gonna do the right thing, and that's not just morally. Lane (Crispin Glover) keeps John (Roebuck), harbored at a house, occupied by an old vet, Feck (Dennis Hopper who has been better). He killed a girl too, Ellie, the cops still looking for him, where in his defence, he explains to John, I was in love. And like most of the others in this sleepy town, he's on drugs too, a good source of supply to the young crowd. I didn't feel Hopper's character was going anywhere, but he is a surprise here, as in the film's resolution. I loved how he used this doll as a substitute for Ellie. Him, John, and Ellie, in the liquor store I loved as I did with them on the river at night, John venting, exposing more of his character. River's Edge is depressing too, the dark aura of this little town, a top pic of location. It's the depressing spots of the moment I have to tolerate, every time I watch it. It's easy to see how a lot of people could say this film was negative in it's view of teenagers, not having unfeeling here. I thought this too. But if this is how it happened, this is how it happened. And if they all did, then of course, this film would of never been made. This movie was a great starting block for a lot of these young actors in the impressively good performances, they gave, that they are remembered for. Especially the two girls. You couldn't of got a better cast of actors. Roebuck branched out in a number of other roles, proving him to be one hell of an actor. He was wasted in films like, Final Destination and Money Talks. He actually reminds me somewhat of my half brother, in looks. Even Joshua Miller as Mikie, Keanu's little, really mixed up brother, stays with me. Mikie's hoodlum friend, swinging numbchucks at Keanu was a great moment. Miller was one of those special kid actors that rose above the others, doing a few other films, then vanishing. Being the first witness to John's murder, from a nearby footbridge, his non reaction was freaky, as the talented kid actor himself. And this was just after he let his sister's doll drop into the river. At least the last scene does show us there is some remorse in the world and people are human. A must watch, but this film certainly won't appeal to everyone, who still should see it. "},{"Title":"Cry for the children","Date":"30 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" River's Edge (1986) was based on a true story that took place in 1981 a high school student murders his girlfriend and tells his friends at school about it; the group goes to view the body in the woods but they're so apathetic and spiritually bereft that no one informs the authorities and the body just lies there for a couple of days. Daniel Roebuck plays the lumbering murderer and his clueless friends are played by Keanu Reeves, Crispin Glover and Ione Skye, amongst others; Dennis Hopper is on hand as an aged biker/hippie. What struck me about the film was how much it reminded me of real life experiences, both as a youth growing up and also as an adult dealing with youths. Here are some of the things in the movie that I've also experienced- Kids as young as 11-13 obsessed with partying. - The idolization of drugs (pot, pills, etc.) and the party lifestyle above all else. - Kids, that young and older, out all night doing whatever (partying, having sex, crime). - Parents who aren't much more than phantoms in their kid's lives and therefore allow such. - Older, crazy dudes that the youths sometimes hang with, get drugs from or look up to. - The group dynamics of such youths and the unwritten law of not being a narc. - Killing a friend and leaving the body where it lies for a couple of days.This was (and is) the downside of the 60's revolution -- a somewhat sad emptiness in people who have lost their innate moral compass with the passing of religious faith as they desperately search for meaning or cause in the new secular frontier (Layne's cause in the film is rigid loyalty to John, since he had his reasons for murdering the girl, and covering up his crime). Most of the characters are neither likable nor unlikable; they're just human beings trying to live and find meaning or fulfillment with the hand they've been dealt.The film runs 99 minutes and was shot in California (Sacramento, La Crescenta and Los Angeles).BOTTOM LINE Glover steals the show with an over-the-top (yet believable) performance in a film that details the dark side of coming-of-age in modern America. It plays like a mid-80's version of Coppola's The Outsiders (1983), which was about early 60's youths; note, for instance, the seemingly incongruent melodramatic score (there's also a great metal soundtrack, but the songs are merely soundbites). People who have grown up in loving homes with positive role models & friends probably won't like River's Edge. They'll likely think it's trash. However, those who grew up in the dysfunctional insanity depicted in the film understand it fully. And many of us are doing everything in our power to prevent our kids and other youths from experiencing it. GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"An unblinking look at teenage ennui. And drugs. There are drugs.","Date":"22 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I've seen this movie several times, and every time I see it I'm amazed anew at how wonderfully, bizarrely nihilistic it is. It's a disturbing little piece of cinema -- how many movies actually make you want to punch out a 12-year-old character? -- but amazing nonetheless.Based on the true story of a teenager in Milpitas, CA, who killed his girlfriend and brought his friends to view her body, River's Edge records a few days activity among a group of disaffected kids, and how their lives are interrupted when one of their buddies murders his girlfriend and--essentially--dares them to turn him in. Woven into the narrative is an unblinking, flat-eyed look at the inner lives of people who really don't care what happens around them.Samson (Daniel Roebuck) strangles his girlfriend, Jamie, and leaves her naked body on the river bank. The opening of the film shows him drinking beer and howling at the sky in the early morning mist, apparently exhilarated by his accomplishment; he is viewed through the eyes of Tim (Joshua Miller), who has ridden his bike to the bridge to throw his younger sister's doll into the river. Tim is a piece of work. Because of his youth (he is 12) and his crappy home life (he lives with his constantly quarreling mother and stepfather) you want to feel sorry for him but the movie posits him as such a nasty little jerk that you find yourself wishing someone would throw HIM off the bridge.For the rest of the movie, Samson's friends will react by varying degrees to the murder as he shows them the body and explains -- in a way curiously devoid of inflection -- that he killed her because she was talking sh*t about his mother (thus setting up one of my favorite conversations in the whole movie, between a frenetic Layne (Crispin Glover) and his concerned girlfriend, Clarissa (Ione Skye) -- when Clarissa says What, he kills Jamie and we just pretend it never happened? Layne snaps back He HAD his REASONS!).The reactions of the friends form the core of the movie -- why don't they care? Why, when they are shown their friend and classmate lying naked and rapidly purpling on the riverbank, do they not immediately run to the police? Why do they spend two days driving around town, scoring weed from the local crazy drug dealer, Feck (psychotically essayed by Dennis Hopper) and having sex in a local park while they discuss what they ought to do? Wouldn't any sane person's reaction be to call the authorities and turn Samson in? Well, wouldn't it? Along with Tim the evil 12-year-old, Crispin Glover's Layne seems to be the embodiment of the problem. Jittery in a way that will make anyone who has ever used amphetamines wish they didn't know exactly how he feels, skittering along a path laid by a seriously skewed moral compass, Layne is convinced that true friendship can only be expressed by helping Samson escape prosecution for the murder of their friend. Accordingly, he lectures the group about how they must all stick together and show the world that they are a team. You'd think he was exhorting soldiers for a last push into enemy territory, rather than attempting to force a bunch of stoned, confused, apathetic kids to protect a possibly-sociopathic acquaintance.Adult influence is represented by Dennis Hopper's Feck, who likes to remind people that he once killed a woman and They are still after me! Feck, a one-legged fugitive biker, lives in a ramshackle house full of motorcycle parts and marijuana. His only companion is a blow-up doll named Ellie; he dresses her and dances with her and treats her with gentle solicitude. Only Dennis Hopper could make you wonder if Feck even knows Ellie is a doll; at one point he tells Samson, She's a doll. I know she's a doll.--but, being Dennis Hopper, he delivers this final proof of his sanity just before drawing a gun and shooting Samson in the head. Ultimately, the viewer decides it doesn't matter because Feck is fascinating either way.Keanu Reeves, as Tim's older brother Matt, is...Keanu Reeves. He's playing the same slightly confused, not-quite-bright teenage stoner that he always played before he landed The Matrix, but you can believe he'd be the only one with enough conscience to turn Samson in to the local police -- just as you can believe he'd be righteously indignant when the interviewing detective suggests he might have something to do with the murder (another fabulous line What was your relationship to this girl, anyway? Did you love her, did you hate her, did you f**k her when you got bored? WHAT?) The murderous Samson is portrayed with dead-eyed perfection by Daniel Roebuck as a kid who seems to have decided very early on that since we're all going to die anyway, it doesn't really matter what we do while we're here. His soliloquy about how incredibly alive he felt after murdering Jamie is bone-chilling, as is his rapidly escalating antisocial behavior; he goes from quietly acceding to anything Layne asks (at the beginning of the film) to angrily pulling a gun on a convenience store clerk toward the end (while Feck, clutching Ellie in the aisle of the store, asks, sweetly, Do you have Bud in bottles?) You get the distinct feeling that, left to his own devices, Samson would have a body count pretty fast.The message of the movie is that there is no message. It plays as a documentary, almost, and simply presents the event and the subsequent confusion of the kids as something that happened once. I think that's why the movie works so well. It doesn't have any message, it just has a story, and the story will stick with you forever. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful Effective, and Funny","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In many ways, this movie defined what I was not at the time &#x96; suburban, stoned, a metalhead &#x96; and it was an opportunity for me to feel moral superiority over normal American teenagers. But, I think that I was drawn in on a similar level to the movies I identified with more closely from the punk world (Repo Man, Sid & Nancy, Suburbia), which were themselves fairly critical adult statements about youthful apathy. This movie offers a kind of uncertain hope in the form of Keanu Reeves' character (and he's never been better), but in the end we begin to wonder if he did the right thing for the right reasons, or sort of blundered into it the way Crispin Glover blunders into a fanatical dedication to being wrong. It does remain thoughtful, if scary, and effective on other levels as well, including humor, oddly enough. "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"26 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoiler My ex-girlfriend of ages ago said this had happened at her high school, Pioneer High, in San Jose, CA. Though she didn't get one of the tours of the corpse, she heard about it at the time and when it was made into a movie, of course, she made me watch the movie. I'd have to say, it's a creepy film - actually not the film's fault - the idea of giving tours of a crime scene is creepy and that's ironically what really happened. Still, there's something about that era that I find captivating and that all these kids who saw the corpse pretty much kept it to themselves, maybe saying that's cool and moving on. So odd that so many should have seen it and said nothing about it to the authorities. Like some kind of freak show attraction that nobody questions or feels guilty about viewing, like there's nothing morally wrong about it at all. I find it fascinating and yet sad that society at some point can break like this. Like as if you were in the midst of a drunken riot stampede and came upon a corpse or two that had been trampled upon but ran right over it anyway without a second thought because so many others before you already had. As if to say, all those people can't be wrong... and yet they are/were. Really great movie. Sad that it actually happened but maybe we can learn by the mistakes of others and not let morals slide aside just because a certain number before us already did. "},{"Title":"fear of a blank planet","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Many films have tried to depict modern teenage alienation, but few have succeeded with the emotional impact of this unassuming sleeper, belatedly released to widespread and well-deserved acclaim after being all but ignored by overcautious distributors. Loosely based on the shocking and well-publicized true story of a California high-school boy who, apparently out of boredom, murdered his girlfriend and later bragged about the deed to his classmates, the film cuts right to the heart of teen delinquency without the usual bogus mannerisms of brat-pack dramas. By refusing to speculate about motivation, the script is able to effectively illustrate the trauma of growing up in an uncaring world, capturing with chilling conviction the blend of loyalty and disaffection shared by the half dozen witnesses to the aftermath of the crime. Parents and other adults aren't shown to be the source of their problems; the truth is a darker story of social neglect and betrayal, perhaps dating back to August 1945 and the false dawn of the Atomic Bomb. "},{"Title":"Apathy is Toxic in This Afterschool Special","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Before the infamous school shootings that plagued American society in the 1990s, sixteen-year-old Anthony Broussard of Miltipas, California murdered his girlfriend Marcy Conrad in 1981. He even showed his friends the body before a fellow student ratted him out. The crime not only ignited an article in Rolling Stone magazine, but it influenced River's Edge, a gallows funny but starkly honest drama that (thank God) doesn't let up from start to finish.Near a river outside a small town, lies the naked corpse of an asphyxiated young girl. Her killer is her boyfriend John Samson Toillett (Daniel Roebuck of Final Destination and Agent Cody Banks), a huge, blubbery, zombie-like slacker who did the crime so he could feel so ****ing alive. There's no future in a small town for his or his friends, whom he brags to and shows them the proof. Jittery speed freak Layne (Crispin Glover of Back To The Future) decides to protect Samson and the others effortlessly agree, but old soul Matt (Keanu Reeves of the Matrix trilogy) is troubled with guilt. He rats, earning the love of dream girl Clarissa (Ione Skye of Say Anything) but putting at odds with his impish kid brother Tim (Joshua Miller), who disturbingly idolizes Samson, leading to dire consequences and hard revelations.Having a subtle but powerful script by Neal Jimenez (The Waterdance), who based the characters on old high school friends, Tim Hunter (Tex, The Saint of Fort Washington) makes no apologizes for helming a drama that has inappropriately present humor. River's Edge is like a shot whiskey with orange juice mixed in; it'll make your ill, but it won't kill you. It'll just make you see how a generation can be so apathetic if its' predecessors (parents, especially) can be so careless and ineffective. Roebuck and Glover are two great examples the former a pathetic boulder who's trapped with his aunt, a mental invalid who like Dr. Seuss and the latter a hyperactive goof who sees his friends as his family, the only one he has.As Matt, Reeves has a real family, yet it's imperfect. There's a pothead nurse of a mother (Constance Forslund); her drunken lout of a boyfriend (Leo Rossi of Fast Getaway) and Tim. Only his kid sister Kim in really innocent, and for her, he must be a rock. Lost girl Clarissa, played nicely by Skye, the daughter on '60 rocker, Donovan, compliments him by being able to feel something other than weed or booze.Two members of the older generation are the better reps, since they've childless. High school social teacher Braithwaite (Jim Metzler, L.A. Confidential) is frustrated when he can't get to his students when recalling tales on the late 1960s. His counterpart is wanted killer/free weed peddler Feck (the late Dennis Hopper of Easy Rider). When he's saddled with the fugitive Samson, he realizes how depraved the boomers' children-his customers-have become. He appoints himself to take responsibility in a harsh fashion, yet is unaware that not all kids are bad.If not for the harsh elements, River's Edge is the kind of tale that could have been an afterschool special that aired on TV during the 1970s and 1980s. Still, it notes the lesson that apathy can be ever so toxic and humanity can be ever so precious. "},{"Title":"Keanu's First Major Movie Is Kick Ass!!!","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Control director Tim Hunter and Waterdance scenarist Neal Jimenez have made a disturbing but insightful melodrama about clueless high school teenagers who react--or more properly--or display a lack of reaction to the death of one of their own. Although this movie has a quasi-happy ending, River's Edge plumbs the depths of poor parenting and rampant juvenile delinquency drug and alcohol use. Conservative critics who like to blame the crime that teens commit on their abuse of pot, pills, and liquor could use this movie to endorse their agenda. Hunter and Jimenez seem to have other more elaborate ideas. The performances have nuance, especially Glover's portrayal of a rebellious kid who drives around a VW and Reeves looks fair comfortable playing a clueless teenager. Ione Skye is a sensation as the girl that goes after Reeves' character. Dennis Hopper delivers the best performance by virtue of having such an interesting character. He describes a motorcycle accident where he lost part of his leg. As he remembers it, he saw his severed leg near a beer can and wondered if any beer were left in the can. Feeling pretty optimistic, he thinks that the doctors can perform a miracle and reattach his leg until the ambulance arriving on the scene runs over the leg. River's Edge is not your ordinary, run-of-the-mill horny teenager comedy.Layne (Crispin Glover of Charlie's Angels) believes that he is the glue that holds his friends together until Samson 'John' Tollet (Daniel Roebuck of Rob Zombie's Halloween II) strangles a helpless high school girl, Jamie (Danyi Deats of The Allnighter), beside a river where they were getting high on marijuana. The same time that Samson strangles Jamie, 12-year old Tim (Joshua John Miller of Death Warrant) tosses his sister's rag doll into the river. Samson's friends at school visit the scene of the crime and look at Jamie's lifeless nude body. Indeed, when the MPAA rated this movie, they exercised considerable latitude because Hunter has Deats strewn on the ground without a stitch of clothing with his breasts and vagina bare for everybody to see. Eventually, the authorities learn about the murder of Jamie and the filmmakers make this exposure of Samson into a major plot point. Layne does everything that he can to shield Samson from the cops. He goes to the extent of hiding Samson out in the home of a deranged ex-biker who sells marijuana, Feck (Dennis Hopper of Easy Rider) who is missing his left leg from the knee down and dances with an inflatable sex doll. The kids seem more worried about the Soviets and nuclear annihilation than anything else.Meantime, Matt (Keanu Reeves of The Matrix) slaps his little brother Tim around when Tim desecrates the grave site of his younger sister's doll. Matt's obnoxious stepfather Jim (Leo Rossi of Leonard Part 6) pulls him off his little brother and Tim flees, screaming about how Matt has turned traitor. Layne cruises around town that night trying to raise money to get enough gas so Samson can get out of town. Layne tries to borrows Feck's car, but Feck still fears that the authorities are looking for him for having killed his girlfriend. Feck allows Samson to stay with him while Layne picks up Clarissa (Ione Skye of Fever Pitch) and persuades her to ante up all her loose change for gas money to get Samson out of town. They pick up Matt and the three drive over to Tony's house where they run afoul of Tony's father (Michael Hungerford of The Wraith) who comes after them with a shotgun. When Clarissa makes a comment to Layne about Samson being mad, Layne stops his blue VW bug and tells her to get out. Matt joins her and they talk about getting drunk near the river. She goes home and fetches two sleeping bags and tells Matt about how scared Layne was when he tried to kiss her. They enter a convenience store at 2 AM and try to buy a six-pack, but the clerk refuses to sell them one. Samson ambles in with Feck to get some beer, too, and brandishes Feck's unloaded revolver and forces the clerk to sell them the six-pack.River's Edge devotes most of its time to the perils that the teenagers face and they have a great deal to worry about other than sneaking around and having sex. Jimenez based the movie on an event that happened early in his life and his dialogue ripples with flavor without going overboard with the slang. Not to be missed! "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"12 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I have seen this movie three times. Going back to VCR's, in the 1980's, and again on The Encor channel last night (Feb.11, 2010). Based on a true story which I remember being in the news, during the early 1980's, I've decided that I find it too disturbing to watch ever again. Yet it's hard to look away from a car accident. The creepiest character is Joshua John Miller, who plays Keeanu Reeves little brother. (The story this movie was based on can be found anywhere on the Internet -- just Google it. It's about Anthony Jacques Broussard who murdered Marcy Conrad in Milpitas, California, in 1981.) The characters portray Generation X pre-grunge, borderline sociopaths, with the exception of Keeanu Reeves, who grows a conscience.Old hippies did a great job raising that generation.For such a young kid, I thought Joshua Miller was excellent, as the serial killer in the making character. In actuality, he went to Yale, and has written screenplays as well as directed. His acting capabilities in this film were amazing. Just the way he treats his little sister by drowning her doll, and tearing up her dolls grave, gave me the shivers. It gave me nightmares. Even with whats happening in our world today, in 2010, it still is the most degenerate film I've seen to date. The apathy, and dysfunction, of these families, is enough to make one puke. This thrill kill almost makes the Manson murders pale in comparison. Crispon Glover got a little too much into character. He wound up on David Lettermen to discuss his role, and almost kicked the host in the head. Apparrently Glover had to seek psychiatric help after portraying his character. Also, fight the good fight to the great Dennis Hopper. You're one of the best! "},{"Title":"too bizarre","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" i was flipping through the channels and had to stop and laugh when i came across this movie. It was so clearly about teens in the early 80s, and i called my mom hahaha, turn to channel such and such, the kid totally looks like if dad were a kid.Um. Yeah. Turns out this movie is about my dad & his friends.Even without it being about loosely based on my dad's childhood, i'd say watch this movie! It is just.....bizarre to say the least, the apathy instilled in teens even back then. This is a good human interest and showcases some strange sides of the psyche. "}{"Title":"This Comment is for Simsons Fans","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I think this is a pretty good movie, but one thing makes it VERY interesting to me. It is blatantly obvious once you look out for it the main characters in this movie are the inspiration for the bullies on The Simpsons. Layne is Jimbo, John is Kearney, and Tony is Dolph. There is even an episode of The Simpsons where Jimbo uses the line I poked her with a stick.The Jimbo-Layne connection is the most obvious with the knit hat and long hair and the voice. Kearney has the shaved head, unlike John, but is the big, dumb one. The Tony-Dolph connection is pretty obvious with the long, parted haircut and even the second-tier status. "},{"Title":"one last use for a dead friend","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" i just glanced over another comment posted here in which the writer discusses the disturbing ways the teenagers in this film use the body of their dead friend. one overlooked in this statement is perhaps the most unsettling of them all, no surprise it's what crispin glover's character (layne) does. he is thrilled over one of his friends murdering another friend of his, the killer's girlfriend. not because layne did not like this individual, rather he is excited about her death because it gives him something to do. this poor boy is bored in life, and dead inside, that a murdered friend is something to get excited about because it provides him with something to focus on. "},{"Title":"A powerful little film.","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" River's Edge is more than just the story of a murder. It's an indictment of the wave of apathy that has plagued pockets of youth for decades now. Our main characters are a group of what my high school would have referred to as stoners. One of them just decided to strangle his girlfriend because she apparently had the nerve to talk sh*t to him. This dangerous young man played by Daniel Roebuck has an intensity that will startle you. He takes the other kids in the group out to show them his girlfriend's body, and strangely enough, nobody seems really freaked out about it. The balance of the film punctuates the desperate circumstances in which these people live, and how guilt is eventually able to worm its way inside even these apathetic kids.River's Edge is certainly not condoning or championing the behavior of its characters. We clearly see the dangers presented by such unchecked apathy and having only the desire to get drunk or high. We are shown the dysfunctional home lives these kids have, and perhaps this is meant to explain their awful behavior. But could it only be unstable homes that lead to this type of destructive living? Crispin Glover is his usual whacked-out self. He drives around town in a state of complete paranoia after the murder. He tries to sympathize with why his friend had to commit the crime, but clearly he does not understand what could have made the young man do it. Dennis Hopper plays an older man these kids get their dope from. Though he is certainly a rebellious figure, he cannot relate to the apathy and rage of the younger generation. Witness his confused reaction as Roebuck describes how killing his girlfriend made him feel. As wild as Hopper's character is, even he knows this young man should not be walking the face of the earth.What will you think of these kids? Well, there is really no way to like their characters. Some are less despicable than others, but you cannot help either hating or feeling sorry for them. Twenty years later, there is still an apathy alive and well in a great many young people out there. When do these kids get lost? What makes so many of them want to act anti-social? This film, and the questions it poses about teenagers will stick with you for a while. That's a fact.8 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"I feel like..... chuck norris ,you know","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I can watch this movie forever and will never tire of it. I saw it first when i was in high school. I even recognized the bands that play the music this characters where listening to. Over time I have forgotten the bands names but not the amazing dialogues this movie offers.why are you such delinquents asks Keannu to his younger brother and friend, the kid says because of our fu**ed up childhoods you pothead f**kbrain!! Keannus little brother is disturbing to watch, he teases his sister after he throws her doll in the river I killed her, I drowned her The way he says to Layne Im dyin for a joint is so pathetic yet disturbing that always makes me chuckle. The teacher saying shut up Kevin makes me laugh all the time. But its not supposed to be funny thats what is so brilliant about it. It is such sad story but at the same time you laugh at the ineptitude and positivism of Layne against the horrible truth that a young girl is dead. Nobody cries, everybody wants to do nothing in the hopes that everything will work itself out. There is certain similarity to a film called Mean Creek so check em both out. "},{"Title":"a schizophrenic film, both brilliant and ridiculous in equal measure","Date":"7 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't entirely know what to make of this film. On the one hand, I can see that it's an examination of teen apathy, social ambivalence and post-familial-dysfunction angst etc etc but it's also really rather silly in terms of improbable plot and ridiculous unlikely overblown characters, but apparently it's based on a true story so perhaps not. One young man (John - Daniel Roebuck) kills his girlfriend without emotion or regret, he is psychopathic, just intent on causing mayhem for no apparent reason an plays detached, dangerous and scary brilliantly. He is seen by a twelve year old boy, Tim, and both of them brag about the killing, and knowing where the body is. There are shades of Stand by Me, a coming of age journey in the film - the characters learn about themselves through the experience of seeing the body and also the viewer is narrated to via speeches by both the school teacher and Matt, to explain the troubles witnessed in the film. The acting is in part dreadful and brilliant, and with Crispin Glover's performance as Layne I'm not sure whether he was bad or brilliant; he plays one of the friends who is desperate to be part of the group - the leader - and tries to hold them all together, afraid of being on his own, but overplayed in a character so apart from his friends, addled, druggie, like he's method acting a caricature of a stoner drop-out teen, and just flailing around in exaggerated gestures. Joshua Miller, as the twelve year old Tim, younger brother of Reeves' Matt, is cartoonish, androgynous and even camp, and he is performing acting by numbers. The film reminds me in places of Lost Boys but at least that had the guts to say Hey! This IS a comedy! but River's Edge is stuck with trying really hard to be a drama and I'm not sure it works without the comedy that some of the hammy acting, and silly one-liners, Dennis Hopper's character Feck with his inflatable girlfriend and general silliness adds but detracts from the horror of the story. Dennis Hopper was amazing, hardly surprising, in his delivery and was one of the actors that stood out and above the rest as real rather than acting. Keanu's Matt is the quiet, relatable, real character and he plays son of dysfunctional family, school drop-out, even father and dominant male figure in places to his sister and mother, and demonstrates the complex and above-age roles that some young people have to play behind the scenes - they are labelled as difficult but there's more to them. Perhaps the same with Crispin's Layne; he looks like a waste of space and an unphlegmatic idiot; but he stands up to the situation and standing by John (Roebuck). Hopper's schizophrenic-type delusion are brilliant. For me, however, Reeves stands out, his gentle delivery and subtleness perfect for the troubled and nervous Matt, against Ione Skye's Clarissa he is shy and easily led, she seems to deal with the death of her friend by throwing herself at Matt - well, who can blame her really? - 22yo Reeves was stunning and appeared like a different creature compared to everyone else's look. He, Hopper and Roebuck stood out as the actors that blended into the screenplay, their character's environment and the plot whereas the other's stuck out as trying to do that.It's a good film. You can take it as a dark comedy or you can read more into it. I'm not sure whether you should read into this, or whether it is just what it is but as 80s films go it's a bit deeper and less fluffy than most of them, and surprised me with how watchable it is and how it is still relatable and up to date. "},{"Title":"Of interest, but I didn't think it worked","Date":"25 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" An odd film about teenagers and how they deal with murder. The short answer to how they deal with it they don't. Daniel Roebuck strangles his girlfriend to death after an argument, and when his stoner friends find out, they go examine the body. Unwilling to turn their friend in, they form a silent pact to keep it a secret. Some feel uneasy about that, but they're pretty emotionally disaffected. Crispin Glover plays Roebuck's biggest defender, Keanu Reeves the teen who eventually cracks under pressure and Ione Skye Reeves' girlfriend. Dennis Hopper plays the gang's nutjob drug dealer who has a special relationship with a blow-up doll. Joshua Miller, who would turn in an extremely memorable performance as a child vampire in the following year's Near Dark, plays Reeves' younger brother, a 12 year-old who idolizes the older teens. Miller probably gives my favorite performance in the film. Hopper is also fine, though this is pretty much the same kind of role he had in Blue Velvet, which was made around the same time. All the other actors, though, are pretty lousy. Glover can be fun at times, but you can't let him anywhere near anything even semi-serious - he's too goofy to handle it. And Reeves, while playing the type of character he would eventually excel at in the Bill & Ted movies, is very weak. Still, with all of the film's flaws, it's so unusual that it's never less than interesting. "},{"Title":"Well I Guess I'll Just Sit Here and the River Flow","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Pot-seeking pre-teen Joshua Miller (as Tim) throws his sister's doll into the river while Daniel Roebuck (as Samson) howls and smokes a cigarette, after killing Danyi Deats (as Jamie). The doll washes away, but the naked young woman stays by the River's Edge, for any passerby to see. Viewing the dead body are a group of twenty-something teenagers, mostly classmates of the naked corpse. Stoners Keanu Reeves (as Matt) and Crispin Glover (as Layne) are found most camera-worthy. The friends wonder what to do about their guilty, beer-guzzling killer friend.Veteran-in-the-cast Dennis Hopper (as Feck) keeps the youngsters' heads fed. Mr. Hopper once killed a woman. He lives with one of those life-sized sex dolls, with a mouth apparently ready for action. Ione Skye Leitch (as Clarissa) is a more living doll, and she is waiting for Reeves to kiss her. Their copulation is notably cross-cut with a flashback to the opening strangulation. An actual teenager, in her first feature role, Ms. Leitch is the daughter of sixties-singer Donovan. Make other quirky connections on your own.You can read a lot into the movie, or not, depending on your mood. Some of the characters' backgrounds may be a little too subtle. Most obviously, the killer teen was teased; note his weight, attitude, and toilet-connected nickname. Some of the characters' relationships and motivations are too vaguely defined, but the cast certainly keeps the material interesting; and, director Tim Hunter, photographer Frederick Elmes, and writer Neal Jimenez are obviously skilled.******* River's Edge (8/27/86) Tim Hunter ~ Keanu Reeves, Crispin Glover, Dennis Hopper, Joshua Miller "},{"Title":"Crispin Glover","Date":"24 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Crispin Glovers' way of acting (and not only his) is tremendous. You really want to believe him because his body language and performing fits the person perfect. He gives Layne this extraordinary bit of personality that makes this movie a cult. As well as Feck, which role is done very well by Dennis Hopper. It's about choosing the right or wrong side, without logical thinking about the scene. Friendship is more imported, and that's exactly what I think is what makes choices this difficult. Rivers Edge lets you experience this with serious tones and family mathers. I really enjoyed it watching. I saw it a month ago for the first time, but if you like a nice 80s feel, this is the one that you have to see. I'ts a same that I didn't know of it earlier. "},{"Title":"Unfortunately Realistic","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this disturbing movie when it first came out and was bothered by it, but also understood how it happens with kids from dysfunctional homes. Here we are 21 years after this movie was made and kids are killing kids across our country all the time. Drugs are usually involved. I liked the fact that this movie showed the apathetic kids drinking and smoking pot to escape. No need to deal with reality. Those that say pot is harmless need their own heads examined. Pot is a gateway drug to harder stuff and on its own merit causes kids and adults to do really stupid, awful things. We all knew and know kids that were like this in high school. There is so much that could be done to intervene if adults cared to.This movie is really a timeless classic, albeit a very, very disturbing one. Its subject matter really applies today. "},{"Title":"Lost little of its power and remains much better than the overrated Kids","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" River's Edge was one of the most disturbing films of 1986, and for a year that also saw Blue Velvet, you know thats saying something. Viewed today its lost little of its power and remains much better than the overrated Kids. The previews for Kids played it up to be an expose of the deterioration of the nation's youth. In reality, it was little more than an exploitation film based mostly around shock value. River's Edge was promoted as a teen exploitation flick but was in actuality much better. The only times it goes from being disturbing to distasteful is the constant image of the dead nude body. Outside of that, the film is thought-provoking and, for all its minor flaws, quite realistic.Keanu Reeves, known for being a particularly wooden performer, gives his best performance as a burned-out teenager. Ione Skye is equally sympathetic and likable. Dennis Hopper (on the comeback trail with this, Blue Velvet, and Hoosiers) gives a great performance as the creepy yet pathetic hippie generation leftover. Crispin Glover, while always entertaining to watch, seems a bit out of place as the manic stoner and leader of the group. The best performance however is definitely Daniel Roebuck. As the murderer John, Roebuck is frighteningly emotionless. Its a shame he didn't become a bigger star as hes a much better actor than Reeves.The film is overall fantastic and daring. Don't mistake this for another lame John Hughes clichéd high school flick such as The Breakfast Club. This is a shocking piece of nihilism that resonates with the viewer. Fans of this movie are advised to check out a Canadian film from 1981 called Out of the Blue, directed by Dennis Hopper. Its another shockingly bleak examination of the generation gap and, despite its obscurity, may have been an influence on River's Edge. (7/10) "}{"Title":"The Inspiration for Gummo","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a forgotten classic of a film, and Harmony Karin borrowed a ton from it for Gummo. Gummo is good, River's Edge is way, way better. Its no secret that Keanu Reeves isn't the best actor whoever walked the earth. No, in fact, he's a horrendous actor. But, he was born for some roles Ted Preston, Esquire from Bill and Ted, and his role in this film. He is perfect as a sort of good natured but very apathetic and confused teenager. Then there's Crispin Glover. I think his performance in this film is the best of his career. He is phenomenal as the drugged out wackjob character. Then there's Dennis Hopper, who is perfect as well. This movie is simply amazing, and if you haven't seen it, run out and watch it today. Its brilliant. One of the best portrayals of modern America I've seen. "},{"Title":"John Tollet","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the best movie ever; after Love Liza. Keanu, McFly, Fec what else do you want? Gas huffing? Motherf*#@er. Foodeater. Look. I don't have more to say about it. Rivers Edge is that good. For me, this movie hit home. That's what I like about it. If I need to keep writing lines about it to get my post posted; fair enough. This is Keanu Reeves' Romper Stomper. What constitutes a line anyway. How the blank can I give a serious, honest, objective review about a movie that doesn't need to be approved or explained. Why do I need to keep adding lines. If you grew up in the '80s, early '90s, see Rivers Edge. Forget about Less Than Zero; this is all there ever was! "},{"Title":"they don't make them any more like they used to...","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" the movies, I mean. Awwww...and I promised myself I wasn't gonna say this ...wait a minute, they still do. at least Gus Van Sant does ( in Elephant ) . Probably one of the best movie of the '80's, and certainly one of the most underrated. and it's really a shame. not only because of the great performances given by Crispin Glover, Dennis Hopper and Keanu Reeves ( and YES, the man can act. I defy anybody who says otherwise to really watch this movie. and YES, I'm taking about Keanu here. ) it's because of the story. the way it's been told. a story about a certain type of teenagers of the '80's ,about their real life, their thoughts, their feelings - or complete lack thereof. sometimes you forget you're watching a movie, and instead it feels like a set of photographs is been streamed before your eyes, in high speed... about the way that they sit on the river's edge, and on their lives' edge, not decided whether to go with the flow or try to swim against it...an unusual but valuable and extremely interesting movie. If only we could see more of these in our current 2005-6 years... "},{"Title":"An interesting experience.","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film has a vibe to it that I don't think I can explain in words. It definitely has atmosphere. It's supposed to be a true story which makes the film all the more tragic and the cast is exceptional. It's with films like these that you realize the power of movies. Tim Hunter does a great job directing this story with a steady hand and no fancy tricks. The screenplay by Neal Jimenez is solid and I enjoyed Frederick Elmes cinematography. This is not an entertaining movie, unless you like your stories tragic. It is definitely one of the  strangest experiences a film can create. "},{"Title":"The soundtrack makes it a 10","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I was really big into the heavy metal seen back in the day. I think the soundtrack makes a lot a a movie. Just kidding. But the soundtrack was pretty cool. Kean Reeves was awesome in this movie. I wish it got better ratings...than I cold find it on DVD. The plot was right in with what the 80's were all about. I don't thank they could have a better cast and crew. I wish that not only it was on DVD, but the soundtrack was a little easier to find. It isn't even on CD. The closet thing I have got to is Tape and vinyl. If any body knows any information on how to get either please let me know. "},{"Title":"Neglected Classic","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is still as chilling and realistic as the day it came out. While there are certainly some major caricatures (Glover's and Hopper's characters), the movie still gives a frighteningly accurate portrayal of what it's like to grow up in a boring suburb, where getting wasted and listening to heavy metal are your only real sources of stimulation. If you consider the contemporary images of suburban teens in the mass media (Family Ties, Ferris Bueller, etc), it makes the vision of this movie that much more impressive. Definitely a must-see.  "},{"Title":"Brilliantly gritty and intense","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite 80's teen movies. The intensity and characterization in this movie is brilliant. It portrays troubled teens so realistically and really gives them a voice in explaining how these kids come to be as screwed up as they are and how it compels them to make the shocking decisions and lifestyle choices they make. There are some brilliant performances in this film as well-Crispin Glover gives a wonderfully unique and intersting portrayal and Dennis Hopper sends chills up your spine as the psychopathic town outcast. The young actor who played the disturbed young brother of Reeve's character is amazing for being as young as he was and his character is heartbreaking. There is just so much character depth in this movie!!  "},{"Title":"Exceptional Movie","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is perhaps the most underappreciated movie of all time. The film looks crude and the scenes sometimes become obscure, but the fact that this thrilling drama is based on a real event makes up for all of the above. Keanu reeves, Crispin Glover,Dennis Hopper,are just a few of the big players in this 80's cult hit. The characters are lifelike and vivid, even as dettached youth,they still have multifacited emotions. I saw this movie first, when I was 12 years old. I was affected by this movie instantly, and I did not even find out this was based on a true story until 4 months ago. After reviewing the movie 11 years later I can see why I was affected the way I was. The situations in this movie evoke a deep reaction from the soul, first amazement at how calous Tollett can be with regard to the murder. And suprise at how the other characters lack any emotion for the friend that they lost.The look of the movie and the music go very well together as a haunting partnership. In short no matter what kind of film you are into, do yourself a favor and give this movie a try, you might be suprised by the result. "},{"Title":"emotion, reason","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Interpretation, spoilers The main conflict in this movie involves Layne and Samson on one pole and Matt and Clarissa on the other. Layne and Samson both refuse to go the police; it is the opposite with Matt and Clarissa. Of importance is the reasoning why each character chooses their particular path. Samson obviously will not go to the police because he is the killer. Layne will not because Samson was more of a friend to him than Jamie. Clarissa will because Jamie was more of a friend to her than Samson. With Matt, the movie makes no effort to describe which person he was more attached too this point would be inconsequential. Matt is the character with the courage to stand up to Layne and do what is right. Some reason stronger than simple friendly feeling is needed to add drama to his decision.  The audience is never directly given Matt's reasoning. It is implied however in the end when Matt confronts Layne and tells him that he made the wrong decision in covering up for a murderer. Implicitly, emotional ties are of less stability and truth that objective moral reasoning - a conclusion Kant would be proud of.     Thus, a pessimistic movie has a somewhat optimistic ending. Though the rebellious teens feel no sadness for their fallen peer, emotion was never that important. Reason is all that is needed to make the correct decisions. (It's interesting when you ask yourself if the teens had made the correct choices throughout or only concerning the murder. For reason is universal. So all the acts of illegal drug use, rebellion, disrespect to parents, and promiscuous sex must also be considered a morally correct decisions.) Consequently, both the murderers receive their just deserts. Further supporting this conclusion is the fact that only antagonists are depicted as emotional. Layne is in a constant frenzy of excitement and abuse. Samson's secret emotional depth is hidden until the end when he tells of his pleasurable murder. Upon hearing of the pleasures of murder, and realizing he has spent twenty years caged up, Feck again tries his hand at murder. As an aside, we knew from the beginning that a negative ending was in store for Samson. The name is no coincidence; he was betrayed by the one most akin to him. Feck kills him and takes Samson's power of pleasurable murder just as his biblical counterpart lost his power of locks of hair.        "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  this is a terrific film with a terrific cast. It's about friendship, loyalty, and moral resonsibility. when their friend jon kills his girlfriend and comes to school bragging about it, his group of friends must decide which is more important, protecting their friend or turning him in. young keanu reeves is very good as the stoner matt who struggles to comprehend what has just happened, and crispen glover of back to future fame is hysterical as the speeded-out blaine who vows to protect jon at all costs. Thsi was based a true story and is well worth checking out. this film also features dennis hopper as an on the run biker, he and reeves would later team up for speed. "}{"Title":"A gripping and absorbing film about the dark side of America's youth.","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  River's Edge is the story of a group of high school kids and their fear of turning in a friend for the murder of his girlfriend, although she is also a close friend.  It paints an unforgettable story of despair and abandoned hope among a group of outsiders.  The fact that its based on a true story making it all the more disturbing.  Amazing performances from Crispin Glover and Dennis Hopper highlight the film.  Glover in particular is awe-inspiring! It poses the question What would you do in that situation?  The lack of remorse and over all feel make the film surreal, but we have all felt the same way these characters feel and our reactions to theirs would probably be similar.  Check it out!  A great film! "},{"Title":"POWERFUL","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a movie that some people would undoubtedly find disturbing, but needed to be made. I have read that it is based on a true story in San Diego, but I really don't know. Anyone who has ever felt the typical teen angst will relate to this movie, as the group tries to preserve itself. Ione Skye is relatively forgettable. The chemistry between Daniel Roebuck and Dennis Hopper is excellent and it is truly a shame that this movie has almost been forgotten. After all a movie with Slayer on the soundtrack can't be anything but good. "},{"Title":"I Absolutely Loved It!","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie! It was scary, thoughtful, and hilarious at the same time.  It had funny quotes all through it.  I was very disappointed to see that they had discontinued the sales of this movie.  This is an underground classic.  If you can find this at your local video store.  I urge you to try it! "},{"Title":"Moving and sad","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the kind of story you have to keep watching, even though it is very hard to take.  The plot revolves around a group of kids struggling with the question of whether it is disloyal to turn in one friend for murdering another.  The thoughtful, wise, perpetually-stoned Matt (Keanu Reeves) is the perfect foil for the hysterical, wrongheaded, perpetually-stoned Layne (Crispin Glover).  The ending is not what you'd expect. "},{"Title":"how unbalanced movies affect American self-identity","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie is not anything close to a psychological portrait of apathetic or disillusioned youth. It is a collection of clichés confirming elder viewers in their paranoia that contact between generations is impossible. The Layne character is ludicrous - maybe the guy made a big career, but his on-screen idiocy offends common sense. The problem with the movie is that it tries to visualize, and make three-dimensional, the shallow and predictable pathos of lame journalists. A teenager strangled his girlfriend and his schoolmates did not report him right away to the police - what an outrage! how can that be! what are these monsters! Instead of really trying to explain the motivation of high school students to resist the temptation of acting as normal adults, instead of working upon the psychology behind existing patterns of behavior among adolescents, the movie prefers poster-like types of weed-smoking, arrogant, unrestrained and utterly irresponsible degenerates who have to symbolize the young generation as a whole. The problem with such movies is not that they are lame - lame movies are inevitable. It is that they themselves conduce the viewers into accepting journalistic clichés and helping build an atmosphere of mistrust, suspiciousness and intolerance which instead of making situations like the one in the movie impossible further encourages them. "},{"Title":"If you're looking for Crispin Glover, here he is!!!","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Keanu seems less cardboard, but he's just playing himself in the 80's-a teenager, minus the lumber jacket. I'm sure that all of the clothes he wore were his current apparel, including the cheesola leather jacket with the anonymous hand painted image on the back, suburban Sabbath/Ozzy high school street kid style.Ione Skye who? Well she's not nude yet- just look for the RACHEL PAPERS; that's the sum of her career... oh wait, Beastie Adam Horovitz married and divorced her.Now we get to Crispin Glover. It's as if Crispin does everything that one would ever want him to do in a movie RIGHT HERE! His character an all round deviant- even in his social circle! He abuses drugs, drives a funky car, gets in trouble with the law, listens to music on Metal Blade Records at a deafening level (Slayer Etc.), he's friends with an even wonkier guy- Dennis Hopper, he dresses like a cooler 80's guy than Keanu (minus the red bandanna out the back pocket), he's twitchy, he tries to physically fight and he's embraces his murdering friend! What's more, he tries to convince his friends that he's the only sane one in the group. Yes that's thee IDEAL CRISPIN GLOVER! His rat movie was nothing compared to this! But hey, I'm sure that I'm just preaching to the converted.If you haven't seen this flick, do so. The movie itself is actually kind of lame by today's standards but back then it was something else. Now I can only watch it for Crispin and Dennis Hopper; the rest is throw away.Oh yeah, Dennis Hopper is his usual wacko- good job too. "},{"Title":"Reality because they said so.","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Supposedly based on a real incident, River's Edge is about the death of a teenage girl by the hands of her friend is supposedly a critique on the alienation of youth and ineffectuality of media absorbed 80's culture... right? Crispin Glover gives a supposedly classic performance as Lane, a loser who shows more emotion over losing a video game than the body of a dead girl that his friend killed. This is what the audience is supposed to think. This is called heavy handed. Let us hope we don't think for ourselves or remember our own  youths. I am assuming the filmmakers had a fascination with small town drug culture, and although they were interested enough to write about it, they lacked understanding and association. The filmmakers are obviously much BETTER people than their characters. This movie blew. In comparison to Penelope Spheeris' far superior Suburbia (in terms of 80's counterculture) it fails to capture any traces of humanity among the youths, and although that was somewhat the point, I can't help but be angered. This is the town and culture I grew  up in - white trash Americana where the outsiders are painfully aware of what they should be like but lacking the means of escape through economy. They escape through alcohol and drugs. Hipsters like to make films about drugs, without understanding of what drugs actually do to a person, I think.The performances were cartoonish and ridiculous. Dennis Hopper was obviously spoofing himself, I thought. Are there viewers that seriously thought he was a believable murderous sex fiend with noble strides of insanity??? Think about it - people that like this movie. I knew this film was way outside reality when Dennis started giving joints away to kids. No one gives away pot for nothing. A better performance than Meet the Deedles however... There is a story here, and a social critique. I am just mad at the makers of the movie, for their ignorance and pretentiousness. I used to smoke a lot of pot and hang out by a lake in high school while skipping classes, but we understood ourselves and our situations in the scheme of things. Watching this movie I couldn't help but thinking of the worst of my peers and how their real reactions would have drastically differed from this movie. River's Edge is a movie made by people that looked down on us and blamed and were scornful, and that pi**es me off, especially since this was not a Hollywood production where its expected. This movie is a low budget film that has achieved a cult status from film enthusiasts. No movie is real, movies can be based on a true story, but just because they are doesn't mean they're true or quality. Watch an ABC after school special instead get some laughs with your thick morality. "},{"Title":"Crispin Glover Is In His Own Movie","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Crispin Glover is performing in his own movie and it's better than the one nearly everyone else is zombie marching through. Joshua John Miller as the young doe eyed menace Tim is very good, but Crispin transcends everyone with a diabolical fierceness and primal energy. His performance is a critique of post modern teen angst; the anti-anti hero. The cliché of the cool, subdued, near comatose posture that defined generation X is here mocked ruthlessly by Glover's maniacally grand emotions. While nearly everyone else in this film is mucking along within the new accepted bounds of emotional restraint, Crispin is tearing down walls and blasting through barricades fearlessly, heroically. It's as if he's the only actor who even had a clue who Dennis Hopper was and what it meant to be in a film with him.If you're thinking Well, everyone else is SUPPOSED to be playing it cool and low key. That's the point of the story, you're missing my point. They are supposed to portray or play cool and disaffected characters, but, unfortunately, they are being cool, disaffected actors. It's a mistake to think the best way to play cool is to be cool. That's an amateurs mistake. Energy and counterpoint and complexity bring a character to life, make it vibrant and worthwhile. Just filling the the basic job requirement and looking good sucks. Got it? They are being the very same thing that this clever movie so powerfully rails against. Ione Skye is gorgeous and sweet, but completely unbelievable as a good but troubled kid. The great writing and tight direction can fool you into believing she's delivering a rich character, but her fashionably flat energy level is disappointing, boring. Keaunu The Idiot Reeves has moments when he barely cracks his own personal glaze, and he's tolerable then. But mostly, he's a just a few cute gestures and swishing denim.That said, no, SHOUTED!, I still recommend this movie just for Crispin Glover and a sublimely poignant Dennis Hopper. These two actors are the real story here, the raging blast furnace that should be ALL art. "},{"Title":"Somethin' else...","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" As Joan Cusack said in High Fidelity Shocking! Just Shocking! it's strange how a film could shock you sometimes. I mean, it's a film. anything can happen, right? But this here is somethin' else. the setting of the film is such in the beginning that you're swept away but that normal, small town USA, just nuthin really happenin feeling just to be shocked and amazed at the events succeeding and the completely reverse and abnormal reactions of the characters. i think this is the whole secret of the film. even towards the end of it when you've slightly adjusted you're vision to the twilight nature of the story you never seize to be amazed at the audacity. And boy oh boy did the cast come through on this one. Mr. Easy Rider checked another good role on his list, Reeves not bad, and Glover touched the realms of the twilight zone he was in. A couple a good cracks in it too.(wasted that leg... What did i need it for huh? - one a the most brilliant stoned chats i've ever heard). So yeah. Some people will tell you that '20 and them some' years will still make this as good as it was the day it came out. Have patience with it. it will deliver. oh! and i'm rating it just eight cuz i don't encourage degenerate scenarios like this one. "},{"Title":"Women are evil, Feck, You had to kill her!","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was one of my favorite video rentals from the late 80's. While the premise is disturbing, the realistic portrayal of a generation of criminally apathetic teenagers was frighteningly prescient in light of the wave of adolescent antisocial calamities that would culminate in the Columbine Tragedy in the late 90's. Apart from the chilling social commentary, this movie is marked by over the top performances by Dennis Hopper & Crispin Glover. What really makes this film endure is the underlying black humor that permeates the script. When one burnout school kid is being interviewed about the murder of his classmate, he pays lip service to the tragic passing in favor of promoting his musical talents and I play guitar! Crispin Glover's portrayal of the tweaked out but loyal protector of Samson is remarkably authentic. Hopper's burned out biker Feck is often hilarious in his delusional obsession with his blow up girlfriend. Paranoid brilliance! Yet even Feck's psychotic paranoia is no match for the self destructive nihilism exhibited by Samson. By comparison Feck's sliver of conscience makes Samson's utter lack of one all the more horrifying. This movie contains what is probably the last real acting Keanu Reeves ever accomplished. Also what is possibly Ione Skye's debut in film and she does an adequate job. Definitely for those who enjoy cult films and gritty realism suffused with black humor. "}{"Title":"Classic 80's cult movie","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This was one of my favorite movies of the 80's. Any fan of Keanu Reeves or Crispin Glover MUST see this movie, although Joshua Miller playing Keanu's little brother Tim was my favorite character, hands down. Dennis Hoppper was also very good, as reclusive biker/weed dealer Feck. Daniel Roebuck played his character Samson with sinister believability. This film received critical praise at the time, and it was well deserved. Solid acting supersedes the somewhat shoddy production(boom mike visible in one scene). In my humble opinion one of the seminal 80's flicks. If it makes you a fan of a young Joshua Miller, then I suggest checking out Near Dark a vampire movie of the late 80's, which also boasts a fine ensemble cast. "},{"Title":"Down by the river/I shot my baby","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Although the movie begins with a crime on the river's edge ,the film is not really a detective story,not a thriller.It is rather a chronicle of the lives and times of a bunch of high school students ,not particularly brilliant.The milieu in which they're nurtured is not particularly appealingthe scene when the mother screams that she would never have had children if she had had the choice is desperate to a fault.There's an interesting parallel between DEnnis Hopper's doll ,the young sister's one and ...the criminal's one.No actor overacts so the movie can be depicted as realistic.The history teachers provides the low point of the movie,his lesson being made of clichés we have heard a thousand times or more.THe wanderings through the night recall sometimes Lucas's American Graffiti but it seems that the young heroes come here from the wrong side of town. "},{"Title":"and you thought your kids were bad","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" long before larry clark even thought of exploiting bijou philips, macauly culkin's brief bride, brad renfro, and someone else in the true-story of teens gone bad, 'bully,' tim hunter directed this 1986 cult classic depicting the true story of how a bunch of friends react when one of their own kills another of their own. not surprisingly, the kids do not respond entirely too well. (if they did what kind of movie would that have been?) some believe it is their duty to protect their own, especially since she's already dead it's too late but they don't have to lose two friends. some believe a dead body is best used as something you poke with a stick with your friends late afternoons after school (latchkey kids gone bad, clearly.) "},{"Title":"Great Soundtrack!","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I do not know to much about the acting in this movie but the sound track was great.  I only rented the movie because of the music.  The one and only Slayer play all their hits from the their Show No Mercy album.  Goes great with the movie.  A guy kills his girlfriend and finally gets killed himself by another psycho for not killing for love.  Great plot, music, unknown (at the time) actors.  I recommend this movie it is a real Gem. "},{"Title":"Crispin deserved an Academy Award Nom. for this one...","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just watched River's Edge again for the first time in 15 years, and it certainly holds up way better than all the light-hearted films of that era.  All of the actors did a splendid job, even if the story was twisted significantly from the original event it was based on. Some ObservationsKeanu Reeves looks basically the same now as he did in 1986.Ione Skye dittoDaniel Roebuck while he obviously put on some pounds for his role, he also appears to be wearing a fat-suit around his gut.  He must enjoy working while wearing prosthetics, as he was able to pull off that monster Jay Leno Chin quite admirably in The Late Shift.Dennis Hopper deserves a lifetime achievement award for best psycho actor ever, followed closely by the aforementioned Crispin Glover (and maybe James Remar). "},{"Title":"Keanu?  Doing a good job?","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  River's Edge is a nice piece of work.  I really enjoyed this movie.  The plot was simple and formulaic but it contained a few nice twists and some superb characters.  Crispin Glover delivers a sometimes hilarious performance as the obsessive friend Layne, and Dennis Hopper does great as the creepy pot dealer who's girlfriend is a blow up doll (makes you wonder if this is where Hopper is at now?).  But perhaps the most shocking of all; Keanu Reeves actually delivers.  This is one of his three great roles in my opinion (The others being neo in The Matrix, and the redneck wife-beater in Sam Ramii's The Gift).  Keanu is actually convincing, and his face is animated at times in this film.  It is a shame that he doesn't do more indie-films, because movies like this show proof that he could have something to offer. "},{"Title":"Disturbingly Realistic","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film did a wonderful job at presenting teenagers and how it is not that far fetched for people to get sucked into going along with the crowd.  After a group of teenagers find out that their friend killed his girlfriend, who was also their friend, they all keep it only among themselves and no one immediately goes to the authorities.  Lane, played by Crispin Glover, sort of leads the group into sticking together to protect their friend who is still alive. Kenu Reeves is more or less the main character, who does a wonderful job playing a kid who seems to only want to get stoned and cut class.  And Ione Skye plays Clarissa,the stoner type girl that dresses in the I don't give a damn about my appearance way, yet manages to make sure she has on an abundance of makeup, especially around the eyes. All of the kids came from dysfunctional families, one with a Mom who kept joints laying around for her kids to find, as if the live in boyfriend, who hit her kids, was not bad enough.  What was especially spooky about the film is that I was about the same age as the characters when I first saw it. I found every single one of the characters realistic and could parallel them to someone I knew, maybe except for the crazy dude played by Dennis Hopper.  But then again, his character had some general similarities to someone I encountered-some older guy in the area who hangs out with high school kids and buys them beer and stuff.  The acting was very good especially since most of the cast were virtually unknowns during the time when the movie first debuted on cable.  If you have never seen this film, try renting it or catching it on the IFC sometime.  It is wonderfully written.  And if you were in your teens during the mid to late 80's, you may relate to some of the less morbid aspects of the film, like the pre-grundge flannel look complete with dangling bandanna from the back pocket of a pair of blue jeans or black hey look at me, I'm a rocker wanna be pants.  We used to call that the head or grit look in this part of the country back in the day.  LOL   "},{"Title":"Excellent, thought provoking movie based on a true story","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this movie and thought the characters were all well-acted and portrayed. This movie IS based on the murder of Marcy Conrad by Anthony Broussard.It is very sad that this did happen, but the movie did provide some food for thought, no matter your age.  Even though it portrays teens, it could happen to anyone.  What would you do? "},{"Title":"one of the best films of the 80's","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"   River's Edge is an excellant portrait of teenage angst as a group of slacker-party friends find out that one of their own killed his girlfriend and left her body by the river. They deal with it in ways they only know how and start feeling major paranoia. They spend time aside from going to school and seeing the body by buying pot off a lunatic druggie played by Dennis hopper. Crispin Glover is the leader of the group and doesnt want to turn a friend in. Glover gives a great barely over the top performance as does Hopper. Keanu Reeves plays the kid from a broken home who has a guilty conscious. Excellant performances by the whole cast. I recommend it this highly. **** "},{"Title":"bleak study of ethical poverty","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  RIVER'S EDGE depicts a sense of alienation and moral vacuousness among adolescents that has, unfortunately, only grown in the fifteen years since this film was released. A teen murders his girlfriend, and his circle of friends debates what to do. Some want to hide the body and protect the boy, others want to turn him in. A disturbing study of teens forced with ethical choices who have little, if any, experience or basis for making such choices. A horror story and a tragedy. "}{"Title":"An Important Document of Teen Alienation","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are few teen films which manage to evoke a tone as bleak and overtly pessimistic as Hunter's River's Edge. The opening sequence which culminates in the C.U of the dead girl's body is strange and unsettling, perfectly setting up the audience for what is to follow. The teenagers that are depicted in this film are morally bankrupt, living in a time of abandoned values, nuclear anxiety and broken homes. Its a startling vision of 1980s America, a far cry from the sugar coated John Hughes teenpics of the same era. The naturalistic performances from the likes of Daniel Roebuck as the killer Samson and Joshua Lee Miller as the 12 year old wannabe psychopath Tim are truly astounding. Crispin Glover is electric as the drug fueled renegade Layne and Dennis Hopper is in typical OTT form as washed up 60s biker Feck. The film conjures up a bleak landscape; a decaying small town inhabited by people on the verge of losing control. While its imagery and thematic concerns may be too downbeat for some viewers, there is little doubt that this is a startling and revelatory piece of film making - a hugely significant account of teenage alienation. "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A bold and powerful look at the lives of alienated teenagers.When one of their friends kills his girlfriend, a group of closely knit teenagers don't know what to do.  The 'leader' Layne (Crispin Glover) wants to cover it up, but the others are not so sure.Based on a true story (which I know nothing about), this film is very powerful.  The scenes between Reeves and Skye are especially moving. Dennis Hopper as Feck also gave a brilliant performance. If there is a flaw, its with the portrayal of Reeve's brother.  I wanted him dead, his character was so annoying and bratty that I wanted him to just disappear. "},{"Title":"Gummo The Early Years","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This director also directed an episode of Twin Peaks(I'm a big fan), there was lots of drugs, and Dennis Hopper. Sounds great right? Well, what I want to know is, did people like this movie when it came out? Was it controversial? It doesn't seem very racy by today's standards, but the people that made this probably went out on a limb. Was this made before Back to the Future? Dennis Hopper was making references to Easy Rider throughout this whole thing. And it seemed like Crispin Glover was doing the same thing with Back to the Future, spoofing his character that is. It never really said why these kids were so braindead either. Was it because of drugs? Was it because they were teenagers? Maybe there was no reason. But they were braindead and unfeeling. I suppose that's where the misunderstood and outcast themes of the movie come into effect. This movie did come out before Heathers. This was more of a serious study of teenagers than a satire of it. Did this remind anyone of Gummo? Or should I say did Gummo remind anyone of this? So what did I think? It only costs 59 cents to rent and if you're in the mood for the eighties what do you have to lose. "},{"Title":"Weak character development hindered what could have been a dramatic answer to ``Fast Times.''","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a disturbing film, but most of the characters were grossly underdeveloped.  Those that we get to know best end up being Samson and Feck, and their stories have a lot to do with mental illness.  Matt, Tim, and Clarissa are basically confused and this is drawn to drug use which is an easy-out and one dimensional.  The cop presses Matt quite hard in questioning, wanting to know why he was so oblivious to the death of a friend.  Matt's response of `` I don't know,'' is fine, but WE should know why.  Blaming weed alone is almost cliche...  And after all of Tim's criminal behavior (amazing for a 10-year-old), the resolution of his story was far from satisfying.  Better character development could have made this a 7-out-of-10 movie, in my opinion.  As it is, it is much less. "},{"Title":"Great movie then and now...","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remember when this movie first came out. I watched it again tonight and have to say I believe I was more disturbed this time around then my first viewing. As a teenager the most significant thing that stuck with me about this movie was the body and how she was left by the river. This time around it was the apathy of the whole group of friends and the push/pull between brothers Matt & Tim. I'm not sure what my group of friends would have done if put in a similar situation.Since the 60's our society has been on a rapid decline. Each generation has had some form of social inadequacy. In the 80's we were all slackers, even the so called jock/pinheads of our generation. Drugs, alcohol, and sex were the norm. Kids across all economic backgrounds were part of the latch-key generation, unsupervised, under stimulated. Our role models were the musicians we listened to and the music videos we watched. True, movies today seem to grip harder. Show more blood and guts. Are far more graphic. This movie though cuts to the solid core of my generation. We were a bunch a slackers, drifters without a moral compass by which to guide us. Only a nagging feeling or voice if you will, in the back of our heads as to what was right and what was wrong.I'm glad I took the time to watch this movie again. It was well worth the time. Keanu pulled off an extremely good performance and considering I have really considered him eye candy until now is saying a lot. Joshua Miller really and truly disturbed me the most. Bravo. I wish I knew who played their little sister because she did the job so sweetly. She was the only character in the movie that showed true emotion and quite frankly reminded me of my own daughter in her caring for others.Even though this movie is a bit dated I strongly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"One more weird flic","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a bunch of dysfunctional dead heads all total believers in situational ethics with lives heading in a downward, out of control spiral. No wonder either with the parents some of them had. A great look at what a bizarre zoo our society has become. Glover was superb as the the manic, fiercely loyal pack leader.  "},{"Title":"One of the best of the 80's","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is actually among my all time favorites...This movie hit close to home in that these were the kind of kids I went to school with (not murderers...rather the outsiders who's biggest concern was their next drug score). The acting was decent and I recently saw this on video and it wasn't dated too badly as are a lot of the 80's movies. This was the perfect anti-Hughes teen movie.Slayer on the soundtrack was also a HUGE bonus as are the acting performances by Krispin Glover, Keanu Reeves (well, as good as he can get anyways ;)), Dennis Hopper, Joshua Miller, Roxana Zal and Daniel Robuck.Great flick but not for everyone... "},{"Title":"swearing, violence, abuse, high school, so what?","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Generally I like this type of movie.  And i did like this movie, but not because it was sooooo powerful or soooooo meaningful, but because of the opposite.  It seemed to have close relations to Linklater's Slacker, only with more of a plot.  Then the movie was moving towards animosity against narcs.  But, it finally says that ratting is a good thing.*SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS*The movie passes all sorts of judgement, and it does not let the audience judge for itself.  It the beginning it did, but in the end it gets all moralistic.  It has the initial murderer dead, the enabler (Feck) in a hospital, the accessory in jail, and the narcs free with their own morals intact.  Isn't life swell? - The Breakfast ClubThe movie is filled with all Judd Nelsons from The Breakfast Club.  It moves slowly to the point of seemingly no plot.  Any non-mainstream ideas are lost, as well as reinforcing everything else.  Any nihilism in this movie is destroyed because apparently nihilism in its purist form doesn't exist (which is probably a true assessment) and nothing really happens. The closest recent movie of comparison would be The Doom Generation.  That movie is a comedy, much like some of River's Edge, but it has a point.  Its morals are more teenage like, and it doesn't reinforce dominant norms.  It is much more of a powerful movie, in that many people are disturbed by it and it has much stronger emotions tied to it.  Want a Dorito? fits both movies.  But it would have a reaction in River's Edge.4/10 "},{"Title":"Funny!","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I think this is one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time. It had me laughing out loud from start to finish.Everything is just so over-the-top it's impossible to take it seriously. There are no normal characters in the whole thing. The non-metal portions of the soundtrack are equally over-done.I grew up in the 80's too. Keanu's character is like the guy I used to ride the bus with. Dark, looks like a trouble maker, but really an OK guy. Over Christmas break my friend turned into a preppy.It's kind of like they made a movie from a high-school student's perspective. Not based on reality, but based on hormone-induced super-size fantasy. "},{"Title":"Good, Well Meaning Movie, But Too Ambitious","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Most people who grew up in some suburban stoner environment can relate to this flick; with it's drug abuse, petty crime, meanness, emptiness, alienation from parents and general low level amorality. Movies about wild teens running amok have been a staple of American cinema since '55's Blackboard Jungle. People love to be horrified yet feel superior to these juvenile monsters, The film maker and the writer have intimate knowledge and feelings about this and made a starkly real film. The only missed note was Cripin Glover's Layne, who I think added some comic relief with his hammy speed freak manipulator character. In this movie, the parents are just as lame, drugged out and clueless as their kids and are unable to provide any guidance even if their kids sought it. It centered around a pointless murder by a total sociopath of his girlfriend (she made a comment about his dead mother) and the way his friends hid it and tried to shield him.The teacher Mr. Burkewaite was the typical 60's radical and tried to provide some moral center, yet he even lacked the guts to condemn or even see the amorality around him. In class discussing the crime, he stuffs the conservative nerd who went on about the decline in morals. Keanu's Matt provides some moral center too for his stoner milieu. He even fights a war with his crueler, more degenerate little brother Tim, who I feel represents the much uglier punks versus the mellow stoners mini-rebellion. Then there is Hopper's Feck; a biker who killed his woman then was left to die by his biker buddies on the road after an accident that took his leg. Hopper shone in this flick but came off as a victim too, which he really wasn't. The cops were well meaning But the ending was rather cheesy, with the weepy classmates at the funeral. Where was the general outrage from the public, parents schools; did the filmmakers offer a solution or too? Okay, it's not a GOP political message but if they were willing to go that far, they should lay out some solutions. They seemed to feel as hopeless and as empty as their characters. But compared to say, Boyz in the 'Hood which exploited black urban gangs and violence yet seemed to feel that blaming whitey and the police is the answer with cheap socio comments about cultural bias on the SAT or racist teachers or brutal cops. Blame anyone but the instigators and perpetrators. "}{"Title":"one of the best  movies i have ever seen","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is really good in the movie a guy kills his girlfriend and shows it off to all of his friends and they do not care that much.Crispin Glover does a great role in this film i think its one of his best films and the film also stares Keanu Reeves.The film is disturbing but at the same time u are wondering what is going to happen next.I recommend this film to buy if under 20 dollars and to rent and its one of the best films in the 80s.The film also stars Dennis Hopper,Joshua Jhon Miller just to name a few of the good actors in the film.overall i gave this film 7 of of ten if u are a fan of Crispin glover or Keanu reeves this is a must see film. "},{"Title":"One of the greats","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love River's Edge. It reminds me of my teenage years, and the people I used to hang out with, and the stuff we'd get into. Not that any of us killed out girlfriends, you understand, but pretty much everything else, yeah.I'm surprised that so many people took this as a moralising movie. I thought it did a great job of staring at the whole situation pretty coldly.Crispin Glover was sooooo good in this movie. Hell, even Keanu was okay. "},{"Title":"Nihilism meets MTV","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  You will have to search high and low to find a more reprehensible film. By that I mean the story, theme or whatever the hell else the film maker had in mind. The saving grace is that it is surprisingly well acted and shot. Assuming this is supposed to take place on Earth, which is a stretch, it's set in a western Nowheresville. It sports a veritable sideshow of a cast that includes a Fatman sociopath, a Bearded Lady psychopath, a One Legged recluse, and an androgenous Dwarf delinquent. The characters are all cleverly caricatured for maximum loathing, save for Keanu who plays a James Dean type anti-hero. Quickly, the Fatman kills his girlfriend for no apparent reason, and the Bearded Lady then attempts to orchestrate a cover-up. Bear in mind, these are all high school kids. Mutants completely devoid of human sentiment, ambition, or sociological structuring. Their home lives are Jerry Springer rejects, and their main school influence is a burned out hippie teacher who brags about the nobility of stopping the war in Viet Nam, while simultaneously drooling over the injuries he was able to inflict on the police who stood in his way. Throughout, the kids constantly reflect on their fears of annihilation by the Soviets of all things. This movie is a pure cartoon, but you know it wasn't intended to be. When it was released, people were probably inclined to think it was deep. It aint. It's an extremely amateurish effort again with the exception of the actor's performances. If you are the sort of person who digs a circus sideshow, you will get something out of this. Something not so nice.   "},{"Title":"Reflection on 60's Nihilism","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a very accurate reflection of the nihilism of the 60's and how it has destroyed the lives of the generation that followed.   This is most clearly reflected in the classroom scene where the baby boomer teacher tries to to excite his students about the 60's (It was an exciting time).  The students can only react with disinterest.   The baby boomer has no idea that his generation  is, more than anything, about the destruction of all values. The students, however, are much more insightful.  They do know it, and they take it to heart. Wake up hippies! "},{"Title":"Best Comedy I've Seen In YEARS!!!!","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I caught this gem of a knee-slapper with a few friends of mine a couple days ago and it was hilarious. The acting so was so terrible that it made an otherwise unwatchable film nearly watchable. Sounds weird, I know, but Crispin Glover's character was so over the top that every time he was on screen we couldn't help just laugh, not to mention to acting wizardry of Keanu. What a tag team of acting supremacy.I got on to read some of the reviews on IMDb to see if other people noticed what we all noticed, and I was shocked at how many people called this realistic and well acted. What movie were people watching?! And realistic... where did you grow up, because I am never going there. If little 12 year-old's nun-chucking people to steal guns and cars and kill their brother, is realistic then I must live in Mayberry. I'm not even going to go into the blow-up doll.I would have given this movie a 3/4 of a star, but 1 is the lowest you can give. If you are like me and at times love to watch ridiculously bad films, check this one out. Dennis Hopper is the sole bright spot and it was only because he played his usual crazy, deviant character. "},{"Title":"Portrait of a Lost Generation","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a stark, staring portrait of a new Lost Generation children who had nothing to believe in, heads full of pop-culture trash, and frighteningly dissociative views of the world. Keeanu Reeves shines as a young man who's both desperately trying to do the right thing, and at the same time bewildered as to what that might be. Crispin Glover's performance as a frightened hedonist, living from moment to moment, is as scary as it is amazing. Perhaps the best performance is done by the late River Phoenix, playing a young man who is carefully nurturing the seeds of evil in his breast; watering them with sadism and parental neglect. Dennis Hopper appears as a disaffected veteran who sees the world as it is, but tries to retreat into a private fantasy, until the world forces him to recognize it. This is a must-see, all the more so because it's based on a true incident! "},{"Title":"Quite a movie and I'm not sure how","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I happened on this movie on the APTN (Aboriginal People's TV Network) and can't believe I sat up and watched it. The language was horrendous, the acting WAY over done and one has to wonder about the parenting skills of the people wherever it was supposed to have taken place. I taught school for 28 years and cannot believe the dialogue in the classroom, from either students or teacher. I had no idea Keanu Reeves was ever THAT young too (albeit it cute)! Still, it MUST have had SOME saving something else I wouldn't have stayed up to see how it ended, other than I couldn't imagine HOW it was going to finish! I was also trying to figure out if Lane was supposed to be gay or not ( as a gay man I always wonder about certain characters) but the portrayal was so odd I wasn't even sure if at first it was a man! "},{"Title":"This is a God awful movie","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The acting is bad. The writing is worse. The little kid (Joshua Miller) is the gayest 12-year-old I've ever seen. I don't know if the director wanted him to play it gay or if that's just how Miller thinks 12-year-old tough guys act. Another extremely effeminate performance is put on by Crispin Glover. He has the exact mannerisms of George McFly from Back to the Future, only now he's in a leather jacket and hits like a girl. And Keanu is Keanu; enough said about that dreadful performance. The worst part of this film is the writing. Apparently, the writer thought that to correctly portray high school kids who don't care about anything is to have them talk, virtually, nonstop about how everyone should calm down and smoke pot. I quote the incomparable Keanu, Heaven would suck because you couldn't smoke pot. These kids are so damn stupid! This movie was a real waste of my time and it will be a waste of yours. "},{"Title":"Lord of the Flies on acid","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A preachy, finger-pointing film with a banal, bigoted view of the world. Predictably, all of its characters are flat, as empty-headed as the plot and the careless, unadorned direction. Showing an extremely jaundiced, cartoonish view of humanity, it does its best to try to scare kids into thinking that their only hope in the world is to adopt mainstream values. Flabby conservative social engineering in its most obvious guise.The film's only redeeming feature is that it accurately captures the deep despair and self-deception of the Reagan-Bush era and the people who made it possible. "},{"Title":"Mighty Willows Weep and Die &#x85; Down by the River","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It took me far too long to finally see River's Edge but at least now I can wholeheartedly proclaim that this is one of the most astounding and unforgettable movies of the 1980's. This is the simultaneously disturbing and depressing portrait of an apathetic teenage generation in a lower social class suburban hell, with some of the strangest character drawings ever and an atmosphere that epitomizes nihilism, hopelessness and inertia. What makes River's Edge extra shocking is the fact that it's inspired by a real-life murder case as it occurred in California in the autumn of 1981. Although supposedly just loosely based on the case, the plot of the film is quite similar to the facts in the murder case of Marcy Renee Conrad. This is the type of story that would be grotesque and implausible if it were an entire work of fiction, but now you can't but feel very disquieted about our society. Samson John Tollet just strangled his girlfriend Jamie, but he isn't upset, remorseful or nervous to get caught at all. Quite the contrary, he reacts very disinterested and carelessly invites all of his friends to come and check out Jamie's lifeless body that he left behind naked on the riverbank of his hometown. Their reactions, however, are equally startling since initially none of them bothers to alert the authorities. Instead they prefer to get stoned, steal beer from the local liquor store and upset their parents by staying out all night. Layne, the uncrowned leader of the pack, even decides to help John get away with his inhuman crime and arranges a hideout at the house of the deranged dope-dealing Feck. River's Edge is a slow-paced and extremely unsettling viewing experience. The social criticism is literally crushing and much more bitter than in any other so-called 'coming-of-age' film of the 80's (and they were quite plentiful). The movie tackles the subject of the teenage slackers' disrespect, but also the adults' lack of parenting and teaching abilities. The adult characters in the story are almost as lamentable as the teenagers, like a powerless mother, an lightly inflammable stepfather and a science teacher stuck in the hippie era. Not to mention Feck, who's the embodiment of a bad role model. Yet, in spite of the overall very raw and nihilistic tone, River's Edge doesn't feature any graphical on screen violence or bloodshed. Jamie is dead from the opening sequence already and the later acts of brutality remain suggestive as well. This is a psychological piece of horror; harsh and mentally confronting! River's Edge is literally chock-full of amazing acting performances. Keanu Reeves is ideally cast as the gawky stoner and Daniel Roebuck is truly petrifying as the emotionally dead Samson Tollet. There's a particular sequence, in which he describes the murder in detail, where he's scary as hell. But the absolute most tremendous performance comes from cult favorite & and natural born weirdo Crispin Glover as the eccentric gang leader Layne. He's an unpredictable and mentally very unstable representation of teenage alienation. And then of course there's Dennis Hopper as Feck. What other middle-aged cult actor would consider playing a sex-doll obsessed, gun swinging and drug addicted lunatic? "}]