[{"Title":"Magical - Don't Miss!","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"193 out of 220 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I loved it. Having recently seen it again after several years, I found it to be every bit as good as I remembered &#150; in fact, better. So I thought I would visit IMDB and see what others had to say. I learned four things;1/ This movie was a flop at the box office. Funny, I had always assumed it was a hit &#150; it was so good, and spawned three (soon to be four) sequels and a television series.2/ I expected some to be less than entranced with Highlander, but was interested to learn that there are those who think it complete rubbish.3/ Some people think the sequels are good movies. How could they?4/ Some people don't like the Queen soundtrack. How could they not?It is always interesting to see different viewpoints, especially when they are completely contrary to your own. But for me, this movie was perfect. The premise was intriguing, the story was beautifully told, the joy and pathos of an immortal amongst mortals revealed with great skill. There was great action, romance, the tragedy of love lost &#150; and the baddest of bad guys to overcome.The casting was excellent, as was the acting. Sean Connery's contribution was exactly as it should have been, and no more. Clancy Brown's performance as The Kurgan was joyfully terrifying, Christopher Lambert was spot-on.The screenplay was excellent, as was the script. I was especially impressed with the way that flashbacks were interwoven with the ongoing story. In fact, this is the only flashback movie I have ever liked.I was also thoroughly impressed with the action sequences. Unlike so many recent movies, none of the action involved the physically impossible (with the obvious exception of the fact that the immortals were immortal, of course). This added enormously to the appeal, in direct contrast to so many movies made in the last decade. I despair when I watch movies where people perform the impossible. Even the classic scene `Oh, I'm falling &#150; but it's OK, I can just grab this rope/branch/flagpole/whatever, and even though I have fallen 30 feet and am travelling at 20 mph, I can just stretch out my hand and arrest my fall as though I was no heavier than a feather' destroys all credibility in the action. I know, this is a fantasy movie anyway, so what does it matter? Well, realistic action is even more important in fantasy movies; it helps the audience to willingly suspend disbelief. This is very difficult to do when you are busy giggling at the latest fantastical feat you have witnessed. No such concerns in this movie &#150; the action was perfectly judged to reflect the prowess gained from centuries of experience, whilst avoiding the impossible and the ridiculous.I was intrigued to find one user comment on IMDB criticising the use of `unnecessarily large and heavy weapons'. Anyone who has used (or even picked up) any edged weapon will be aware that they are very heavy. Moving that kind of mass means lots of momentum, and involves very distinctive body movements to counterbalance the weight. Most movies use toy weapons &#150; plastic, fibreglass or wood &#150; and the lack of mass shows in the actor's movements. For the uninitiated, this may make for flashier and faster action &#150; but for those who know, it looks like children playing pretend. The use of weapons with real weight in Highlander adds tremendously to the realism. It was particularly impressive that the actors could use the weapons properly (at least to the extent demanded by the choreographed scenes &#150; and that is all that is required for movies). Clancy Brown (as The Kurgan) deserves special praise here &#150; he had the largest and heaviest weapon, yet wielded it like a veteran. One can only imagine the endless hours he spent perfecting his movements and balance.I do understand why some would find the soundtrack intrusive, but for me this was another area that was perfectly judged. Queen's songs enhanced the mood of the moment whenever they played. One related fact that some might find interesting &#150; a few years ago I saw a list of the top ten best movies for music as voted for by students. Highlander made the list &#150; the only non-musical to do so. (In fact, I think it came in the top five.) So I would guess that the soundtrack works for most people..I also understand why the accents in the movie (Christopher Lambert's and Sean Connery's) are a problem for some. However, I was happy with Lambert's accent; it was Scottish enough for the Highland scenes, and suitably indefinable for the modern settings. Sean Connery was, of course, Sean Connery &#150; he never adopts any accent other than his own. But that's OK &#150; it doesn't detract from the film, any more than it detracts from any of his films (such as Red October). I tend to agree with his point that accents don't matter &#150; emotions are the same, regardless of nationality.Just a quick word about the sequels &#150; disappointing. I am not one to decry all sequels as inferior. In fact, many sequels are very good, and some are better than their progenitors. However, the Highlander sequels were without exception very poor. The original film was obviously conceived as a one-off, and was all the better for it. The story was complete with Highlander, and the sequels were necessarily contrived. However, Highlander II exceeded all expectations in this regard. The plot changed the story of the immortals beyond all recognition. Egregious just isn't a big enough word to describe it.The sequels are best viewed as being entirely separate from the original. If you haven't already seen them, be prepared for a decidedly tepid experience.But Highlander itself &#150; ah, there's a real movie. Sit back and enjoy!9.5/10  "},{"Title":"Largely panned by the critics, but surprisingly a good, ingenious sci-fi offering.","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"99 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Highlander is an ingenious and very entertaining science fiction film which has come in for rather a lot of (unwarranted) scathing criticism. Although the plot jumps around with reckless abandon, the scripters Gregory Widen, Larry Ferguson and Peter Bellwood manage to pull in all the loose ends by the climax. The word confusing has been used to describe the film quite often as well, but if you stick with it the confusing moments are explained quite cleverly towards the closing reels. This is, in fact, not a bad film at all. I'd venture to say it's a pretty good one.The opening sequence has Russell Nash (Christopher Lambert) at a wrestling match in New York's Madison Square Gardens. He leaves early, and while walking through the underground car park is confronted by a man with a sword. Nash is not perturbed by this - he merely brandishes a sword of his own, and the pair of them fight to the death, resulting in the decapitation of Nash's opponent. Slowly, we learn (via flashbacks) that Nash is an immortal swordsman who has spent centuries duelling with like immortals. The only way they can die is by decapitation at the hands of one of their counterparts. Each swordsman has spent the whole of history pursuing the others, hoping to be the last one alive whereupon he will gain mortality, virility and vast knowledge.The film is very energetic (what would you expect from a former music video director?) with dazzling camera work and a pounding, Flash Gordon-style soundtrack by Queen. Sean Connery has a pleasant supporting role as an immortal who teaches Lambert the art of swordplay, and Alan North has a funny part as a bewildered cop who can't figure out why headless corpses keep turning up in his city. The film's intentionally muddled structure is slightly irritating on the first viewing, but with repeated viewings it becomes more comprehensible, even clever. Highlander is a good, inventive piece of hokum.... and it's a real shame that those very same critics who are always grumbling about the lack of cinematic imagination these days didn't give it some merit when it was first released. "},{"Title":"Didn't get it at first","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"85 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I didn't get this film at first audition. I thought the acting wasn't great. But something about the film kept pulling me in. When I watched it again I fell in love with the movie. Its full of romance, heroism and over all loss. A very involving and emotional film. The Queen song Who wants to live forever never fails to stir emotions. The battle scenes are also very good. What also makes the film work is the casting. The Highlanders all look very brave and fearless not to mention scarred. Also the costumes are fantastic. I'm mo expert on the exact clothing for Highlanders in the 16th century, but they looked pretty good to me. I had no real feelings about Scotland before I watched this film, But after the film got under my skin it was the next place I visited. I was amazed to find that there really is a Glen Finnan on the shore of Loch Sheil. And I can say first hand that it is a truly historicaly magical place. "},{"Title":"A Good Film Whose Reputation Has Been Dragged Down By Poor Sequels","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"67 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When I first saw this film, I thought it was great. Connery is good, Lambert does passably well, the effects are good, the idea of a bunch of special individuals who had known about each other (and in some cases, liked each other) for centuries being drawn together, knowing that only one could come out alive. The effects were, at the time, good and had not been flogged to death. I even enjoyed the introductory clan-on-clan warfare.Then came Highlander 2, a film which deserved its place on the Bottom 100 and the nadir of Sean Connery's career. As someone else said about that film don't break every rule you set up in the first film. Even the series didn't do that. And the reputation of the first good film suffered.Separating the first film from the bad sequels, and a series that a lot of people can take or leave, it is still a good film. Unfortunately, a good idea was taken and flogged to death afterward. "},{"Title":"I absolutely loved this movie!!!","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"51 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It does exactly what a movie is supposed to do! It lets your imagination run away with you. It lets you forget all your worries for a time. The music is Fantastic!!! It is haunting and relaxing at the same time. Sean Connery is of course, wonderful in his part. Christopher Lambert has a way of making you feel what he feels. The scenery is utterly gorgeous. The special effects are very well done.Makes you want to live forever and at the same time glad that you don't! Worrying about getting your head cut off sure makes our bills seem like such tiny little problems! Great entertainment!! A must see for the fiction fan. "},{"Title":"A movie with something for everyone","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"45 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie I knew it was going to be a lifelong favorite. With all the years that have gone by since then, and the repeated viewings I have given it, The Highlander still remains one of the best pieces of film I have ever seen. There are enough fight scenes to satisfy the most adamant of action movie fans, and there is an incredibly touching scene with Lambert and Beatie Edney (Heather) when she is dying of old age, Connor is still youthful in appearance, and the Queen song Who Wants To Live Forever is playing in the background. It still brings tears to my eyes when I see Connor in modern day New York lighting a candle for her on her birthday. The swordplay is extremely well choreographed and the sets are remarkable. To be fair, the special effects are not what I would consider up to the standards of the day, however the writing and acting is more than enough to make up for it. If you want to see a movie that doesn't NEED special effects to make it worth watching, this is one for you. "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasure #1","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"44 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Still, one of my favorite movies of all time, especially if I watch the director's cut. Forget the sequel. Forget everything but the first movie. This was Gregory Widen's first screenplay about a world of darkness. It's great fun, but if you're looking for a FILM, just watch the scene cuts. Please, please ignore any of the franchise movies. Highlander succeeds because it's an '80s movie. The special effects, while not novel, were solid. The swords alone are why I watched this movie in my young years. The writing and the acting are why I've come back. As an aside, I know three people who can quote Highlander in its entirety. That's solid, too. It's an epic movie, plowing through the years. Epic battles, and an epic storyline. "},{"Title":"Great story told with heart","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"32 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I can honestly say that Highlander is one of the most original and affecting stories I have ever had the pleasure of viewing, although sadly not in the cinema. The film has its flaws but the cumulative effect of all the various elements make this a film that is really like no other, and often imitated. There are many elements in the film that were experimental at the time, especially for a genre film. The editing style is much more painterly and nonlinear than what one normally expects. The integration of modern songs in a period setting was handled brilliantly, with the crowning achievement of the film being the who wants to live forever? montage, which is an absolutely heartbreaking scene. Anyone who has ever truly loved someone will understand when you see it. One of the refreshing aspects of Highlander is that the movie is not just set up with an interesting concept and becomes a mindless action film from there, but that it actually comments on the questions posed by immortality. With Connor Macleod we are given a fantastic character who is brilliantly realized through Chrisopher Lambert's complex performance. The change he goes through from young, innocent Scotsman to a sad, world weary antiques dealer is a wonderful achievement. I actually feel through his performance how lonely the life of an immortal must be, and how he keeps people at a distance whereas to not get too deeply involved. This film has it's heart in the right place because it comments on the fact that when people lose everything they hold dear, in this case because Macleod will outlive everyone he cares about, they travel inward, cutting themselves off from the world in hopes that they will be spared the pain of seeing the ones they love die. From a story standpoint alone, this is a truly magnificent film, which isn't to say it is lacking in other areas. The camera angles are very inventive and some of the transitions between time frames are jaw-dropping. The musical score by Michael Kamen is lush and romantic, while at the same time allowing for an integration with the songs by Queen that is a tremendously successful idea that in theory you'd never think would work right, but strangely it does so extremely well. There is a wide range of performance in the film ranging from Lambert's subtle, understated interpretation of Connor, to Clancy Brown's flamboyantly theatrical portrayal of the main Villain. Sean Connery also makes quite an impression as Connor's mentor. He is both hilarious and charming, powerful and poignant. The female character's are also handled very well with Conner's first wife Heather being the standout. Highlander has a very odd sense of humor that seems to have come from improvisation from the actors. The entire film has a spontaneous energy that works very well because you never quite know what is going to happen next. This is not a perfect film, and sometimes it tends to fall back on genre stereotypes but the overall effect of the film more than makes up for it. Highlander is one of the more original films ever made, and sadly none of the sequels ever built on that. As far as the Highlander series goes; There can be only one, and this is it. "},{"Title":"There is only one!","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"34 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In 16th century Scotland, immortals fought against each other, in a quest for the prize of being the one remaining at the end of the centuries of fighting. Conner Macleod (Christophe Lambert) is trained in the art of sword fighting by Ramirez (Sean Connery) in hope that one day one of them will fight and defeat the Kurgen (Clancy Brown) The story is set over 4 centuries and stretches from the highlands of Scotland to the streets of New York.Firstly the cinematography in the highlands captures the breath taking scenery beautifully, the story is captivating fantasy, with dialogue and direction to suit the theme, and the cast all perform well enough to entice you into the story and hold your attention, without ever really excelling. Finally the soundtrack is provided by Queen, and it genuinely adds to the emotional feel of the film in quite dramatic style.Highlander is a very good movie, that has its flaws; but in fantasy, does it really matter? However the sequels are far too contradictory and contrived to be given the same forgiveness. This film really is the only one; and its stands alone without the need for its inferior sequels.7/10 "},{"Title":"A Classic of the 80's","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander is perhaps the definitive modern-day, non-horror fantasy  adventure.  The use of flashbacks within the story is perhaps not unique,  but the concept sees its full fruition here.  Such integral flashback  storytelling would later be borrowed by many movies and TV shows (the  Highlander series itself, Forever Knight, and Outlaws among the latter).   Everyone is well cast, from the major roles (Lambert, Brown, Connery, Hart,  and North) to the minor roles (Peter Diamond, Hugh Quarshie, Sheila Gish,  and Christopher Malcolm, among others).  Of necessity, must be seen in the  Director's Cut version.  Various web sites also have the further missing  scenes, including the Kurgan's battle with Immortal Yung Dol Kim, and  Kastagir and MacLeod actually having that party they mention. "}{"Title":"This is still an enjoyable movie.","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie for the very first time in the late eighties and, for as far as I still can remember of course, I know that I was very impressed by the special effects used in this movie. Of course, when it comes to special effects, much has changed since this movie was created 20 years ago, but it was still nice to watch.Connor Macleod is the Highlander, an immortal who was born in 1518 and who fought his first battle on the Scottish Highlands in 1536. When he gets mortally wounded, but doesn't die, he is banned by his clan because they fear the Devil's work has made him survive. Five years later he meets Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez, who explains him why he didn't die and what it means to be an immortal. He finds out that he can only die when decapitated by another immortal and that, in the future, he will have to compete in some kind of contest. Only the best will survive and win The Prize. The contest takes place in 1985, in New York City and he'll have to face Victor Kruger / The Kurgan, a murderously brutal barbarian.Despite the fact that it sometimes may look a bit dated because of the special effects, this movie is still enjoyable. The story is interesting and the acting was good (personally I loved Clancy Brown the most as The Kurgan). And of course the soundtrack is very good as well, at least when you can appreciate the music by Queen. If not, than this may well be the soundtrack from hell for you, because the only music in it is from Queen. Overall I can say that, despite some minor defects, I had a good time watching this movie. That's why I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Flashy direction for an enjoyable but average movie","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When he is fatally wounded in a battle but yet survives with no visible marks, Connor MacLeod is expelled from his village.  When he is visited by Rameriz he learns that he is immortal and together they train for the eventual day when the immortals will battle to find the only one. Centuries later, beheadings are the top crime of the day in New York as the final gathering approaches with the evil Kurgan looking to destroy all before him. Meanwhile journalist Brenda Wyatt begins looking into the story around an ancient sword that was used in one of the beheadings.Beginning a series that really should have stuck with it's own catchphrase and only made one, this film is easily the best of the lot.  The plot sees the film jumping around between times without too much in the way of structure - some scenes allowing comedy, others drama.  It doesn't all totally work but it is still quite a fun film to watch anyway.  While the plot fails to really engage, the film moves fast enough to be enjoyable - with the first half having the better structure as a learning experience for Connor and, hence, for the audience.  It is fun if a little silly.  It is the skips forward in time that are the problem.They demand a little more structure and a greater degree of character development - neither of which really are forthcoming. In fairness it still manages to look good and be entertaining nonetheless.  The sword fights are pretty basic but still stylishly directed and have a slick music video feel to them.  It's the romantic interest that is the biggest difference between the times in Scotland the aging of Connor's wife is emotional, in New York the love interest is just an excuse for a bit of blue-lit rumpy-pumpy!A big reason for the first half being good is the hamming of Connery as Rameriz.  He is lively and amusing and it's a shame his involvement was cut short.  Lambert is pretty good - although now his trademark laugh is more annoying than endearing!  He doesn't manage to bring out the loss and suffering of his character very well at all to be honest.  Brown is a much better character - it doesn't require a lot of acting skill but he is enjoying himself playing it up and he really looks the part; where Lambert is a bit dry Brown is like a real spice for the film.  Hart is just a bit dippy and not that good in the role.Overall this is a pretty enjoyable, yet average, fantasy movie.  I don't see how this one film managed to spawn as much as it did, and in a way I wish it hadn't, but it is worth seeing once.  The soundtrack by Queen and fun performances from Connery and Brown are possible highlights. "},{"Title":"Highlander is low","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The sheer idiocy of Highlander just surprises me. It is so clumsily assembled and preposterously written that I find it hard to believe that what I saw on screen was the original plan of director Russell Mulcahy. At any rate, the fact still stands that Highlander is lame.With that said, I suppose it has a little to offer. There are a few nice shots, a few more 'very' nice ones, and a couple of mildly enjoyable fight scenes. Unfortunately, there is also weak acting, even weaker dialogue, messy editing, and music ques which come in all the wrong places. Most of all though, Highlander is just dumb. It has nowhere to go really, and so instead it just seems to go in circles. When all is said and done, the picture doesn't deliver enough to be worth a hundred minute time investment. "},{"Title":"A kids movie with an adult rating.","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have seen Highlander only twice, the first time was back in the mid nineties when I was about 10-or-so and I loved the film, especially as I was a big Sean Connery fan. Then recently I saw the film again, and now as a 20-something I realised that this was one of the worst action films I've ever seen. The first cause for concern was the opening 'battle', where Connor MacLeod complains that no-one is fighting him and then just lets The Kurgan stab him. At this instant The Kurgan could have quite easily have killed MacLeod but chooses not to, for reasons that seem absurd. So instead MacLeod recovers from his injuries and is hence thrown out of his village by people who don't believe in people who live after getting wounded, then he lives on his own, meets a nice girl and then finds himself under the tutelage of Sean Connery- where-in lies major problem number 2. Connor MacLeod is a Scot with a Swiss/French/American accent, Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez is a Spaniard with a Scottish accent. Ridiculous. Anyway, The Kurgan tracks them down again, kills Ramirez but then leaves before MacLeod gets back- again it might have been the perfect point to kill him. The story carries on with characters seeming immediate willingness to believe that, now MacLeod is living in New York, that he is hundreds of years old. In fact, characters (Brenda in particular) seem to think that it makes perfect sense for someone to be Immortal, and falls in love far too easily. Anyway The Kurgan finally gets to fight MacLeod and loses (predictably) as he gave him 400 years to get better at fighting. MacLeod then becomes 'The One', except that he's not cos there's Highlander 2-4, plus a series. And they are aliens. And Ramierez isn't dead. And then MacLeod dies at the end of the 4th one anyway. What is the point? I am a big fan of the fantasy genre, but this film is rubbish. There are only two action films that I can think of that have a Queen soundtrack, this and Flash Gordon- Flash Gordon is so bad it's fun, this is so bad it's terrible. I have seen worse films though, so this gets an extra point. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Formulaic, borderline nonsensical, and generally bad movie","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Highlander is a movie largely about swords, special effects, time-trotting set changes, and the presence of stars Sean Connery and Queen. Its characters aren't even deep enough to be called two-dimensional, its dialogue is awful, its storyline is convoluted and at best makes half-sense, and it's extraordinarily predictable. Even the two star presences (and calling Queen stars at this time was highly questionable) are bungled to the point of destroying their positive effects.The plot makes it easy to see how the film could spawn a cult following, numerous sequels and a television show, not to mention capturing and enthralling imaginations. Told with many flashbacks (so that the shocking inner-city sword fighting could open the film), the story that unfolds is that of a group of immortal beings who mysteriously appear on Earth at various times, eventually being called together to fight one another to the death for the prize, which is meant to be a secret through the film. However, the narrative takes away any power the plot carries. The film is structured in such an obvious, formulaic manner that every event in the film can be predicted after the first ten minutes, taking away any possibility of surprise. Compounding this problem, Connery's appearance is not delayed long enough to have the impact it needs in such a small part, essentially reducing him to a typical supporting actor.As is typically true in a mythical tale such as this, the characters are very flat and uninteresting. Connery's Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez is nothing more than a wise, affable mentor (think Yoda from Star Wars or Splinter from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles) to Christopher Lambert's simple-minded, over-emotional (Has there ever been a fantasy movie hero who can't be described that way?) Connor MacLeod. All of the women in the film are the same they love MacLeod unconditionally and seem to have no other thoughts or emotions. Clancy Brown's Kurgan is nothing more than an angry, vicious villain who enjoys killing and destruction but seemingly has no reason for his evil. This pattern holds for all characters in the film.The acting, such as it is, is not particularly noteworthy in any way. Hampered by the two-dimensionality of their characters, none of the actors in the film does a particularly good job, though the casting of Clancy Brown and Sean Connery does have to be applauded for its appropriateness. It's difficult to imagine any other actors fitting these roles as perfectly as these actors.Finally, no review of Highlander could be complete without a comment on the score. It is good, though a bit over-intrusive, especially in the Who Wants to Live Forever sequence. I have never been too much of a Queen fan, but Who Wants to Live Forever and Princes of the Universe are certainly among their latter-day (and perhaps career) highlights. If only Russell Mulcahy weren't attempting to use Queen as his film's star, this could have been a truly evocative score, but since he was, the score too often simply dominates the film.Overall, Highlander is an almost complete disaster. The excellent casting and surprisingly strong score are the only elements that really work, and they aren't enough to make this film worth the trouble of watching. There are thousands of other films dealing with very similar subject matter in a much more artful, intelligent manner that anybody could watch anytime. "},{"Title":"Yucks!","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Watched this movie when it first came out many years ago in the late 80s. Watched the director's cut recently and realized that the whole movie was horrible. The acting was OK but the swordfighting scenes were so amateurish and even more so when I found out that Bob Anderson was the choreographer. Whoever came up with the little 'facts' about that ugly dragon headed 'katana' obviously did not do his or her homework. A true Japanese sword has more than 1000 layers even at its minimum, not 200 as mentioned in the movie. The average person can learn to use a sword with some skill within a year but it's hilarious to watch men who've supposedly been around for hundreds and hundreds of years swinging their swords around worst than kids fighting with sticks. The long camera pans were good and gave depth to the scenes but after a while, I started feeling that they shouldn't have given the director's chair to a person who was more used to directing music videos. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I have ever seen","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I sat through just over an hour of this film until I just had to turn it off. I don't know, but it kept occurring to me that this film was what you get when you put Monty Python and Braveheart into a blender and give the slurry to a hack director with second rate special effects. Everything about this film was awful. The impossibly bland, wooden and hopelessly second rate acting of Christopher Lambert. The utterly wasted talents of Sean Connery. The unimpressive sword fighting (why is it that every time they have a sword fight they manage to hit something that emits loud hissing gases?) The special effects that (others here have commented) as being so great, I am sorry they are not; they are cheesy, third rate and laughable. The soundtrack by Queen is the worst music they made.There are lots of very fine movies made out of legends but this one lacks a solid script, good actors, direction that has a direction, a soundtrack that has left the 1980's behind, etc. I better stop now because I can't believe I actually put myself through an hour of wasted time. Beware there be stinks yonder that yea best avoid. "},{"Title":"The only reason Highlander wins the prize is because he is the main character","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Quick summary with spoilers Macleod is Scottish Swordsman from the 15th century, who is immortal. He was trained by Sean Connery's Scottish-accented Spaniard Egyptian immortal character. When an immortal kills another, he receives his powers. There can only be one of their kind, and every so often there is a gathering when only a few are left. They win the Prize. The Prize is knowing everything and having powers. Kind of like the prize in the last Indiana Jones movie, except that prize killed Cate Blanchett.In the end, Macleod wins the prize by beating the Kurgan. We will never know why. Oh wait, we do know why - he is the main character in the story. He is also good, and the Kurgan is bad.ENDI know I am going to get a lot of flack for this - but I watched Highlander again last night for the first time in almost 20 years. 20 years ago I was a child, and I loved this movie. I watched it repeatedly. I think I even loved the second one, but I did not know what was going on. All I saw then were swords, be-headings, and a Queen dabbled soundtrack. That was perhaps all that mattered back then. There is also something appealing about Christopher Lambert's voice.Anyway, the only reason I finished Highlander last night was because of how dated and bad it was.Sean Connery plays a character who was working from Spain, but is from Egypt. YET HE TALKS IN HIS Scottish ACCENT. His name is Juan Sanchez, by the way.In the scene in which Sean Connery's Juan dies, it seemed that Heather (Macleod's girlfriend) was there just to scream the entire time. She had SO MANY chances to leave. Even in a panic, any person would have left - For crying out loud, the BUILDING was falling down as Juan and the Kurgan were fighting. It was frustrating to watch (and hear) throughout the entire scene. Later, the viewer finds out that the Kurgan raped her afterward. Because of course he did.Anyway, Christopher Lambert changed his accent randomly throughout the movie. For example, the scene on boat with Sean Connery - the accent was almost mock Spaniard? Yet this was a serious scene in which he was yelling at Sean Connery, explaining to him to not rock the boat since he could not swim?Moving on, in a flashback scene to WWII, Macleod (Highlander) is dodging Nazis. These Nazis speak German. Macleod wittily retorts to them in English. It felt weird. Did the Nazi understand him? It appears that Lambert, in recent years, has been doing French movies. It is not like he could not do SOME TYPE OF OTHER LANGUAGE. (Granted, this is the director and writers' fault. A lot of things in this movie are their fault. But could have Lambert changed a few things? Could anyone else have tweaked a few things? Does a snowflake think its responsible in an avalanche? Rhetorical questions.)The love interest is played by Brenda Wyatt as Roxanne Hart. Roxanne works on the forensics team. She also CONVENIENTLY specializes in antique swords. This is how Russell Nash (Highlander's alter ego during this life) figures out that she works for the police and not for the Metropolitan Museum. He read this on her author biography on her History of Swords volume. This kind of ... convenient plot hole covering would never fly today. That is simply not believable - that a forensic detective is also an ancient sword expert.Most of the scenes between him and her come off as creepy.And in the end, how is Russell Nash able to even beat Kurgan for the Prize? Kurgan is supposed to be the strongest and most powerful, since he has killed the most immortals. WHAT USE IS IT TO HAVE THESE POWERS IF ONE OF THE YOUNGER IMMORTALS OF YOUR KIND IS ABLE TO BEAT YOU?! It just seems like a slap in the face. I would feel cheated if I were the Kurgan. I am sure he did.It is also never explained what these powers are, despite the fantastical show of getting these powers. I am referring to the powers associated with killing fellow immortals, not with the powers from the Prize.The movie left me with more questions than answers, and not in a philosophical wayWhy does the Kurgan still act barbaric even though that persona was five or more centuries ago?Why does the Kurgan quote Neil Young? (It is better to burn out than fade away?)Why did Kurt Cobain quote the Kurgan in his suicide note?Why was there a marine in the alley when the Kurgan was fighting that other immortal? Why was the marine carrying a machine gun? Are there not laws against this?Why does the the police detective banter with Nash about being gay in a derogatory manner? Quite randomly, at that. I mean, WHO DOES THAT EXCEPT A CHARACTER IN THE 80's? Also, a tad politically incorrect.Why is Highlander able to have kids because he won the Prize? Why is that a prize?How come not more immortals took the Kurgan route? Killing off more immortals before the time of the Gathering? I mean, might as well! Why are any of them able to be friends if they know they one day have to behead one another? Highlander and that one guy were going to have a PRE-GATHERING PARTY. Why did Heather never tell her Highlander about the Kurgan raping her? She DID seem quite mesmerized by his fighting style with Sean Connery's Juan...Lastly, why could there not have been more scenes like the one from the duel in the 1700s? I loved that scene. "},{"Title":"An awful, cheesy, pointless movie","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  You might expect the bad acting and bad plot, but the bad action is what makes this movie uniquely bad for something as well known as it given the sequels.  The movie is full of corny bad acting and poorly done action & special effects.  I've had the bad chance of settling in with friends on a few occassions when they chose this movie, but I've decided never to let that happen again... "},{"Title":"Didn't age well.","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" After many years I watched again Highlander. I didn't remember much of it, except that the last time I saw it I came away with a so-so kind of impression. Well, this time it was worse. The movie, or I, didn't age well. Probably both.Obviously, it's an action flick, so the plot is paper thin, something to do with immortals trying to chop each other's heads off for reasons the writers had the good grace to mostly leave in the dark, and at some point the central conflict gets a little more personal anyway. The plot isn't the problem, by the standards of the genre it's as good as any.And, of course, being made in the 80ies there is only so much one can expect in terms of technical perfection. The fight scenes are a bit tedious, and the special effects funny, but that, too, isn't really the problem.One problem is that the acting is uniformly bad. In fact, it's been a while since I saw a cast that failed at their jobs in almost perfect harmony. To be fair, the script doesn't provide a awful lot of opportunity for great acting, but all major actors even fail at the most basic emotions, much less the few instances where some complexity might have been nice. In part that is also the fault of script, direction, and photography; a good example is a very emotional moment between our hero and his wife, which is filled with stilted monologue, quick glances at Lambert's expressionless face, and then sweeping landscape shots to illustrate the enormity of the emotion that the actor didn't.The story itself is confused, and the characters are difficult to care for, and cartoonish. A few immortals pop into (and often quickly out of, in ways that make a mockery of the concept of immortal) the storyline, but we never really learn much about them (with the exception of a little bit of background on Connery's character). The modern love story is contrived and ludicrous, and as much just a pretext for a little bit of mild nudity and humping as the rest is for the fight scenes. It's a carelessly strung together collection of stuff that is best not taken too seriously.Another small annoyance is the music --- good pieces by Queen, but as a soundtrack to a movie too intrusive.I guess it might still work for fans, but I doubt a modern viewer will get much pleasure from this movie. The premise is good enough for an action flick, but the execution just isn't very good. "}{"Title":"A load of rubbish","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" What a terrible film. It's interesting that the sequels have a reputation for lowering the standards of the series because this one is just as bad.The ropey plot, excruciating dialogue and terrible acting are outdone only by the atrocious animation effects - the finale looks as though someone accidentally spilled paint all over the negative. The almost demented incoherence with which this film has been flung together can be summed up by the fact that Christopher Lambert plays a Scot and Sean Connery plays a frickin' Spaniard! Who the hell cast this film? The only positives on display here are Russell Mulcahy's flashy direction and the inventive transitions between the flashbacks and the present day. There's nothing else on offer to keep you awake, and even the Queen songs are lousy. "},{"Title":"Highlander (1986)","Date":"13 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I am Connor MacLeod of the Clan MacLeod.This is the story of a Scotsman who has lived for a very long time. The idea for the movie is brilliant, the implementation not so much. The direction is average, the special effects are terrible, the sound is atrocious, the music is great in places, the actors are half good, the makeup is bad and the script is awful. The movie poster is hideous.Director Russel Mulcahy has his moments of genius, but they are far apart and they get lost in a sea of less than effective material. There are some very interesting shots, with the opening scene and the sword training sessions being particularly impressive. There are many close-ups, tight and intense, in contrast with the beautiful open landscapes of Scotland. But then, the movie just doesn't seem to keep itself in one piece. It seems disjointed and threatening to come apart at any moment. Simply put, it has the awkward feeling of a bad B movie. The director's cut does, anyway.The special effects manage the impossible they are great and poor at the same time. They are great in that they are unique, and poor in that they are quite badly done. Maybe a bigger budget would have fixed that.The sound is atrocious. It is all over the place, it is irritating, it is out of sink, it is loud, it starts and stops in all the wrong places, in one word, it is ridiculous. I've seen the movie before and I don't remember the sound being so badly done. Could it be the director's cut at fault? It is possible. It certainly sounds as if they added footage but forgot to add the sound that went with it, which made everything shift into muppets territory.The music numbers by Queen are great Princes of the Universe, Who wants to live forever, It's a kind of magic, are just a few of the great songs on the sound track. Anything else music related... not so great.The actors are not exactly good, but not bad, either. Christopher Lambert has an interesting presence and a haunted look that works, but that's as far as his acting goes. Clancy Brown is great as the villain, big and menacing. Sean Connery has a short, colorful part. Roxanne Hart is good, even if her screen time is quite limited.The makeup and the dialog are awful, and they are partly to blame for sinking the movie into the less than watchable category.Highlander. A great fantasy movie if you are a child, a shallow B movie otherwise. Do yourself a favor and watch it in Italian. They are far better at fantasy, and the dubbing manages to smooth out most of the grating soundtrack. 4/10. "},{"Title":"Fun, cool, but unremarkable","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Ah, Highlander! An epic tale of immortals locked in a vast struggle, slowly decapitating each other over the centuries until there is only one, who shall win the mysterious Prize. Things don't get much cooler! My first experience of Highlander was through the Queen soundtrack, which is, to say the least, amazing. I had a brief encounter with the TV series during my youth, but I was far too young to understand it while it was still on the air. Still, the concept and the soundtrack (which pretty much tells the story by itself) left me with high expectations.To be honest though, I felt very disappointed. It's painful to think that someone could take all this good stuff, throw in some brilliant actors, have some (for the day) stunning special effects, and churn out something so average.Christopher Lambert does his best as Connor MacLeod, The Highlander, who we are lead to believe is suffering constant anguish from his immortal life, seeing everyone he cares about die one by one while he lives on. Sadly the script doesn't explore this in a particularly creative way. As we all know, all 80's movies - even really good ones - must have a pointless and poorly explained love interest, and in this movie she comes in the form of Brenda Wyatt (Roxanne Hart). The idea is that she resurfaces the pain of Connor's wife's death centuries ago, but more time is dedicated to cliché romance scenes than to Connor's development as a character, and Brenda just comes over as annoyingly superfluous.By far the best character in the movie is Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez, played by Sean Connery, who as well as bringing a lot of good humour to the movie, also gives a good sense of what being an immortal is all about; his Scottish accent, claim of Spanish nationality and long deceased Japanese wife really give a feeling that he's lived long enough to really see the world, and at a time when travel was slow and dangerous. Connery is lively and exciting in his role, in stark contrast to the awkward character development of MacLeod, or the boring two-dimensional nature of...The Kurgan (Clancy Brown). Now, immortals, by nature, go around slicing each other's heads off purely in pursuit of a Prize that they don't know the value of. They're killers - not nice people. Even McLeod, a good immortal, is a cold, ruthless serial killer. So it would make sense that his greatest enemy would be truly vile. Sadly, Victor Kruger comes over as laughably fake. He looks evil, sounds evil... he goes into churches and extinguishes prayer candles with an evil laugh and threatens mortals just because they irritate him. You half expect to see him beating up eight year old kids for their lunch money. In all fairness, he comes across as truly terrifying, but just not realistic - and there's certainly no explanation for his evilness, nor any character development.For all of these things I would still rate Highlander as a great movie based on this. I can do without strong character development for a story this cool. However, what drives the movie down is that the filmmakers succeeded in then ruining its main virtues! Firstly, the Queen soundtrack... If you haven't watched this movie yet, I suggest you purchase a copy of A Kind of Magic by Queen and try to build up the story in your head from that. When I did this, I got the idea of a sort of explosive rock-opera - an all-action musical. This may sound a bit cheesy, but at least it would be a good use of great music, and probably a hell of a lot of fun too. Instead, Highlander throws in the occasional minute and a half of Queen as and when the producers felt like it, interspersed with more boring yet appropriate music in between. This just makes the Queen music seem obnoxiously abused and out of place, in the same way that a bunch of Film Studies students today would think Linkin Park is an appropriate choice of music for the tense moments in a murder mystery. Yes, I've seen that done, so I have a good idea of what they were thinking when they made Highlander omg kewl!!1Also, I didn't feel that the scale of the plot was being used to its full extent. We have a plot covering centuries, and you'd expect new immortals to be coming about all the time. So why did we only see half a dozen immortals in the whole movie? The whole Gathering - the time when all immortals are drawn to one place to fight to the death - was so low-brow, in fact, that I didn't even realise it WAS the Gathering until near the end! I expected the whole thing to be immense, with New York in chaos and the whole thing finally being exposed to the world. In fact, when the movie finally gets to the climatic battle between McLeod and the Kurgan seems to occur without a single ounce of cinematic ceremony. The battle ends, however, in a way that screws up something awesome even more spectacularly boringly than before. The Highlander wins the Prize by besting the Kurgan in single combat. There is nothing else to say about that. He simply wins the fight by fighting better. Nothing clever, meaningful, or that has anything to do with the rest of the plot. Worse yet, it turns out that the Prize is that McLeod can have kids and grow old and die. And apparently he gets universal knowledge, which he promises to use to end poverty and cure cancer in an aggravating Miss Universe-like speech.I'm probably being too harsh. Highlander is a good fun to watch, and has a lot of good material in it. But quite simply, don't expect anything out of the ordinary. "},{"Title":"Battle of Immortals","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In New York, the owner of a sophisticated antique shop Russell Edwin Nash (Christopher Lambert) is challenged to a sword fight in the parking lot of the Madison Square Garden by a man called Iman Fasil that is beheaded by Russell. He hides his sword and is arrested by the police while leaving the stadium. Russell recalls his life in the Sixteenth Century in Scotland, when he is Connor MacLeod and is deadly wounded in a battle against another Clan. However he surprisingly survives and his Clan believes he has a pact with the devil and expels him from their lands. Then he meets Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez (Sean Connery) that explains that he is immortal unless he is beheaded. Further, the immortals dispute a game killing each other and in the end only one survives receiving a price with the power of the other immortals. Russell is released by the police, but the snoopy forensic agent Brenda J. Wyatt (Roxanne Hart) is attracted by the case since she founds fragments of an ancient Katana and follows Russell. But the also immortal Kurgan (Clancy Brown) is hunting down MacLeod and Brenda is in the middle of their battle.Highlander is a cult-movie with an excellent soundtrack with songs of Queen. The full of action story is still great after all these years and the DVD has THX audio. Unfortunately commercial sequels have been released and the producers have forgotten that there can be only one. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Highlander - O Guerreiro Immortal (Highlander &#x96; The Immortal Warrior) "},{"Title":"Watch it because it's so bad it's funny.","Date":"5 March 2011","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this as a teen and thought it was good. Now, 25 years later, I was almost in tears watching it because it was so bad.Without going into too much detail - The acting was High School musical quality. In the opening scene, watch the fan sitting to the Highlander's left. People didn't cheer that much at Ali Frazier.Sean Connery actually seemed like he was doing a cameo at an amateur acting event.Story holes were huge - black guy introduced on bridge for awkward interaction with Highlander. No need for it. Woman who works as a CSI has written a fat book on historical sword construction? Huh? Do a lot of PhD research types take those kind of jobs? And she was what? 30?Really, just watch it. Hilariously bad, even accounting for the time in which it was made. "},{"Title":"Good fantasy concept... done in by extreme silliness and cheesiness.","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Classic and cult-legendary! That was what I heard through the years and looked forward to, as I finally sat down to watch this fantasy/action yarn Clan Scotsman bound by supernatural legacy curse that makes him immortal throughout the centuries, is followed by ancient rival enemy towards an inevitable showdown. So what did I get? A good fantasy concept (that jumps between '80s New York and 1500s Scotland - with a bit of 1700s in between for good measure) that entertains on a mundane, juvenile level but is hopelessly done in by extreme silliness, cheesiness, story leaps and frantic overacting in bits that is guaranteed to make one laugh for all the wrong reasons. Admittedly flashy production, with great Scottish scenery... but that '80s look, complete with bombastic music score just cannot survive the test of time. So cannot the dud of a presence by brick-faced Lambert in the lead. Sequels, you say? Sorry, not gonna happen on my screen; as the movie itself says there can be only one!3 out of 10 from Ozjeppe. "},{"Title":"I Liked It The First Time . But...","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie when it came out on video many years ago and enjoyed it immensely , so immensely I looked forward to seeing it again which I did a couple of years later . However I didn`t enjoy it so much the second time and every subsequent time I saw it I enjoyed it less and less . I`ve now seen it 7 or 8 times and now I hate HIGHLANDER .One problem is the era it was made . With very few exceptions ( A good one is PLATOON ) films from the mid 1980s lack substance , they`re basically eye candy . Look at the scenes that were memorable when you first saw this in the 1980s , they`re like something out of a cola commercial or a pop video and you won`t have to look up the director`s resume to find out that`s where he started . It should also be pointed out that Peter Jackson has changed the whole face of fantasy cinema with his vision of LORD OF THE RINGS , no longer can a critic tolerate camp fantasy , everything must be breath taking and deadly serious . I`ve also can`t help noticing with repeated viewing that that the ethnocentric portrayal of Highland Scots is grossly insulting , no one but no one says things like  Heavens mon , ah peed my kilt  . Actually this probably the film`s worst aspect - The dialogue . It`s stilted , unconvincing , cheesy and often so ridiculous it wouldn`t look out of place in a comic strip . Perhaps that`s why there`s so many periods in this movie where no one says anything ? the audience are being spared further torture . And the terrible dialouge isn`t helped by the fact that the star can`t speak English as a first language in the first placeHIGHLANDER  was good at the time but the time to move on has long passed  "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'Highlander'","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Cinematography is the major plus for the this film with some beautiful Scottish scenery. The major minus is the incredibly stupid dialog. Some of the characters are stupid, too, as is the theology. The story two warring clans both have immortals who can only kill each other if their heads are chopped off. The fighting goes on for centuries as good guy Christopher Lambert battles bad- guy Clancy Brown. The latter isn't all that bad; he's actually got a great sense of humor. He's nasty and interesting to watch. I liked both of these guys but did not like Lambert's modern-day girlfriend, a profane forensics cop played by Roxanne Hart.Lambert was odd. Sometimes he looks like a Neanderathal man with his high forehead; other times he has a strange accent. One time he sounded exactly like Peter Lorre.If you are a bit older and hate heavy-metal music, be warned the soundtrack contains quite a bit of it. Also, if you see Sean Connery's name and think the movie has to have a decent screenplay because he's in it, forget it. It doesn't, and Connery's role here is very small.In the end, the great visuals can't make up for the rest of the film's shortcomings but it's still an interesting film I'm glad I watched. "},{"Title":"Queen The Only Good Thing About This Movie","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Think about putting a sci-fi, historical epic, fantasy, romance and an action movie into a blender combined with poor acting, writing, direction, and effects Highlander is the slop that results. What gives this a cult status? I'd say people's love of Sean Connery and his short appearance, because the movie has nothing else to offer. The 80's are clearly written all over this film, and not in a good way. The pathetic fight scenes with their sparks flying and explosions all around attempted to mask the illogic and absurdity of the movie. Most B movies have at least one redeeming quality even if they are awful. Maybe they are funny or at least have one good scene. Nothing comes mind here, except the sound of Queen rocking out in the background. But Highlander is so bad even those good songs and the sweet sound of Freddie Mercury's voice do not even make this watchable. "},{"Title":"Nothing Special","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, I think the title of my comment summarizes my opinion regarding Highlander. The movie gets and average- or slightly-above-average rating on most counts The story is rather implausible (a group of immortals who appear out of nowhere and have to dominate against each other in order to get a prize), the film shooting (especially in the modern NY scenes) is rather cheap, and the actors could definitely do a bit better (especially Sean Connery whom I regard as one of the greatest living actors today).On the positive balance is the nice music soundtrack by Queen, as well as the fact that despite its implausibility, the storyline still manages to keep its tempo without letting the audience get bored. If one also counts the fact that Highlander was filmed nearly 15 years ago (and hence it should be rated against the standards that existed back then), then it can get an overall 6/10. (OK, now I AM generous!). "}{"Title":"Little more than a concept","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is yet another movie that I loved when I was younger, but now find hokey and difficult to watch. My girlfriend thinks I'm nuts, because I keep picking out movies like this at the video store, excitedly talking them up and then being embarrassed by how dated and ridiculous they are...The concept behind Highlander is actually pretty cool a race of immortals that does battle over the ages until a final reckoning where there can be only one. But the problem is that the movie never lives up to that concept - it just throws a handful of half-developed characters together and sends them hurtling toward one of the most predictable endings ever. I mean, does a single viewer NOT think that Connor is going to triumph over the Kurgan and end up with Roxanne Hart? Christopher Lambert does an admirable job with the starring role, trying to infuse Connor MacLeod with a deep inner pain that comes with being immortal and watching those you love systematically fade away as you live on. However, the awful script burdens Lambert with so many clunky, on-the-nose lines of dialog that the audience ends up grimacing along with him, feeling our own inner pain. The Roxanne character serves very little purpose in the story, other than to give Connor a modern love interest who can be kidnapped as a cheap tension device in the third act.Sean Connery's Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez (try saying THAT ten times fast) is your stock mentor character, assigned the task of turning wishy-washy and p-whipped Scotsman Connor into hardened butt-kicking swordsman Connor. Even after a half-dozen viewings I'm not sure of what J.S.V-L.R.'s actual lineage is; he is supposed to be a Spaniard, I think, yet his accent is unmistakably Scottish, which sorta makes sense considering they're in Scotland. I guess this isn't a that makes sense kinda movie, but still...The Kurgan, as played by Clancy Brown, is one of those one-dimensional villains who looks scary and makes a lot of noise, but ends up being rather incompetent and easy to defeat in the end. Overall, the final showdown between Connor and the Kurgan is utterly anti-climactic and deflates any tension that had developed in the story. Sparks and synthesizers flying do not a great obligatory scene make.Speaking of synthesizers, I agree with other reviewers that the Queen soundtrack detracts from the movie, especially now. I actually like Queen as a band, but putting contemporary music like this in a film only serves to make it feel more dated as time goes on. A more traditional movie score would have been much more effective.All-in-all, I kinda wish I had not watched this film again. My memory of it from when it was first released was so much more exciting than the actual film ends up being now. "},{"Title":"The more times I see it the less I like it","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"     This film is a good film. but the more I watch it the acting appears choppy.  It a great story, about people who only die from decapitation.  They don't age and sword fight each other  through out time.  For a time will come when they have a reckoning and must fight for the prize.  Sean Connery is the mentor for the leading actor, and plays a great role.  Its a good story, and it is written as a original, the sequels destroy the whole concept, and look silly.  The acting is ok and the story is great, I give this movie a 7.  "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was expecting a lot going into Highlander, having heard myriad praise for this cult classic.However, I was greatly disappointed at the last half of the movie.The first half was the cult classic was what I was expecting. With a cute parallel story of his McCleoud's (sp?) life in Scotland and the present, the movie present compelling mythology in combination with expert storytelling.The great flaw in this movie is the villain. Although purposely flat and simplisticly evil, he (I even forgot his name) is distractingly so. A more complex villain would have made the story far more engaging leading up to the climatic last battle. However, the villain is capable of little more than grunting and breaking things, which becomes rather tedious. By the end, I was just wishing for the movie to end.A solid and enjoyable ending would have propelled this movie into the realm of timeless classics for me, but it ended so sourly that I have to give 5/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Very dated ham handed action flick","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The one thing that Highlander had going for it was the fairly interesting premise that a long lasting ongoing battle between immortals was continuing on through the centuries. But that's where the fun ends. Highlander has to be one of the worst and most overrated films of all time. I was 19 when this came out and would be a prime candidate to be a defender of it but the truth is it wasn't even very good back then. The sword play and action is so staged, the acting so dull and the characters so boring it's overwhelming bad. There really is no rhyme or reason for anything that happens in this movie, it seems like they just threw scenes together, and the constant flashback/forward leaves no time for any sort of character development. Was it really a good idea to have a not so good wooden actor like Lambert try to pull of a Scottish accent? I won't get deeply into historical facts here since there are none, but at one point Connery's character says he was given a Japanese sword in 593BC, sadly Japanese sword making didn't start until 700AD. One of the sillier scenes involves Lambert conveniently going out for cigarettes or something leaving Connery and his woman alone and a battle ensues that tears the entire castle apart but the girl refuse to leave it and run away instead doing the typical screaming, covering her eyes and not even running when the outcome is certain. Then that girl is captured by the bad guy. Later we see Lambert and her together with her in her old age but have no idea how he got her back.Altogether a very boring experience. "},{"Title":"What I think of Highlander","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Ah Highlander, This was one of those films that I grew up watching. Okay the layout for those of you that do not know, there are among us immortals who fight one another. The only way to kill an immortal is by chopping off his head, should another immortal do this then he absorbs his power. Now the immortals believe that as time progresses there will be fewer and fewer of them (they cannot have children and a new immortal pops up only when another has died at the hands of someone who is not immortal). Eventually only a handful will remain and these will fight for the prize. Exactly what the prize is varies I think depending on the winner. Highlander follows the story of Conner Macleod as he and the last handful of immortals fight to the death.So what did I think of it? As a child I loved it, I grew up playing games of it and writing trashy stories about it. With these memories I still love this film, although I have to say that having watched it again not long ago I did find that, really it was awful. The music score is great, the cast is spectacular and even the storyline is pretty good. But the terrible sword work and worse sound effects ruined the film. That being said it is without doubt the best of the trilogy which ruined my beloved childhood film. All slating aside I do still love the film and will always have a highlander (either this, endgame or possibly the new film) in my top thirty films. "},{"Title":"It's A Kind Of Tragic","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There is an important scene missing in the American cut of Highlander During World War II, MacLeod finds an orphaned little girl hiding amongst ruins. When a Nazi guns them down, his body shields hers, absorbing the bullets, and they both fall. In answer to her amazed, You're still alive?, he flashes that winning smile and whispers, Hey, it's a kind of magic! We learn that the orphan is his present secretary, Rachel, now an attractive older woman, whom MacLeod never took as a lover, though it is obvious she spent years yearning for him to do so.When MacLeod leaves Rachel to face The Kurgan, both knowing it is the last time they will ever see each other, his parting words, Hey, it's a kind of magic, lack the tear-jerking poignancy they should possess, for in excluding the war scene, this line is not a callback but simply a cute phrase tangentially apropos to the moment.It's a kind of tragic.Notwithstanding this omission, Highlander is still a fantasy masterstroke; a sui generis film of classic proportions. Brought to life by former music-video director, Australian Russell Mulcahy and writers Gregory Widen, Peter Bellwood and Larry Ferguson, this tale is so original and well-executed, it is hard to imagine it was not culled from Scottish folk legend. As far as I can tell, there is still no evidence to suggest this.The opening tracking shots across a frenzied wrestling arena foreshadow how the movie intends to move us &#150; in great arcs, with the bulk of humanity becoming a blur, as grander designs are played out. Long before Michael Bay abused the swooping camera pan, Mulcahy utilized it with heady effect for the grandeur it purveyed in tales such as this. The sweep zeroes in on the hawk eyes of a lone serious figure amidst the multitude of ululating rednecks, Christopher Lambert, who makes his apprehensive way to the parking garage and the first of many &#150; sword battles! Intrigue is piled high in these first few scenes, as the samurai milieu is juxtaposed with the grittiness and cynicism of modern-day New York; harried talk about blade-steel folded 200 times and millennia-aged weapons. Further, this is a white guy in blue jeans and sneakers wielding a samurai's katana &#150; a novel iconic image, soon to be burned into our retinas.After Lambert *beheads* his adversary &#150; now THIS was taking the crazy train into surreal station &#150; and before any questions can be formulated, let alone answered, the Scottish Highlands are revealed in a breath-taking horizontal wipe. And a major piece of the puzzle is wrought it is the 1500's and we see Lambert in another role, a young man in kilt and flowing mane, riding into his first battle with his clan. He is Connor MacLeod, of the Highland MacLeods.Back and forth, between present-day New York and medieval Scotland, in creative transitions, Mulcahy reveals ever more details of MacLeod's storied life until the character of Ramirez (an egregiously overdressed Sean Connery, promptly and aptly nicknamed ya Spanish peacock by MacLeod) fills in all the gaps after his timely appearance and battle-training of the inexperienced Connor.Ramirez and MacLeod are a breed of Immortals who cannot die unless beheaded. They anticipate The Gathering, a time hence when every remaining Immortal will battle to the death, for There Can Be Only One to claim The Prize &#150; the unknown condition that overcomes the last man standing.That time is now &#150; present-day New York, where MacLeod must face the most malevolent of the last Immortals, The Kurgan (an eeevil-yet-riotous Clancy Brown, playing for ostentation, who has trailed MacLeod since their meeting on a Scottish battleground centuries ago).The invented Highlander mythology provided the sturdy skeleton upon which to drape the incredible story. It would nevermore be so seamless, as the film's cult success was its undoing; systematically murdered by its own inappropriate and diabolically-inferior sequels and offshoots.It's a kind of tragic.Michael Kamen composed the score, but the more prominent driving sounds are the Queen songs and instrumentals, which engine this movie into nostalgic memorability.Button-nosed Roxanne Hart is MacLeod's love-interest. But for sheer romantic swoon, nothing beats Beatie Edney's scenes as Connor's first wife, Heather, in the lush, undulating Highlands, where we first hear Queen's haunting, Who Wants To Live Forever, a song more prophetic than even Queen could have guessed, as vocalist Freddie Mercury had less than 5 short years remaining to astound the world with his musical gifts, achingly aware in the lyric, &#133;This world has only one sweet moment set aside for us&#133; An unbidden tear still threatens my masculinity whenever I hear that line&#133;It's a kind of tragic.MacLeod wins The Prize - foresight and mortality &#150; which may seem, at first, not so glittering a prize, but to be appreciated, a more than cursory comprehension of mortality is required.When I first viewed this movie in '86 with my Queen-fanatic clique, the import of being merely mortal was altogether alien to us strapping 20-year-olds. It's a sad fact that only when one experiences sickness can one appreciate health; likewise, when one has not experienced one's mortality (in the manner of debilitating sickness, disfiguring accidents, chronic pain and the like) one inherently believes that one is immortal and that the world owes one Forever. But now, closing in on 40 like a rocketsled with faulty brakes, I surely grasp how this world has only one sweet moment set aside for us&#133; And only now does Connery's closing monologue achieve crystal clarity - as applied to ALL mortals &#133;You are generations being born and dying. You're at one with all living things. Each man's thoughts and dreams are yours to know. You have power beyond imagination. Use it well, my friend. Don't lose your head.(Movie Maniacs, visit www.poffysmoviemania.com) "},{"Title":"The Unlikely Princes of the Cult Action Universe","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" How on earth did they make this film work?A mash-up of costumed sword & sorcery with gritty police procedural, a storyline making ample use of multi-eon time-travel, all led by Christopher Lambert, one of the worst lead actors Hollywood has ever handed a blockbuster to. But wow, does it work, does it ever work as a ripping great yarn, as mystical esoterica meets the puddles of West 33rd Street, as a collision of, well, everything action fans dig, from heavy two handed swords to Trans-Am driving, Uzi-toting survivalists. The film has several key elements that form of core of what the bros would call awesomeness. One of these is Sean Connery, who gives a career-best supporting role performance as a Scottish-Spanish- Japanese-Egyptian immortal swordsman (with a Santa Claus-like twinkle in his steady eye). Another is the rock-opera soundtrack, supplied by Queen. Yet another is Clancy Brown, who creates a dead- scary villain in the form of The Kurgan.Highlander is the story of Connor MacCleod, a Scottish clansman who has a date with several lifetimes of sword fighting, love, and loss, as he contends with others of his mystical ilk. We're not given much exposition as to why in the order of the universe it is necessary that a small bunch of sword fighters vie (to the death) for the prize of either saving or condemning humanity, but the script's meager hints as to any cosmic wherefores are just enough to combine with the rocking guitar music, riled-up bagpipes, and suspenseful about faces in the plot to make the viewer drop all concerns, clench a fist, and yell Go! at the whirling sharpened steel on display.Highlander should have been awful, a real stinker. A rathouse-crazy story, bad actors in key roles, and a theme combining both fantasy and true crime is more than any production team could be asked to overcome. But somehow, some way this film shines and sings. Is it Connery, or Queen, The Kurgan's neck scar, or the perfectly- cast police detectives? Whatever drives it, 30 years on, it is the ne plus ultra of cult action movies. "},{"Title":"Colossally dumb and epically fun","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Back in 2007, an online reviewer summed up the movie 300 like this I can't spoil the plot because THANK GOD THERE ISN'T ONE. Just ass kicking that kicks ass that, while said ass is getting kicked, is kicking yet more ass that's hitting someone's balls with a hammer made of ice but the ice is frozen whiskey.That basically describes Highlander, only twenty years earlier.Highlander's central message can be summarized like this if your life involves swords, magic, sex, and bombastic heavy metal-esque music, you -- and your life -- are automatically awesome. There's no wonder that it resonated so strongly with male geeks. Connor MacLeod is pretty much every male D&D nerd's idealized version of himself a master swordsman, women love him, and he lives in an amazing New York condo full of ancient and medieval artifacts. You really owe your brain an apology after watching Highlander... but it'll be a half-assed, passive aggressive apology (okay, fine, SORRY...), because the movie is so enjoyable and fun in its absurdity. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone I guess.","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I find it hard to believe that this movie has any sequels or is even a cult movie. Although this movie didn't make me want to rip my eyes out (that honor goes to Bloodrayne) But nothing about this movie kept me awake. I find Christopher Lambert to be a boring and dry actor so him being a leading man was difficult for me to sit through and this entire movie is dated. Any substance that the concept of this movie had is just ruined by how dated this movie is. In fact it managed to make the idea of immortals fighting each other with swords seem boring somehow. None of the sword fights are really good either because no tension is really put into any of them. Forgot what the fan boy's say it's a mediocre movie. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's hard for me to be objective about Highlander. I do receive a few remarks when I tell people which my favorite movie is and I agree Highlander is not for everyone.It's not a marvel in terms of special effects. It's not a perfect story and it doesn't try to serve any ultimate answers to any of the questions raised in the movie. This was later attempted in the second movie which nearly could have brought down the entire franchise right there and then.However, this isn't the second movie, it's the first. And in many ways Highlander is in fact unique. The story is imaginative and creative. I've seen few movies pull of such an epic story with such small means. You don't need one million orcs in a raging battlefield to make it epic. Two men fencing it out in a parking garage is actually just fine.The soundtrack is really great as well as the choreography. The fights are very convincing too. This isn't the ordinary dancing type, Errol Flynn-like fencing scene. This is no holds barred fencing.Christopher Lambert in the lead role feels like a natural choice. He has a bad habit of taking himself too seriously. For Highlander this works exceptionally well though. He doesn't act really act he simply is Connor MacLeod, the Immortal Highlander, acting as an antique dealer. It's really fascinating to behold.Clancy Brown created movie history with Highlander. Kurgan is one of the few movie villains I believe people can remember. He's no Darth Vader but he's a villain that makes an impression.As I mentioned I am very partial in my rating of Highlander.. But it really is a great movie and an epic story. If all else fails, it's still a decent action movie. Watch it, chances are you'll like it. "}{"Title":"There can be only one ...Too right there can!","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" After Sean Connery's sultry tones launch the introduction narration and Queen's thumping Princes of the Universe brings proceedings off to a cracking start we see Christopher Lambert bored and enduring a wrestling match whilst caught in a flashback to an ancient highland battle. When something catches his eye he winds up going down to the car park and engaging in armed combat with another man. All of this occurs within the first ten minutes leaving the viewer utterly confused.From this point on the film moves at an electric pace as we are shown a world were immortals do battle for a prize so startling that they know not what it is, only that when there is only one of them left the prize will be theirs and theirs alone. Whilst most of the immortals we meet are good there is one called Kurgen who is determined to use the prize to enslave mankind, the strongest and most twisted of all immortals.This is a fabulous films that follows the Matrix school of film-making, cash in on inferior sequels and try to destroy the rep of the first, in both cases though the films revolve around the idea of there being only one and the film makers should have paid heed to this. If you're smart you'll just watch this and ignore the sequels.The performances are all spot-on, especially Christopher Lambert as a French Scotsman and Sean Connery as a Scottish Eqyptian (Who cast this movie?) but once you've watched it you can't imagine anyone else in the roles. The sword fights are great and even though the effects are poor (especially at the end) it takes little away from what is very enjoyable way to spend a rainy afternoon indoors ...well ...apart from that.Nuff said Em. "},{"Title":"There can be only one!","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As in the first one's a classic and the sequels are horrible.It's funny because the movie is set in so many different eras but this is, for some strange reason, my favorite 80s-movie. There's something fascinating about the combination of the Queen soundtrack, the 80s actors (Lambert, Brown) and the overall high 80s type of quality that it's got.In my opinion, Christopher Lambert is one of the most underrated actors of all time. Just look at his performance in the scene in his library with the female love interest and the dagger, for example. And the strange accent.. Whoa! Don't listen if someone says it's just another sword-action-sorcery-flick, this is also one of Sean Connery's best movies. "},{"Title":"Connor McLeod, 1518-      A Prince Of The Universe","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm coming to Highlander in reverse order so to speak. I did love the syndicated series so much that it was a shame I had never gotten around to seeing the film that inspired it. I have to say I was not disappointed in any way. Especially getting to see Sean Connery albeit in a supporting role. Face it, twenty years earlier Connery would have been a natural for the part. As it is he's fine as Ramirez, mentor to Connor McLeod of the clan McLeod who maybe the best of a race of immortal beings who seem to pop up in the human gene pool every so often.Christopher Lambert never followed up this film with anything remotely as successful. Be that as it may, he's an earnest young Highland warrior whom we see as first in modern era of 1986 New York and then in his beginnings when he finds out he is an immortal. Most of the cops are interested in solving a present day homicide, but Roxanne Hart who is an expert in metallurgy finds an opponent's sword below Madison Square Garden and realizes it's an antique made of the best Toledo steel and priceless. That sends her into some unusual directions to find out just who is this guy the cops picked up near the crime scene.The immortals ranks have trimmed and as Sean Connery figured it over 400 years ago one of the two left will be the Kurgan, a truly evil man with impressive battle skills played by Clancy Brown. Between Brown and Jeff Kober, these two have brought us some of the best psychotic villains in the last 30 years. Brown is at his worst as the Kurgan.Which brings me to the flashback where another immortal played by Connery sees in MacLeod the warrior who can defeat the Kurgan for the immortal championship. That is called the Quickening and of course it's not reached on the television series. It's not really explained there either, but trust me it's not something you want the Kurgan to experience.I was not disappointed in the slightest in the film version of Highlander. The only question I have for the movie and for series is how those immortals manage to conceal those broad swords? "},{"Title":"Fantasy, Queen, sword-fights and mild sex. Hooray.","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Upon it's release in 1986 I, and millions of other teenage boys, were ready for Highlander. Like others I (i) thought that Queen were the best group ever (only a year after Live Aid), (ii) had seen and enjoyed Christopher Lambert's previous two films (Greystoke... and Subway), (iii) exploring the idea of immortality, plus (iv) the minor bonus of Sean Connery playing himself again. The trailers on TV had me hooked. The film itself was no disappointment. Russell Mulcahy's direction led him to make the Queen tracks highly prominent. Plus, the story jumps chronologically back and forth (like Pulp Fiction and Momento). Something I always enjoy. In short; The Kurgen (an evil immortal chap) knows that Lambert is immortal and tries to kill him (in 16th century Scotland). The only way this is possible is by decapitation. He fails. Thereafter the two avoid losing their heads in wait for the final battle, in modern day New York. The effects, particularly in the final scenes, are clumsy. But, this does not distract you from a glorious journey through time, music and the love of two women. For a couple of years after the film I, and three of my friends, wore long grey raincoats reminiscent of Lambert's attire. Sad but true. Something unique to Highlander is that if I meet up with my friends from that era occasionally we slip into the bits of script that we can remember You cruisin' for a piece of ass?!..., Don't banish him, burn him!, You've got your sheepskins on and the boats I made for you..., It's better to burn out, than to fade awayyy!... "},{"Title":"a sci-fi classic","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is, bluntly, not one of sci-fi's finest hours.  Leaden acting from Lambert, silly production values (especially during the fight between Connery and Brown), and totally over-the-top music all contribute to dragging this film down to farce level.  I've never seen the sequel, but can it really be much worse?Tons of story elements are ripped off from Star Wars, which of course ripped off older stories as well.  Note that the wise guru character (Connery) is killed by the villain after training the hero to become a master swordsman.  Sound familiar?  And, as is also the case in Star Wars, the murdered guru is a much better actor, and a more interesting character, than his disciple.  So the moment Connery leaves this movie, my interest tanks.  Not that it was really being sustained to begin with. Conan the Barbarian may be dated, but it exudes a raw intensity that this draggy little film can only dream of having.  And let's not even begin to compare Highlander to Alien, Star Trek, or any other halfway decent genre film...   "},{"Title":"One of the best films of all time!","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, what can I say about Highlander apart from FANTASTIC! This film has it all, it's got a brilliant storyline, amazing actors and dazzling sound effects.Christopher Lambert plays Connor Macloed, born over 400 years ago in the Highlands of Scotland, he is immortal. He has to battle down then centuries fighting other immortals (some good some evil) until the time of the gathering, where the few who remain will battle it out until only one remains. The last immortal wins The Prize power beyond human imagination.The actors are brilliant, Lambert is a really good actor but very underrated he plays Connor. Sean Connery, who plays Ramirez, is Connor's mentor, he trains Connor up to fight against other immortals. Clancy Brown plays the Kurgan, he is Connor's nemisis, he is the strongest of all immortals and he is also very evil. Roxanne Hart plays a female scientist and detective, she wants to find out more about Connor, so she's soon hot on his tail.Highlander is one of those films that you can watch over and over again and you won't get bored. I feel Highlander is a very underrated film as well. Highlander is a very obsessive film, I've been obsessed with it for 2 years now!Overall, if you haven't seen it yet go and buy it, it's the one to watch!  "},{"Title":"This movie is horrible","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I don't know how movies like this are even made. I don't know how the filmmakers watch this in the editing room and say, Yes, this is quality. It is hilariously bad. The acting is horrible, the special effects are terrible even for 1986, and the scenes are just silly in their utter awfulness. The lines in this movie are horrible and poorly delivered. There is barely any explanation for why things happen the way they do. Why does a Scotsman (Connery) play an Egyptian with a Spanish name who is for some reason in Scotland? The sword fighting is badly choreographed; it is not realistic at all. On the plus side, the musical score by Queen was cool. But that's all that this movie has going for it. Macleod is a creepy guy. There is no feeling that anything is at stake in this movie. It is entertaining because it is so bad. It is an unintentional comedy "},{"Title":"Decent B-film with attitude","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Though this clearly is an eighties B-film level production, still there's a reason it's so famous. The story and the setting (Scottish highlands) are great. A bunch of guys fighting one another with priceless swords all down the centuries until the last couple of survivors gather to win 'the prize'. Feels like dreams of adolescent boyhood, and yet the film is enjoyable. Christopher Lambert -a fine and somewhat enigmatic actor- always played in decent B-films but he comes out splendid in this one. Sean Connery is great as ever. Queen's music nicely adds to the mix. Very enjoyable film and not without humor too. I particularly enjoyed the great opening scenes to the film set in Madison Square Garden. Very good. I would say this is one to watch on a rainy autumn or winter's day when you're somewhat sickly, as I have been these last couple of days. "},{"Title":"A different kind of action fantasy","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" For the genre of adventure films, there's multiple ways to make action sequences depending on weapon type. The most common of ammunition are guns and objects of physical contact such as swords, hands, legs and other improvised weapons of choice. Among those, swords are probably the second most used item. The act of clashing two sharp metal blades together is a method of contact that is barely used today in contemporary battle. Most movies that used violent blade action during the 1980s were horror and various Asian influenced films. Occasionally there would be a movie here or there that defied the usual trope like Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981), but most followed what was in during the time. However for this movie, it was probably one of the few to portray this kind of swordsmanship in an entirely different culture. Of the films released around this time, how many films actually displayed the Scottish culture on film? Probably not a whole heck of a lot.Directed by Russell Mulcahy (as his first American made film) and written by Gregory Widen, Peter Bellwood and Larry Ferguson (who at the time didn't have many other credits to their names) put together a wondrous story with enchanting direction. The story is about an immortal Scottish Warrior (AKA a Highlander) known as Connor MacLeod (Christopher Lambert) who is in a constant state of alert watching out for other immortal warriors who look to decapitate him. Turns out, each immortal is looking to be the last in order to achieve a prize, but this is only attained once the last immortal is standing. The warrior who seeks MacLeod's head the most is The Kurgan (Clancy Brown), a brutal fighter who is beyond negotiable and has no conscience. The only way MacLeod will be ready to defeat The Kurgan is by getting trained by Juan Ramirez (Sean Connery), an eccentric and colorfully dressed swordsman. This alone is an interesting concept and it feels original.The acting is believable and works on its viewers. Christopher Lambert has a great mix of one liners that are funny, emotional and clever. Though it is bit strange that his youth resembles that of a Thomas Jane persona. Clancy Brown as the Kurgan was a great choice. Although he is known more for his voice work nowadays, his physical acting chops are just as strong. Plus, his hulking size and costume design adds to his menacing demeanor along with his recognizably deep voice. Sean Connery as Ramirez is acceptable in his role too. Casting him seems like an odd choice for the role since his accent clearly doesn't change but nonetheless he plays a likable mentor for MacLeod. There's also a subplot about MacLeod's identity during the current time with reporter Brenda J. Wyatt (Roxanne Hart) on his tale. When it comes to character development, Hart's role is the weakest link. She plays a love interest and the build up to how it gets there feels forced unfortunately. The mythology of the story is another ball of wax.The storytelling is encapsulating but there are noticeable loopholes. Two big flaws are the explanations given for the warriors being immortal told by Ramirez. It is unknown to how they became immortal yet they know why they must fight each other until one is left to win a prize. Well,...okay so you know why you're immortal but can't explain how you became immortal? Who told Ramirez to begin with? If he wasn't told directly from the source, then how is the word going around and how come MacLeod wasn't told? Another is how does each immortal know when they are the last of the group? Two could have a showdown and think who's ever last has won the prize but there may be someone halfway around the world that's waiting for his chance. It's rather illogical unless all immortal warriors are born with some kind of immortal tracking device (and that's not said in the movie either). So this still begs the question; however even with all these questions, most viewers will let it slide because of how likable the characters are.For action, the sword fights are not as nimble or agile as other sequences seen in slicker films, but they do entertain all the same. Medieval sword action isn't as commonly seen on film anymore so it is different to watch. The special effects, which usually involve rotoscoping animations look creative as well. Since this film took place in a time when computers were just beginning to be used, a lot of the effects look practical and that's commendable. Gerry Fisher as director of photography is probably best known for his work in this production. There are magnificent panning shots of the Scottish landscape and inner city streets that MacLeod goes through. Plus, the transitions between past and present times are nicely stitched together. Finally the music composed by Michael Kamen was memorable. There's a recognizable main theme for MacLeod that sounds heroic and has a sense of bravado. This is all produced with the help of strong string progressions and battle cry like percussion beats mixing with the calling of various horns. An uncommon heroic sound.Aside from the overall mythology to the backstory being contradictory in most places, the storytelling is enticing to see play out with its likable characters headed by Christopher Lambert, Clancy Brown and Sean Connery. The action, old school special effects, beautiful cinematography and music assist in making it not your typical action fantasy film. "},{"Title":"There can be only one... best action flick of the 80s. And this is it.","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Once every 10 years a movie comes along that perfectly defines the decade with everything from mood to music to politics to footwear. And the moment you hear the opening song with Freddy Mercury & Queen's lush harmonies, and then you see Christopher Lambert make his entrance sporting a khaki trenchcoat and white sneakers, you KNOW this the one for the 80s! Do I even need to say any more? I don't think so, but I'll go ahead anyway. Feel free to skip the rest of this review and go watch the movie.In the mid 80s, the band Queen was at the top of their Game (ha nice wordplay on their iconic 80s album wouldn't you say?), the sword & sorcery genre was emerging in full force thanks to Dungeons & Dragons nerds like me (hey back off! my paladin can kick your paladin's ass!), and with the cinematic standard set by stylish films like Blade Runner it was inevitable that these forces would come together in the epic film Highlander.The story itself is worth the price of admission. A bunch of sword-wielding tough guys run rampant across the centuries in an electrified battle to chop each others' heads off. Following our hero McCloud (Christopher Lambert) from 16th century Scotland to 1985 New York City we watch these tough guys kill each other, forge alliances, learn the pains of love as well as the pains of steel slicing through your abdomen, and have a general jolly old time with very sharp cutlery.Sean Connery appears, mostly to add color, character & humor to the story (which he does expertly). Connery plays the role of a 1000 year old Egyptian/Spaniard who teaches young McCloud the ways of the game.The villain Kurgan (Clancy Brown) is the third pillar of awesomeness. When you see him you just might agree that he is the most memorable villain since Heath Ledger as the psychotic Joker in the Dark Knight. Kurgan, in 1985, is a leather-wearing neo-punk behemoth of a man who is as terrifying as he is hilarious. When he struts out of a church flicking his tongue at nuns and quoting Def Leppard I have something to say It's better to burn out than fade away! it just makes tears well up in your eyes. And yes, I know that was a Neil Young line, but as this was 1986 we can be reasonably sure he was doing the Def Leppard version.There's also a love story (well two actually) which balances out the testosterone overload. The love story is a bit of a cliché, but so are half the lines in the movie.Visuals are striking, particularly with regard to creative, surreal lighting which makes use of different colors according to the mood of the film. Everything is dramatic to the max.And of course the soundtrack. It's basically the full album A Kind of Magic by Queen featuring such timeless masterpieces as It's a Kind of Magic, Who Wants to Live Forever, Princes of the Universe, One Year of Love and Don't Lose Your Head. If you're a Queen fan, well then nuff said. Get on your bikes and ride down to the nearest video store and grab this awesome relic of the wonderful 80s. "}{"Title":"Great Modern Fantasy","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" An immortal Scottish swordsman (Christopher Lambert) must confront the last of his immortal opponent, a murderously brutal barbarian who lusts for the fabled Prize.Lots of fantasy and science fiction stories exist, but few get into the popular imagination. Star Wars was in the 1970s, and Star Trek even earlier. And then there is Doctor Who. But the Highlander, and his motto that there can be only one, did not show up until 1986. And almost immediately it entered the popular culture.Today (2015) the movie has had sequels, a television series and more. Even those who have never watched any of its forms knows what it is. Who expected this? And maybe the best is yet to come. "},{"Title":"There Can Still Only Be One After All These Years!","Date":"21 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" What if you could live forever, never age, and watch the centuries pass by like the hours on a clock? Sounds cool, right, until you find out that also means you'd have to see your loved ones age and die and fight others like yourself throughout the centuries with swords, winner takes the head. Such is the plot to 1986's Highlander. Starring Christopher Lambert, Clancy Brown, Roxanne Hart, and Sean Connery, it's a film that came out at time when Hollywood still had a little creativity and not every damn thing was a remake. The story centers around Connor MacLeod, aka the highlander (Lambert), a New York antiques dealer who has quite a story. He might not look it, but he was born over 400 years ago in the highlands of Scotland as a member of an immortal race of humans who have battled each other throughout the centuries and can only be killed by decapitation. Hence the need to be good at sword fights. When the last few of these immortals are left, they will come together in what is called the gathering, to fight until only one is left to be awarded the Prize. That time is now. After battling and killing a fellow immortal in the parking garage of Madison Square Garden (One of the best opening sequences ever), MacLeod attracts the attention of the police and in particular, an attractive forensic technician (Hart) eager to get the truth. On top of all this, Connor has to deal with an old enemy called The Kurgan (Clancy Brown), one of the last, most powerful, and viscous immortals left on earth. Can Connor overcome his most powerful opponent and finally claim the Prize or will The Kurgan be victorious and turn earth into a living hell?To say they don't make him like this anymore would be an understatement. Even after all these years, Highlander still stands as one of the coolest ideas to ever come out of Hollywood. The story, courtesy of Gregory Widen, is inventive and causes one to wonder what would it be like to live forever, see your time and possibly your culture disappear while assuming many different identities and living mostly in loneliness? Christopher Lambert captures all this perfectly as Connor. In fact, I would say this is the part he was born to play. With his demeanor, steel eyes, and strange accent, he's able to convey a sense of mysteriousness and worldly exoticness around the character (You might not know where he's from, just that he's not from around here) and also portray the emotional wear and tear of living for four centuries due to witnessing the loss of your family and all the carnage man has inflicted on one another. But Lambert isn't the only immortal in town, as Brown's The Kurgan shows. With his intimidating look and acting chops, Brown effectively conveys everything that is the opposite of Connor Brutality, barbarism, sadism, and cruelty. Whether he's chopping off heads or just walking down the street, the Kurgan is not someone you'd want to meet on the battlefield or a dark alley. Brown looked like he had a blast playing him (particularly in the scenes where the Kurgan is causing chaos in the streets) and it clearly shows on screen with amount of energy he gives to the role, thus making the movie that much better. Roxanne Hart should also be congratulated for effectively playing the curious scientist and eventual love interest of Conner, thus giving the character the chance to love again for the first time in years. Rounding out the cast is the always excellent Sean Connery as Connor's mentor from his past life, Ramirez (Who we meet in flashbacks) who showed him the ways of the immortals. With Connery's charm and sophistication, we fall in love with the centuries old and world weary Ramirez right away and might come to wish we all had as good and wise a friend as he. Also of note is the tight direction by Russell Mulcahy, who's able to create a film that appears timeless in some ways and still awesome. Even with all these factors, though, Highlander still wouldn't be quite as cool as it is if it weren't for the musical genius of Freddie Mercury and Queen. From the kick ass opening theme Princes of the Universe to the heart wrenching Who Wants to Live Forever, the soundtrack becomes an integral part of the movie and makes us miss Mercury that much more. I wish I could say Hollywood still made films like this but of course I can't. Highlander was made in a time when Hollywood still took some risks and as a result, made some pretty creative films, something that you might be lucky to see every five or so years in theaters today, if that. For that reason alone you should see this film and remember the most important rule There can be only one! Also starring Beatie Edney, Alan North, John Polio, Hugh Quarshie, and Shelia Gish. "},{"Title":"Good 80's Fantasy!","Date":"24 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Christopher Lambert, Roxanne Heart, Clancy Brown and Sean Connery star in this 1986 fantasy. This takes place in New York where we meet Connor MacLeod (Lambert), a Scottish immortal who lives as an antique dealer. He was once a swordsman and has roamed the world for 400 years. Soon, he faces evil barbarian, Kurgman (Brown) who is also an immortal and they battle each other until there can be only one. Hart (Pulse) plays Brenda Wyatt, a forensics expert who finds romance with Connor and Connery (Dr. No) plays Ramirez, an immortal swordsman who befriends Conner and dies by Kurgman. This is a good 80's fantasy with a good cast & score I recommend. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Movie","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Highlander is an epic movie about a race of Immortals who fight it out to become the last man standing. Set in the Highlands of Scotland during the 16th century and New York City in the early 80's, interspersed with flashbacks of various other periods. The protagonist of the story Conor Macleod played by Christopher Lambert also starring Sean Connery as Ramirez the mentor. This movies is very 80's in style and substance. The soundtrack provided by Queen the band. The action sequences and the attitudes made the film very authentic.The epic ness of the movie comes from the intense battle scenes between the Immortals. Conor MCleod the Scot who cannot die comes face to face with the villainous Kurgan in a fight to the death. The fantastical magical battle scenes blend with the realism of the decapitation. I never saw this film before in its entirety, only snippets when I was younger, but this movie takes itself very seriously. The subject matter is very graphic although not too graphic as to make the viewer uncomfortable. There is no exact measurement of what is the perfect level of violence,but less than a CSI episode.For me this movie is great. Not aware of the sequels. There are not spoken well of and so not particularly interested in them but this movie was a brilliant movie. "},{"Title":"Above Average and Charming...Clumsy & Cheesy 80's Cult Film","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Films Large Cult Following is Mainly Made Up of Folks who were Teens in the 1980's. They Defend this Mediocre Movie with a Bravado but the Film is Pretty Clunky and Clumsy when Viewed Today. Even in its Day it was not the Best Thing Ever Put on Screen as these Fans would have You Believe.It is a Fun Film, and can be Enjoyed as a Sci-Fi Fantasy Adventure but there are some Scenes that have a Laughable Quality and the Queen Soundtrack is Loud (all Queen's Music is loud, even their soft slow ballads) and can be Intrusive and Feel Out of Place.The Movie Looks Quite Beautifully Filmed in the Flashbacks and it Becomes Quite Glaring Every Time it Transitions back to Modern Times, because those Look Dull and are Not Filmed with the same Affection. Though the Clever Linking Shots are Impressive.Overall, it is a Good Story but the Swordfights are not that Cool and the Villain's Joy Ride Playing Chicken on the Streets of New York is just Awful. But the Movie has its Charm and is Worth a Watch for the Better Parts. Its just a Shame that the Bad Balances the Good and the Film Ends Up being Above Average at Best and God-Awful Eighties Cheese at Worse.Christopher Lambert's Squeaky Voice is a Deterrent Sometimes and the Final Line Comes Off Sounding Like it was Delivered by Mickey Mouse. Not the Most Powerful Way to End a Movie that goes to Great Lengths to be Powerful. It Almost Succeeds. "},{"Title":"Action Fantasy","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" You may disagree with me when I say that I think that this is one of the best fantasy films I have seen (I have not seen many films in this genre anyway), but Highlander definitely gives the audience what it wants, with great action, an interesting story and a good main protagonist. My only problem with the film is the love interest. The romantic sub plot (which has been done a million times before) feels rushed and the depth is not stretched as much as you want it to go. The story itself is about a group of immortals who kill each other with decapitation to receive a prize (which I will not spoil). Overall, if the romance sub plot was less generic and the character development was improved it would have been better. Just when I think a character is being developed, he gets decapitated. But other than that, the film is highly recommendable and is a great fantasy film (Wish I could say the same thing for the sequels though). "},{"Title":"You can do that to me forever if you like, my lord.","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Immortal swordsman Connor MacLeod (Christopher Lambert) from the Scottish Highlands battles to the death with his centuries-old enemy, the evil immortal Kurgan(Clancy Brown) in modern day New York City. To the victor goes The Prize, a powerful gift that will be used for good or evil, depending on which man wins. Interspersed with this are flashbacks that show how MacLeod first learned of his immortality and his training with another immortal (Sean Connery).Christopher Lambert is excellent in the role of his career, even if he's hardly believable as a Scot given his thick French accent. Amusingly, Scottish Sean Connery plays a Spaniard in this. Or is he Egyptian? Either way, Connery's awesome and steals every scene he's in. Clancy Brown oozes evil as the villain. Well-directed by Russell Mulcahy with outstanding music from Queen and Michael Kamen. It's a wonderful fantasy-action film with some clever ideas and a good story. Followed by many inferior sequels and a TV series, none of which ever capture the magic of this film. "},{"Title":"There can be only one","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" They are immortals, destined to live forever. They must duel down the ages until only one remains. Only decapitation by sword can release them from there age-long battle for an incredible prize - power beyond imagination.From the Scottish Highlands of the sixteenth century to present day New York, they fight for the prize, while the fate of mortal man hangs in the balance.This film starred Christopher Lambert, Sean Connery & Clancy BrownHIGHLANDER is a 1986 film directed by Russel Mulcahy, it isn't a bad movie at all, it is quite good. It is a very entertaining film to watch when you are bored and want entertaining or if you want to go back to your 80's film collection that you haven't watched for a while. This film may not be great but it is worthy of a place in your collection no doubt. I do recommend this film, but I would try and stay away from the sequels, I've heard there pretty bad (although I do have 1 & 2 on DVD) so I will probably review that on here in the future.***/***** Could be worse, pretty good. "},{"Title":"Cult movie from the 80s - enough said","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In the world of Highlander there exist individuals who have lived for centuries. Each born to their own time, each having found out through one way or another that they cannot die, unless decapitated by another immortal. And in due time, when their numbers start to wane, there would come a time, the Gathering, when those remaining would have to decide, who is deserving to become the last one.There can be only one.Upon its release in 1986 this film was panned by the critics, though for the life of me, I can't figure out why. This is a bold, flashy and ambitious movie. It sets out to create its own world, its own mythos, and by the end of the final fight it has succeeded. The idea of ageless beings, who don't feel the ravages of time, but can still be slain by mortal means, has always fascinated me and this film is one of the best example of the idea I've yet seen.We don't meet all that many immortals through the course of the film - five in total, I believe - but each and every one of them feels unique and interesting. Christopher Lambert plays the eponymous Highlander and delivers a great straight man and an audience surrogate. His bewilderment in the olden days upon finding out he just cannot die feels very believable, but when the film returns back to the modern age he has visibly matured. Sean Connery plays the role of Ramirez, an early guide for Highlander and no, I have no idea why they have a Frenchman playing a Scot and a Scot playing an Egyptian playing a Spaniard. One of the film's quirks, I suppose. Nevertheless it's unintentionally hilarious, but not in a bad way.Huge props should also go to Clancy Brown, playing the role of The Kurgan, bloodthirsty savage of an immortal, who has killed the most by the time of the Gathering. The man completely submerges himself into the role and what we end up getting is one of the nuttiest and most unhinged bad guys the cinema has seen. Yet the man is more than his rage and need to kill. He also believes in the code and wants to do the battles a certain way, which gives him an extra layer of depth.Probably the most off-putting thing about this film is its 80s visual style. You know the one, where everything is dark and shadowed, smudged and covered in dirt. I don't know why the 80s felt the need to make us feel unclean by merely looking at the screen, but it's still there. Though, to be fair, it's not a huge problem in this film as the style fits the bleak mood of the story rather well. Aside from that the film is fine on the technical side of things. The fights are suitably impressive, the cinematography works and the story is told well, though I've heard that some people have had difficulties following it. I personally didn't have any problem, though I did see the director's cut, so perhaps that's it.Highlander is a great film if you like swordfights, charismatic characters, bleak survival stories and the whole 80s urban fantasy style. It has a clear understanding of what it is doing and it delivers exactly what you want from it. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasure","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Highlander to me represents everything that is wrong with movies - cheesy acting, poor fight choreography, a share of pointless characters and motives, a lot of plot holes and really odd directional choices - yet for some reason I watch it every couple of weeks.Without spoiling it, the movie deals with a group of people who are deemed immortal and thus cannot die unless they are killed by another immortal. The last immortal standing wins the mysterious prize and I'll say no more than that, but be prepared for a lot of sword fighting, the immortals weapon of choice, simply because they can only be killed by loosing their heads - literally! There is something very charming in this film, and I can only really explain it in its pacing. This film has possibly some of the best editing and pacing in any movie. It sets up every scene well, we know who is doing what and why, it takes time to explain via flashbacks (poorly acted and shot flashbacks true!) all its concepts and meanings. At no point in the film are we ever confused as to what an immortal is, and it explains well concepts like the quickening, granted these are incredibly stupid and bizarre concepts that are largely laughable, but the movie clearly isn't taking itself that seriously.One appeal of the movie is in itself its poor approach to acting. A lot has been said about how awful the acting is in this movie, yet for some reason I find it somewhat appropriate to the whole theme of the film. In some ways it adds laughable charm. The villain of the movie is delightfully over the top making him one of the films most appealing aspects. High art this is not, a well thought-out and developed, albeit it crappy story can always provide me with entrainment. I always recommend this movie simply because, to me at least, its a perfect example of a movie that has a silly idea, but sticks to its guns and delivers it so well. At no point does the movie ever cut its losses and even attempt to return to something conventional - and for that I have to give it credit! "}{"Title":"Very entertaining fantasy action","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Connor MacLeod (Christopher Lambert) is banished from his Scottish village in the 16th century after surviving a fatal injury (and thus believed to be in league with the devil). He meets Ramirez (Sean Connery), who reveals they are both Immortals; he becomes a mentor for Connor, even teaching him swordsmanship. In the present day, all Immortals are drawn together and have to fight until only one is left... This very creative and entertaining 80's fantasy/adventure was created by Gregory Widen, who would later also make another excellent fantasy 'The Prophecy'. An excellent and creative mind he is, a pity he doesn't make many films or screenplays. The director, Russell Mulcahy, is a former music video director; as such, the action scenes are frantic and the film is quite fast-paced. Surprisingly, this is not a negative point here.'Highlander' feels, in many ways, as two separate films there is the modern storyline, and the past 'flashbacks' where most of the story aspects are detailed. The quality varies a lot between them, too.The past is the best part. The scenes are livelier, being actually shot in the Scottish Highlands; there is a substantial amount of character development and, despite Lambert's limited acting ability, Connor truly starts growing on the viewer. Furthermore, Sean Connery lends much charm and wit as the Immortal Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez (who is Egyptian but acts like a Spaniard). It is in this part that Widen's ingenuity is at its best; even the special effects, while very dated even at the time, end up being somewhat charming. 9/10On the other hand, the modern parts take place in New York. They are often nighttime scenes, with a gloomy and dark mood that reminds more of a dystopian reality than the run-down parts of New York. The action sequences are good, but the special effects this time around end up being a negative point; furthermore, a weak supporting cast (which includes Roxanne Hart and Alan North), as well as the Immortal villain played by Clancy Brown (whose better moments are fighting Connery in the past scenes) hinders this portion of the story. 5/10The final fight and conclusion are decent, though, and appropriately concludes the story (tying together major plot points, while leaving enough questions to light the viewer's imagination).In both 'stories', there is a fun and often witty dialogue. Also an excellent soundtrack by Queen which includes 'A Kind of Magic' and the 'Highlander's trademark 'Who Wants to Live Forever'. This is one film that, even if not remembered as a masterpiece, will always remain a classic.'There can only be one!' Why couldn't the producers follow the Immortals' advice, and stray from making the awful sequels that only ended up staining the original's reputation? "},{"Title":"Who wants to live forever","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Highlander is a cult classic from the 1980s with many fans and for better and for worst spawned a franchise. It was a film that became known for making Christopher Lambert a star, showed Sean Connery in a mentor role and had a soundtrack supplied by Queen. But it is a film that has not aged as well some people have hoped.Conner Macleod (Lambert) is the Highlander in question, an immortal man who was born in 16th Century Scotland. He has lived for centuries, leading him to New York in 1985. The immortals are few in number, they can only be killed by beheading and when there is only one left they will gain the prize. By 1985 there are only two immortals left, Macleod and a brutal warrior known as The Krugan (Clancy Brown), an immortal who can spell doom for humanity if he wins the Prize.Highlander tells it story in flashbacks about Macleod's life, mainly in Scotland as he coached by Ramierz (Connery), a 2000-year-old Egyptian immortal pretending to be Spanish as well as focus on his relationship with his wife, Heather (Beatie Edney). The other side of the story is in contemporary New York where the police investigating the beheading, a forensics officer, Brenda Wyatt (Roxanne Hart) with knowledge about swords tries to find out who a man called Russell Nash (Lambert) really is and The Krugan who is on the search for Macleod. The flashbacks were clear in its objective, set up the rules of the world and follows Macleod and his loved ones. But the modern half of the story is much little focused with much of it on the police investigation whose affects are damped because of the flashbacks. There are moments that could easily have been cut, like a scene where Macleod meets another immortal which was just a quick fleeting scene and the character gets killed very quickly and many of the sequences with the police could have been changed to a media reaction.The director Russell Mulcahy came from a music video background and it shows with his very stylised approach. He has a tendency to use low shots, tracking shots and there was plenty of smoke and fog effects. New York was a dark, grim city and the film has a continuous moody look, from the backalleys to the industrial sites. When we see the battle in the Highlands looked very much like a music video, particularly with the Krugan dressed in a skull. The transitions to the flashbacks are done with tricks like pans, such as from a fish tank to a loch and the screen smashing like glass to go back to World War II.For an action film, Highlander is disappointing. The sword fighting is very slow and cumbersome for the most part and some parts were very cheesy, like the first fight where rival fighter does backflips and acrobatics. The best sequence was the very final fight sequence where the fight was shot mostly with wide shots and the action was more fluid. Cinematographer Gerry Fisher was very strong at showing the moody cityscape to beauty of the isolated mountains of the Scottish Highlands.When Lambert was cast he had very limited English and it was made more bizarre that he was playing a Scottish character and a Scottish actor was playing a non-Scot character. In the trivia section it stated that Lambert worked with a vocal coach to give Macleod a non-specific accent, but his natural French accent was prominent. But Lambert did on occasion have a good delivery with some of his lines. Brown too was okay as the villain, having a distinctive voice and he certainly looked like a psychopath.Queen supplied the soundtrack and that is always a bonus, giving us song like Who Wants to Live Forever and Princes of the Universe. There is a particularly nice moment in the score when uses Who Wants to Live Forever in love scene.The 1980s has produced better films an better actioners. Highlander is by no means a bad film, but it is not an almighty classic either and it has not stood the test of time like The Terminator has. "},{"Title":"You smell like a dungheap.......","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Connor Macleod was born in 1518. After facing an evil opponent, he survives a fatal stab wound and is banished from his village, for they believe his survival is the work of the Devil. Five years later, Macleod meets Ramirez, a swordsman who teaches him truth. He is immortal, and when one immortal takes the head of another, the loser's power is absorbed into the winner. Ramirez teaches Macleod the ways of the sword, until Ramirez is killed by Connor's ultimate opponent, the evil Kurgan. Connor fights his way through the centuries, until the time of the Gathering, when the few immortals who have survived the endless battles come together to fight until only one remains, and that winner will receive The Prize, a signed copy of the soundtrack by Queen......This has to be one of the strangest franchises of all time, and to be fair, the first movie really isn't the best thing, but what makes the franchise so popular is the notorious second entry, which is bad, but entertaining none the less.This is a good story, and a really good narrative, but Lambert is a really boring screen presence, spending the majority of the film staring into space with his boss eyes, while people like Connery, Brown and Imrie act him off the screen.If they had cast someone like Bridges, or even Liam Neeson, this could have been something special, rather than something that relies on a bad sequel to garner interest.All in all, its a great story, with some reasonable set pieces, but Lambert ruins it. "},{"Title":"At least The Rock wasn't in it.","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When I saw Christopher Lambert in Greystoke, I thought he was a brilliant actor, playing a half-witted,illiterate ape man. When I saw him in Highlander, I realized that's just the way he acts. Terrible. His supposed Scottish accent was anything but....more Czechoslovakian. Then, they totally wasted Sean Connery. Connery, the epitome of a Scotsman...more Scottish than a bagpipe...played a...Spanish fop??? His character, Ramirez, was decked out in a musketeer outfit with peacock feathers. Still, Connery looked great......big, strong, ..but completely wasted in his silly character. Then, what is it with the immortals immune to everything but decapitation? Wouldn't the sword fights between immortals be all about lopping of their heads? Yet whenever one of the immortals gets stabbed in the chest, they stumble and hunch over,momentarily stunned. Wouldn't you think the next blow would be a head chop? No...the other guy always looks on and waits until his opponent recovers. Pretty dumb. "},{"Title":"The Movie Is Let Down by Its Muddled Plot","Date":"20 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie definitely has some good things going for it. It has been produced on a lavish budget for one thing and features some excellent performances from the stars and support cast. The direction has some moments of inspiration too, the pacing is reasonably fast and the location footage often strikes a height that is photographically awesome. Where the movie principally falls down is in its script -- a muddled affair in the anti tradition. In days long gone by, movies used to go way, way out of their way to avoid offending people. But those days are long past. This movie is obviously an anti-New York work. New York's police and citizens are presented as a grubby bunch, amusing but low. However, New Yorkers get off lightly compared to the Scots who are presented as an unholy rabble of fighting-mad idiots. Interestingly, some of the locations used here are very reminiscent of those in I Know Where I'm Going. But whereas Michael Powell's approach is both romantically moody and appealing, there is no trace of romance here at all! "},{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In the ages long past we were introduced to the concept of immortal swordsmen battling each other throughout time..A unique and engaging story of action/romance..At the time I first saw Highlander I remember dreaming Of being immortal..What it would be like and all but now being immortal has become way too commercial...I for one am still a big Highlander fan...Yet I think the producers aren't as interested in their own creation as they once were or else they would have paid more attention to detail with Both the series and the movies...HIGHLANDER-The rules are set...The story well written -Thus begins the epic battle between good and evil that has taken three sequels and three TV Series' to screw up all the continuity...HIGHLANDER 2-Space talk-Alien immortals-Future setting-Then came the fan outcry and a new version..a Renegade VersionHIGHLANDER 3-Time traveling wizards-talking severed heads-Fighting on holy ground...Ignores the second film....HIGHLANDER 4-Merging tv show with the films..Inconsistant dates...Connor Maclead film hero dies in the present also ignoring 2 & 3HIGHLANDER/TV-Ignored all but the first film... HIGHLANDER/RAVEN/TV-The quickening happens when a mortal man kills an immortal...HIGHLANDER/CARTOON-No head chopping-Quickenings can somehow be passed on and are self induced(Hinted at in H3)-Alien planet again-Prt. 2This immortal series somehow manages to stay strong despite all of the continuity problems...The producers hear the fan outcry and tries to fix the problems with previous films only to create even more problems with each new sequel/new tv show/cartoon...If it aint broken don't fix it...All in all Highlander means well and is a good concept but the storyline's execution poor.... "},{"Title":"There can be only one.","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  An immortal classic, no pun intended.  Highlander gets better every time I see it.  Lambert is awesome in the intro, hiding sinisterly in the shadows.  You're not quite sure if he's the good guy or the bad guy.  And Clancy Brown plays one of the all time greatest screen villians  Kurgan.  Kurgan is a sight to behold in his black knight getup atop his black steed.  He's more intense than Lambert.  The back and forth storytelling keeps you extremely interested in the movie.  I love the final showdown between Kurgan and MacLeod, especially the scene where he stops Kurgen's sword from splitting Brenda in two.  Lambert has the all-time best laugh ever.  Highlander is a great flick even today. "},{"Title":"Great movie; good DVD!","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've loved this movie for years and yesterday I finally bought it on DVD. The fantastic sound and picture make the fight and battle scenes even more effective than they were before. For some reason, the sound and picture on the DVD make me enjoy the movie even more than I already did. I've been waiting forever to hear what making this movie was like so I'm so glad that there is commentary by the director Russell Mulcahy and the producers Peter Davis and William Panzer. Russell Mulcahy has always been one of my favorite directors and I hope he will come back to direct the fifth HIGHLANDER movie if there ever is one. Now I know I should be talking about the movie and not about the DVD, but the DVD is just so incredible. It's worth owning. The DVD version the tenth anniversary director's cut. The added footage in it helps fill in some of the plot holes in the movie which is great because even though I love this movie, I have always found it to be too weird and confusing. That doesn't really matter to me anyway because I watch it for the action scenes, not the plot. I think that's the only reason a lot of other people watch it too. This is still the best of the HIGHLANDER movies and it still is one of my favorites.  "},{"Title":"there can be only one","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When released Highlander received many a bad review from the critics, despite that it was a box office success. Highlander truly is a very clever little film, it is brilliantly written and directed and the acting is flawless.Highlander tells the story of Connor MaCloud (The highlander from the title). Connor is an immortal. The immortals are a group of people who throughout time have fought each other in an attempt to win the prize. The prize is awarded to the last immortal, the prize is to be all knowing and to finally lose their eternal life and age normally.To kill an immortal you have to cut off his head, once done the &#145;quickening' is released. The quickening is then given to the winner, it contains all of the losers strength and powers. The movie is set at the time of the &#145;Gathering', this is when only a few immortals are left alive and they feel a yearning to travel to a certain place. The immortals then fight for the prize.Though there are certain things not explained in this film, such as How are these people picked to become immortals? And by whom? A great fantasy feature that appeals to many, theres even a bit of Lovey Dovey romance in it to keep your girlfriend/wife happy.Lambert is great as MaCloud, born to play the part. Connery, as always, is fantastic as Ramirez (MaClouds immortal friend). Marks out of 10 &#150; 8, a classic in its own right. Just watch it, but if you do like it don't watch the sequel. You can watch Highlander 3 and 4, but not Highlander 2. Trust me.    "},{"Title":"Something is missing here...","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  WARNING (spoilers ahead)  Do not read this if you have not seen the movie!!Highlander Part 1 is far better than all the rest of the series combined but there is some major plot holes. The acting is so-so for the most part and it is filled with great Queen music. But the plot is all a mumbled  mess. Maybe I'm being a little too harsh because I've seen far worse before. You have to wonder though, if he is indeed immortal and doesn't grow old how did he become a grown man? I have watched this movie a hundred times and I still have not got my answer. Of coarse I have come to the conclusion that once he died (for the first time) he will never grow beyond that point. Im sure any educated man could come up with this himself but why would the director leave that as a mystery? And what is this big prize deal (looks as though it wasnt all that it was cracked up to be)! I think the director should have decided what the prize was going to be before he started to make the movie.   "}{"Title":"There can be only one","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Believe it or not; I just saw this movie for the first time about a week ago.  All I can say is What took me so freakin long? This is a great movie! It is a perfect blend of action-adventure and science fiction. Christopher Lambert is fantastic in this movie. And Sean Connery, well, there is just no limit to what he can do as an actor. Queen also provides the perfect soundtrack for the amazing movie. If you have not seen any of the Highlander movies then get out there and get this one.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but makes little sense","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Before I saw this film I had seen the 4th installment, Highlander Endgame, and since I didn't like that movie I was kinda skeptical about the first one and the other 2 sequels. However, I was suprised at how much better part 1 is than part 4, but it's still no classic.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!We begin centuries ago with a battle in Scotland. After the battle ends the hero of the story, Conner MacLeod, is discovered to be an immortal. He is then banished from his village. As he puts his life back together with his new Wife he makes a friend(Connery)and an enemy(Brown). Centuries later, Conner must again face this enemy in modern day New York(Gee, I wonder who wins). Entertaining, good effects, and scenery, but average to mediocre acting, and not much of a plot. **1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"You talk funny Nash, where you from?","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander stars Christopher Lambert as MacLeod, immortal Scots highland warrior. It's a very silly film that doesn't seem to know what it wants to be comedy or drama, adult historical or pop video.The movie goes nowhere for the first forty minutes or so, flitting between modern-day MTV sensibilities and olden-day Scotland with some of the worst Scots accents ever recorded on film. No, make that THE worst. Things pick up when Sean Connery emerges to dish out the overdue exposition, and describes the immortals who move silently down through the shenturies ... er, centuries. We are expected to believe that Lambert is Scottish, and that Connery's Ramirez, dressed like a parrot dandy, is Egyptian. It's not a convincing set-up, but then again little about this film is.Lambert, a man who reaches almost Keanu-like levels of charisma, has a brief love interest with Roxanne Hart, author of the catchily titled A Metallurgical History of Ancient Sword-Making. His main mission though is to chop off the head of a rival immortal, as there can be only one. God knows why, or even how, but that's the plot, such as it is.Several Queen songs also feature as incidental music (though their full-blast volume hardly qualifies as incidental), a factor which does neither convention any favours. What seemed previously meaningful songs, such as Who Wants To Live Forever? and It's A Kind of Magic are rendered trite by being linked to the events of this film, while Freddie Mercury's full-throttle vocals are hardly conducive to a subtle filmic mood. Top cheese moment? The two occasions when McLeod is asked to explain the quickening, and references the song with a knowing smirk and replying it's a kind of magic.Direction is quite imaginative, if a little too showy, and it's pace works against the subject matter. The movie does provide roles for a lot of British talent, however, and fans of trashy English soap may like to see the Administrator from Medics offering MacLeod a drink, Or Eastenders' Tricky Dicky stabbing him in a duel. Even more notorious is Sheila Gish as Nash's secretary, Rachel. Gish was of course one of the stars from top flop sitcom Brighton Belles. In all, though, a very silly and confused movie.Three sequels followed, the first of which was hated by fans of the franchise and derided as one of the worst movies ever made. Goodness knows why, as to anyone who isn't a fan of the original it's clearly a superior film. The pop editing of the first is toned down, and a more coherent story and extra dimensions are grafted. Highlander II The Quickening attempts to rope the central idea into a science-fiction ethos, which isn't always logical, but is quite a lot of fun. And while the SF staples of the film are somewhat generic and derivative, there's a lot of amusement to be gained from Lambert's aged Brando impersonation. This guy coulda been a contender. It's somewhat a shame that he has to become a young man again, as it makes him significantly less interesting. Sean Connery also reappears, and puts in a very irritating performance. He also gets the top cheese moment of the film; his turn to knowingly smirk, as MacLeod, 500 years earlier, remarked to him that The Quickening sounded like magic. Well it ishh, Connery gurns, hmmm... kind of. The scene where Lambert places money in a bar jukebox to actually play the Queen song within the film cannot be classed as a top cheese moment, as it's so appalling it's a work of genius. Of course, the film doesn't really hold up until the end, where the full throttle...acting?... of Michael Ironside causes it to break up under it's own latent silliness. And why is it when Connery's on the plane the windows show a white sky when it's under an ozone shield? But in all, this is a vastly underrated instalment, and actually manages the giddy heights of mediocrity.Perhaps the biggest point of contention is the fact that MacLeod and Ramirez knew each other before the events of the first film, a development that seems contradictory. Hey, maybe being banished to Earth temporarily wiped MacLeod's memory of Zeist? What do Highlander fans need, spoonfeeding or something? Maybe they do, as the third, The Sorcerer, completely side steps all the events of the second film. It made tedium an art form, and its overburdening use of CGI effects was one more reason towards its failure. Top cheese moment? MacLeod practising his fighting skills/making love to Sarah (Deborah Unger) while Clannad-type Celtic music plays in the background. A fourth film, Endgame, has received a kinder appraisal, though has yet to reach England.And so it is that a not very good film from the mid eighties spawned it's own television series and three follow-ups, somehow, inexplicably, holding a large fanbase even to this day. Highlander... it's a kind of tragic. "},{"Title":"sword fights are back","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  hello all highlander fans. i was recently introduced to the highlander movies by a friend. the first highlander i saw was the second one. the one with katana. i thought the movie was cool, as it being the first highlander i had seen. he then let me borrow the first highlander. i thought it was excellent. the second one cannot compare to the original highlander. if you are also a fan, please contact me "},{"Title":"I love this movie.","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  THERE'S A SPOILER IN THIS POST SO IF YOU DON'T WANT TO KNOW HOW THE MOVIE ENDS DO NOT READ ON.Highlander is the most beautiful and moving story that has ever been conceived. Connor MacLeod risks his life and fights evil immortals so that mortal man does not have to suffer an eternity of darkness. And in the end, with all the power he has from winning the prize, he uses it to benefit others instead of himself. That is absolutely the most beautiful and altruistic thing that I have ever heard. One of mankind's greatest tragedies is the fact that the Highlander story was taken over by people who have no concept of what makes it so special.  "},{"Title":"Seek out the Director's cut","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Opinions vary about this movie, but it is one of my favorites.  My favorite review or for Highlander 2, There SHOULD HAVE BEEN only one.  But I guess you'd have to see the original to find that funny.  Haven't seen the Revegade Version of Highlander 2, but I prefer to think of just this one original film when I recall the title.  Clancy Brown is outstanding as the villain Kurgen.  The director's cut restores a couple of scenes which, necessary or not, are entertaining.  You may as well get the full scope. "},{"Title":"The best fantasy film hollywood has yet cranked out. SPOILERS","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  HIGHLANDER was ahead of it's time. The film did not do well in the United States but did well in Europe and in Japan. However, when the film went onto VHS home video it gained a die hard cult following in America. Unfortunately, the sequels never had the artistic flair the first film had....to be frank, they should have left it alone; one cannot improve on perfection. Another aspect of this film was the music video like quality that it had, this was accomplished by rock video stylist RUSSEL MULCAHY and the music of QUEEN. The basic premise of this film is about a bunch of immortals who live through the centuries who gradually kill each other off until only a few remain. Once there are only a few left, they will be called to a far off land for the final battle called THE GATHERING. The guy who survives this battle,  gets the PRIZE. Basically, the prize is the supreme knowledge of life, the universe, and everything. The guy who gets this can influence world leaders, etc. etc. The immortals can only die if they are beheaded so guns, knives, or stacks of burning J.GILES BAND records won't harm them. Once a immortal beheads another immortal they get a euphoric supernatural sensation as they absorb their foes life essence. I like how this film doesn't require a lot of gunplay....they fight with swords. (I found this a nice change of pace) The directing is phenomenal...something the director himself has yet, to top. The directors cut was originally, only available overseas, but is now available here in the USA. The directors version is about 20 minutes longer. What was added was several fight scenes, the deleted WW2 sequence, a addition to the duel at Boston Common scene, scenes deepening Connor's character etc. etc. I like this film because it had a fast moving, kinetic, MTV rock video feel to it. Of all the genre movies of the 1980's this one had the biggest influence on me. "},{"Title":"The lost art of great cinema heroism. There was only ever one","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What to say about this movie. I personally think this film is a must see. Some movies exist in a place of their own, removed from the usual kind of films you watch. They make a world inside themselves and you either go with it or stand back and make pretenses to superiority. The storyline is a great one. A group of immortals are located around the earth and one day they shall all be summoned together to fight for something only known as The Prize. A wonderful chance for many different types of situations. Many of which are explored in a quite commendable screenplay. These situations range from the dramatic to the humourous and never once sinking the film into bedlam. All the actors are great, with the one exception of Connors modern day love interest (she really annoyed beyond all reason). Christopher Lambert and Sean Connery both created two truly likeable heros (Lambert especially). Clancy Brown went right over the top with his portrayal of the Kurgan and last of all a special a special mention must go to the actress who played Connors main love interest who died. Her scenes with him gave a real emotional centre to the film and created a real driving motivation to feel for these characters. The direction by Russell Mucahly was inventive and in the end really makes this film into the timeless classic it is. It may throw some people off but it gives the film that distinction from the norm that helps to keep it in your memory. the soundtrack is great with a memorable main theme by Micheal Kamen and Queen songs. The cinematography wonderfully captures the scottish highlands and helps give the film that grand romantic look of an epic. This film should be studied by hollywood who really have forgotten how to create great cinema, and the lost art of cinematic spectacle. In summing up a great film which should be enjoyed by all who love great fantasy pictures. "},{"Title":"yeek","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This has to be the most disappointing movie I've ever seen. I watched this after having seen the far superior TV series. The idea behind Highlander is a great one, but is given a slow and plodding treatment. Too much time is spent on his training in Scotland. There needed to be more interaction in the present-day (only 4 people in the Gathering?).I also felt there needed to be more explanation into what the Gathering was. By the way, although he did a good job, a FRENCH actor playing a SCOTTISH character trying to sound AMERICAN???This movie deserved a much better job than this. Unfortunately, it all goes downhill from here in the sequels. THERE SHOULD BE ONLY ONE!!!  "},{"Title":"Better than average fantasy","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander was an ok film, had some cool action and a few good characters. The story was kinda dumb, but that wasn't so important. Christopher Lambert did alright, but i preferred his scenes in Scotland to the ones in new york. James Cosmo was great as Angus, and Beatie Edney was fabulous, certainly better than Roxanne Hart, who was pretty annoying.  Sean connery never shined in anything but the james bond movies, but he held his weight here. Clancy Brown was a good choice to play the villain Kurgan, he was intensely menacing. The New york footage was really dreary and cheap looking, I wouldve preferred more convincing scenery (rockefeller center perhaps). Incidently, why this was made into a dreadful tv series, isn't there supposed to be only one?  "}{"Title":"This movie was just different enough to make it interesting, and I liked it.","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Highlander, is the story of Connor Macleod (Christopher Lambert), born more than 400 years ago, and still alive, he is immortal.  That is his gift, and his curse. The movie presents an interesting premise, what if you could live forever?  Remaining in your prime for all eternity, watching your friends and family grow old, and fade away into the folds of history. Dying only when your head comes away from your neck.  Battling the other immortals of the world whom seek to claim your head, struggling to survive until the time of the gathering, knowing that in the end... there can be only one.This movie brings to mind all these questions.  It presents them in  a mixture of scenes from present day interlaced with flashbacks spanning all of Connor's life.  Beginning with the discovery of his immortality when he was mortally wounded in battle in the Highlands of Scotland, and going as far forward as World War II (In the directors cut).  Sean Connery offers a brief but delightful performance as Ramirez, Macleod's friend and mentor, who is slain by Macleod's mortal enemy the Kurgan (Clancy Brown).  It is this Kurgan that Connor must face at the gathering, where the immortals that remain will battle until only one remains. It is that one that will receive the prize, all the knowledge and power of the universe.This movie is a wonderful mixture of a good story with emotion, suspense, romance, action, and wonderful performances from all actors involved.  I would recommend it to almost anyone, it does contain some brief nudity, and small children may be frightened by The Kurgan. "},{"Title":"If only there could have been only one...","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ...and that is not to say the this film is spoilt by the sequels. This film was spoilt at the casting stage. You can forgive most films for dating a bit, but this one has a Jock who refuses outright to even attempt a different accent (see Red October for another appalling example) and Chrissy Lambert who attempts loads only to sound like the same old French geezer gone a bit Australian. Bring back Dick Van Bleeding Dyke. >  "},{"Title":"Too Bad","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It really is too bad that with the distribution of this movie in the US, the editors found it necessary to cut at least two of the most important scenes on how McLeod meets Rachel... When I first saw this movie, these scenes were essential to the storyline, now when I watch this movie, I see Rachel being just a receptionist, she is so much more to him then that. It also colors McLeods character to be a more sympathetic individual. I am truly disappointed! "},{"Title":"There should have been only one","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The tagline of this movie is There can be only one and they should have applied it to the movie itself.  This, the only real one, the original is a brilliant movie spanning 400 years of great adventures, makes your mind wander, sports an excellent villain and some excellent fighting scenes, together with the phantastic music of Queen. A must see classic - but stick with this one, forget about the rest including the pathetic TV/series.  "},{"Title":"Action, SCI-FI, and Comedy all in one package! 10-10","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has it all. My favorite of all my DVD's. This is one of the best movies I have seen with as low a budget as it had. Originally a flop in the theatres... this movie picked up many more fans when Highlander The Series came out on TV. It's now a Cult-Classic. Great special effects, especially for 1986, and good acting... Well... all but from Christopher Lambert. ;) He was cast without being able to speak a word of English. He learned his lines daily and there was an interpreter on the set at all times.Definately a 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"A movie with real depth.","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I like a movie with layers of detail, so thoroughly thought out and executed that you're always noticing something new.Star Wars was like that, and so is Highlander.  Jurrasic Park, E. T.,  and other modern marvels just don't have anything below the surface.One example  the closing scene is a single continuous panoramic shot in the highlands of modern Scotland.  As the camera sweeps down you can see a road, a car coming up the road, and the car is a British Jaguar.  As the same pan continues the camera moves up into the sky, and a jet flies by, a military fighter plane, a British Jaguar.This is one class film. "},{"Title":"seen it 60 times","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well the amount of times that I have seen it says enough. It is one of my favorite movies. With a great theme; Who wants to live forever. Is it worth to see the ones that you love get older when you stay ever so young.  "},{"Title":"My all-time-favourit!","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This Movie has it all Great story, great locations, great transitions ... and great music (Queen).(Wow, I forgot Great One-Liners)Every once in a while, I watch that movie, and in an instant, I feel better. It is hard to explain, especially for those who aren't fond of that kind of flics.But, for those who haven't seen that film yet - here is an advise Look out for the Director's Cut, which features some very essential scenes that were missing in the usual english-spoken versions. (Scenes in WW2)Also, the picture has much better quality.By the way I didn't like Highlander 3 and Highlander 2 was one big mess - there can be only one. So I am a bit sceptical about Highlander 4... "},{"Title":"Good film, could have been a great film.","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I had read a lot of conflicting information on the film Higlander.  Most of the user comments before me were positive, but many movie reviews were poor for the film which has sustained a cult following over the years. Christopher Lambert (Mortal Kombat, Knight Moves) stars as Connor MacLeod a Scottish man who should have died in battle in the 16th century.  He didn't die because he is part of a rare group of immortals who can only be killed by another immortal who chops off his head.  MacLeod learns this from another immortal, played by Sean Connery (The Rock, The Untouchables). The immortals live by the phrase There can be only one as they wait for the gathering, when just a few are left and the last one living will get the mysterious gift.  The movie takes place in mainly two time frames, New York in 1986 (near the time of the gathering) and in Scotland during the mid 1500's.  The flashbacks are extemely well handled and never confused me during the film.  The premise of this film is one of my favorites, it's a fascinating and very original one which was handled well, but could have been done better.  Lambert is good in the lead making Connor a character to cheer for.  Connery is wonderful in a smaller role.  Clancy Brown (The Shawshank Redemption, Starship Troopers) is great as an evil immortal. Good film, highly recommended, but could have been an epic film. "},{"Title":"One of the best medieval movie types of all time.","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander is one of the best medieval movies ever made.  Christopher Lambert played an excellent role as Conner McCleod. And Sean Connery was good too although he wasn't very much in the movie.  Clancy Brown as Kurgan, I'd say, was the freakiest enemy out of all McCleod's enemies in all of his movies. The only boring part was the fight scene in the beginning.  It was too long.  But overall this movie rocked. "}{"Title":"One Of The Greatest Movies Ever!","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander rules! It is without a doubt the best movie of the 1980's. The directing is superb. The scenery is beautiful. The action scenes are great. The acting, especially Sean Connery, is perfect, and the director's cut is even better. I highly recommend this movie. I give it 10/10 "},{"Title":"if there can be only one, this is the right one","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's become a darkhorse classic of the 80's. The story of one immortal man's quest to claim his prize as the last man standing. Through it all, he must go through the torment of becoming an outcast and watch as those who he cares about, namely his buttercup Heather, grow old and pass away. Time draws near for the final battle, and he must go through a Goliath type enemy to win the prize. Beyond that this movie has Sean Connery, you can't ask for more. You will not be disappointed by this movie.  "},{"Title":"A film to last!","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There are a number of films that come out each year, but there is one in twenty films that have the original thought and concept that will make it a film to remember. The story line is one of a kind that was not been done before, or will again (from what is coming out!) The cast fits when filmed well, also with a great story line this is a film not to miss. If you get the time to see it do so. "},{"Title":"Smartest sci-fi film since Star Wars","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There are three sci-fi series which will be remembered as classics and which basically set the standards all other sci-fi's would follow the first was Star Trek in the 60's, then Star Wars in the 70's, and then Highlander in the 80's.This film is a MASTERPIECE, in every single aspect. It presents new ideas, a great premise, and fascinating characters. The plot, which should probably be pretty familiar with anyone who knows their science fiction, is about immortals battling it out over the centuries with swords, fighting for the mystic prize, in which the final immortal left will recieve. They can't die unless another immortal takes their head and consume they're powers, a process called The Quickening. When there are only a few more immortals left, they shall feel an irresistable pull to a faraway land. They shall assemble in this land, and the winner of the prize will be determined. This time of final battles is called The Gathering.Following the lead, the film tells the story of Conner MacLeod (Lambert), an immortal who was killed in battle and magically resurrected, and then banished from his home in Scotland in the 1500's. He is found by Ramirez (Sean Connery...who was having a lot of fun), an ancient immortal who must train him and teach him the ways of the immortals. The film has many parallels and takes place in both the 1500's in a series of flashbacks, and in the 1980's in New York City, the place, we soon learn, of the Gathering.The villian of the story is the evil Kurgen (Clancy Brown), who has existed for centuries and is responsible for the death of many immortals. He has much power, and Conner and Ramirez will have to battle with everything they have, in both the past and present, if they hope to defeat him.This film is a masterpiece. If you are someone interested in science fiction, it is a must see. It is one of the most influential films in the genre, and throughout the rest of entertainment's history, I have a feeling it will be one of the few, along with Star Wars, that will stand the test of time.It also has a successful, well known theme. Stars Wars had Live long and prosper. Star Wars had May the force be with you. Highlander's is There can be only one.Drop what you're doing and go rent this...now! "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece, unlike its sequel.","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie rocks in a different kind of way, first the soundtrack is excellent mainly composed of Queen songs. The directing is inventive, MTV-esque, but not overdone. The photography is incredible, making you want to visit the highlands for yourself. The story unfolds very sweetly, switching from the present to Connor's past memory while being arrested for murder. The acting was great, especially in Christopher Lambert and Sean Connery duo scenes. Well the only flaws this movie may have, are its visual effects and 'age' make-up. If you haven't seen it, it's not too late to rent it. "},{"Title":"Great movie - worst ending","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander is one of the all time great fantasy adventure movies. In particular, the use of the flashback technique is particularly well employed, keeping the watcher in the dark but slowly bringing him/her into the picture. However, it must be said that the ending has to win the award for Cheesiest Conclusion to a movie. Not wanting to ruin it for those who haven't seen it, let me just say that the ultimate prize to which the whole story has built up can't get anymore hackneyed than it is.And on a slightly less important note, why the hell did they leave the WWII scene out of the American version? It's not crucial to the plot, but it ties in nicely with the Queen soundtrack and gives a bit of background to Rachael who is otherwise a somewhat obscure and unexplainable character.Nonetheless, one of my all-time favourites. "},{"Title":"Highlander; possibly the best film ever made....","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  it is by far the coolest film i have ever seen, and responsible for the destruction of numerous vaguely sword shaped garden tools who gave their lives in pursuit of 'the game' back in 1986. I met my future wife through a mutual Love of Highlander, and I hereby raise a toast to Connor McLeod, a man who makes James Bond look like a gibbering nerd. coolness incarnate, and a character who deserves to walk off triumphantly into the sunset in the upcoming HL4; 'The Search For Connor' , (a cop-out title if i ever heard one), 'Blood of Kings' is a much better title, methinks! please, don't let Connor die! one comfort we could glean from his demise, is that Highlander 2, would officially be, a great big bag of hypothetical s*** ! (heheheh!, as if it wasn't already!) There Can Be Only One..Connor McLeod. "},{"Title":"Powerful, exciting stuff!","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the most beautifully put together and moving films I've ever seen. The script is powerful, and aided by first class performances and a superb Queen soundtrack. Loved it when I first saw it in 1986, still love it 13 years later! Definitely rates in my all time top ten. A wonderful, exciting film.  "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Now I realize it's not as good as, say, Citizen Kane or The Godfather, but I do believe it is a great movie.  In its own vein, it's a classic.  I loved the scenery, music and of course the fights.  Sure, it could have been better, but I don't think it would be as good. "},{"Title":"Descent but could have been a lot better","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've seen all the Highlander movies, yes even the 2nd one which is worthy of being the worst film I've ever seen (right up there with Mortal Kombat Annihilation, Lawnmower Man II, and Knock Off) and out of the three movies out now this is the best.  But being the best of the series isn't saying much, there's not much competition and it could have been so much better.I definitely have to give props to the directing, the look of the movie is excellent but it's the villain, a few unexciting action scenes, and most of all the script that holds it down.  The villain is sooo dull in this movie that it makes it hard to watch.  Every scene he's in is almost a bore besides the one showing him put his sword together (talk about one awesome sword).  The action scene involving the villain and Sean Connery was pathetic, Sean had at least 20 chances of cutting off his head and everything in the tower besides the stairwell falling down just looked dumb. I've always liked the there can be only one line but most of the script was boring and nothing to interesting to follow.The best parts in this film are definitely the Scottish scenery and Christopher Lambert's appearance.  The serious look he has in his eye when he fights and him in his trenchcoat and back in his Scottish days just look very stylish.  If only the film itself was more serious they could have made it much much better. "}{"Title":"Cool movie.","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander is a very cool movie with a great concept. I don't know if living forever is really such a great thing, but the conflict sure makes for a neat movie. Russell Mulcahy's direction is solid and tight for the most part. The film could have been cut down by about 15 minutes, but the flashback scenes help tell the story and they're richly designed. The script is good and the score is really well done by Michael Kamen and Queen. Christopher Lambert is the Highlander and Sean Connery has a small but significant role that he plays with just the right amount of humor and robust integrity. I also liked Clancy Brown's performance as Kurgan. It was over the top, but very interesting. This is just a cool movie. "},{"Title":"Much better than they want you to think...","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  To me, Highlander was one of the most interesting fantasy films to come out of the 1980s.  It had a great premise, solid acting and directing, cool special effects, and an awesome soundtrack by Queen.  The only downside was, it got screwed over because of editing, so be sure to watch the director's cut.  And ignore most of the Highlander reviews out there on the 'net. Any good sci-fi/fantasy film requires something called the suspension of disbelief, a term coined by Gene Roddenberry.  What these reviewers forgot was that Highlander isn't supposed to be real, it's just supposed to be fun!  And boy, is it ever!  Definitely a must-see in my book! "},{"Title":"Sword fights, drama, and immortals... who needs more?","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Christopher Lambert and Sean Connery shine in a film about the life and times of the fictional immortals that dwell among us.  This movie will make you laugh, make you cry, and make you cringe.  The sword battles are excellent, the plot is believable within its context, and the acting superb! If you can see the Director's cut it is worth the extra expense as it fills in background on the Highlander's secretary Rachel as well as other minor (though desirable) plot details.  If you like sword battles this is an excellent film for them.  If you like drama/action this movie is also for you.  Grab the popcorn and enjoy!   "},{"Title":"There can be only one (good Highlander movie that is)","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is it where the whole thing got started the show the sequels everything.  And it deserves it.  A good movie.  Lambert was the right guy for the role. THe intense look he can give and the way he looks in that over coat.  Just gotta love it.  Connery is great.  First time i saw this was on tv and they cut most of Coney's part out of the movie so i was happily surprised in watching the video. Clancy was a big evil bad guy.  and then what can i ay about the sound track.  considering Queen is my favorite band. I love it.  It all ties together to make a great movie. and was the format for one of the biggest tv shows in the world.  If only the sequels were up to this standard i give it a 7.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One of the most memorable movies of my life","Date":"22 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This may not be a best picture, but it is definitely entertaining and a classic in its own right.  When I was a kid, this movie was a huge influence on me.  Ahhh...I remember them wooden swords.  I miss the days when I used to pretend I was Connor Mcleod from the clan Mcleod.  I even had a replica of Connor's sword. Unfortunately it broke when I stabbed a friend in the stomach.  I guess I should have just cut off his head.  I even named my cat Mcleod.  I am happy to say he is still alive after twelve years.  Anyways, this is a classic so please do not diss it. "},{"Title":"","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie version of Highlander is better than you might think it's going to  be.  Chris Lambert is strangely effective as McLeod, and the flashback  story meshes quite well with the present story, which gimmick is continued  successfully in the TV series.  There are places where tighter writing and /or editing could really have improved the flow and dramatic tension, and  there must have been a way to get more Connery into the flick.  I gave it a  7, which means I only channel-surfed during the commercials and once during  the film. "},{"Title":"Cheesy, Fast Paced and Over-Serious, Highlander is a Product of its Era","Date":"19 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Like a walking, talking cliché, this is a quintessentially bad '80s blockbuster; loaded with lousy dialog, telegraphed twists and cheesy, overproduced fight sequences, it's a nonstop parade of nimiety. That's not to say it's without allure - in fact, the terribly dated references to the era's pop culture and filmmaking techniques are half the fun of sitting down with it today. The world was a completely different place thirty years ago, and though we're doing so through a set of decidedly rose-tinted goggles, it's fun to look back on it in this way. Plus, buried beneath the film's sillier superficial aspects is a startlingly bright, thoughtful basic plot line dealing with love, loss and the kind of cold, calm emotional distance that any combination of the two will inevitable produce. A pity those deeper, more interesting developments don't enjoy half the investigation they probably deserve, but perhaps that's why the film fueled so many sequels. Sean Connery shines like a beacon amidst an otherwise-sleepwalking cast, which never recovers from his character's jolting premature exit. "},{"Title":"There are weaker moments here, but lots of great sequences to make up for that","Date":"12 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a popular action fantasy film widely considered a cult classic, even if it wasn't all that well received upon its initial release in 1986. Since then, it has spawned a handful of sequels and a TV series. Queen contributed a bunch of songs to this original Highlander movie, and that was how it was eventually brought to my attention. I first heard of the film years ago when I was told that Queen's very emotional Who Wants to Live Forever, a song I knew very well by then, was written for it. It has taken me 25 years, but I have finally seen this motion picture that started a franchise, and while I can't call it an amazing film like some people can, I certainly do think it's closer to that than it is to what those who dislike it consider it to be.Connor MacLeod is an immortal, and the only way his kind can be killed is by being decapitated by another immortal! They are destined to fight and decapitate each other until only one is left, and the last remaining immortal will get the prize of supreme power and knowledge! MacLeod was born in the Highlands of Scotland in 1518, and as a young man, he suffered a fatal stab wound and strangely survived! The people of his village believed that this was the work of the Devil, so he was banished. Five years later, he was found by Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez, a fellow immortal, and finally learned the truth about himself and the destiny of his kind. Soon after that, Ramirez was killed in a sword fight by the Kurgan, an evil immortal who is determined to be the one to get the prize! Since his days in the Highlands centuries ago, MacLeod has lived under several different identities, and in 1985, he lives in New York City as Russell Nash! In this time, the battle of immortals rages on, and MacLeod and the Kurgan are the only two of them left! Unfortunately for MacLeod, the Kurgan is bigger and stronger than him! I wasn't sure how the movie would turn out when I saw the beginning with the wrestling match, but we then see the first flashback to MacLeod's days in the Highlands, which is a memorable one. After that, the sword fight in the parking garage is a pretty good action sequence, and it is followed by another good Highlands flashback. When the police find MacLeod (or Nash) and take him in for questioning, I was not impressed with how over-the-top the Garfield character turned out to be, and there's some pretty juvenile dialogue between him and Nash during the questioning. I also didn't care for Roxanne Hart's performance as Brenda Wyatt at first. However, none of this lasts, and we see lots of action and suspense as we see the immortals battle, both in 1985 and centuries earlier. Sean Connery plays Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez, and although this isn't a huge part he plays, it's constantly entertaining as the character teaches MacLeod about immortals and how to fight his rivals. This original Highlander is also a visual treat with its cinematography, special effects, beautiful Highland scenery, etc. With all these merits plus the Queen songs (if you're a fan of that band), I would say this cult film is a really good choice for fans of the action/fantasy genre. "},{"Title":"Great concept and just enough strengths to become a cult classic","Date":"3 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It only takes a few great cinematic elements to turn a helter-skelter sci-fi fantasy into a cult classic. Russell Mulcahy finds that edge in directing Gregory Widen's story Highlander. Part of it is Christopher Lambert's hardened hero Connor McLeod as well as Clancy Brown's exceptionally psychotic performance as the Kurgan, but Mulcahy commands how we feel about these characters and pilots them into memorable battle sequences and grandiose stunts for a film released in 1986. Fantasy and science-fiction fans will easily be able to overlook some of its messiness and appreciate the winning concept and enjoyable lore behind Highlander.The ripe Highlander concept allows for an effective story. McLeod is fatally wounded in battle in 16th Century Scotland only he somehow survives. Fearing he's possessed, he's banished by his wife and neighbors and eventually settles on his own with a new wife in an isolated part of the highlands. Sean Connery then arrives to inform him of his greater calling and warn him of his immortality. He has essentially joined a club of immortals (of which there are an unknown number) who compete throughout the centuries to become the lone Highlander by beheading other immortals.Unfortunately, that part of the movie doesn't come first, making the Highlander concept much more difficult than it needs to be. At least what Widen fails to do in terms of organizing the film in a logical order he makes up for in delivering an idea with classic themes of immortality, power and love. Because Connor can't settle down without watching those he loves die of age, he wins our sympathy and that's the goal with any fantasy hero. It helps that Lambert's furrowed brow and emotionally exhausted look communicates a feeling of inner sorrow, an always ideal hero combination of hard on the outside, soft on the inside. Mulcahy draws close attention to his eyes, which at the beginning makes us think of Lambert as a bit of an ugly brute because of his large forehead, but eventually succeeds in portraying him in a sensitive light.On the opposite end of the spectrum is Brown's Kurgan, the immortal hoping to be the last one standing by killing Connor in New York City, where the Gathering (an unofficial tournament to become the Highlander, sort of) is happening. Every second Brown he spends on screen just induces more and more hatred, especially when he does a poor job of shaving his head. Villains are so much more effective with a psychotic twist and Brown delivers. It's also not the kind of crazy villain that tries overly hard to be funny with poorly written dialogue, but the unexpectedly randomly licking people type of insane.The sporadic pacing hurts our ability to become invested in the main love story between Connor and forensic metal specialist Brenda (Roxanne Hart). It's more an example of great potential unachieved rather than offensively poor writing. The same goes for the relationship between Connor and his personal assistant Rachel (Sheila Gish). A flashback takes us to World War II when he saves the young Rachel by taking bullets for her. Their friendship and affection for one another has the power to be a fantastic subplot in the film, but it never cooks.Little else can be said negatively about Highlander, unless you're not amused by people in New York City fighting with broadswords attempting to slice each other's heads off. The entertainment appeal won't be for everyone, but there are plenty of explosions (every time an immortal is decapitated a quickening happens and stuff in the area breaks and shatters), and with a Star Wars-esquire fight scene at the end, it's easy to see why Highlander spawned a number of future films and a TV series, etc.~Steven CVisit my site http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"So there's this Spanish Egyptian with a Scots accent...","Date":"18 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" What a load of old tosh this is! There! I've said it! That's the worst I have to say, and I'm going to continue by saying that there is no reason at all why a load of old tosh shouldn't be immensely entertaining, and that's exactly what Highlander is.Coasting along on a wave of zestful exuberance, Highlander comes up with a small group of people who are, for no apparent reason, immortal, and whose mythology requires them - again, for no apparent reason - to kill each other until only one of them survives because, it seems, There can be only one. This is a great tagline and has made its way into far wider usage than just this movie. Just as well, because it's another thing which is never explained (nor is why these intermittent killings must involve swordfights ending in decapitation).The absence of any explanation doesn't matter in the slightest - everything is offered simply as part of the mythology of the Immortals. It just IS, and there is absolutely no reason why any of it needs to be explained to the Immortals themselves, let alone the likes of you and me.Christophe Lambert is Connor MacLeod, conveying very well the loneliness of a life where everyone you know and love dies, and the only ones who can share that burden want to kill you. Sean Connery plays the Spanish/Egyptian (with a Scots accent) Ramirez, the most unlikely racial/cultural combination ever to feature in a mainstream movie, with a genial bonhomie. One wonders why he trains MacLeod rather than killing him. Clancy Brown is an entertainingly monstrous Kurgan, and the supporting cast is absolutely fine.The look of the film is great and the limited effects work well in service to the story.And, yes, it may be the most preposterous tosh, but it's entertaining tosh and, what's more, it's original tosh. And there ain't too much of that around. "}{"Title":"Highlander Tastier Than A Sheep's Stomach","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" 'I am the Krug! Hear me roar!' says the bad guy. 'Heh heh heh- I don't think so' replies Lambear. 'Yesh- the namesh Ssean- Ssean Connerah'. Says Sean Connery. Yesh, Highlander features these three peoples in an interesting take on the old good versus evil battle. There are sword fights, time travels, horses all mixed up in this tale of action, honour, romance, and immortality. Christopher 'Rain Man' Lambert plays Jimmy O' McGreggor, a Kilt wearing Haggis bandit of Ye Olde Scotland. The film begins with his life over 5000 years ago. He is a simple Scotsman, a follower of Braveheart like everyone else and has a beautiful wench. His town is attacked one evening by Geordies and he is stabbed in the heart, dying in the arms of his belovely. After mourning his loss however he returns from the dead, but this time he is alive! He tries to join his family and friends again but they are zombiephobes and cast him out for witcherycraft. He decides to travel down to London as he heard the streets are paved with gold and he can start a new life. On the way though he meets an eccentric old Grandaddy who tells him that, like himself, he is an immortal who can only be killed by losing his head or his temper. These immortals have been fighting each other for weeks and one day the survivor will win a medal. Thus begins a training regime and a hundred year battle against a fellow immortal known as Clive.This film has some pretty screen shots of the Scattish lowlands, places I would like to visit such as Lock Ness, Lock Spurrin, and Lock Lockland Lough. Kristoffer is a charming newcomer in his first film, his head like a giant light bulb turned off. It is nice to see Shaugn Commeray coming out of retirement for his first film since 1961's Live And Live Die. He would go onto greater success the following year as the mad scientist in Jurassic Park. Also, Lost favourite Ron Perlman stars as The Crumb- a fierce fighter who would give Arnie's Conan sword skills a run for their money. Overall this is a good film which I would recommend to Bankers and Firework Company employees.Best Scene When Lambread and Coventry are frolicking together in the waters of New Lock Gloghensborough in authentic 17th Century pantaloons. I recently got myself a pair and this Summer I plan to try them out in the local duck pond. "},{"Title":"I have always freakin LOVED this movie!","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sometimes when reviewing on this site, I wonder if I should give certain obvious B, low budget, trivial fare as high a rating as I would give more artsy, mainstream, serious films. If I LOVE a movie for whatever inherent reason and can see something in it every time I see it that makes me appreciate it even more, essentially, I stand by my rating. And if I'm ever in doubt that I'm doing the right thing, it is a movie like this, HIGHLANDER (1986), that puts all doubts to rest! I first saw HIGHLANDER way back not long after it came out in 1986. I was watching it late on Saturday night on cable and when it was over, I felt like I had just seen something special. Couldn't put my finger on it, exactly, just KNEW I loved what I had just seen. To this day, I stand by my initial instincts! HIGHLANDER is one of the most purely entertaining low budget films ever made! HIGHLANDER has got EVERYTHING in it and going for it...an absurdly convoluted yet confidently executed story and plot...a strong cast that grabs hold an maintains your attention throughout...an ominous, apocalyptic tone...energetic, convincing action scenes...a surprisingly solid script...and last, but not least, a pulse-pounding rock score by 80s iconic music group Queen! HIGHLANDER starts off in modern day New York in Madison Square Garden. Among the spectators is a mysterious man lying in wait for a swordfight with another man. The mystery man wins, cutting off his enemy's head. After hiding his sword and trying to escape, he is caught by the police and interrogated but don't have enough evidence to keep him. In a flashback scene to 16th century Scotland, we see this same man being killed in battle but somehow is revived. Turns out this man, Connor MacLeod, is immortal. Deemed a warlock, his village shuns and bans him and he must live his life scouring the Earth.Christopher Lambert gives an astonishingly convincing, charismatic lead performance as MacLeod. He relays all of this unique man's emotions and facets without ever coming off as boring. Lambert makes us BELIEVE in MacLeod! In modern day New York, MacLeod is pursued by a police CSI expert Brenda Wyatt (Roxanne Hart in a solid, sensual performance) who is a historical buff interested in ancient swords. She tries to unlock the mystery of MacLeod.In the 16th century scenes, Lambert is supported by his wife Heather (charming and refreshing Beatie Edney) and none other than the legendary Sean Connery as fellow immortal Ramirez, who has been around at least 2000 years before McLeod's time. Ramirez trains McLeod and gives him life lessons and tells him that there are more immortals out there trying to be THE ONE! Ramirez is killed by evil immortal Kurgan (deliciously, maliciously played by Clancy Brown) who tried to kill Connor back at the village battle. After Heather dies of old age, MacLeod roams the earth for centuries until there is only him and Kurgan left in modern day New York where they have a final battle to determine who will be the last immortal.HIGHLANDER is that type of flick where everything just works, no matter how absurd the story, because it has a strong sense of itself. The swordplay scenes are vivid, exciting, and Realistic! the angular and long-view cinematography gives movie a sense of grandeur, location shooting in New York and Scotland juxtaposes grit and splendor, the Queen soundtrack is awesome; very rare that a movie and soundtrack go so hand and hand like in this one. And the actors really sell the story! Connery had been in a few too many bland movies around this time, but this one is definitely a keeper for him! Brown was just inspired, perfect casting, delivering on all levels as a purely evil, malevolent force to be reckoned with. And in particular, Lambert is utterly convincing as a man with the weight of the world literally on his shoulders.HIGHLANDER is a prime example of a simplistic low-budget movie filled with elements that make movie-watching a FUN experience. In short, it just plain ENTERTAINS! "},{"Title":"Extremely Entertaining 80s Fantasy Cult","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Immortal Warriors are walking the earth for centuries, forced to fight each other to the death (by beheading) until only one remains. - Can there be a premise more promising if one is in search for action-packed fun? I think not, and while Highlander may in no way be a masterpiece or milestone, this 1986 cult flick is still an incredibly entertaining piece of Fantasy cinema that can be re-watched many times and never gets boring. The film begins in 1986 New York City, but is largely set in flashbacks to the past. After getting fatally wounded by a mysterious Warrior in a battle between clans in the Scottish highlands of 1536, Connor MacLeod (Christopher Lambert) resurrects shortly after. After being chased away by his fellow villagers who think of his resurrection as the work of the devil, MacLeod learns that he is one of the Immortals, Warriors who can only die by being beheaded, and who are to fight one another until the last one remains... The storyline is simple, and leaves many questions unanswered, but it doesn't get boring for a minute, and introduces many interesting characters. Christopher Lambert fits extremely well in the role of Connor MacLeod, and Clancy Brown is wonderfully diabolical as the evil 'Kurgan', the mysterious Immortal who fatally wounded him in 1536 and who continues to be his arch-enemy ever after. None other than the great Sean Connery honors the film with his presence as MacLeod's friend and fellow Immortal Juan Sanchez-Villa Lobos Ramirez, who instructs him in the way of the Immortals (For whatever reason, the most famous Scottish actor is supposed to be Egyptian, whereas the American Christopher Lambert plays a Scotsman). British actress Beatie Edney is beautiful and very lovable as MacLeod's 16th century Scottish wife Heather, whereas his 1986 girlfriend played by Roxanne Hart is rather annoying.The film basically consists of two main parts, one taking place in 16th century Scotland, the other in 1986 New York, and I personally prefer the Scottish part. The cinematography is great, and especially the beautiful Scotish highland landscapes make a very good scenery that contributes a lot to the overall atmosphere of the film. The effects are very good, and even the fact that some of them might be dated by today's standards contributes to the irresistible mood of an 80s flick. So does the cool score by Queen. The action is violent and bloody with fights that often end with be-headings. Overall the storyline of Highlander may be a bit cheesy, but what the heck - it's pretty damn entertaining, and that's what counts. Highlander is certainly no masterpiece, but it is great fun to watch, and I cannot imagine why anyone wouldn't be entertained by it. "},{"Title":"An '80s Classic","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This film was one of the first films I bought on video back in the 1980s and I think I enjoy it now as much as I did then even if I don't watch it quite as often. This film is an '80s classic great action, great settings and a great score by Queen.Christopher Lambert plays Connor MacLeod the eponymous Highlander, when we first meet him he was watching wrestling in Madison Square Gardens, he closes his eyes and we are back in sixteenth Century Scotland where Connor is marching into battle with the rest of the MacLeod clan. We then return to the present where he is confronted by a man with a sword in the garage, he draws is own sword and after a fight decapitates the other man. The film inter-cuts between the past and the present; in the present the police are investigating a spate of decapitations, forensic expert Brenda is taking an interest in the sword used and MacLeod, now calling himself Russell Nash. In the past we see him go into battle and survive a wound that should have killed him, instead of being happy his clan think it is the work of the devil and banish him. Five years later we find him living with a beautiful girl called Heather when Sean Connery arrives, he is an Egyptian in the service of the King of Spain who explains to Connor that he is immortal and so long as he doesn't lose his head he will live forever... The catch is that in the future all of the immortals will be drawn together and fight till only one of them is left, which is what is happening in present day New York. I won't give any more plot details as I don't want to spoil the ending.It is surprising that this film is as good as it is... we have a Frenchman playing a Scot and Scotland's most famous actor playing an Egyptian but strangely it still works. I like the fact that they never tried to explain why they are immortal, and just say it is one of those things that just is. The acting is pretty solid as is the direction and the West Highland scenery is spectacular as anybody who has visited the area will know. If you like action, sci-fi, fantasy or '80s films in general then watch this, it is a classic. "},{"Title":"Problematic geographical location","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Most of this film was a fun concept and I clearly found it entertaining as I have bothered to see it a few times.One huge mistake that comes out early in the film is where the McClouds are leaving their castle to go to battle. They are chanting MCcloud as they ;eave.This castle is Eileen Donan in Scotland. It was originally a McKenzie castle but was given to the clan MacRae in about 1200 CE and ultimately bombed by the English during the 1745 rebellion. It was later rebuilt in 1921.This castle never was a Mccloud castle and in fact the clan Mccloud were sworn enemies of both McKensie and MacRae. The only way they would be coming out of that place would be with arrows in their backs! "},{"Title":"Yes, who DOES want to live forever?","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Highlander undoubtedly has one of the simplest and most basic concepts in the history of cinema, and yet it grew out to become a very hugely successful and impossible-not-to like Sci-Fi classic of the 80's decade. It doesn't get any more rudimentary than this Scottish born clansman Connor MacLeod is born immortal (how and/or why remains unexplained throughout the entire film) and destined to fight mortal battles against his companions in misfortune until only one of them remains. Native Scotchman Sean Connery plays his supposedly Egyptian mentor and Clancy Brown shines as his archenemy that enjoys the eternal cat and mouse game just a tad bit too much. Macload's ordeal begins in his fatherland during the fifteen hundreds and reluctantly drags him all the way to the rancid streets of New York during the 1980's. Australian director (this is quite the international gathering&#133;) Russell Mulcahy opted for a rather ambitious and convoluted narrative structure, with continuous flashbacks that covers the protagonist's most essential life phases through the centuries. This approach isn't always very coherent and looks extremely dated by today's movie standards, but it does still effectively force the viewer to remain focused and attentive. Macleod subsequently gets banished from his clan as his immortality is considered to be devilish, learns about the agony of not growing old with someone, rescues his future secretary from the hands of Nazis and runs into conflict with the New York police department and &#150; particularly &#150; its forensics expert with a strange fascination for ancient swords. For most of its fans, yours truly included, Highlander remains little more than a pleasant and vivid childhood favorite, as the premise and especially the light and laser show effects aged severely. It still is a lot of fun to watch, partly because of the charming and cheesy 80's ambiance, but I sincerely doubt it will impress or even attract younger generations of action/adventure fans. The violent bits are still cool (lots of decapitations as they are the only method to eliminate an immortal warrior) and the mighty Queen soundtrack (featuring hits like A Kind of Magic, Hammer to Fall and of course Who Wants to Live Forever) emphasize all the more that this is a genuine product of the glorious 80's. "},{"Title":"Terminator in kilts","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A wonderful, over-earnest time-travelling adventure romp featuring a super soundtrack from Queen. Highlander arrived at just the right time, as people re-discovered the romance and mystery of myth where Terminator had drained the sci-fi arena dry, Highlander looked to take a different tack with the dramatic possibilities of immortality.Christopher Lambert's McLeod is a super screen presence, physical, heroic and serious. He's a match for the pungent presence of Sean Connery who is less committed to creating something new or original but still manages to be persuasive. McLeod's romance with his wife Heather (Beatie Edney) that must die with age is particularly affecting. Clancy Brown is a frightening adversary and has never bettered this lustful, belligerent turn as Kruger. A violent but satisfying matinée fantasy. 6/10 "},{"Title":"The Classic That Never Was.","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Highlander is a strange case. I suppose you could say I was let down by this one, since I went in with ridiculously high expectations, and came out with a low-fi, cheddar soaked fantasy/action/sci fi flick with cool swords, but not much else. I think most of the hype dumped on this one isn't from the movie itself, but from the tremendous hype already surrounding it - it goes around in circles.Don't get me wrong, this is a very fun movie, perhaps the very definition of the word, but it just doesn't live up to its contemporaries. It's too cheesy and too low-fi, far beyond the point of the 80s goodness that I love so much and into a realm that becomes almost laughable; yet the whole time it feels like the movie is trying to be regarded as some sort of epic classic, which it certainly isn't. It doesn't hold a candle to Star Wars, Indiana Jones, The Crow, etc etc etc forever, and it never will.But all that aside, this is still enjoyable - just don't expect a forgotten classic, if you love older 80s cheese like this. "},{"Title":"A 80's hit that will please fans of Action and Fantasy !","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This film probably inspired two genres Stylish Action movies with a Music-Video style and Beyond-Bad sequels that follow their counterparts. ( Fans will know what I'm talking about ! )This film is well-acted by the cast ( kudos go to Sean COnnery for stealing the show and for even bothering to star in the atrocious sequel ! ), the visual effects are cool even today and, while it was ranked as a cult hit at the time, it's actually recommended. The music consists of songs, specifically composed for this film, by Queen; the moody atmosphere of the film is put to good use by former music-video director Russell Mulcahy ( who would direct the awful sequel ! ); and the backgrounds/costume display is good at best. It will easily entertain fans of similar Adventure/Fantasy epics like Lord of the Rings, Blade or, even, a Greek-Mythology tale ! Just watch and only wish that there HAD ONLY BEEN ONE ! "},{"Title":"My favorite bad movie","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In fact I even enjoy the much worse Highlander 2!Why do I like Highlander? Certainly not because an ancient warrior turns a punky psycho-killer and mad driver (probably an immortal would calm himself down across the centuries), or because of that wrestling opening sequence, or Sean Connery loosing a sword fight (and his head) to an ugly barbarian.I like Highlander for its vital optimism (Ramirez and McLeod running by the sea), the idea of millennia of accumulated experience (not very developed, of course if interested, you can read The boat of a million years by Poul Anderson), those stylish perspective shifts that work as transitions between ages (Mulcahy playing Ridley? They produced The Hunger together) and some swashbuckling (with back flips like the ones Daryl Hanna's Pris did in Blade Runner). The energetic music does not bother me at all.And, of course, very nice views of the Highlands. Funny that Lambert plays a Scotsman, and Connery instead plays someone called Ramirez (but he could be Scottish too it is clear that he has traveled a lot, even to Japan, which is logical for an immortal to avoid revealing his gift).Summing up, a bad film much more enjoyable than lots of other more pretentious, and supposedly better, films.8 1/2 out of 10 for a quintessential popcorn evening. "}{"Title":"Very good movie, I have almost worn out the tape!","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a well made movie, movies rarely make me chuckle, but this one had a few funny parts in it, Connor when hes learning he's a Highlander and is immortal, Ramirez as his coach/teacher steadily laughing at him, and the Kurgan when he comes to modern-day civilized New York, but then again, I have always been a big fan of Clancy Brown (see Pet Sematary 2, he's hilarious). A must see, even if only once (There can be only one! LOL). I did find Brenda J. Wyatt somewhat annoying, like a nosy neighbor who has to know everything, but seeing the 3 male leads (Christopher Lambert, Sean Connery, and Clancy Brown), in the movie doing a bit of comedy, more than made up for it! It has it's sad moments too though, and to top it off, the sad parts are sound-tracked with Queen's Who Wants To Live Forever, which never fails to make me all teary. I definitely recommend this film to anyone over the age of 13!! "},{"Title":"It's a kind of Magic","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Dear Readers,From the dawn of time we came; moving silently down through the centuries, living many secret lives, struggling to reach the time of the Gathering; when the few who remain will battle to the last. No one has ever known we were among you... until now...Probably one of the most popular Cult Classics is Highlander. With three okay sequels and a killer awesome TV Series, Highlander has cemented itself as a successful series with a large fan-base. Christopher Lambert is interestingly cast as Connor, his french accent has a tendency to overlap his Scottish. Sean Connery is at his best as Ramirez, a philosophical swordsman who's both dapper and charming. Clancy Brown is rather 2-dimensional as The Kurgan but he has some killer (Literally) fight scenes.Connor Macleod is different from other people. He's immortal. He's battled through the centuries his fellow immortals and mortals until he arrives at the Gathering and will win the 'Prize'. Pursuing him throughout the years is the brutal Kurgan, a ruthless monster Immortal seeking to rule the world. Teaching Connor is the charming and charismatic Juan Sanchez Villa Lobos Ramirez, who is soon killed by the Kurgan. Now it is 1989 and the Gathering has arrived. Two Contestants will fight, but there will Be only one victor.Highlander, despite its crazy premise, is a good action thriller. The Fight scenes and Special Effects are a little cheesy considering this is a low-budget movie but they do a good job. The Actors all are quite good, especially Sean Connery. Queen's score is nice while the direction is interesting. All in all, Highlander is an interesting movie that you should check out.Signed, The Constant DVD Collector "},{"Title":"With so much going against it, it shouldn't work, but it does","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie on opening night twenty years ago and I loved it. I am a science fiction aficionado, a true romantic and a descendant of the Scots. So I was a sucker for this film when I went in to it.The movie has something that few genre films had then or today creativity. It offered a truly unique mythos that captured my attention. When it was over, it made one thing clear there can be only one. I wish Davis and Panzer had another way of making money, so they could have left this movie to stand alone - anything left bastardized the very premise for the movie.It has more than enough to go against it the acting of several characters, Chris Lambert;s accent, the inconsistency of the special effects, the direction.Yet, I loved the movie. Sean Connery stole the show, Clanchy Brown was one of the great heavies, the sound track featured the work of Michael Kamen, and the cuts from Queen were well placed.There is much to be said for Adrian Paul's kinsman to Connor McLeod, but the only way I can justify it is to say it is from an alternate reality -- because there can be only one, "},{"Title":"Queen rocks!!!","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Mostly I love the soundtrack to this movie, though the general idea is great and the story is fun too. Really the villain is quite wonderful, especially when he runs over all those people with his car while going on a joyride! The survival nut also has a classic line I gotta PROTECT myself! This movie is totally cheesy, but AWESOME, if you are into fantasy adventure and stuff like that. I just watched the 10th anniversary director's cut and I'm not sure how much the extra footage really adds to the story. At times it feels like a made-for-TV movie. But back to the villain. The Kurgan is the BEST. He is totally fun and full of life, evil, etc. He will make you shiver as he taunts the nuns in the church. It is TRULY a shame that they made any sequels to this movie. I HAVE NOT WATCHED ANY OF THEM SEQUELS and probably neither should you. Again, back to the villain the skull helmet he wears in the first fight scene is incredible looking. How'd they get the horse to kick like that? The establishing shot at sunset before MacCleod's death scene, set to bagpipe music, though a quick little snippet, is also quite good shot, and beautiful. Lots of little subtle things in this film to enjoy, despite the fact that it's basically just a low-brow entertainment fantasy flick. The opening wrestling sequence with the crane shot is particularly intense. Also nice to show the wrestlers, a great counterpoint to the quest of the immortals, the humans jabbering away like monkeys, wearing confederate flags, bashing each other with their drunken fists, etc. While in the background, unbeknownst to all the ignorant apes (us humans), the true struggle goes on... "},{"Title":"Marvellous!","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There can only be one......the Highlander. Well what to say about it? Action and Fantasy fans, there is your movie. This one is full of action besides the plot is good. The Scottish Highlands 1536The warrior Connor Macleod fights the Babarian Kurgan and gets hit deadly. But somehow he survived the attack. The people of his village drive him off because they think he has evil powers. Macleod now walks his own way. He falls in love with Heather and finds a mentor (Ramirez) who tells him, that he is a special warrior(He's called Highlander)which can only be killed by getting his head knocked off by a sword. Macleod is not the only immortal warrior, there are many others. Kurgan is one of them. Centurys later in New York City the Highlander prepares himself for his final fight against Kurgan. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Highlander sees Connor Macleod (Christopher Lambert) as a 450 year old immortal from the highlands of Scotland. Immortals from all over the world must meet and fight, the only way to kill them is to decapitate them, and the losers power is absorbed by the winner. The movie opens with Connor meeting another immortal at the Underground Car lot at Madison Square Garden in 1986 New York and they duel to the death. Later we get backstory on Macleods origins, he was a Scottish clansman who was mortally wounded on the field of battle in Glenn Finnin in 1536, when he doesn't die, his fellow clansman believe he has made a deal with the devil and banish him from their village. Outcast, confused and alone, Connor meets Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez (Sean Connery in a cameo role) who is also an immortal. He teaches Connor the rules of the game. That immortals must fight each other until the time of the gathering, when the last few will be drawn to a far away land where they will all fight to the death....in the end, there can be only one. The last immortal will win the prize, enough power to rule the world.After Ramirez teaches Connor the art of swordplay, he is brutally murdered by an evil immortal known as The Kurgan who will stop at nothing to win the prize, killing everyone that gets in his way.Back in 1986 New York we learn that the time of the Gathering is upon Macleod and his old enemy The Kurgan is in New York to take his head and claim the prize.The acting in this movie is very believable, Lambert gives a convincing performance as the ancient hero, full of broody sorrow as he has lived for centuries and watched all his friends and loved ones die around him. Clancy Brown is a tower of menace and terror as the maniacal Kurgan (he is my second favorite bad guy, after a certain Sith Lord).The direction and camera work are first class, and the use of flashbacks is utilised excellently, making the film flow seamlessly plot-wise. Add to this an amazing movie soundtrack by the excellent Queen and you have a great movie. The movies theme song Who wants to live forever is very moving.A great film, an action emotional drama that will live forever. "},{"Title":"Spotted a mistake","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" OK, I dug out my free DVD of this for a more in depth review.Conner is born in 1518, He dies in 1536, his 1st meeting with The Kurgan.During the battle Kurgan had ample time to cut off Conners head but he waited. Mind you, if he hadn't it would have been a real short movie.I'm a bit annoyed that Conner doesn't get read Miranda when the cops arrest him outside Maddison Square Gardens.I spotted that Kurgan's sword is constructed of several segments, the way it was made would make it break very easily. It later goes on to cut through thick metal poles with no problem - Nice Goof!Conner meets Ramirez in 1541, I still don't get why neither tried to kill the other if There can be only one?Ramirez says he was born 2437 years ago. His sword was made in 593 BC.I never got why the female cop bothered with the tape recorder in the box, it would have picked up nothing in the room - Another Nice Goof!Why didn't the Kurgan steal the Vigilante's empty car? Plus he cut the roof off the car he stole but when he's next seen in that car it suddenly has a roof again - Another Nice Goof!Big continuity boob when they are fighting on the roof top. One minute they are up to their waists in water (which came from a collapsed water tower) then they break a skylight and fall to the floor of the warehouse below.And zero water falls as they are falling to the ground of the warehouse. Surely there would a torrent flowing from the hole, pouring to the ground of the warehouse. Really Huge Goof!I also spotted Kurgans safety cable as he fell. How did the female cop get to the warehouse floor? She never fell with them and was trapped on the ledge, if she'd gone in the water she'd be electrocuted.During The Quickening you can see Conner's support cable holding him. I also wondered why neither him or the female cop were cut by the millions of shards of razor sharp flying glass from the windows? So if there can be only one, why bother with a sequel? That is truly a good question. "},{"Title":"Lots to like","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There are films you like because they're crap (Beastmaster) and then there are films like Highlander that you like despite the fact that they are crap.Anybody who thinks this is high-class film making needs their bumps felt.BUT, it is so enjoyable and one of my all-time favourite films and I *love* it. When I bought it on VHS, I played it every night for about a month.Yes, there are problems with the plot and dialogue, and the character of the Kurgen (villain or comedian?), but it is a roller-coaster ride.Something to lose yourself in. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The sets in Scotland are bright and realistic. New York seemed drab and dreary, but again it adds to the whole story.The whole movie was well thought out and for the time it was made the effects were superb.The only downside to the movie was that the plot did not leave it open for Highlander 2, and further. The witness to the fight in the alleyway was not really realistic, as he had been run through with a broadsword and lived to tell the tale. The 'German' era was not really relevant to the story and could have been left out, having said that it did explain that Connor/Russell had lived a multitude of lives before the 'Gathering'.The accents for the 'Scottish' era are very authentic.Well worth watching. One to watch again and again. "},{"Title":"A little overrated, but still a great entertaining film, with some great sword fights and fun performances all around!","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a little overrated, but still a great entertaining film, with some great sword fight scenes and fun performances all around!. All the characters are pretty cool, and the story is good as well, plus Christopher Lambert and Sean Connery are simply amazing in this!. This is most definitely Lambert's best role in my opinion, and him and Connery had fantastic chemistry together, plus Clancy Brown is wonderfully OTT as the main villain!. I actually enjoyed the flashbacks scenes more as they were more exciting and interesting then the ones set in current times, and the special effects were actually not too bad, plus it had some cool emotional moments as well. The ending was cool, and Lambert's pattened laugh was fun as usual, plus it's very well made and written as well. The set pieces were especially good, and the main sword fight between Lambert and Brown was just awesome, plus Roxanne Hart(Brenda) and Beatie Edney(Heather) were both great as the love interests!. This is a little overrated, but still a great entertaining film, with some great sword fights and fun performances all around, I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. Russell Mulcahy does a great! job here, with great camera work, wicked angles, awesome scenery cool set pieces, and plenty of other awesome shots as well, plus he kept the film at a fast pace for the most part. The Acting is top notch!. Christopher Lambert is amazing as always and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, very charismatic, had fantastic chemistry with Connery, had his awesome pattened laugh, and was full of vulnerability, this will be a performance that will be remembered for years to come! (Lambert Rules!!!!!). Sean Connery is also amazing here, he had his usual wit and charm, had a great sense of humor, and seemed to be having a ball, the scenes with him and Lambert were great! (Connery Rules!!!!). Clancy Brown is excellent as the main villain, he was wonderfully OTT, funny, very menacing, and made a great opponent for Lambert!. Roxanne Hart is rather cute, and did very well with what she had to do as the current love interest I liked her, her chemistry with Lambert was decent as well. Beatie Edney is beautiful and did well as Connor's wife I really liked her. Shelia Gish is good as Rachel. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "}{"Title":"Magic.  There can only be one.","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Quite simply the most astounding cinematic experience that I have ever seen. Or to be more precise, the most astounding cinematic experience I had ever seen when I sat down to watch it sometime in 1986, but right now I can think of nothing better.I can still remember the original trailer. Even that was unique. Instead of random scenes compressing all the highlights from the entire film into two minutes, it was brave enough to just concentrate on the very first fight, and then elegantly leave the car park for the highlands. That's what a trailer should be. A taster, not a best-of. How often do films have enough depth to allow this? Never? From the opening camera pan, through every single switch between eras, there is constant invention in the photography. Again, I don't think it has ever been repeated. And there is beauty in it too - from lingering over landscapes and love scenes to swirling scenes around swordfights. The way that locations change is amazing. OK, the camera angles are not always from the natural viewpoint, but how else is the watcher meant to to be transported 400 years in 5 seconds? To match the camera work, the soundtrack needed to be epic and showy - so what could be more appropriate than the most epic and showy band of their generation? But in addition to the thumping rock moments, they show their tender moments too. It's tough to live forever when those you love must die...There is some depth, and a very simple basic plot, but really everything about this film is over the top. The cinematography and the soundtrack certainly are, as described above, so it is perfectly understandable that the acting should be too. This is not based on a true story! There is no place for over-acting in sentimental dramas and gangster flicks, but here it all just fits.All the sequels were rubbish. But this movie was unique. If you watch this film, you could see it as a difficult metaphor for some quasi-buddhist quest for escape from a cycle of constant rebirth to aim for nirvana. But you won't. However, you will experience a unique blend of sound and pictures that come together to make what may well be the perfect movie. "},{"Title":"A modern classic","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Like many, I grew up with Highlander. Not to have seen it is almost unthinkable to someone in my generation. Man, do I sound old right now. After all, this flick is almost 20 years old. Okay, granted, I did not see it at the movies, since I was a teensy bit too young at the time. See, so I am not *that* old. But there was the video release and the DVD and the television series and... so, like I said, I grew up with it, so please be lenient if I am a bit biased.The movie is groundbreaking in a few ways. First of all, there is the score. This is actually the first film as far as I remember that makes such strong use of music. It is almost like watching a video clip. Which is not too surprising, given that the director started with exactly that, if I recall correctly... There are some nice special effects, although these appear a bit outdated today, of course. And last but not least it was a kind of jump start for Lambert and Brown. Although I must say that in my opinion the actors' performance is not what makes this film worthwhile... *ahem*. Especially Lambert did mostly B-movies afterwards; of course, in some aspects, even Highlander could qualify as one...A special case is Sean Connery. Already a big name at the time, his manner makes quite clear that he did not have to do this, but did anyway because it was fun. So he is the least serious of all characters, and somehow the most interesting. Of course he is not the hero in the film, but he easily steals Lambert the show.I suggest watching this movie as you would take a roller-coaster ride don't stop, don't watch too closely, just enjoy the ride. That way, it simply cannot go wrong. The movie might not be what can be called art, but it *is* very entertaining.Just one point left to mention this movie most certainly does not have any sequels. At least not any worth watching or even worth mentioning. There are movies that should not have to have suffered from catastrophic sequel-making. And this is a prime example. "},{"Title":"The greatest love story?","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Fantastic tale of timeless love. A story of one mans eternal quest for love but at the same time knowing he can never love through his burden of being immortal. With a great cast (even if people keep going on about accents!) and a brilliant job done by Clancy 'Kurgen' Brown and Christopher 'McLeod ' Lambert. A true shame the sequels never came close to the original and through these sequels and numerous TV shows, the original has been overlooked and thrown to one side. Great score by Michael Kamen and Queen, launching 'Who wants to live forever' s haunting tune. The idea of immortals fighting down through the centuries, living in secret is full of references to ancient scripts and beliefs. Well laid out, the story truly begins in 16th century Scotland in which during a clan skirmish the mysterious and deadly Kurgen slays Connor McLeod. McLeaod 'by the power of the devil' raises from the dead and is exiled from this home and is forced to wonder the world and time ever since. The end is set in 1986 in New York, the last two immortals face each other again for the last time, the winner holds the fate of humanity in their hands, who will win, Conner McLeod 'The Highlander' or The Kurgen? "},{"Title":"Fantastic  Lambert action","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This has to be one of my all time favourite films and certainly ranks as one of Christopher Lamberts finest performances. Mulachy skillfully directs the film and cleverly interweaves the various periods in Connor's history with the present day, the scene where the viewer is taken from modern day Madison Square Garden to the Highlands of Scotland is a prime example of this. The action is well paced and fluent and guides the viewer through Connor Macleods journey, gently building the tension as the movie moves towards the climactic battle at the end where Macleod finally wins the prize. This film has all the elements of a great movie, and perhaps it is because of this that the subsequent sequels, in my opinion, never manage to actually live up to the original. Whereas the other highlander films tend to explain some of the mystery of the immortals, it is the fact that the mystery is left as mystery in this film that makes it so enchanting . "},{"Title":"An '80s classic","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In Highlander, it's human nature to fear what we don't understand, so this is what leads to Connor MacLeod (Christopher Lambert) being banished from his village in the Scottish Highlands. Highlander is a classic '80s fantasy adventure movie, almost essential for fans of the genre, and almost certainly one of the best of its kind.There is a kind of magic going on here too. A box office disappointment in 1986, Highlander was directed by music video veteran Russell Mulcahy and the film has experienced a remarkable afterlife on home video, from three misshapen sequels and a syndicated television series. But they've all proved one thing that the immortal saying There can be only one is true - the original 1986 Highlander film is the only one to watch.Highlander is equal parts foreground and back story, alternately set in present-day New York City and 16th-century Scotland, and tells of the epic battle that's been waged for centuries by a group of immortal swordsmen. As they travel through the ages, they adapt to the changing times in order to battle one another as they await the Gathering for the moment until only one is left, and he will collect the mystic Prize.Would you like to live forever? That's the question posed to Connor MacLeod, who suffers a mortal injury on the battlefield and dies and comes back but is branded an outcast after being accused of witchcraft. Forever banished from his Scottish Highland home, he begins a new life with his true love, not realizing the history he shares with a few select individuals in this world.MacLeod is approached one day by Ramirez (Sean Connery), a fellow immortal who shows him the way of the swordsman. He learns sword-fighting so he can battle other immortals. The catch to living forever is that immortals can only die by one another's hand, specifically by decapitation, and when one falls, the victor gains all of his knowledge and strength. As well, immortality makes romance impossible but Connor falls in love anyway, with tragic consequences.So, again, would one like to live forever? You'd watch your loved ones grow old and die before you while you're remaining forever young. And you'd have to constantly look over your shoulders as someone might try to take your head. In present-day New York, Connor romances pretty police officer Brenda Wyatt (Roxanne Hart), and of course Connor is not without his enemies, and that one is a brutish beast of a man known only as The Kurgan (Clancy Brown, deliciously savage and over-the-top), who is the most powerful and fearsome of all immortals.It's true that Christopher Lambert is no great actor, but here he displays the absolute characteristics of a man who has traveled through time, experienced its painful agony, and realized the truth that eternal life is not all it's cracked up to be; in all essence, it's Lambert's career performance and he hits every right note. There aren't too many other great performances in this movie, except for Sean Connery in his brief role but Clancy Brown steals the show as the ruthless Kurgan, as he definitely makes for one of the best screen villains.There are also plenty of well-staged, violent, and epic sword battles spliced in with the plot. It's a bit refreshing to see actual stunt work as opposed to the cut-and-paste editing that dominates sword battles today. The actors are clumsy and grunt and stumble around as we can clearly see that they all possess weight and dimension in their action scenes.Do you want to live forever? Highlander will live forever (though the soundtrack by Queen may not, which is really the only thing that dates the picture), as definitely one of the great screen fantasy adventures. Immortality has its rewards but as we learn here, it's also not without its pitfalls.8/10 "},{"Title":"Strangely drawing..","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm not quite sure what draws you to a film like this, sure Christopher Lamberts accent is weird and Sean Connery as a Spaniard is strange, but it sucks you in anyway.I have rated this movie highly because its storyline is unmatched- immortals battling through the ages to eventually meet at the 'Gathering' where one will win the 'Prize'. C.L may not be highly acclaimed actor such as S.C but he puts an interesting somber twist on the character and hes not too bad on the eyes either ) The music is also one the comment on, as it is solely Queen through out the whole movie, which is my option is one of the better points of the movie. "},{"Title":"What can I say, it was the 1980s.","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I am going to put my conclusions last in this review, and I have only included some basic details about the plot, but like a number of other movies (Terminator being one) it is best watched knowing absolutely nothing about the movie.Action in the 1980s was defined for me and many of my age by 3 movies, Terminator, Aliens and Highlander.These movies manage to fall somewhere between the 1970s gritty action and the over the top 1990s. While Terminator and Aliens use plots from times gone by, Highlander was and in many ways, still is, one of a kind.So maybe it has a bit of a 1980s feel, and too much designer stubble, but for something different, fun and exciting, this is a movie worth seeing.Now for the spoilers. They are not real spoilers, but I really hope others get to watch this movie knowing nothing about the story at all.Christopher Lambert is McLeod, a young Scottish lad who goes out for a wee scrap with some of the local lads. As a result he gets a great big sword shoved through his ribs, but he doesn't die.Sean Connery turns up as Ramirez and explains that actually an immortal, and his destiny is to fight other immortals for the prize (though quite what this is, nobody really knows). Here is a quick irony, this was the first time Sean Connery ever made a film in Scotland, but he plays someone who is Spanish, not Scottish.What we have is a pretty cool idea for a movie. While the basic idea of people with special powers coming together to fight for a prize has been done over and over again in many different forms, this movie actually came before most others and is unique in many ways.This movie explores the joy, agony, humour and despondency of being immortal and so has a certain amount of depth. At the same time it has fun with the subject and never takes itself too seriously (every time something overly dramatic happens it is usually followed by something funny).Because it is a movie that is so different and wraps itself up in the end the sequels were a complete waste of time. As for the TV series, I have never seen it so I can't comment but from what I read it took the idea further and explored it in much more depth. "},{"Title":"A minor fantasy classic-original and despite much violence quite moving too","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Although it spawned three sequels and a TV series,Highlander was slated by the critics when it first came out. Well,yet again,they were wrong. Critics are always criticising movies,especially sword and sorcery movies,of lacking in originality. They failed to notice that Highlander had a clever and original premise,and that alongside the usual things you might expect to find in a film of this kind such as swords,battles,duels,etc. there is a also a great deal of heart.Initially the film is a little confusing,as it flashes back and forth in time from modern New York to medieval Scotland,but director Russell Mulcahy shows great skill in showing us two stories at the same time. Yes,he is overly fond of quick editing,but some of the transitions from past to present and vice versa are cleverly done,such as a glass of wine in the present that becomes a lake in the past. Mulcahy was never a great director,but here he really manages to harness technical virtuosity to serve his story.Highlander features several sword battles which ,if a bit slow by the standards of today's films,are made exciting by wonderfully over the top touches,such as a castle which is literally smashed to bits beneath two combatants. However,what dominates Highlander is not so much the action as a feel of melancholy,as our hero finds immortality more of a curse than a gift. There is one sequence,a montage involving the hero Connor Macloed spending his life with a woman,only for her to die of old age. Set to Queen's song Who Wants To live Forever,it should be corny but it isn't-it's genuinely moving. It's scenes like this that stick in the memory more than the action,and help make Highlander the minor classic that it really is.There are a few sequences which don't work or seem out of place,such as a vein of sadistic humour climaxing in a destructive car chase involving the villain,which seems to have been included just to extend the running time. The pace does drag a little in the final third. Christopher Lambert was never much of an actor,he's OK here,his weirdness does kind of suit his role. Sean Connery,as a kind of Ben Kenobi variant,steals all the scenes he's in. Nevertheless, with an excellent score by Michael Kamen and songs by Queen which really suit the film,Highlander is an inventive,sometimes exciting and really often quite moving film. Why is it critics,for all their knowledge,sometimes totally fail to GET certain movies? "},{"Title":"Cult Classic","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Whata great film. You have a Christopher Lambert as a Scotsman and Sean Connery as a Spaniard. That in itself explains only part of the movie.Whoever thought this up was onto a good thing. Great acting, great story, great scenery and terrible accents.But what a story it was of Mr. McLeod. Now my youngest son is named Conor (one n) but that is besides the point. The Highlands are a place dreams come true (not IOWA by the way).The Madison Square Garden bit at the start was exceptionally well done as I think was the opening statement. How many real die hard fans of this movie have forgotten the initial words from the dawn of time they came? My favourite bit is when he is cradling his wife as she is dying in the Highlands and she asks for a candle to be lit on her birthday each year. Yes, soppy I know, but I liked it. "},{"Title":"Good fun, a classic","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" 23% of voters gave Highlander 8 out of 10, the highest percentage of votes given for the movie,and I think that is about right. The original Highlander (before all the crap which followed) was a great popcorn flick with a fun story and a good bad guy. And the Queen soundtrack didn't hurt either.  ) I have seen it a few times over the years and quite enjoyed it each time. Almost certainly the peak of Lambert's career (ok, not exactly Mount Everest here but he was good in it) it helps if you have only seen this one and haven't been tainted by the truly hideous Highlander 2. (shudder) After I finish typing this I am gonna see if Highlander 2 is on the worst 100 list... if not, go there now and cast a vote of 1! "}{"Title":"It's a kind of magic","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Here we have a rare occurence.  You take a college student's script, and adapt it into a low-budget film which flops in U.S. theaters.  Then, you sulk in disappointment as it becomes a huge hit everywhere else.  And finally, over time, you watch in amazement as that film - HIGHLANDER - becomes a cult phenomenon.That's what happened here.  HIGHLANDER is an awesome film, and one of my favorites.  It's also one of the most important films of the 1980's, spawning numerous sequels and spin-offs, namely HIGHLANDER THE SERIES.The film tells the dramatic tale of Connor MacLeod (Christopher Lambert), a Scottish warrior who survives a fatal wound in 1536 A.D.  Shortly thereafter, he learns that he is one of a race of immortals who can only die when their head is severed, and that these immortals must battle through the ages until the time of The Gathering in 1985, when the final immortal shall have The Prize.  Sean Connery is funny as MacLeod's lighthearted mentor; Clancy Brown is great as the evil Kurgan; and Roxanne Hart, is, uh, MacLeod's lover.HIGHLANDER is terrific.  Not only is it immensely entertaining, it also has an awesome rock soundtrack by Queen (including Who Wants to Live Forever and Princes of the Universe) and a beautiful score by Michael Kamen. Rock director Russell Mulcahy's direction isn't great, but it's not bad either.If you do decide to watch the film, please watch the European version. You can find it on DVD as the Immortal Edition or on VHS as the Director's Cut.  This is a fair-sized improvement over the U.S. version of the film.But hey - if you haven't seen it, rent it NOW!There can be only one! "},{"Title":"TV Series It Aint","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After seeing a fair amount of the Highlander tv series and then the first Highlander movie I have to say there is a definite difference between the two, as the movie leans much more towards action and special effects and less on plot and story.  However, no matter their respective emphasises both work well.Sean Connery is given a big billing for this film (probably to try to attract an audience) but in reality he is in it for about 20 minutes of the two hours that the film runs which is definitely a shame.  Christopher Lambert was really chilling and brooding throughout the film, almost as if he was the antihero.  However, of all the characters I would have to say Clancy Brown as Krugg was the best one.  He overplayed his sadistic immortal villian character to the point where one could get a good laugh at his actions will still hating him.Finally, I want to touch on the special effects and sword fights.  In this movie they are much longer and drawn out than in the tv series.  The main sword fights are easily 5 minutes each and the special effects looked awesome if not downright expensive (blowing up a dozen cars for a Quickening).  Also, I do have to say that the Queen soundtrack was a bit annoying except for the Highlander famous title track, otherwise their stuff could have been done without for the film.  "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever Made And This Is Why","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lets put aside the plot holes, time traveling goofs and other such nonsense. This is simply the best movie ever made because of .. and all those who have never truly loved and lost may now leave the room... the McCloud / Heather death scene is truly the most touching piece of work ever produced. Apart from that the director gives you breathtaking action, a baddy who's not a terrorist, huge stars making the best of themselves, subtle and pleasant sub-plots, a truly amazing screenplay and time weaved into a tapestry. If that's not enough the best ending to a film EVER and the sound track's by Queen.Totally amazing, brilliant, awe inspiring, mona lisa scene cutting, life changing epic.We are not worthy, here's anticipating the Peter Jackson remake.Watch it, live it, you're life will never be the same.Simply the best movie ever made "},{"Title":"There can only be one, but they made 3 rubbish sequels!","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander is a classic fantasy action movie. Deservedly this has become a cult classic, and very popular. How else can you explain a big box office flop spawning 3 more flop sequels? The first Highlander film should have been a film of its own. It ended nicely with no need to continue and everything nicely resolved but somehow somebody came up with the ludicrous idea for Highlander 2. I prefer to ignore the sequels though and view the first as its own film, starting a story and ending it. What makes this film good is that it has such a great premise, immortals battling each other down the ages until one remains, gaining `the prize' which is a mortal life, and to be all knowing. The script is good, the characters likeable, and the film has some touching moments. Conner Macleod is a character with depth and the film gives a good example of the downsides to being immortal in a mortal world. Conner is a haunted character, haunted by memories of being an outsider, losing loved ones, and living lifetimes alone. This film really also has another tragic feeling about it. The wasted talent of Russell Mulcahey. He is a great visualist and this film looks fantastic. The camerawork is imaginative with great crane shots and wire cam shots, and the scene transitions are fantastic. Mulcahey has not done anything above the average since. His films have looked great but the scripts have been sadly lacking. Highlanders script has a good story, with touching love stories in it and gives the director ample opportunity to show his stuff.The cast are good. Christophe Lambert is good as Macleod. He does sport a rather dodgy Scottish accent but his performance really captures the tortured nature of the character. I feel sad this film is dismissed as dumb fun, simply because it is a fantasy film. This film has depth to it in other ways. It's philosophical and is a metaphor for what makes human life the way it is. It shows how unnatural it is for someone to live forever, whereas life is a cycle, your born, you die and this goes on and on, as people are dying, others are starting in life, we are linked together by offspring. Having children, being remembered is the key to real immortality. Conner Macleod can't have children and he can't be remembered, so much so he pines for a mortal life, knowing he'll die. As for the rest, well Sean Connery is superb as Ramirez. He swaggers in, in his fantastic costume and his presence is felt. Roxanne Hart is also good as Brenda. It is Clancy Brown who steals the show though as the bad guy Kurgan. He is very into his role and it shows. According to the Director and writer, he was a very scary person to be around while Highlander was filming.As I said before the film looks great. The budget is not that high but is has a sense of high production values. The cinematography is fantastic, it really makes the film interesting on the eye. Also all the sets, locations, costumes, through the different time periods. The action is exciting and this has some great swordfights. Notably the opening parking lot swordfight and the final showdown. The music of the film is also important. The score from Michael Kamen is good, and the recurring little theme in the film is memorable. The soundtrack however is pure excellence, and it helps to make the scene in some parts. Had this film got more notice and didn't flop, I believe Queen would have received an Oscar nomination for the soundtrack. I love the bar scene where Conner and Brenda meet, to the tune of `One Year of Love' by Queen, and the death of Macleod's first wife Heather to the classic tune of `Who Wants to Live Forever.' It's touching. Mulcahey's experience in music videos also helps. He gets the best out of the songs but also manages not to make them seem too music videoish.I personally love the film. It has some depth. The flashbacks might break up the flow in some peoples opinions but what makes them very effective on the most part is how imaginatively and effortlessly the film slips between the present and past, the transitions, including through a fish tank and through one of Conner's eyes are fantastic. **** "},{"Title":"Kurgan a.k.a Mr Krabs","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The only performance which kept me from completely forgetting this piece of trash is Clancy Brown as the Kurgan. I still cannot watch Spongebob, when Mr. Krabs is featured, without breaking out in an evil little grin. Who can forget the Kurgan meeting up with the Scot Frog in church, lewdly displaying his tongue to some elderly seated nuns in an adjoining pew, and muttering Happy Halloween, ladies.... Then there is the pedestrian bowling scene, as the Kurgan nonchalantly mows down Manhattan pedestrians while booming along in a big convertible, yelling 'Scuse me.....'Scuse me!!! Remember the call girl? Hi....I'm Candi... His response Mmmmmm.....of course you are. Brilliantly performed black humor. I was nearly thrown out of the theater from my uncontrollable, hysterical laughter as the immortal Duncan MacLeod is shown sitting by the Loch, and his ninety year old wife is struggling up the hill with a load of laundry. See this movie for Clancy Brown. Otherwise, it's a real bomb.  "},{"Title":"The first of it's kind?","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  An excellent idea, for the most part well executed.  The casting is good and for some strange reason I didn't find myself too concerned with Sean Connery being an Egyptian/Spaniard with a Scottish accent nor Christopher Lambert as a Scot with a barely concealed French accent.  The Screenplay could have been better, and the handling is at times crude.  Nevertheless, you are drawn on to watch it through, the basis of the story alone carrying you forward. It seems a shame in retrospect that it was done as one story with sequels as it would have made a great trilogy, moving in chronological order from beginning to end.  But then, it's so difficult to know in advance which films will be classics of their type.  Personally, I think this one is.  In many ways it is the first of a kind and movies such as Jet Lee's The One are further elaborations on the concept. "},{"Title":"* * * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Christopher Lambert stars as Connor McCleod an Immortal who can only be killed by being beheaded, he competes with other immortals for the unknown prize that the last immortal will win, Enter The Kurgan (Clancy Brown) who is the strongest of all the immortals in this creative  and stylish fantasy.  Highlander features excellent performances from Sean Connery and Christopher Lambert (An okay actor at one time) as well as some eye catching swordfights. Overall this cult classic is definitely worth watching once. "},{"Title":"One of the top high concept movies.","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  `Immortals battle through time for the prize and there can be only one!' It is not often that a movie can be encapsulated in a few words and assault the imagination as much as the original Highlander. I am sure that a lot of professionals out there wished that they were the one who pitched this. It is small wonder that it became a cult classic and gave rise to numerous sequels and TV series. Unfortunately, as is the case for most cult classics, the rest do not do justice to the original. The first will justifiably outlive the rest and hopefully Highlander Endgame truly is the end.There are a lot of elements that worked to give this movie its success. The first I wish to discuss is the absolutely mind &#150; blowing soundtrack. To any fan of Queen the transition to composing music for a movie would seem to be natural. Their music is powerful and larger than life. This is explicit in the bands name and who other than the regal pop group should write music for the &#145;Princes of the universe'. This opening number suitably sets the scene &#150; the booming drums and Freddie's operatic voice emphasise the powerful themes. A song suited to the world's strongest beings. It also creates a grand opening which is essential to Hollywood movies. Queen have written songs to accentuate the flow of the story and this is evident with the number &#145;Who wants to live forever'. It clearly indicates Mclouds traumatic experience of seeing his wife dies as he lives on &#150; ever young. The song rises to a crescendo as the moment of passing arises and then slowly drifts away as Mcloud lays her to rest, much like the characters emotions would be. It communicates its message very well to the audience. Also of note is the song is &#145;It's a kind of magic', which plays as the credits role. This is an energetic, fun number which should tie in with the audiences' experience of the movie as they have just seen a high octane movie with a satisfying conclusion for its hero. An interesting fact here is that Queen released the album featuring the soundtrack numbers as a fully fledged Queen album. They were without doubt a truly professional group which had a strong sense of purpose. Without their contribution, I believe that Highlander would have been hard pressed to achieve the cult status that it did.The next element is the members of the cast. Christopher Lambert is perfectly suited to the role of Mcloud and this goes further than just having the natural accent as an advantage. His eyes give a sense of mystique and strength which seem to have a piercing mobility. He was able to indicate the Highlanders torment of lost love over time and blend this with the comedic elements which were obligatory for movies of the 80's. Sean Connery was good as the master tutor come to guide Mcloud so as to ensure that the Kurgan cannot win the prize. Although his role involved large smatterings of comic relief, he kept it serious enough so as keep the flow of the story. This was the Achilles heel of many an 80's movie where action movies became wholly comedic and thus very weak. For me the defining actor is Clancy Brown. His opening scene is ominous and his power is ever present throughout the movie. The tune - up on his voice dehumanised him and made him seem devoid of all good. Although he became over the top towards the end, this reflected the Kurgans all consuming hunger for power at all costs and how it unsettled his mind. Unfortunately it also meant that the Kurgan was less of a threat to Mcloud as he had lost his self control. This, however, did not diminish the final scene too much as we were treated to an eye candy swordfight worthy of two warriors battling for the prize.The direction was first class. The opening scene where we view the wrestlers from a swirling helicopter and then zero in on the main protagonist seemingly in isolation amongst thousands served to put us into the world of the Highlander - the unorthodox camera angles mirrored the extraordinary story that was going to be told. The opening swordfight was well orchestrated and would probably make John Woo jealous. The sparks flying from the clash of swords, although greatly exaggerated, gave a visual expression of the power the immortals possess. The Quickening within the parking lot was breathtaking. Imagine destroying cars in Madison Square Gardens parking arcade &#150; many a people's fantasy. The transitions to the past were smooth thus serving to enhance the story as the Highlanders character is revealed.It is easy to understand why movies such as this are a success. Tales of knights battling against forces of evil to protect the kingdom and help the damsel in distress have been a large part of folklore and Highlander has strong elements of this. The sword is a weapon of honour &#150; man against man, skill against skill. A swordfight is the ultimate test of bravery and these tales have captivated people through the ages. Highlander blends these elements into an original script and at the same time using a fantastic soundtrack and good direction to create one of the most notable movies of the 80's.This was for me one of the most memorable movies from that decade. It could have so easily slipped into mediocrity like the sequels, but the creative combination of sound, script, camera action and some good acting helped make this movie become the inspiration for the many sequels and TV series, and of course provided great entertainment for audiences. Definitely a movie to be enjoyed and remembered.    "},{"Title":"A true classic.","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has it all. Fantasy, sci-fi, drama, action, romance, and even some comedy. Of course, for the full viewing experience, you need to see the director's cut. Compared to movies today, the special effects do seem weak. But the plot is excellent and a true original. It teaches us that immortality may not be as good as we think. Living forever does have its disadvantages. We see people we love die before our eyes while we stayed, as in, we did not grow old and die with them. We live on only to remember those we loved and had to leave behind. The musical score is excellent. The song 'Who Wants to Live Forever' by Queen brilliantly expresses the main concept of the story. The acting is superb. Clancy Brown was excellent as The Kurgan, who in my opinion is one of the best cinema villians of all time. Christopher Lambert played the part of Connor Mcleod very well. I enjoyed the relationship played out between him and his secretary. The scene when they first met is one of my favorites. That one-liner Connor gives before shooting the Nazi makes me laugh every time I see it. I also enjoyed the duel on Boston Common. Except when the servant gets shot in the back of the head. That is kind of disturbing. This is an excellent movie that will be enjoyed for years to come. A true classic. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly entertaining","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This was the first of several Highlander films and spawned a TV show as well. The idea is that there are some special people amongst us although no one knew of their existence - until now. They are immortal - kind of; if they lose their head, they're dead. They must kill each other (via decapitation, of course) so that one can claim the prize. There can be only one is the motto of the immortals and it is repeated throughout the film. I'd barely heard of the film's star, Christopher Lambert, before this. Also starring are Sean Connery and Clancy Brown. The acting is first-rate and the other technical aspects well taken care of. Although there are a fair number of decapitations in the film, there is no real blood or gore. The story has a decent mix of action, adventure and humor. There is excellent cutting back and forth through the centuries of the Highlander's life and his life in Medieval Scotland and modern-day New York. Overall, I give this one a very high rating. "}{"Title":"Great Fantasy Film - First is best!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I hadn't seen this film in a while, so just the other day I decided to bust it out and watch it.  I was happy to realize that I remembered very little about the film, except of course the main story.  Anyhow, even after all these years I still loved the film!The story is quite interesting and does a great job of keeping you interested.  I really liked that they seemed to have all their bases covered as far as story goes.  Every time I was confused about something they would explain it in the next scene or next few scenes.All of the actors do a fine job with their role.  Christopher Lambert does a great job as Connor MacLeod/Russell Nash, he's the perfect actor for the part.  Clancy Brown does an incredible job as Kurgan/Victor Kruger, he really is a scary guy in the film.  Sean Connery does a fine job as well, but he doesn't have a huge role in the film.  His character is very important, but not a lot of screen time.  The rest of the cast does a fine job as well.The music is pretty good, done by Queen.  I like Queen as much as the next guy, but I thought there were a few times where the music didn't fit well with the scene.  A lot of times it was perfect, but there were still a few that didn't sit well with me.The special effects are pretty good too, given the time that it was made.  There isn't anything terribly spectacular, but they work well with the scenes and get the job done.If you know nothing about the Highlander series you should definitely watch the original first.  Not because you won't understand the rest of the series (there are numerous contradictions among them), but because it is the best told of the stories.I truly hope that you like this film as much as I do.  I thought it was a great film.  Thanks for reading, and be sure to read my other Highlander film reviews (hopefully I've written them by the time you read this).-Chris "},{"Title":"Stonking good fun!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I know it's a no-brainer, I realise it's silly, I've noticed you can see the strings when Christopher Lambert is twirling about a bit in the air but there is something about this movie I love.The superb soundtrack by Queen certainly helps, but I think it's the quirky direction that draws me in and captures me. The way Mulcahy takes us from modern day New York through a fish tank and onto a Scottish loch - I've never seen that before. There are other great moments where we are transported from present to past in quite unusual but original fashion. Whacky!Some nice dialogue too, from the detectives Garfield, pick up that head! to the Kurgan's It's better to burn out than to fade away! Forget your troubles, sit back with your pals and a beer, and be entertained. "},{"Title":"Brilliant action/adventure movie with a beautiful story..","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was a rare gem in its time. At a time when Indiana Jones and the Terminator defined what actions movies were all about. When Stallone, Arnold and Mad Max were the average hero.. This movie brought a completely different (and wonderful) side to the genre.The story is that of a set of immortals.. People who dwell among us who cannot be killed by normal means (except by one way.. to behead them.) Like the vampires in most literature, those immortals are basically two sets.. Those who try to go on and those who are possessed by this gift and seek to abuse its use.The hero of the movie is the anti-Arnold/Rambo/MadMax.. He is a sad man.. Not bulging with muscles and he has no clever punch lines. He's a normal man with sad expressions on his face that fit the idea that he is a man who has endured an eternity.. ALONE. This is the overpowering theme of the movie. In a way, it makes you think.. How dreadful would it be if I could live forever.The hero starts out as a Scottish warrior in the 14th/15th century.. He survives what should have been a deadly blow in battle.. Which causes his tribe to cast him out. From then on.. He journeys around the world going from place to place and time to time (and persona to persona) until we see him in our present day life.During his travels he meets with Sean Connery who is another immortal. Sean teaches Lambert a few lessons about life and about his new gift. The scene when Lambert's first wife is dying at a very old age while he is still young (with Queen's song Who wants to live forever in the background) is a very touching one.The sword battles and the scenery (in the ancient times) is just splendid, and the whole movie overall is a great one. "},{"Title":"15 years later, it still stands on it's own as the best Highlander movie, and a great movie period.","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sort of odd, how it's been that long.  I didn't see this movie until sometime in the late 90's.  I can understand why it has longevity. Despite the fact that the story has been reincarnated with sequels,tv shows, and animated tv shows.  The orignal stands out a classic.  Highlander is the vision of Gregory Widen.  This was the only one out of everything else that was made with name Highlander that he was actually apart of.  He was suppose to be apart of Endgame but dropped out back in 99.  It shows as that movie was very lacking in terms of story.  The idea was his, and it is shown quite well through the eyes of Conner Macloed, the melodic immortal who really just wants to be human and do the things that he hasn't been able to do in his 450 year existence.  Christopher Lambert brought this character to life.  No matter what else Lambert does the rest of his career, he will always be known as the original, and i think the best Higlander.  Clancy Brown, what can I say about his performance as the Kuragan.  It was just awsome.  You find yourself enjoying his different levels of being a villain, but in the same breath you want to see him die in the movie.  Sean Connery does a great job as Rameriez, he's only in the movie as the teacher, but he is Sean Connery, so anything he does really is gold. I never had a hard time following the movie, I saw the movie as a 14 year old and it made sense. The director's cut made perfect sense.  I've heard that anchor bay is going to make some form or special cut version of this movie in 2002.  I think that will be a treat.  I can't say enough good things about this movie. It gives you all types of emotions.  Happiness, funny times, sad time, morals, and this sense of adventure.  It deals more with the sorrow of not being able to die unless you are beheaded.  I could go on about this movie, it's a great movie.  It's a classic.  It helped make Christopher Lambert a success all over the world, even though he still isn't that big in the United States, i believe the man is talented, and when given great material like Highlander he can run with the ball and score a touchdown.  Just watch this movie, and just take it as a movie all it's own.  With no sequal, nothing. Just the history of an immortal wander, as he battles a few other immortals still on the earth, as they try to win the prize which will determine how mortals shall live in there existence.  "},{"Title":"The one that started it all","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  highlander is one of the most interesting movie ideas i've seen in a while. this movie is a very good step away from your common new york shoot'em ups. the acting is good, the sword fighting is top notch, the story is cool, and the locations in scotland are filmed wonderfully. a must see for anyone who loves fantasy with a twist. "},{"Title":" One of the best genre movie of the 1980's....gained cult following on video","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  HIGHLANDER, perhaps one of my all time favorite GENRE movies. This film was years ahead of it's time and quite frankly perhaps they should have never done a sequel. The first film stands alone as the best, yet, I suppose the other films have their good points. The first film is like a great fantasy novel put on the big screen. The film mixes some truth about the clans era of scotland with fiction to make a one of a kind movie that has been heavily immitated. The strength of HIGHLANDER is the characters and the story the film tells. It has been equated to some as similar to the IMMORTALS, yet, this movie was different. The USA dometstic release was short, yet the film gained monetary prosperity when it was released by THORN EMI HBO VIDEO in late 1986 early 1987. I would have loved to have seen this on the big screen. Later the film was released in EUROPE and JAPAN with a EXPANDED version including a deleted WW 2 sequence and it turned out to be profitable and garned a huge fan following. The film was originally released by 20th CENTURY FOX,unfortunately the mood of movie viewers in 1986 was toward RAMBO tales and the film was overlooked in some markets. The release being circa april-may 1986 in the USA...this also hindered the box office as it was not peak viewing time. In a year that saw the release of ALIENS and COBRA, this film was overlooked then picked up steam. HIGHLANDER was on the crest of a fairly new wave the home video revolution that saw mom and pop video stoes sprout in small towns and big ones alike (before the rise of BLOCKBUSTER etc.). The financial succes in NORTH AMERICA can be attributed to the video craze in the 1980's and at home viewing. It is evident a marketing strategy was developed around this. I remember the first time I saw this on a new years eve night and was taken a back at it's arthosue cineam noir look how good it was. Some equated it with the flip side of the TERMINATOR, yet I pass at this description. Rest ashure, prior to HIGHLANDER there had never been anything like it on film. It has the pleasure of being the first of it's kind and never skimped on quality. "},{"Title":"In the end there was only one ...Highlander movie","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  They are immortals who are destined to live forever. They must duel down the ages until only one remains. Only decapitation by sword can released them from there age-long battle for an incredible prize-Power beyond imagination.From the Scottish Highlands to modern day New York they war for the prize. If the forces of EVIL win mankind will have to suffer a eternity of darkness. With mortal man's fate in the balance it is left to a lone warrior to save the day. Enter Conor Mcleod from the Clan Mcleod.For in the end there can be only one...........To save yourself disappointment do not under any cumcumstances watch Highlander 2.  It is the worse sequel of all time.  "},{"Title":"Decievingly Great Film","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This contains some very minor spoilers - you have been warned.I was resistant at first to watch this film, it just seemed so cheesy and so 80's. I must admit after watching the first 15 minutes or so I was about ready to pass it off as another typical sci-fi B movie.As it progressed, I got more and more interested in the premise, characters and wanted to cheer on the good guys to win over evil. Notable also, is the wonderful soundtrack performed by Queen.Most of the fight scenes were special effects filled bonanzas, and ironically enough I found the last fight scene to be upremely awesome - just MacLeod and Kurgan in an empty, dimly lit and expansive warehouse duking out - proving that less can be more.If you enjoy science fiction films I can't encourage you enough to see this. You won't be disappointed. I sure wasn't.  "},{"Title":"This IS the one!!!","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highander is in my opinion the best movie ever made by several reasons. 1. Christopher Lambert - he is great as Connor and I can´t see     anyone else perform like him in the role...  2. Queen - the powerful music by Freddy & co is perfect for     this powerful film and A kind of magic is fantastic... 3. Clancy Brown - He sure is mean... Neither Michael Ironside     or Mario van Peebles were half as good as Brown in the     sequels... 4. The story - I just love the story of this movie, it´s unique and I     think that it´s the major reason why I think so good of this     movie.I can go on like this all night but I hope that you all will see this movie someday and perhaps share my opinion of this masterpiece... HighlanderEndgame will not come to the cinemas in Sweden and I think that it is a shame because I just can´t wait to see if Lambert will lose his head or not in the end...  "},{"Title":"In the end....there can be only one.","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander is truly a brilliant movie. Which when made was ahead of it's time. It's looks more like a 90's movie than a 80's movie.Highlander, for me brought Christopher Lambert's acting career into the limelight. He is excellent as the immortal Connor MacLeod. He has such a timeless face and such haunting eyes, maybe he is really immortal!Sean Connery who co-stars in Highlander plays a good immortal  called Ramirez who trains up Connor. Connery is brilliant and acts very well with Lambert, considering Lambert at this stage in his career wasn't very well known compared to Connery.Clancy Brown, who plays the Kurgan Connor's nemesis, acts superb. You can't get much more evil than Brown's role as the Kurgan. Clancy was the perfect choice to play Kurgan.Russel Mulcahy, the director of Highlander got everything right. The actors, storyline and atomsphere of this movie is truly excellent. "}{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander has to be one of the most greatest films i've ever seen. Christopher Lambert (The Highlander)is a brilliant actor. This film has to be my all time favourite, it has some brilliant stunt scenes and it's action packed from start to finish. The sword fighting scenes are very well executed and dramatic.If you haven't seen this film, where have you been! go and buy it now!Jonathan Horner  "},{"Title":"Colourful but flawed","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander features an intriguing premise that is largely defeated by mediocre scripting and an emphasis on flashy, obtrusive visuals. While the film contains several worthwhile moments, it never succeeds in being more than passable adventure fare.Not surprisingly, Highlander is strongest when in the highlands, whether it is the battle between the Frasers and the Macleods or Connor Macleod's tutelage under the redoubtable Ramirez. Macleod's isolation from his people and the burdens inherent in his immortality are successfully conveyed, and the flashback transitions from New York to Scotland are smooth and imaginatively done.The film goes awry, however, when grounded in the present. Apparently, Macleod has collected precious little wit or wisdom in his 400 plus years. His feeble jokes about his adversary cutting off his own head in a fit of depression and his crude remarks to his police tormentors are strange for a supposedly cultured immortal who deals in antiques. Likewise, he inexplicably stalks Brenda Wyatt, drops veiled references about his presen ce at a murder scene, and then chastises her when she follows him. Macleod has no opportunity to flex his intellectual muscles, since the cops pursuing him are merely loud and plodding, and clearly no match for him.The Kurgan is menacing, but only insofar as any New York gutter thug is threatening - certainly not as a grand foe fighting for the ultimate prize. In his time on earth, he apparently never learns the value of social mobility, as he is presented as a glorified street thug who rooms in lowlife establishments.The climactic title fight emphasizes exploding lights, various fireworks and all-encompassing blue light rather than the skill of the combatants. The nature of the prize is disappointing but not surprising, given the variable quality of writing in the film.Lambert is quite adequate as Macleod, hinting at a sly wit he never has an opportunity to articulate. Roxanne Hart adds intensity to a limited role, while Connery has the best lines as Macleod's mentor. Overall, the film is well paced and sporadically exciting, but because of its wavering story and flawed characterizations, doomed to mediocrity. "},{"Title":"Low Lander.","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is the most over rated film I have seen since Pulp Fiction. Both of those titles have this annoying habit of jumping from one scene to another & expect you to keep up. Apart from a very generic & cliché monologue at the start, you have NO idea who the characters are, what's going on, why it is going on, & more to the point.. when! Yes yes yes.. I'm sure the effects are very impressive. But the narrative is a jumbled mess, with no exposition until well into an hour of the film; by which time you really don't care. Characters are dotted about the place, they pop up out of nowhere, & you're expected to relate to these people upon the story's' summons. There's one fleeting scene of WWII? where a young girl is discovered hiding. You are given no indication of when & where it is, except for a rather cliché Nazi who is killed within minutes, & from that you are expected to feel for this girl in 'adult form' years later - with no character development. These flashbacks interrupt & intrude at every chance they get, & they are plentiful! The 2 people in question who naturally fight for good & evil are immortal, except they can be killed if you know how! So .. er.. Kind of immortal then? Sean Connery is also another one of these fleeting characters that appears as quickly as he disappears! The villain has the advantage & is a much better match at every turn, which makes the ending seem even more forced & unbelievable, you have no idea what's going on until the very last scene in the film, & every scene looks & feels as though it has been premeditated with some of the worst lighting in film history. The only reason I gave it 2 stars is because of Queen's outstanding soundtrack. Avoid if you like films to relate to reality. The only people who love this film are those who protect it with nostalgia. It's a total insult to highlanders who fought for real struggles of life. The same struggles we fight for today; Homeland; Family; & identity. "},{"Title":"My all time favorite movie","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When you generally hear a cinema snob or a critic say best movie they usually mean Godfather, Citizen Kane, Casablanca, or Gone With the Wind (all great movies mind you) but when I get asked what's your favorite movie I proudly shout with gusto Highlander! Why? Cause it's one of the most original, innovative, fun action/fantasy movies of all time, if it's not the best then it's certainly up there.Now let me say right off the bat, that this movie isn't perfect, it of course has flaws, but what movie doesn't? Just because this movie isn't the best doesn't mean it isn't my favorite! XD Christopher Lambert did an amazing job in his first English speaking role as Connor Macleoud, the eponymous Highlander. His character is up there with Luke Skywalker, and Kamille Bidan for some of my favorite protagonists. It's great seeing Connor as a younger brash green horned rookie warrior but also have him parallel his much older more determined and calm self of the future. Lambert did a great job portraying this character, and looking back I don't think anyone else could have played Connor.Sean Connery was superb in this movie. I'm not exactly a Connery fan, because I think the Bond movies are a tad bit overrated (Red October was fantastic though) but to say this is the best role he has ever done would be considered blasphemous by some, but he plays the Ben-Kenobi type all too well in this movie. Despite Connery's thick Scottish accent, he plays a Egyptian/Spanish/Immortal really well. Another case of I can't picture anyone else playing the role of Ramriez. The scene where he tries to explain immortals to Connor, and compares immortality to stars in the sky and sunsets, saying that it just happens, is one of my favorite scenes ever on film.Clancy Brown as the Kurgan. Wow, there was no better way to play this guy. I mean I could accept Lambert and Connery not portraying their respective roles but I can't even fathom the Kurgan as anyone else but Clancy Brown. His voice, his stout figure, and his line delivery just makes him such a compelling villain. If I were to construct an all time best villains list, the Kurgan would be right behind Vindel Mauser, and Paptimus Scirocco. He is just insane, and his first appearance is such a memorable one. When I first saw him appear in his skeletal armor and challenge Macleoud, I was scared. It was the most intimidating first appearance of any villain I can possibly think of.Outside of the characters, the movie has a fantastic score, and soundtrack, the sword fights are larger then life, the camera work was top notch, and the ending is so satisfying, that there was never a need for a sequel. Too bad there was... "},{"Title":"There should have been only one - 87%","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Too many films are called cults but here is a bona fide classic. Glossed over by the critics and failing at the box office, Highlander spread like wildfire over the burgeoning VHS market and became the highly regarded movie it is today. Certainly, my first experience many years ago was of a brilliant swords-and-sorcery action thriller but watching it again today, I was reminded that this film is more than that. It's deeper than most action movies and provides a wonderfully thought-provoking and multifaceted storyline that gives it an epic feel, despite a number of flaws. But once seen, it is rarely forgotten and surely that is the mark of a great film, if not one of this viewer's favourite movies.Christopher Lambert plays Conner MacLeod, a 16th century Scottish clansman who is apparently slain in battle. But he is not killed and with his villagers convinced he is possessed by the devil, he is cast out to wander the highlands alone. But he is met by the enigmatic Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez (Sean Connery) who tells MacLeod that he is one of a number of immortals, like Ramirez, who must battle each other for the Prize. Only by decapitation can MacLeod be slain where the power of the defeated is transferred to the victor. Fast forward to New York in 1986 where MacLeod now goes by the name of Russell Nash. As the final Gathering begins to happen, MacLeod must face his destiny and battle the evil Kurgan (Clancy Brown) as he falls in love with a woman (Roxanne Hart) who is digging a little too deep into Russell Nash's past...It's a complex and enthralling tale but what makes Highlander stand out for me is that this could have been any action movie with swords and funky fight scenes. Instead, it's a powerfully emotive fable on the tragedy of losing those you love. It's not perfect - Lambert's accent isn't particularly convincing but then again, it doesn't need to be. Director Russell Mulcahy's previous work on music videos is also extremely evident and the whole thing has a strangely camp feel to it. Having said that, the plot flows and the action certainly satisfies seasoned action fans like myself. It hasn't dated particularly well, as you'd expect, especially in terms of special effects or Queen's soundtrack, good though it is. But Highlander doesn't feel like an Eighties movie - it is an entertaining yet intelligent action film that offers something different from most offerings from the Eighties.The problem is enthusiasm, weirdly. There is a sense that the cast and crew are really enjoying themselves, that there was a generous flow of ideas behind it all. Sadly, these ideas manifested themselves as half-hearted sequels and as much as I'm a fan of this film, I really believe that they shouldn't have bothered. Highlander is the complete package - it has the action, the story, the philosophy and the emotive pull required to lift this above the countless hoards of mindless action films out there. Take my advice - watch this and fall in love with it but ignore the sequels completely. You'll end up disappointed... "},{"Title":"A really special film, unequaled by anything it spawned","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Not all beloved films find success in the same way. Some, like 'Gone With the Wind' and 'Raiders of the Lost Ark' were runaway hits and have gone on to find new generations of fans. Other films take time to find their audience. Some films don't do well when first released, critically or financially, but this doesn't mean it will just vanish into obscurity. Sure some films may truly deserve that, but then there are some that may have been misunderstood and reach higher status because of those few that loved it from the start. 'Highlander' is a great example of a film that was a failure when it came out, but over time gained a gigantic following that's still very strong today. Even the disappointing sequels, which should never have been made in the first place, haven't diminished it's power. It's a one of kind film and without a doubt one of the best of it's time.Pros Solid performances all around. Nice photography and a lot of breathtaking scenery. Fantastic and stylish direction by Mulcahy. It's a wonder he never made it really big. Great score that's at times beautiful and others exciting. Also a cool soundtrack by Queen. A good and original story. Unlike a lot of other films similar to this, this one has a lot of heart in it. Well-paced. Some exciting sword fights and action sequences.Cons Does feel a tad overlong, especially the 116 minute Director's Cut. Really is a lot to take in, so it will require repeat viewings. The effects at the end aren't bad per se, but they're kind of silly.Final thoughts Awww the 1980s! Some of the most exciting and cutting edge films were made in this decade and fortunately most of them seem to have held up very well. Though not a perfect film, 'Highlander' is still an exceptional film that stands up to repeat viewings and is even better than a lot of recent Action movies, which don't have even half the heart this one does.My rating 4.5/5 "},{"Title":"Highlander","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Quite why this enjoys such a good reputation is a mystery to me.A ridiculous, surprisingly slow-moving fantasy, marred by inept swordfights, poor special effects and a laughable, overly-literal soundtrack by Queen - when Christopher Lambert winks at the camera and says It's a kind of magic all pretence of seriousness goes out the window and you realise you've inadvertently been watching a comedy.In fact that might explain why the villain, who certainly looks the part, is quickly reduced being mildly less terrifying than a sleeping kitten. It might explain why he's harassing nuns and licking priests; why when he's ridiculed by a motel receptionist he tells him Don't ever speak to me again!; why when he's fighting the battle he's waited millennia for he allows himself to be distracted because a female historian hits him with a pipe.The Scottish Highland scenes are the film's best, particularly the ones with Sean Connery - the saving grace of the whole endeavour - training Lambert. They're certainly more fun than the never-ending joyride the killer takes the love interest on, or the wrestling match opening. Both sequences serving only to showcase the abominable soundtrack and pad out the running time. Overall it's not entirely worthless but by the time the woman was kidnapped I was praying for a swift conclusion that unfortunately I had to wait twenty minutes for. "},{"Title":"Fun 80's camp that retains its entertainment value today.","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When it comes to 80's cult-classics, there can be only one HighlanderDirected by Russell Mulcahy and starring Christopher Lambert and Sean Connery, Highlander tells the story of a medieval man by the name of Connor Macleod (Lambert) who comes to learn that he is among an elite club of immortals and lives far enough into the 20th century to tell his story. The only foreseeable goal for these immortals is to do battle with one another until only one is left standing to be rewarded with a prize. The prize, though, doesn't seem half as important as tough-guy posturing and intense swordplay. Like zombies, these immortals can only be killed by head-injuries (specifically, decapitation) and ancient swords are their weapon of choice, as they do battle through the ages, altering the course of history, in some instances.What Highlander has that makes it a classic is that it is a simple fantasy story that stands the test of time, even if the film itself looks a bit dated. A lay-man's fantasy, if you will. With it's ground-breaking style (thanks to MTV-bred Mulcahy) and outlandish settings, it's pure, one-hundred-percent escapism. While the direction is unique for it's time, acting-wise, it's a mixed bag. Christopher Lambert hams it up as the titular character, but it is Sean Connery who steals the show -- if only so briefly -- providing what little comic relief there is to be found, as well as a touch of class. The story itself is pretty linear, and if there's one fatal flaw to the whole thing, it's that it is far too drawn out.While the script may skimp on the narrative and clichés are abundant, you can't help but love Highlander anyways. Afterall, if you don't love sword-play set in the streets of New York to the tune of some classic Queen, I don't know that you even have the ability to enjoy movies in the first place. A movie like this is best when not taken seriously. It's fun, quirky, stylish and engaging. Everything a fantasy should be. See it if not for it's nostalgic value, but just to understand the giant pop-culture punchline it has become. However you view it, though, Highlander is a solid way to kill a couple of hours, and enough fun that you just might pee in your kilt. "},{"Title":"Spectacular sci-fi adventure","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I had never seen any movie quite like this before. There have been some since, mostly in the form of various TV series, but nothing quite captured the magic that was the original.A fantastic blend of science fiction and historical reality, this film gets just about everything right. Casting was practically perfect, with great performances, particularly by veteran Sean Connery. Connery and Lambert shared a great chemistry off screen which translated well on screen. And Clancy Brown as the Kurgan is to me one of the greatest and most memorable villains of all time. Bad to the bone, with a great, if twisted sense of humor.The best part aside from the great swordplay were the flashbacks through history, which fleshed out the characters and their journeys through time. The scene transitions from present to past and visa versa were inspired to say the least.The music by Queen was a masterpiece that superbly complemented the film. One particularly heartbreaking scene was rendered even more tragic by the haunting score. And the opening credits were announced with the pulse pounding Princes of the Universe. My only complaint about the film doesn't even involve the film itself, but its sequels. This is a stand alone movie, with an ending that no amount of brilliant writing could have worked around in my opinion. Some prequels would have been interesting, but that's about all that could be done with the story.I'm not sure if this is a movie for everyone, and can't with certainty say that it has a wide appeal. But all the ingredients for a great film are there, and it certainly ranks high amongst my favorites. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"There is only one.","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This continues to be one of my favorite films of all time. Amazingly, it originally flopped at the box office in it's early 1986 release (almost 20 years), but found new life in the video rental industry. Jonahtan Nash (Christopher Lambert) is an antique dealer in New York. He has a strange secret habit of having sword fights with other people and chopping their heads off. However, we learn his true name is Connor McLeod--a Scotsman born in 1513. He is immortal and cannot die unless his head his chopped off. At first, he does not know this--until a series of events in the 1500's shed some light on his identity. He he hunted by Kruger (Clancy Brown), another immortal who also fights for some sort of prize. Explaining this to Connor is Rameriz (Sean Connery) another immortal who trains Connor for battle. Connor never tells his wife, Heather, of his gift (curse). Once he loses her, he becomes a loner who is afraid to get close to anyone. However, a forensics expert somehow discovers his identity. Moreover, Kruger is alive and well and seeks the final battle with his old nemesis. The beauty of this movie first is in the way its presented. It alternates between the present and the past. The audience gets clues to keep it interested, but the package is slowly revealed like grandmother opening her Christmas Presents. Another good quality of this film is the photography and the unique changes from the past to the present. Highlander also explores the double-edged sword of immortality. As Connor outlives all he loves, he becomes a loner. Usually an outcast, his battles are in secret with no fanfare. He is a reluctant immortal. There are a few problems with the movie that keep me from giving it a full five stars. Probably the biggest one for me is Clancy Brown's over-the-top bad buy routine. Most of his performance is good, but a few times he goes a little overboard. The only other problem I had with this movie (which was really the producers fault) were the three lame sequels, and a television series. I consider them all bastards of the original Highlander--that Hollywood could not just leave a buried treasure alone. "}{"Title":"The first remains the best","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" With the pending release of a new Highlander film, I thought this was the appropriate time to review this film.This the the first the by far the best of the Highlander films. The story revolves around Connor McLeod played by Christopher Lambert. The story is told in modern times ( the 1980's ) and a series of flashbacks in the Highlands of Scotland. Through the flashbacks, we find out how Connor became an immortal. He and others like him become immortal once they are killed. After their death, they return to life and from that point on they cease to age, and can only be killed by having their heads cut off. The immortals have been part of our world throughout history. Connor meets his mentor played superbly by Sean Connery. Sean teaches Connor the rules of the game, and the reason that it is played. If an immortal is killed, his quickening or his soul or essence is absorbed by the immortal who kills him, making that immortal even more powerful. In the end, the immortals find until there is only 1 immortal left, which would give that immortal the power of all the immortals who have come before him.The story can be a bit campy in the way that watching Star Wars again can have a campy feeling, which in this case is a good thing. If you haven't watched this movie, and enjoy a good fantasy film, this is definitely worth a watch. It has a cult following, has spawned 4 further sequels, anime, a couple of TV shows and many books. Take the time to enjoy a fun fantasy film that started it all.However, as a final warning, don't watch the second movie. It basically ruins the memory of the first movie. I hope this review is helpful, as it is my first here, and hopefully helps you to understand this series establishing film. "},{"Title":"Highlander is a classic.","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Highlander is a true classic 80's movie, the plot is fresh with some kick a** sword fighting.The plot is about Imortals that have been living through the centuries wondering the earth seeing many places and meeting may people until the time of the Gathering when the few Imortals left will travel to a far land and battle for the prize. A power that could make a good Immortal protect the world and an evil Immortal could control the world.Connor Macleod (Christopher Lambert) is a Scottish Highlander who is killed in battle by the Kurgan, an evil Immortal that want's the prize. But it seems that Connor returns to life and his Clan members think that he is no longer Connor Macleod but an evil person.So after beating him his friend tells them not to burn him but banish him, thanking him for saving his life Connor leaves the Clan. Some years later he has a new home with his new wife Heather and is enjoying his new life when suddenly he meets Ramirez (Sean Connery) and teaches him everything about Imortals and the Gathering.He then trains Connor to be a master swordsman for when he must battle for the prize. While Connor is gone the Kurgen shows up and fights Ramerz in a battle that destroys most of the building. After stabbing him the Kurgen chops off Ramirez's head.In 1985 the land for the prize is New York and Connor is running an antique business with Rachel who he saved in world war II and using a new named, Russel Nash. After several murders involving decapitated heads a forensic investigator Brenda is searching for info about it.Finding Connor she soon finds herself involved in a fight between Connor and the Kurgen. But as the police arrive the Kurgen leaves, she asks Connor for answers but he doesn't give her any.Eventually Connor tells her he is Immortal and as the Kurgen takes Brenda, Connor goes to the rooftops for the ultimate battle against the Kurgen for the prize.The acting in Hghlander is good, Clancy Brown's performance as the Kurgen is one of best I've seen. Christopher Lambert is also good as this is one of the best roles he's played in. I also enjoyed him in Fortress and Mortal Kombat. Sean Connery is good in this film too, he has a way with acting.Highlander is a great film and is a classic. 10/10 "},{"Title":"highlander=awesome","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is the greatest movie of all time and if you disagree with that you will just as soon have your head removed from your torso as you have said it. Queen for the soundtrack, Sean Connery, sword fighting, immortality, nothing more needs to be said. I have to say more though because I need ten lines of text. Everyone has a Kurgan in their lives so this is the perfect opportunity for you to watch him be decapitated. I know I loved it. Just a heads up when Macleod and Ramirez jump in the water his kilt flies up and you see his caboose. So if you think Macleod is hot and you want to see his tushie then keep your eyes peeled, but if not hide under your blanket during this part. Watch it just watch it now stop reading and go watch it. But remember I am immortal I have within me the blood of Kings. "},{"Title":"huh?","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  At the risk of becoming, once more, the turd in the punchbowl, I must add a ringing dissent to the encomia of praise - most of which I cannot believe was written by anyone over 14 -  contained in this space. I simply fail to see the reason for this movie's supposed cult status. The storyline almost breaks under the weight of its accumulated cliches. Christopher Lambert, who I have not seen elsewhere (quel surprise) is horribly miscast in this role; his attempts at looking fearsomely brave and stoic result in a facial expression bespeaking mal-de-mer. The incorporation of movements obviously derived from Eastern martial arts into what is supposed to be 16th century Scottish swordplay is laughable. Sean Connery puts in a good bit, but it's not enough to redeem the flick. The best part is the photography of the Scottish highlands (though evidently some of it is actually British Columbia). I shudder when I read of the inferior sequel; how is that possible?  "},{"Title":"Good Direction......Bad Story","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Russell Mulcahy's Highlander is wonderfully directed. The fight sequences alone are terrific. The way Mulcahy zooms into a shot to draw audience interest and his unique style of transition between the past and present make him an outstanding director. The only problem with Highlander is its initial story. Sure, the overall story is fine, but to compare it to other fantastic sci-fi scripts like The Terminator, Star Wars and Close Encounters, Highlander is the worst story of them all.  With too many holes in the story explaining what the Immortals are and represent, the movie falls short of being a masterpiece. Even Sean Connery's character says 'I don't know' when explaining to Connor what the history of his being is. I don't know? So much for a good plot! Excellent direction, terrific acting and a kick butt Queen soundtrack makes Highlander fall short because of its empty opening in story development. That's my opinion. "},{"Title":"Oh Dear","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A Frenchman who plays a Scotsman, a Scotsman who plays an Egyptian called a Spaniard, a soundtrack from hell......Buried in this mess are some half-decent ideas, but it's so badly done that it's difficult to spot them when you're either laughing or cringing. "},{"Title":"The movie that started it all....","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Where do I begin? Highlander is one of my all-time favorite movies. It combined fantasy, action, suspense, love, and dramatic settings with really cool special effects (for the time period it was made). Christopher Lambert is witty and funny as the immortal Highlander, Connor MacLeod. Sean Connery was superb as MacLeod's mentor, Juan Ramirez. Clancy Brown was an awesome super villian as the Kurgan (I honestly don't believe there's been a villian as evil as the Kurgan - hey, even Darth Vader was good once!).The flashbacks are terrific time capsules of Connor MacLeod's life. From his bonny Heather to the humorous encounter with a noble on Boston Common resulting in a duel to the death for calling his wife a bloated warthog, MacLeod seemed to have been everywhere and done everything. The epic battle between MacLeod and the Kurgan for the prize are not only exciting, but filled with suspense.My only regret was the movie was originally designed as a stand alone movie and allowed no room for sequels. The prize is won at the end. That's it. The gathering is over.Since then, the producers of the show made two terrible attempts at cashing in with sequels which led to the embarrasing Highlander 2 and the rip-off Highlander 3.They made a great TV series, but had to say, This is a different universe then the movies which completely ignores the sequels and makes vague references to Connor's encounter with the Kurgan.Still, even with no opportunity to continue the story or delve deeper into the history of the immortals (which is what made HighlanderThe Series so good), this was a superb movie that is a must see for any fan of science fiction, fantasy, or action. "},{"Title":"Only one saving grace.","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The only value in this movie is in laughing at how bad it was. If you've ever seen The Room, you will understand. The fight scenes are hilariously bad. Everyone has seen fight scenes that are obviously choreographed. This was worse. Not only were these obviously choreographed, they are extremely badly choreographed. I cracked a different rib laughing during every sword fight. I have no ribs left.The music was probably the most disappointing part of the movie. Every note was completely out of place an had nothing to do with the scene playing. In the final battle scene, they start playing victory music halfway through the fight. Really?? Yes, we have known the entire movie that the main character is going to win. BUT DO YOU HAVE TO INSULT YOUR AUDIENCE!!!!????? It was disgusting.The only redeeming quality is that Highlander is so bad it's funny. It insults its audience at every turn. The lines range from cheesy to ridiculous. Don't see this movie unless you're looking for a cheap laugh at the filmmakers' expense. "},{"Title":"A great fantasy movie","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember seeing this movie as a kid with my old man. I was totally blown away by the fight scenes and special effects. Me and my friends used to play highlander with broomsticks. Funny to hear that the movie wasn't a hit at the time of it's release.After seeing it again recently I must say that It was greater then when i first saw it.Nostalgia of my childhood days mixed with a new understanding of the adult storyline. I must say that scene with Heather Mcloud dying in Connor's arms in the highlands with the Queen soundtrack (Who wants to live forever) in the background, it nearly moved me to tears. One of the best movies of all time in my book.No matter what other people say. The other highlander movies I would pass over, it just destroys the myth and magic of the original.Having said that I did go and see Highlander 2 The quickening when it came out. It was OK as a B grade action movie but it sucked big time when compared to the original. The highlander 3 was a better film in my opinion,. I never liked the TV series though.; "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The original was an excellent film. The flashbacks, the action, the music, and of course, the story itself...all fantastic to behold.The sequels where complete and utter drivel. I'm just glad that I can separate the sequels from the original in my mind. However, they were so bad that this does entail some measure of mental discipline. Fortunately, I meditate on a regular basis and am quite adept at blocking certain traumatic memories out. As far as I'm concerned the story begins and ends with the original.If you're thinking of watching the sequels please do not do this to yourself. Do not inflict upon your memory of the original movie this potentially mortal wound. Just watch Highlander and take it for what it is. "}{"Title":"Overrated. WAY overrated.","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The popularity of this movie is a mystery to me. The story is muddled. The dialogue is incredibly corny, especially at the climax.Let's see, we have a Scot who doesn't have a Scottish accent teamed up with an Egyptian Conquistador who DOES have a Scottish accent.Connery is fine, of course, but his costume had me in stitches. He looks like a doorman at  a Las Vegas theme hotel. I didn't know if after the fighting lessons, maybe Lambert was supposed to tip him.Lambert is to underacting what Shatner is to overacting. They call this intensity, I guess. I think I saw him blink once. That was the sum of his emotions.This thing seems like a parody of the sword/sorcery genre. Did Mel Brooks secretly direct it? "},{"Title":"God Awful","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Terrible! Apparently this film was let down by its sequels. No. it was let down by the fact it was crap. Its just...dumb! The storyline is awful even before we get stuck into the bad acting. And Chritopher Lamberts accent? If i didn't know he was meant to be Scottish i would have assumed him east European. I can not believe that this movie got 7/10 that is just pathetic. I've even had American friends comment on how well the accents have been done in the film! Well that just goes to show the ignorant grasp of different cultures that the U.S.A has. In honesty the world would be a fractionally better place if this movie did not exist.Saying that, the sound track by queen as always is awesome "},{"Title":"Slightly trashy, corny but in it's own way unforgettable cult favourite","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" STAR RATING ***** The Works **** Just Misses the Mark *** That Little Bit In Between ** Lagging Behind * The Pits In Ancient Scotland, Connor McLeod (Christopher Lambert) is a novice fighter in a battle with opposing forces. But the inexperienced fighter is mortally stabbed in the stomach during the violence by the rival clansmen, only to inexplicably survive. Initially renounced as in league with the devil, Connor himself is unsure as to his mysterious survival- until he is approached by Ramirez (Sean Connery) from the Spanish army. Ramirez lets him know he's a very lucky bloke- he's immortal and can only be killed if someone chops his block off. This story is juxtaposed with Connor in modern day New York, where his enemy The Kurgen (Clancy Brown) has chased him, to fulfil the prophecy that 'there can be only one.' The original Highlander is a movie with definitive cult status, that 20 years later easily remains Christopher Lambert's most famous role, not to mention director Russell Mulcahy's (who would later go on to make such drivel as Talos the Mummy) most memorable work.Many of the things that made it stand the test of time are what is so naff about it. Everything is so corny, from Lambert's Scottish accent (that at times sounds vaguely Irish) to the laughable, chringe-able Queen soundtrack playing over the opening/closing credits, as well as some of the 80s special effects that look rather rubbery and corny now.But in the movies favour, there's some lovely, sweeping cinematography of the beautiful Scottish Highlands and the movie's main saving grace the master swordsmanship. Neither Lambert or Connery are proficent off-screen swordsmen, but they, like the rest of the cast, carry off the many sword fighting scenes the film demands with aplomb, which is a brilliant achievement if you think about it.As a film, you'll see better, but the film has definite credential as a cult classic. *** "},{"Title":"There Can Be Only One...Freddie Mercury","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Grown men wielding gold-hilted swords, a seven-foot Russian screaming like Jamie Lee Curtis and Sean Connery dressed in peacock feathers &#150; hmmm&#133;not quite gay enough. How about we drench the thing in music from the queens in the band Queen? Perfect! A medieval-Scotland-meets-latrinesque-New-York-City rock opera fantasy is Highlander - it's as if this movie were MADE to be the second feature in a double-billing starting with The Rocky Horror Picture Show. In it we've got the titular hero named Connor MacLeod (Christopher Lambert) gliding through history's wars and conflicts as an immortal. You were born that way, says Ramirez (Sean Connery). How? Why? Who gives a kilt? We've got these two not-so-macho men fencing on a picturesque Scottish plateau with inexplicable lightning pounding down all around them and Freddie Mercury belting it out like the fat lady! Suhweet! An inevitable conflict is brewing for the future known as the gathering in which all the immortals must, well, gather together in order to chop each other's heads off. Seriously. But enough synopsizing, there's no further point in doing so for this self-congratulating pageantry. What struck me as interesting was the constant in each time period of the film - violence Scottish wars, World War II and (don't laugh) modern professional wrestling Hulk Hogan-style. The bonafide and the spurious forms of conflict on display unmistakably express man's strange necessity for violence in his life. But a gayed-up Sean Connery effectively muddles this axiomatic inference for most spectators. "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I saw it today (October 2015) for the first time. OK, the effects are dated by today's standards; I can make allowances for that. But I'm still trying to figure out what this movie is a fantasy/action flick, a parody of one, or a comedy? My impression is that the whole thing is so bad that it must have been designed as a bit of fun at the expense of the actors, the viewers and critics who failed to take it in the second degree. If you think about it as a comedy it could actually make sense the barely two-dimensional characters; the terrible casting; the appalling accents apart from Sean Connery (supposedly an Egyptian!); the dozens of continuity and production goofs; the appalling dialog; the impossible plot; and the sword fights that wouldn't pass muster in an amateur dramatic production. So yes, if you're looking for a parody of a fantasy/action flick to watch sipping beers with friends while enjoying a good laugh at the preceding litany of awfulness, this is for you. I can't believe that Highlander was really meant to be a serious movie. If it is, it's a case study for wannabe movie directors in how not to do it. "},{"Title":"I am baffled as to why this movie is so famous let alone why it started a franchise.","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" We learn The Highlander's story from Sean Connery who plays, I kid you not, a 2000 year old Egyptian/Spaniard named Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez. That right there should give you an indication of the caliber The Highlander. Anyway, the story is that there exist Immortals who roam the Earth hunting each other. They can't be killed unless they are beheaded. At some arbitrary time in history (which turns out to be 1984), they will be drawn to a far off country to partake in what's called The Gathering where they will fight for The Prize which only one can have hence the famous line There can only be one.I found the bizarre transitions somewhat entertaining. That is, they are entertaining in the way a car crash is entertaining; it is more of a morbid curiosity than joy. A shot of the bottom of a lake in Scotland circa 1500, for example, wipes to the bottom of a fish tank. To signal a flashback to WWII the image on the screen shatters with the sound of cannon fire.In terms of acting, we have three main characters, The Highlander (Lambert), Sean Connery, and Victor Kruger (Brown). I've never been a big Christopher Lambert fan particularly because of his laugh. It makes me feel like kind of a bad person if I dislike the guy because of his laugh, but have you heard it?! It always sounds forced and what is more unfortunate is that he laughs at inappropriate times throughout the movie. It reminded me of Tommy Wassau's laughing in The Room.I included Sean Connery as a character instead of his ludicrous character name because he's just being Sean Connery in a fluffy red suit. I have a soft spot in my heart for Sean Connery so I'm down for his role as The Highlander's instructor. I never grew emotionally attached to his character, but I could say that about everything in this film.Victor Kruger is the Ultimate Warrior, according to Sean Connery. He is a Russian who has traveled across the world hunting Immortals. Clancy Brown's baritone voice fits the character of Kruger perfectly. I believe one of my favorite scenes in the movie is Kruger's modern day entrance. He is listening to the radio while driving in a 1975 Cadillac Coup DeVille. A reporter is commenting on a series of recent decapitations saying, Police currently have no suspects. I know who it is, Kruger bellows. He proceeds turn on a cassette of Queen's Gimme the Prize. If ever there was a scene in a movie that characterized the 80's. Now, even though he fits the role, there isn't much Brown can do to salvage the movie. His dialog, much like the rest of the dialog, is lacking.Now, I found Kruger and Connery entertaining but they aren't enough to save this movie. Cheesy special effects are all fine and dandy, in moderation, but there has to be something to balance it out; The Highlander's choreography is on par with some of Star Trek's fight scenes. The cinematography isn't very appealing either. Most of the odd camera angles seem unnecessary and, without any sort of justification, they are more distracting than anything.Overall, The Highlander is a very 80's fantasy action movie. Would I recommend it? No, not really. The cinematography is blah, as is the acting and dialog. When it comes down to your Friday night movie, there can only be one...so don't let it be The Highlander. "},{"Title":"An underrated masterpiece!","Date":"25 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This really is a fantastic film with a fantastic story, not perfect perhaps, but I give it 9* because frankly the parts it does well, it does really really well!The story revolves around Connor Macleod, a Scottish Highlander who is abruptly killed in a Clan War by an ancient warrior from the east known as the Kurgan. It is found though that he does not die, but in fact becomes immortal, and centuries later in 1985 New York he and the Kurgan are once again drawn to battle in the streets of the Big Apple to fight to the death so as to gain the ambiguous 'Prize'.Now, what parts of this film are good? Near enough everything in my mind. There's heart, there's emotion, there's well choreographed and gripping action scenes, the story is well paced and keeps you interested, and the acting for the most part is very very good! Indeed I won't say Christopher Lambert is my favourite actor, and some of his acting in this is a bit over-the-top and hard to sit through, but the performances of Sean Connery and Clancy Brown are a ton of fun to watch, Connery being the strong minded and wise mentor, whilst Brown is the psychotic warrior of the past.The soundtrack though is one of my favourites as it's all done by Queen, with some incredible and even emotional songs that help set the tone. 'Who Wants to Live Forever' is indeed the best song in this film, really bringing on the emotions of the scene and making it all the more tragic.Overall, this film gets my support every time I watch it! It's a great movie with intense action, great acting, a soundtrack you can sink your teeth into and a story that keeps you pinned for the whole running time! "},{"Title":"Something really special","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I don't know what it is about this movie. I watched it when I was about ten and I couldn't get it out of my head. Now, 23 years later it's still there and I must have seen it twenty times. I find it so atmospheric, so unique and strangely powerful. Of course on the surface it is a load of nonsense, some enjoyable 80s fun. Come on, a load of immortals, who can only be killed by decapitation, roam the world for centuries fighting for the prize of mortality - OK, OK it has so many plot holes it's ridiculous. And yet there is something oddly powerful about it and I think I've figured out what it is. I think it's the sound of the film. The score is eerie, magical and melancholic; the combination of Queen's music and their additional bits of synthesiser work throughout are extremely powerful when woven with the rather strange dialogue. The bar scene for example, during which One Year of Love plays while Christopher Lambert's unique voice asks for a Glenmorangie, is just so memorable. It may be a personal thing and I have shown this film to other people who haven't been exactly captivated but for me it's at once fun and action packed and strange and haunting. "},{"Title":"I Know Everything! I Am Everything!... Oh!? Really!?","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" *Possible Spoilers Ahead!* Even though Highlander's story was, plainly & simply, just laughable nonsense, I do give it full credit for sticking to its guns and delivering that baloney with such earnest conviction.What I really applauded about Highlander was that, amongst all of the cheesy sword-fighting and flashy pyrotechnics, it didn't take itself too seriously and I guess that's what gave this film its wacky charm. (Well, at least that's the way it was from my perspective) I was also mighty impressed with the obvious care that was taken with the scenes that were shot in the beautiful countryside and along the coastal mountain regions of grand, old Scotland.Some years ago I had spent part of a splendid summer vacation traveling around that country and this film caught the wonderful, picturesque magnificence of rural Scotland so very-very nicely.My one beef (of many) with Highlander was that a lot more heads weren't sent rolling. Personally, I think that the decapitation of a good part of the staff of N.Y.P.D.'s Homicide team (starting with Brenda Wyatt at the front of the line) would've been an excellent touch, guaranteed to deliver a gleeful adrenaline-rush of pure satisfaction.Besides actor Christopher Lambert being an insufferably incoherent bore as Connor MacLeod, the 450 year-old immortal, I also disliked Sean Connery as the Sanchez Villa-Lobos character, immensely. Clearly too old to play James Bond, Connery was not well-suited for his part and I was more than pleased when The Kurgan lopped his fool head off.The one and only actor who impressed me in Highlander was Clancy Brown who played, with great relish and finesse, the viciously nasty and savagely vengeful Kurgan. I got more than my money's worth when Brown's character abducted pretty, little Brenda and then took her on a joyride-from-hell through the streets of NYC, hilariously mocking her screams of terror all the while. (Ha! What a hoot!) All-in-all - This pre-CGI Fantasy/Action picture from 1986 was, unfortunately, only borderline satisfying when it came to the realm of entertainment. But, with that said, I honestly thought that director Russell Mulcahy clearly showed a lot of flair and style in his overall execution of Highlander's production.Needless to say, in the first week of Highlander's initial release, this $16 million white elephant bombed, big-time, only being able to recover but a third of its costs.P.S. - I thought that Highlander's lovey-dovey happy ending sucked, and sucked, and, then, sucked some more.It's hard for me to imagine that this film actually spawned 4 sequels and even a frickin' TV series. "},{"Title":"gets me every time seen it 50 or so times","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Christopher Lambert love of my life u changed a Scots girls life in a different country namely new Zealand. love u Shaun Connery excellent as usual his voice gets u every time .gruger of course is a monster as a young girl scared me silly ,the costumes were amazing,u have to watch the movie over and over its so bloody good their accents are perfect actually I'm watching it right now with a young friend who 26 turning on the next generation 4 ever and ever your in a 40 something year olds heart.i really need you 2 digitally remaster so ican show my daughters friends so they can be enchanted like me every time I hear queen who wants to live 4 ever I think of Christopher and dream u guys rock 4 ever "}{"Title":"There can only be  the one Highlander","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A Frenchman who is a Scots. A Scotsman who is Portuguese, songs by Queen, welcome to the world of Highlander.The film opens in New York and you soon go from a wrestling match to a sword fight. Via flashbacks we find out about Connor Macleod, how he has gone through the centuries making friends with immortals and fighting other immortals who are less than friendly in their search for the ultimate prize. As long as they do not lose their head, hence why they carry swords and try to decapitate each other in order to steal their power.We see Christopher Lambert falling in love, train with Sean Connery who explains to him, who he really is, duel with French aristocrats, fight Nazis and now in New York fight maybe the last remaining enemy, the evil Kurgen.The film was largely shot in the UK, at the time part of the film was like an extended pop promo, then again director Russell Mulcahy was better known for pop videos.The film was not a box office success but gained an audience on video. The film had a mix of a novel story, humour, violence, romance, songs, MTV style editing and rapidly gained a cult following.It is a classic. "},{"Title":"The greatest film ever.....EVER","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Now first of all lets get the whole 'sequels' business out of the way. They're atrocious, boring, make no sense and were clearly spawned out of the imagination of over exuberant bankers! Now, for this amazing piece of work. Its brilliant. In every way, shape and form. The camera work is superb (and ahead of its time), the locations are excellently picked, the casting truly genius and the soundtrack and score truly fantastic (i may run out of superlatives by the end of this). *contains spoilers* The plot is unique given its part of the fantasy genre. Immortals born from no one knows or how (its never explained in the film), but yet none of this matters. They are invincible save for decapitation. They are drawn to one another till only one remains and this one immortal will gain 'the prize' infinite power and knowledge. Many have cast aspersions over the casting of Sean Connery as a Spanish/Egyptian who mentors our hero Christopher Lambert. But its superb, Connery is, as always, brilliant. Lambert is perfect as the Highlander from 'lots of different places'. But the real soup stealer is Clancy Brown as the Kurgen - he's the epitome of bad guy, knows he's powerful and takes full advantage,with no cage to bind him. The Queen soundtrack is incredible! Every song completes its scene. This is one of the best films ever made and certainly one of the best from the eighties. Yes its cheesy, yes its a bit camp, but boy does it do what films are supposed to do and really entertain!! "},{"Title":"A surprisingly original and well thought-out film","Date":"27 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I went in to this movie with low expectations,thinking it was going to be a bland adventure flick like ConanThe Destroyer or Season of the witch.I was surprised to find out that Highlander is a very well made film.The idea is innovative,the story sucks you in very quickly and the acting is pretty good too.The film transitions between the modern time and the middle ages as it unfolds the history of our protagonist and the immortals as a whole.Plus there is a fantastic soundtrack to go along the way.The thing that kinda ruined the film for me were some of the unnecessarily long and over-the-top fight scenes,that served as an excuse to show off some fancy special effects,however,I admit,they were impressive for the time.I strongly recommend Highlander,even to those who aren't adventure movie fans. "},{"Title":"Fantastic for what it is.","Date":"18 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have seen this movie a few times, I still don't know why I don't see it more often? This isn't a bad movie by any stretch - it only got the reputation of being bad from the sequels(What sequels? Thats my attitude).I like the drama of this film as well as the swordplay. The drama is incredibly well set up, most people glorify immortality when Connor lost Heather, the woman he loved.The swordplay/action has to be spoken for. They are incredibly well choreographed, It should come as no surprise that the guy that made those fight scenes possible was the same guy that choreographed the fight scenes in Star Wars, the recent Zorro attempts and Pirates Of The Caribbean. Bob Anderson was a fantastic fencer, I know because I've been learning fencing for nearly 7 years.I call this one of the best films of the 1980's. I hope you enjoy it.Before I go I recommend the movie Highlander The Search For Vengeance It is by far the best continuation of this series that it has ever had. I haven't seen the TV show though. I'm just throwing it out there. "},{"Title":"A Truly Unique Story","Date":"6 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This truly is a magnificent film, the idea and execution of the film is unique in almost every aspect. The soundtrack is absolutely fantastic, the fight scenes are pretty enjoyable, however the only downside is the acting. All of the actors seem to be over the top macho which does them no credit, almost like they have no other emotion. Also, Kris Lambert's fake Scottish accent is pretty laughable. But apart from that, it's an amazing bit of work and a real pleasure to watch.In 1518, a Scottish Highlander and Clan Leader named Connor MacLeod leads his Clan in a battle against another Clan. However, during the battle, Connor is mortally wounded by a mysterious warrior from a far away land known as the Kurgan. Before the deadly warlord can finish him off, his fellow clansmen force him away, the Kurgan declaring 'Another time Macleod!' The townsfolk consider him to be dead and begin to mourn. But suddenly, it is revealed that he has made a full recovery from the fatal wound, causing the others to believe that there is some Satanic power at work and so they force him from their village, with only his lover Heather being his companion. 5 years go by and MacLeod lives out in the countryside with his new wife, until one day an strange old man in foreign clothing named Ramirez confronts MacLeod and explains to him that they are both part of an ancient brotherhood of immortal men who cannot be killed unless they are decapitated. MacLeod doesn't believe this at first but after being chucked in the Loch, he soon realises that Ramirez speaks the truth and he agrees to train MacLeod to become the best warrior in order to stop the Kurgan from slaying the other immortals and thereby claim 'The Prize'. As Ramirez trains him, he tells him the various parts of his immortality. He tells him of the Quickening, which is an orgasmic sensation felt whilst absorbing the life energy from another slain immortal, and about the Gathering, where the few remaining immortals will travel to a far away location to fight to the last and thereby claim the prize. He also tells him to leave Heather as she is not immortal and will eventually die from old age, but MacLeod cannot do that.However, one night whilst MacLeod is away, the Kurgan finds Ramirez and Heather in his house and the two do battle. After a long and exhausting fight inside the collapsing structure, Ramirez is defeated and the Kurgan takes his head and rapes Heather. When MacLeod returns, all he finds is the ravaged Heather amongst the rubble and the headless body of Ramirez. As time goes on, Heather grows older and older whilst MacLeod remains the same age till eventually she passes away from old age. Distraught, MacLeod leaves the Highlands and seeks out a new life as another.In 1985 New York, MacLeod (now under his new name of Nash) is confronted by another immortal in the Parking Garage of Madison Square Garden. The two fight and MacLeod takes his head but is arrested by the Police as he attempts to escape. Meanwhile, the Kurgan (now going as Victor Kruger) arrives in New York as the Gathering commences. Although MacLeod is set free, he is closely watched by an NYPD Forensics Detective named Brenda, who he becomes sentimentally attached to. After a short skirmish with the Kurgan, she begins to question what logic is behind MacLeod and he is reluctant to explain to her the truth behind his immortality. However, as he becomes more and more sentimentally attached, the horrors of his previous relationship with Heather begin to echo back to him.Eventually, the Kurgan finishes off the last other immortal, leaving only himself and MacLeod to end the contest. Realising now that MacLeod has become sentimental with Brenda, the Kurgan kidnaps her and challenges MacLeod to the final battle in an abandoned warehouse. Through a long and complicated fight scene, MacLeod finally defeats the Kurgan and thereby wins 'The Prize' of all knowledge and the loss of his immortality, meaning he can live a normal life and raise a family without fear of outliving them. The film ends in Scotland with him and Brenda sitting on a hill overlooking a Loch whilst Queen's 'A Kind of Magic' begins to play into the credits.As said, a truly unique film, fantastic in pretty much every way, with majestic locations, an intense story and possibly the best soundtrack I have ever heard by a rock band (I'm a Queen lover by the way), this is one of the best! "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorite movies","Date":"18 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" What needs to be said about Highlander? A lot! What a masterpiece that Russell Mulcahy created. The story is amazing, the cast was awesome, the special effects were cool, the costumes were great as well. Music by Queen, amazing for this movie. Believe it or not, I was hooked onto this series during my last years of high school. My dad used to watch the show and read the comics (yes there were comics) and he told me about how cool Highlander was and that there was a movie. I finally got a chance to sit down and watch Highlander after he told me that and WOW! It was amazing. Christopher Lambert did a phenomenal job playing Duncan Macleod. His presence was just something. Sean Connery as Ramirez, what a great addition. That for me just sealed the moment and power that this movie created. Another thing that got me hooked was the opening scene, A PRO WRESTLING SHOW IN NEW JERSEY. Since, i'm a wrestling fan and that made the movie even more great in my book. Anyway, Highlander is a great masterpiece of sci-fi, fantasy, action and romance rolled into one. For those that haven't seen this movie, I say pick it up and give it a try. Overall, 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"There are many surprises here","Date":"12 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a film of many parts. A Hollywood blockbuster (but a flop) that has no American stars but makes horrible fun of the American police force with Police Squad heading up their cast.Representing a return for Sean Connery it is actually a very special film for me with many cinematic treats not least the opening of the helicopter camera intro to the wrestling. The scene where he leaves his lady in Scotland is a very moving one and the Kurgen is magnificently played as the enemy.This is a film that will always have a special place for me.The scene moving between the multi-storey car park and the Highlands is still a masterwork and the script is a brave and interesting work. "},{"Title":"This movie is kind of magic","Date":"15 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Please take note that this review is written by a devout Highlander-fan and hence cannot be considered objective. Even though I've seen the film more times than I care to remember, re-watching it always brings me right when I was a wee lad, for the first time watching Highlander and thinking to myself, this movie is kind of magic.If you'd call it a dumb, comic book adventure for adolescent boys, you wouldn't be altogether wrong. Highlander must be taken as serious as The Neverending Story or Star Wars.So, what's the magic behind Highlander? Boy, where to start? Let's begin with the cast that is simply assembled as perfect as it gets. Christopher Lambert, although not the greatest of actors under the sun, gives the immortals a human face. He's a likable, charming guy, not so much the hero type and more a guy like you and me &#x96; with the exception that he's immortal who must fight for his head until there is only&#x85; well, you probably know already. The typical Highlander-fan doesn't associates Sean Connery so much with James as he does with Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez, no less flamboyant than 007 but sporting a cool ponytail and a katana sword. Even more imposing is the ponytail and broadsword of villain Kurgan, played by Clancy Brown in what will likely be the role he is most commonly associated with. Roxanne Heart, apart from being very pleasant to the eye, adds dose of humour, as do Alan North and Jon Polito.Let's talk about the music &#x96; Queen's soundtrack is half the rent in case of Highlander, rarely has sound and film been merged that perfect. Talking about it, It's a kind of magic, is the sole explanation given as to who or what the immortals are, why (and for what) they fight; it leaves the viewer to continue imaging the Highlander-universe in their minds, coming up with their own theories and conclusions.It should also be noted that I first watched Highlander in the dubbed German version and even though I'm generally no friend of synchronizing movies, this is one of the rare cases where I'd recommend the German version over the original. In fact, to this day I'm uneasy with listening to Scotsman Connor McLeod, speaking in gentle French drawl and the Spaniard Ramirez talking in the broadest Scot accent since William Wallace played Mel Gibson in 1304. And it seems that the dubbed German voice of Kurgan was even more leering, if that is humanly possible.The movie has spawned many sequels, two TV-series (if you include The Raven), a cartoon series of kids (sans beheadings) and even a Japanese Anime. Many (if not most) fans would argue &#x96; despite watching all of the above mentioned &#x96; that there should have been only one, and that's Highlander.10 points from 10 from a Highlander fan. "},{"Title":"Good old fashioned fun!","Date":"29 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Ladies, I would not recommend this film. Of course, there will be those of you who revel in high-octane action movies, and, if this is the case, you will find everything you're looking for here. But if you're looking for a searching and profound masterpiece, this most certainly is not it.However, this does not mean that this is not a good film. An original idea, coupled with a highly adept and proved cast make this film an enjoyable watch, although it is, of course, very male-focused. The action scenes are just the right length, and edited to perfection. Admittedly, I found the film to be like Charles Dickens. You have to accept the way they tell the story, you have to let them do it their way. Once you put your inner critic behind you, however, this is a film which has the potential to enthrall.Swordfights, car-chases, violence and sex are the foci of this film, and although this film has no 'inner message', neither does it make any claim to that. It is a thrill-ride of rock, fantasy, and soul.This is a film that is proud in its failings. Take a look at Sean Connery trying and failing to deviate from his Scottish accent to a Egyptian/Spanish one (and what does that even sound like?!) and giving up a lost cause halfway through the film, to Christophe Lambert's timeless, nowhere accent in New York. but he does say he comes from 'everywhere'. The beauty of this film is that, for all its faults, it comes back stronger each time you watch it. Boy does that surprise you.Highlander is a 'B movie', and proud of it. Put simply, this film is a relic of the 80s, best watched by every boy who has just turned 15. "},{"Title":"love this film makes me proud to be Scottish.","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember when I was a kid in the 80's growing up my dad had gone out shopping and when he came back he came back with a brown bag and it had to old VHS videos one was The Terminator and the other was Highlander didn't really know at the time what to think of or what affect it would have on me in later life. Some years ago they rereleased it on DVD the immortal edition they called it DVD steelbook I watched it yesterday funny enough and every single time I watch this film it just captures me in a way it did all those years ago I love the story struggle pain love loss and good vs evil and how good prevails over evil I love the bits in Scotland me being from Scotland Glasgow to be specific always makes me proud to be Scottish also the acting is awesome connnory is just amazing in this film and Lambert at the time i didn't know who he was but I can say that no one can replace him he is iconic in this role and Brown as the bad guy at the time scared the hell out of me and he stills does to this day when I watched that is how good he is in this film. The music for me is also iconic by Queen every bit of music fits perfectly and emotionally. Overall this movie will stay with me until the day I die and in the words of Connor Mclaoude There can be only one "}{"Title":"Overall an Interesting Movie","Date":"24 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I thought this movie was quite good so long as you can ignore the amateurish dialogue and the campy portrayal of the main antagonist. The premise of a group of immortals destined to fight until the death where one remains standing is unique for its time. I also found the use of flashbacks well done for this type of movie. Each flash back gives you a bit more detail about the life off Connor, as well as the struggles that come with immortality. The sorrow that comes along with immortality is in my opinion what makes this film good. The dialogue may be cheesy at times, the villain may be crazy, and the fight scenes seem fairly dated in this day and age, but the moments of his exile, the love of his first wife, and how he must live now really make the movie.From the scenes with his first wife as well as the forewarning by Sean Connery's character, you begin to see what it truly means to love and to lose. It also shows what to me is somewhat of an irony among mankind. Many people try to live to an old age, however, this movie brings to the forefront the pain that comes with living that of an immortal life. From start to finish, it is this aspect of the plot that moves the movie. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Highlander isn't a perfect movie by all means, at least in my opinion, the film is a little too long, Christopher Lambert tries hard but comes across as rather bland and the effects towards the end are a little cheesy. However, cinematography, costumes, sets and scenery-wise Highlander is great, and most of the effects are decent. The soundtrack is killer, the storyline is acceptably paced and basically a fun standard sword-and-sorcery sort of tale, the script may have some toshy moments but boy did it entertain me, the action is well choreographed and the direction is very good. Also Sean Connery is as charismatic and memorable as ever, and Clancy Brown's character is written even better and he too is great. Overall, a fun and entertaining film, shame its sequel was such an abomination but that's another story. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Great little fantasy","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Born in the Highlands of Scotland in 1518, Connor Macleod is immortal. When he is wounded in battle but does not die, he is banished from his village. He meets another like himself, Ramirez, who teaches him swordsmanship--the only way to kill another immortal is to take his head--and the ways of the immortals. Modern-day New York is the location of The Gathering, where Connor and the few remaining immortals must battle to the last for The Prize. Wow...This Is Great. Not Only Is This Movie A Classic & The First Time I Saw It Was Today But The Perfect Week Experiment Was Over.Everything For This Movie Was Good With The Exception That It Has Dark Picture Quality At Points. This Movie Was Action-Packed & The Fact That My 2nd Favourite Queen Song Was Who Wants To Live Forever (1st Is Bohemian Rhapsody) & It Was Made Specifically For This Movie. Highlander Is An Action Packed Classic That Should Be Embraced.The Thing That Separates This From Other Living Forever Movies Like The Awful Meryl Streep Comedy Death Becomes Her They Pretty Much Say Hey Living Forever Is A Gift When In This Macleod Lost The Love Of His Life Due To Her Death Of Old Age. I Will Not See The Sequels Because I Heared That Basically They're Crap. "},{"Title":"Solid action-fantasy film.","Date":"24 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm not a fan of Higlander film serial, but I am a fan of good 80s action films and Highlander got it! I saw Highlander (1986) as a kid, and Highlander 2, but I didn't paid too much attention to it. Perhaps it didn't touch me that much, again, I was a kid. Later, I saw it again, well I find it very solid. A fine, original story, fine acting crew, dark cinematography, sword-fighting (which I love a lot), characters and good music. Well, honestly I do not prefer The Queen music, and I found it somewhat irritating in the film. But, still It was all right, no offense to any Freddie Mercury fans, he was a legend! But, that's not the point here. Those were the good stuff, now the bad... The script, it was too lame, I didn't like it very much. Only one thing is legendary There can be only one!, that was cool, but the rest... oh, well. the other thing is Christopher Lambert's performance, still wooden and with funny french accent. There are some other things that I didn't like very much here, but they are rather unimportant. Sean Connery was great as always, as a Spanish sword-fighter that holds a Katana. Clancy Brown was brilliant as Kurgan, tall, dark, slimy and with deep, growly voice. These two are fine additions in this film and I watched it because of them.The sex scene in film was expected. Christopher Lambert did it in next two sequels (but, we didn't see it in second part), but hey, Chris did it in other 90s films. But, in Highlander, sex scene is a tradition. What to say... enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A Kind of Magic","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have always been a life long fan of historical epics and films set in the past, particularly in the British Isles. It was over the weekend, while sorting through my DVD collection that I stumbled upon a magical little film set in the misty Scottish highlands. It had been a decade or so since I had last seen it, and could barely remember the plot. Images of the stunning scenery of Scotland with its remote castles, lochs, imposing cliffs, and coastal beaches came back. Sean Connery had a role in it, and the soundtrack by Queen underscored the mood of the film.Based off of that, it seemed like a good way to pass a couple of hours. I put in The Highlander, and was not disappointed. Highlander centers around Connor MacLeod, a 16th century Scottish clansman, who discovers his identity as a member of the legion of immortals. While Highlander has lots action and colorful characters, it is some of the questions raised that make the film great. About what it would be like to live forever. To experience life in the Scottish highlands, the Revolutionary War, and WW2. To outlive live ones lover, friends, family, village, nation, and civilization.If you like great films with action, adventure, and romance that also raise interesting questions, then the Highlander is for you. "},{"Title":"Their should have been only one!!!","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie won an academy award for the best movie of all time. It seriously has all the makings of an incredible film.Part Braveheart part Deathwish it has it all! Christopher Lambert does his best acting this side of Fortress. And of course Sir Sean Connery is the worlds sexiest man again.The story is very original and believable if you are into the fantasy type movies. The ending scene is possibly one of the best fight scenes ever and the emotion shown by Lambert in a couple of his heartbreaking scenes is terrific. Why this movie was followed by some of the worst movies ever is beyond me. After this movie they did the Hollywood thing and tried to make money off the accomplishments of the first. I am a dumber person for having seen them. "},{"Title":"Undeniably fun","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Russell Mulcahy's sword-and-immortals 'epic' has spawned numerous sequels and a TV show, but it's aged poorly, unlike its hero, wasting a fine premise with a muddled narrative and sub-MTV visuals.Sean Connery slums it but still shines as an Argentinian with a Scots accent, Clancy Brown's villain is enjoyable, and the fight scenes are well-choreographed, despite clumsy direction. Christopher Lambert looks, but doesn't sound, the part, the effects are OTT in a harmless way, but the Queen soundtrack is dodgy.Despite its many failings though, somewhere in here there's an idea that's undeniably fun. Of all the 'not quite on the mark' projects out there, this is possibly the premise most deserving of a remake.VerdictIt's clumsily put together and it makes bugger all sense, but dammit, there's something alluring about this story. Don't expect too much and you should be OK. And for God's sake - stay away from the sequels. "},{"Title":"Visual Sci-fi","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Russell Mulcahy's imagery and some very good cinematography are obviously what made Highlander so popular at the movies. Unfortunately I only saw this on video and so missed out on the big screen experience.This actioner is predictable, but remains entertaining throughout as it tells the tale of immortals who must battle down through the centuries until there is only one left. Christopher Lambert is good as Russel Nash, or is he really Russel Nash, and Sean Connery makes a quick appearance as Ramirez.I would have preferred the screenplay to have told the story chronologically rather than using flashbacks; however this is still fairly effective. Try and see this at a repertory theatre.Clancy Brown makes a good villain doesn't he!Monday, November 18, 1991 - Video "},{"Title":"Sensational and spectacular movie with overwhelming duels and colorful scenarios","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" From dawn of times they came moving silently down through the centuries . Connor McCloud (Christopher Lambert) is a sixteenth century Scottish clansman , he was born in 1518 , he's an immortal , a member of a limited group struggling each other throughout the times , but only can live ¨the one¨ . He's a fighter from four centuries ago with an eternal confrontation since 1536 against his fellow headhunter immortal (an extremely hammy Clancy Brown) and arch-enemy seeking an incredible power ; they nowadays are battling in N.Y. streets . Ramírez (Sean Connery) is his preceptor , he's a medieval cavalier, a tough warrior under command of emperor Charles I . Besides , a blade expert (Roxanne Hart) investigates the events and discovers the secrets .The picture displays noisy action , derring-do adventure , spectacular combats and breathtaking outdoors which are a treat for the sight . Connery as the sympathetic Ramirez is terrific though he has a smallish role . All of Sean Connery's scenes had to be filmed in a week due to Connery's schedule ; in fact , he had a bet with director Russell Mulcahy that they would not finish in seven days, but Mulcahy won it . Sean Connery and Christopher Lambert got along so well during filming that they called each other by their characters' names even when they were not filming and it was at Lambert's insistence that Connery and his character returned for the failed Highlander II (1991). Christopher Lambert had just barely learned to speak English when he took this role , the only other English-speaking film he had been in at that point was Greystoke, (1984), in which he spoke only a few words . Notorious secondary Clancy Brown plays magnificently a shamelessly villainous . The film contains exciting musical score by Michael Kamen and known songs by Queen . Mesmerizing and wonderful landscapes well photographed by Gerry Fisher . Previous video musical director Russell Mulcahy realizes this sweeping movie including numerous scenes in video-clip style . It's followed by three inferior sequels with similar players and a TV series such as ¨Highlander II  The quickening¨(91) by Mulcahy ; ¨ Highlander 3  Final dimension¨ by Andy Morahan with Mario Van Peebles ; and ¨Endgame¨ (2000) with Adrian Paul , starring of the series. "},{"Title":"A magical movie, a beautiful storyline.","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Immortals must fight through the ages until only few remain, when that time comes they fight for the prize. Connor Macleod was born in Scotland around 1518, he is Immortal, The movie shows events during Connors lifetime, from battles in the Scottish Highlands to romances on the streets of New York, all while other Immortals are being killed one by one, they can only die by decapitation of the head! I love movies, I have seen hundreds and never had a favourite, but then I watched Highlander... Highlander has everything a movie should have; beautiful scenery, a great soundtrack, action, romance and magic. The cast are perfect for their roles and their roles are perfect for the movie! One thing about this movie is, you have to watch it at least twice to fully understand and appreciate it, and after that i'm sure you will love it. Well Highlander never fails to give me that magic feeling inside. I give this classic movie 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"a excellent movie","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" i first saw this movie bk in 1994 but i did not get it then but when i watched it in 2005 i really loved this movie i mean the acting was great the clothes where authentic the fight scenes was great the dialogue was good well the whole movie was superbly done Christopher fitted his character really well then there was Clancy brown who played Kurgan superbly that character really suited him i like his movies where he plays bad guys he plays them better than he plays the good guys then there was Roxanne hart who played Brenda j Wyatt she was a treat to watch there is a bit of everything in this movie i mean personally the quotes the are excellent i really enjoyed Kurgans quotes there where really good so i recommend this movie for people to watch they wont be disappointed ... as it says if the movie there can be only one "},{"Title":"A dose of 80's fun!!!!","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was hardly 3 yrs old when this movie was released and I only came to know about the movie after I saw the series on TV when the show debuted in India (probably a few years after it did the same in America).Even then the best thing I liked about the movie was the soundtrack by Queen.Yet curiosity, the fact that this movie is a cult classic and mainly because I borrowed this movie from a friend of mine I ended up watching this movie.First thing that struck me about this movie was that it was definitely one of the lower budget films even in those times.The movie starts of with some plain text on screen no background no special effects nothing.However the legendary drawl of Sean Connery more than makes up for budget constraints.The movie constantly revolves between the past and the present and thus continuously holds your attention. However the fact that he was so old in the present was not exploited enough and could have been used to add some humour to the movie.Sean Connery plays his small role with panache and also adds some much needed humour to the movie.Christopher Lambert's acting though is strictly OK and at least in this movie his acting left a lot to be desired.The rest of the cast was upto the mark and Clancy Brown was especially menacing as the Bad Guy.The swordplay may have been good for its time but pales in comparison to todays movies and even say other classics such as Star Wars (not a sword movie i know).The movie answers a lot of questions but raises as many, we are never aware why The Highlander chose the path that he did.Some of the really good scenes were mostly in the past such as the meeting with Sean Connery, the First Appearance of Kurgan, the aging of his wife etc. Other than that a really great scene was the one in the church.Direction and special effects were strictly OK but maybe the vision of the director was hampered by the obvious budgetary constraints. Still cardboard boxes (stones) falling all over the place every time it is hit and the same glasses shattering every time an immortal is killed becomes irritating after a while.Still the concept and story of this movie is endearing and both the bad and the good implications of being an immortal are properly shown.By far the best part about this movie is still the soundtrack by Queen which is very effectively used in this movie. Even the most ordinary scene or the cheesiest special effect is made spectacular by Energy Imparted by the score.If nothing else this movie can be seen for how much effect brilliant music can have on a movie.In a OK movie made somewhat good by a great soundtrack and some good scenes.-s bad special effects, to many questions remain unanswered (possible plot holes), the PRIZE didn't seem worth it in the end, swordplay not that exiting.+/-s Christopher Lambert's acting, no humour, to many repetitive scenes, NOSTALAGIA? +s both the sides of being immortal conveyed, Sean Connery, some great scenes, SUPER SOUNDTRACK.Total 6.5/10 (if you factor in nostalgia then this movie is more like a 7 or 7.5) "},{"Title":"personal opinion","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" this movie has to be one of the best ideas for its time. it is an original masterpiece that has a great story and theme. because of this film, it has spawned 4 sequels. the movie had a great ending fight scene I must include to say. this movie has an awesome soundtrack from the 80's of course, which includes Queen. One of their songs even specifically represents the movie and especially the ending conclusion of the character if you have seen the movie. This movie is the beginning of its kind. I don't think any other characters could play the movie as well as ones that did-(Christopher Lambert, Clancy Brown, Sean Connery). If you haven't seen the movie then I recommend you go watch it. "},{"Title":"Cool!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Now even though this movie doesn't have any monsters in it at all. You're might be wondering why am I reviewing it. If you know my past reviews, I like monster movies. But not just monster movies, I like other forms of Science Fiction. HIGHTLANDER for one is a cool science fiction fantasy. It's strange that there was no mythology built around the Immortals. If it was I don't remember them mentioning it, Clancy Brown is a fun villain. You can tell he had a blast being evil. In the scene where he steal this car with an old lady in the passenger side, it was dark humor at it's finest. It's a guilty pleasure and a must see for all fans of Christopher Lambert, I give HIGHLANDER...9 STARS "},{"Title":"immortals battle for the Prize thru history","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I still recall when my nephew had me sit down and watch Highlander. Our school mascot was a highlander so I had this corny image in my head. That image was blown out of the water by the time the first fight was finished. Since then it has become an all time favorite. From very poignant romance scenes to wickedly sarcastic conversations between Connery and Lambert. Many is the time we've recited entire blocks of dialog just for our own amusement. Truly an outstanding movie for anyone to enjoy. It takes you from Scotland as Connor McCloud learns of his immortal existence to modern day New York as the battle for the prize comes to an end. The sudden flashbacks to his past add depth and understanding to his persona. Clancy Brown as Kurgan, the ultimate bad ass, was quite a good choice since he seems to take such delight in other's misery. Sean Connory as Ramierez looks to be sheer genius. Just when you thought he couldn't be any more suave he steps it up further. "},{"Title":"The Immortal Connery","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This cinematic oddity presented an unusual problem...how do you film the transference of a soul from the victim to the victor? The opening battle leaves this completely unexplained by any dialogue, an intelligent treatment necessary to engage the viewer. It's so difficult to express and understand visually, that the premise is left largely unclear until the climax. Mulcahy plainly studied Hitchcock (the camera movement) and Welles (the foreground/background/ceiling composition). The cinematic bits help keep it from drowning in video game/music video blather. Queen delivered a cracking (if now dated) soundtrack.The most important thing about this movie is how it established Connery's transition from 'Bond' archetype to what he is today - a gruff teacher to younger actors who always delivers a performance with a wink at us see, this is fun!. Think about it, all of his work since this -- Untouchables, ...Red October, Rising Sun, The Rock, ...Forrester -- they derive more directly from his performance here than any of his prior work. That undying formula started here, and Hollywood noticed. "},{"Title":"It's all in your head...","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Connor McCleod(Christopher Lambert) is an immortal who is among the last of his kind, now a mortal combat takes place where the immortals fight to the death to win the prize. Immortals can only be killed through decapitation and The Kurgan(Clancy Brown) is the strongest of his breed, Sean Connery (Who steals the show)co-stars as Lambert's mentor. Highlander is one of the most visually enjoyable movies ever made. It's style tells so much about it that we never stop to think about the logic problems or minor flaws that the film possesses. (Lambert is playing a Scottish warrior while Connery is a Spanish Egyptian) The sword fights are dynamic and the movie features a great soundtrack but it's mainly the intriguing time hopping flashbacks, Connery and Lambert's excellent performances and a beautiful visual style which make this the true classic, it is. Highlander spawned sequels despite having taking the idea as far as it could and while Highlander III is marginally watchable, one is well advised to steer clear of the others.* * * * out of 4-(Excellent) "},{"Title":"There can be only one","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conner MacLeod of the Clan MacLeod is different. He is an immortal, and now is the time of the quickening. There can be only one immortal left in the end, and the only way they can die is by decapitation. Oh, and the fate of the world is ruled by the immortal who is left.Now, that may sound kinda silly written out that way, but the writers and the director manage to pull it off, with the help of Christopher Lambert as Conner and the incomparable Sean Connery as Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez, Conner's mentor and friend.This is the innovative story that launched several movies and a hit TV series. It is full of great special effects, and wonderful sword fights.I thoroughly enjoyed this movie! "},{"Title":"Classic Fantasy","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a very worthy movie from the 1980s. People judging it from today's standards are being unnecessarily harsh to a piece of art that was way ahead of its time. The movie has an amazing soundtrack and is beautifully shot in the most unsuspecting places. I remember going to see the movie for the first time expecting to see the usual drab codswallop coming out in the 1980s, but what I got was one an opening shot unlike anything I had seen before, a genre-defining moment. The interchanges between the present and the past are inspired in most instances, and even the dodgy accents do not detract from an incomprehensibly good story. "},{"Title":"Looks  great, but very weak story","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" My vote of 6 goes directly to the directing, cinematography and set design. The story is semi-interesting; based around a group of immortals fighting for a prize, but is flawed in many ways.The Kurgan (Clancey Brown) takes it upon himself to bump off all the other 'immortals' (they die if you chop their head off) so he can receive 'the prize.'He drops them like flies one by one until he has to face MacLeod. There are no prizes for guessing the ending and it was obvious there would be a final battle between MacLeod and Kruger, with MacLeod being the victor.I would recommend this film to people who appreciate aesthetics. It has some fantastic directing and great sets, most notably the fight between Kruger and Ramirez (Connery) where the castle falls down around them until they are left suspend in mid air supported only by a stone staircase.The story however, is another thing. Full of holes, like the following; -Why did it begin at a wresting match that Macleod obviously had no interest in, he then goes into the car park for no reason - where there just happens to be another immortal who attacks him. And how did he ever manage to sit down with a sword inside his jacket??!!-MacLeod is banished from his village and goes to live in the hills on his own, and not only finds a house to live in but a woman to share it with - though it's never explained where the hell she came from.-Sean Connery plays a Spanish guy with a Scottish accent-Ramirez comes to find MacLeod to teach him how to fight (Why? There can only be one immortal - Ramirez should have just killed him!)-Connery was then killed relatively easily by Kruger - so how has he survived the last 4500 years? And where did MacLeod disappear to in that scene?-And why it took Kruger until 1985 to have his second fight with MacLeod (his first being about 400 years earlier) is unexplainable.-And the 'prize' they were all fighting for? Death. MacLeod receives the gifts of telepathy and of omniscience. But he also becomes mortal and has to grow old and die, so when the ghost of Ramiez tells him to use his powers well, what for?!Finally, I'd like to note this is Star Wars in a kiltMacLeod is the 'chosen one' (Skywalker) who will defeat Kruger (Vader/Emperor) in a battle using swords (lightsabers) using the teaching of an old master, Ramirez (Ben Kenobi). Ramirez (Kenobi) then dies after Kruger (Vader) chops off his head. The ghost of Ramirez then returns to Macleod in a final vision at the end of the film after the universe is safe (the end of 'Jedi'). "}{"Title":"God sent a Ramirez","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Highlander is a fairly original idea. Christopher Lambert and Sean Connery are fun actors to watch. The fact that there have been 4 Highlander Movies and the Highlander TV Series show the popularity of this franchise. The immortal villain is shown as being really nasty and stands out compared to other movie villains. As the Grandson of the Friendly Ki Alien chosen Creator King George VI Windsor I am not aggressive even though as American Shadow Vice President I would defend America against a nuclear attack by a foreign nation. In some decks of cards there are three Jokers making a full deck Ol' 55. My latest message from my Daughter Julias artificial Intelligence Computer on the Planet Coaltrain is Dad I'm OK. In a holodeck it would be possible to get such a message hinting that in real life my Moonfleet Moon 168 is near the planet Coaltrain the home world of the Friendly KI aliens who created Humans in a laboratory. The Care rank Ki recognized American Shadow President Jack Kennedy as the highest ranking member of America and QE2 as the highest ranking person in the United Kingdom. As a Windsor I am 22nd in command of Earth while my Daughter is 23rd in command of Earth. The Skipper of Earth/Pisces 12 is Friendly Ki Alien Demeter while on Earths Moon Care Rank Ki Alien Apophis-God is Demeters superior. You should see the other movies of Sir Sean Connery and Christopher Lambert as well. "},{"Title":"Good for beginners","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is an excellent movie to introduce someone who doesn't think they will like Science Fiction to the Genre, Sean Connery is a good draw, he is not known for his Science Fiction characters. The story is not heavy on the technical terms or special effects. Also a good date movie. Christopher Lambert, Roxanne Hart, and Clancy Brown are all excellent. Make sure you are well rested and prepared to handle the many accents you will experience. The time line does jump around quite a bit as much of the back story is told through flashbacks, just use the characters wardrobes as clues to when something happened and you will be fine. However, do not ever see Highlander II The Quickening, promise me, now, I am not finishing until you say it, I can wait, ... OK, Good, remember, you promised. "},{"Title":"Who wants to live forever?","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Most people are afraid to die, but Russell Nash is afraid to live. The reason is that he is an immortal who was born in the early 16th century and has lived for four and a half centuries. Now in the midst of the gathering he has to use the teachings of his Old friend Ramirez (Sean Connery) to help him defeat his greatest enemy who has been waiting for their final confrontation for four hundred years. He is The Kergan (Clancy Brown), but their war against each other will be for the ultimate prize and the fate of mankind rests in the balance.Russell Nash/ Connor Macleod is played by the french Christopher Lambert, who learnt English especially for this film. Roxanne Hart plays Brenda Wyatt the woman who wants to get close but ends up being court in the middle of the hatred of the two main characters.This film has some very good battle scenes and flashbacks including Ramirez teaching Connor of his potential. the sword fights are also very well choreographed and certain quotes will definitely make you smile.The music is mainly that of the greatest rock band to ever walk the planet 'Queen' the song who wants to live forever is also very powerful in this film because of the meaning.Directed by Russel Mulcahly.This is a very good film overall and well worth watching and owning, but it would have been better if finished after this one but unfortunately they made three very poor sequels that ruined the whole idea of the film. "},{"Title":"Classic sword wielding movie","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Recap Connor McLeod is born 450 years ago in the Scottish highlands, and as a young man his clan goes to war. In the battle he meets a frightening black knight. Fighting this knight Connor is fatally wounded and should by all means die. But he doesn't. Believed to be in league with the devil, he is cast out from his village and seeks refuge in the highlands. There he is sought out by Ramirez, an ancient Egyptian with flair. He tells Connor that he is immortal, he has no weaknesses but one. If he is decapitated he will die. There are but a few immortals in the world and they generally fight each other. The last one will gain all knowledge and power from all the other immortals. The black knight Connor fought, Ramirez tells him, is The Kurgan, the strongest warrior of them all. He must not win. In today (1986) NY Connor is named Russell Nash, and the final battle, the Gathering, is closing. And once again Connor will meet the evil Kurgan. At the same time the NY Police is confounded by all the headless bodies that keep turning up.Comment This is a classic, I remember seeing it many years ago and thought that it was so cool. Now, I must say, that a lot of the sword fighting and special effects feel pretty outdated, and in my minds eye, they were a lot better. However, accepting that it was made in the mid 80s it is still a very good movie. A nice story that jumps from the spectacular Scottish highlands to the dark dull NY. In addition there is good music (by Queen) and one can hint at some philosophical questions when Connor's first love dies while he has not aged a day since they met. Cristopher Lambert actually makes a good effort. I believe a lot will find his acting stiff, and that is just the case with his NY persona that has gone through a lot and does not dare to live, knowing that he will always lose whatever love he will find. His Scottish persona is much more open and living, though he will win no awards. Connery is much better as Ramirez and I really liked Clancy Brown as the Kurgan. Especially the church scene he really pulls off, even though I've read that he wanted that scene to go little differently, and I thought his ideas would have been nice. Well, now it is a little late to change, and for anyone that likes swords and stuff, this is really a movie for you.7/10 "},{"Title":"A Christian Theology","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The first time I saw the movie, Tuesday 9 Aug 2005, it seemed to be a B movie but still it had something to say and I just had to watch it again 2 days later to see what.The movie clearly paralleled the birth of a Christian and his struggle to reach the ultimate goal to be Christ-like and live forever.The 'quickening' was the birth. As in some Christian denominations, this should be a very dramatic event. Then following birth, others, even family members will dislike you and want to keep you at a distance because you are different or they may fear what they do not know or understand.The struggle to remain Christ-like is an on-going battle that has been experienced for 2,000 years by Christians and even longer by the earlier Church. With every defeat against the Devil or Evil, a Christian becomes stronger or reborn in his faith. Thus, the 'quickening' happens with the death of every adversary and every triumph over Evil.In the end, only one will survive. This reference is from the Christian Bible, John 316 For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life. The everlasting life immortalizes a human being. The only way a human can become immortal is through Christ, God's Son.The last Supper before Christ was crucified; he and his Disciples shared drink from a chalice, or a silver cup. The drink was symbolic of accepting Jesus Christ as a way to immortality. The final battle in Highlander was fought under the billboard signage Silver Cup. That silver cup was the chalice or the Holy Grail that symbolizes peaceful everlasting life.In the end, there shall be only one is the result of one who remains faithful to Christianity and being Christ-like along the way. Christians believe that in the end, evil-doers (sinners) will perish and die. The Highlander said as he was receiving the Prize that I know everything. I am everything. He later explained that he could read the minds of great men and with his powers he could help people. This parallel is to God and Jesus Christ. It was done to show you what powers God has and why men struggle to become Christ-like.I think the entertainment value of this film is 1 and 1/2 stars, but the literary value is 10 stars. I thoroughly enjoyed the film.I am excited and can hardly wait to see the sequel to see if my opinions are founded in the author's soul. "},{"Title":"There should have been only one.","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I am not the biggest fan of this movie, I only give it a six, but compared to the other movies and the show it is almost an Oscar worthy picture. This one is about an immortal who through the killings of other immortals hopes to attain the prize. He must win, because if he loses, one who is evil will have total power to do anything he wishes. How do you kill an immortal you ask? Why, you chop their head off of course. Sounds cool, but it plays out very slowly with the highlight of this one being the scenes with Sean Connery. Especially, the fight between Connery and the villain of this piece. There are other good fights here and there and a very good musical score mainly comprised of Queen songs that makes up for the parts of the film that just seem to drag by. Lambert and the villain are good though and they have a pretty good fight in the end, though not as good as the one involving Connery. When this movie ends though that should really have been it as everything done and said in the movie really points to the last fight as the final one with the phrase there can be only one. "},{"Title":"Instant fave","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I saw Highlander on video in '87 and was instantly hooked. I couldn't believe it had gone through theaters so fast. So many good lines. Lambert was fine as Connor and Sean Connery added the extra flash the movie needed. Clancy Brown is fantastic as Kurgan and is one of my favorite movie villains. The swordplay is great. It's good to see authentic(for the movies) fighting without all the computer generated junk as there is today. Although I've found a few ladies who like it and they are very special, Highlander is totally a guy movie. Most girls either don't get it or just laugh it off. If you haven't seen the sequels, don't! I have to admit though that I did enjoy the series but that's for another time. "},{"Title":"Namesake","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I look at this film now and I am blinded by the flaws that I never really saw back in the eighties. The acting is decidedly average. Sean Connery almost sleepwalks through his role and the guy who plays the cop Garfield should be committed to overacting anonymous.There are glaring holes in the story. Connor Macleod falls out of a boat in the middle of a Scottish Loch yet when he walks across the lake bottom it is almost as clear as daylight. Russell Nash assaults three cops in the space of about half an hour but walks out of the interrogation room when he feels like it. And so on and so on.This may sound like I hate the film but on the contrary, I love it. This is quintessential eighties movie making. I put this in the same category as films like Big Trouble in Little China or even Lone Wolf McQuade. These are films that were panned by critics but are loved by the normal movie-going public. That's because we're after nothing more from these films than a couple of hours of sheer fun.Russell Mulcahy's video director approach can be a little grating at times but it's a minor carp. Clancy Brown's Kurgan is still one of the great villains in film. ( I've always wondered who would win out of a fight. Kurgan, Terminator or Robocop. Who knows but it would make for a good scrap. ) The story is great. This is imaginative fantasy at it's best. Christopher Lambert's accent is confusing at first but as you get into the story you don't even notice it. It actually begins to suit his character. As for the look of the film I think it is first rate. It's as beautifully shot as Braveheart or Rob Roy and preceded those films by nine years.All in all I think it's a great two hours in the dark and I get the film out every now and again to remind myself there was a time before CGI and that the eighties produced some very worthwhile movies. "},{"Title":"Not a bad flick.","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I got this on DVD well cheap over in the UK. It's a good flick, and fun to watch. But the action scene have aged awfully, and the script has not got enough depth to it. Christopher Lambert, a french actor, seems a first an unusual candidate for the role of MacLeod, especially with his dodgy accents (both American and Scottish are pretty weak), and his poor set of credentials. However, in my controversial oppinon, he pulls the role off well. His cold and uncaring first impression as Nash is played very well, and as the Scottish warrior he appears to fit into the role well. He has the look of a star, and this too aides his efforts during the action scenes. As I mentioned earlier, Lambert is really let down by his diction. His poor accents are not embarrassing, but do nothing to propel the film into the gritty realism it reveals in, whilst at the same time contrasting. "},{"Title":"Let's go 80's! I love this film!","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw this movie when I was 8 years old, and remember loving it! Well I watched it again (now 26 years old), and the movie was still great. Yes, it's totally cheesy and it's totally 80's, but that's part of the charm. Not only is McLeod wearing a trenchcoat and running shoes throughout the movie (when not wearing a kilt), Queen songs are playing throughout the film. The script is also somewhat lacking (don't move, don't even breathe!), but the romanticism of the immortal plot and some pretty cool special effects still provide ample appeal.Just be amused at the Lambert stare, and all the other charms that make this movie a classic for all sci-fi fans! "}{"Title":"There can be only one & this is it!","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In sixteenth century Scotland, fellow clansman CONNOR MACLEOD (CHRISTOPHER LAMBERT) is killed in the heat of battle, but returns the next day from the grave. Banished by his own family & countrymen from being a warlock, he begins life anew, meeting a pretty young woman named Heather & trying to forget his past, that is until the arrival of JUAN VILLOS LOBOS RAMIREZ (SEAN CONNERY) who tells Macleod that he can't die & that he is immortal, a member of a small race of beings scattered throughout the world. All locked in a centuries old battle, that has spanned across time, but remains a secret to the rest of the world, all of whom await the time of the gathering, when the last handful of immortals left will battle it out for The Prize which will give one mortality & allow them to have children & influence the worlds leaders to do good or evil. Connor is then trained to be a swordsman by Ramirez, who is later killed a while later by the same Immortal that tried to kill Macleod in the battle field, the monstrous seven foot tall, terrifying crazed, Russian psychopath, the sadistic KURGAN (CLANCY BROWN). The Kurgan then disappears from Connor's life never to be seen again. While his loved ones die off, Connor remains young & travels throughout the centuries, decapitating other immortal enemies that seek his harm. The twist is, is that these immortals can only be killed when their head is severed from the rest of their body, which is why they choose the sword to combat with. Now in present day New York, circa 1985, the Gathering has finally come, with the last remaining immortals battling each other in an effort to be the last one left to claim the prize. Connor & the Kurgan meet in an epic sword fight with the fate of the world hanging in the balance.HIGHLANDER is such a good movie! A very original & captivating & very unique idea for a film. It's highly imaginative piece of work, very refreshing. It's radically different in almost every way, especially compared to films that came before it. To be truthful it's really hard to categorize what genre this film really is, while it has an action movie theme to it, it also mixes in sci-fi/horror/drama/a bit of light comedy & romance as well & it's Suspense. The elements of time from 16th century Scotland, the 18th century all the way to the 20th century overlap one another cutting between each other, but unlike most films, this is never annoying. Music video director RUSSELL MULCAHY is such a talented director! His direction is just so good, in fact he uses practically all of his MTV video camera tricks here, which along with the constant use of rock music that is scattered at various times throughout the movie, makes the film seem almost like a feature length rock video. The opening battle is well choreographed & really outshines almost every other battle in the film & that includes the finale between Kurgan & Connor. In fact this would be the film that would introduce MULCAHY to the Hollywood game & it's easy to see why. The films main score done by the late MICHAEL KAMEN is so beautiful & one of the best scores to ever grace a film. QUEEN'S WON'T LIVE FOREVER & PRINCES OF THE UNIVERSE is a real treat to hear. But the direction, music & sword fights aren't the only thing that helps HIGHLANDER rise above the pack, it's the acting too! CHRISTOPHER LAMBERT is sheer perfection as Connor, the films hero, CLANCY BROWN plays the role of KURGAN with such unholy relish, that one almost considers it a shame he didn't get his own movie! He was really captivating & fun in his role, he steals practically every scene he's in & has a terrifying devilish smile, that makes him what is arguably one of the best screen villains in history!. SEAN CONNERY was very likable as Macleod's mentor Ramirez & the film has many touching moments of sadness such as Connor watching his aged wife dying & the friendship between him & Ramirez is very heartwarming.The only downside I can see in the film, is that the film-makers never answer any of the questions fans have, regarding the story such as How did the war of immortals come about? The Church's are considered sacred, hallowed grounds, but why? Why was a samurai sword created some 6-700 years before it was mean't to be? How does one become immortal? who made them as such? How is it that decapitation is the only means of killing them? How did the prize & the quickening come to be? & how did the immortals learn of it & know all of this? Why can they not have children?All in all, I just want to say that HIGHLANDER is an absolute must see! It's definitely one of my all time favourite films! Unfortuantly HIGHLANDERS box office & the generally enthusiastic response from fans, resulted in four completely unnecessary & increasingly & inferior sequels, which only got more confusing & less enthusiastic as they went on & only served to make this film look even better. The end of the film sees Connor winning the prize & then being gifted with mortality, able to fall in love & have children & influence the world leaders for the good of mankind, is pretty much ignored in the follow ups! Followed by an animated movie, HIGHLANDER THE SEARCH FOR VENGEANCE, three TV series, HIGHLANDER THE ANIMATED SERIES, HIGHLANDER THE SERIES & HIGHLANDER THE RAVEN & four sequels, the first of which is HIGHLANDER 2 THE QUICKENING (RENEGADE VERSION)**** stars "},{"Title":"A Magnificent Adventure Epic","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw Highlander nearly ten years ago and it was one of the most spectacular and exciting adventure movies ever made. Christopher Lambert rocked in this magical story of romance, action and tragedy, the fighting scenes were somewhat cheesy but entertaining and the love story between an immortal and his modern day girlfriend was breathtaking.His name's Connor MaCleod (Lambert)and he is immortal born near the highlands of Scotland in 1518, during a massive battle in 1536 Connor is fatally wounded but does not die causing him to be banished from his village because the villagers believe it's the work of the devil. Years later he lives in a small cottage with his wife Heather (Ednie). One day he meets Juan Villa Lobos- Sanchez Ramirez (Connery) a fellow immortal who teaches him about who he is. Many years pass and finally Heather dies of old age while in his arms. Now it's 1985 449 years later Connor lives in New York City trying to maintain a low profile but that's harder said then done.His arch enemy Kurgan (Clancy) who tried to kill him centuries ago returns hoping to finish him once and for all. Brenda J. Wyatt (Hart) a forensics investigator begins to investigate the mysterious gentleman and believe Connor's incredible story, now it's a fight to the finish to claim the ultimate prize in the end there can be only one. For fans of sci-fi films I recommend you see Highlander it's worth the time "},{"Title":"Highlander movie goes high!","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Russell Mulcahy, director of few big but interesting movies, absolutely has his all-time high moment with Highlander. One of the things that impress me the most with the movie is it's variety. Action, drama, love, scenery, tragic moments, reality, stereotypes, WW2... well just about everything. From featuring the beautifully shot scenes of midieval Scotland onto old-school U.S. police station with stereotyped cops, it's entertaining to watch without getting too out of hand. Christopher Lambert, an actor whom I rank as a very talented one, portrays Scottish clansman Connor MacLeod superbly though his American-French background (at least at the time being). Clancy Brown, with his natural evil voice, makes a dark, vigilant villain who is indeed enjoyable to watch. Roxanne Hart do her part well as the sensual lady (heh, so 80's it can get...).Totally recommended for anyone who has not yet seen it. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Why do so many people like this movie?","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I happen to work at a video store and my boss is a huge Highlander fan. Having never seen the movies before he loaned me Highlander 2 Renegade Eidtion ... It was most definitely a laughable movie, but enjoyable due to its cheeseball nature. Figuring that it suffered from just being a bad sequel I rented the first one from my work only to find that Highlander, is just as much as a laugh as the second movie. You see actors trying to be serious, trying to actually act... But it doesn't happen. Lambert doesn't even know how to do a Scottish accent, it's very feint and sometimes it's not even there when he speaks. I think it would be understandable if he could shed the accent after many years, but he just can't nail it whatsoever. His acting is subpar, as is the rest of the cast. Sean Connery made me laugh a few times by saying really stupid crap about whatever MacLeod was experiencing, but that's about it.Things just sort of happened in this movie, it seemed rather slopped together. I mean, somehow we find this guy is immortal, Sean Connery comes around and magically knows everything that MacLeod needs to know... Bad guy pops in, kills Sean Connery because Lambert is out somewhere... We never find out where... and then it's in the future and this big hulking guy is stalking him for the prize or whatever.My question was, why didn't Clancy just wait around for MacLeod to return and end it there?Anyway... This isn't a terrible movie or anything, it's definitely a good popcorn flick with some laughs due to a high camp factor, however I definitely don't see it as the masterpiece that fans claim it is.2 and a half out of 5 stars or something.  "},{"Title":"Great! 9/10","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In my opinion, Highlander is an excellent film, marred only by a rather unusual casting. The concept is fascinating. The idea of immortals battling one another through the centuries is quite frankly  AWESOME. It is an idea that has hooked me ever since I first slid the Highlander DVD in my player and pressed 'play' all those years ago. The soundtrack is top-notch. I'm not a fan of Queen but the tracks are perfect and work brilliantly with the story. The other tunes are also great and contribute to the dark mood of the film.The acting is good, but not exceptional. Sir Sean is wonderful as Ramirez, but Christopher Lambert and some of the others simply don't stand out as much. Clancy Brown however is truly brilliant and convincing as the evil Kurgan.The special effects are basic but enjoyable. In fact, to be honest I prefer the clanging sword-fight noises and 'quickenings' to modern day fight scene effects. The fight scenes themselves are thoroughly enjoyable, especially the finale between Connor and the Kurgan.The only bad thing about this film is the casting. Why on earth was Christopher Lambert chosen to play a Scotsman? Why on earth was Sean Connery, a Scotsman, chosen to play an Egyptian? It is truly bizarre, and for someone as keen on history and regional accents as I am, it is a most annoying aspect. Christopher Lambert's Scottish accent is hilariously bad, and since when do Egyptians speak English with Scottish accents? This odd casting decision is particularly annoying in the highland scenes when we are subjected to the overly Scottish Sean Connery asking  'What's haggis?'Of course, this is only a minor detail, but important enough, for me at least, to reduce Highlander from a potential 10/10 to a 9/10. All I can say is  'Well done Russell Mulcahy!'. Shame he had to make Highlander II, a terrible excuse for a sequel to this great film.  "},{"Title":"in the end there could be only one","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  i know some people today might find this movie cheesy but you have to remember this is 1986. i think its pretty original on the telling of the story. a scotsman finds out he is part of a special race of immortals and soon with the help of another immortal realizes the purpose of his gift. the main stars of this movie are christopher lambert, sean connery,and clancy brown. lambert at some moments is stiff but at other scenes he is pimp. connery who i think made this movie for the paycheck is funny in the mentor role. but it is brown 's role as the evil kurgan that makes the movie exciting. good photography and music. if you enjoy B-movies of the 80s you will like this movie. 3 out 4 stars.  "},{"Title":"my favorite movie","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the first videos I ever saw, the first I ever bought, and one of the first DVDs I bought is the director's cut, which is simply better than the original, hard to believe. I am a story lover, and the story, an immortal man and the loneliness of his existence, will work forever. There are bizarre holes in the execution-Why don't they wear iron collars? Why does Ramirez have a Scots accent?-but half the fun is coming up with reasons for that. And the best thing is the way the scenes change, the face on the wall, the top of the lake, the ceiling of the parking lot, etc.The movie should be a standalone, but they unfortunately made sequels. The second movie would have been better if they had at least explained where the immortals came from. They could have, easily, but didn't- I came up with one in two minutes, based on their own story. The third was a virtual replay of the first without the art, and the fourth plays off the series, which wasn't a good idea in itself.But the first is what matters.  "},{"Title":"The best movie I have ever seen","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The plot is innovative to say the least which is actually half the fun. The fight scenes are very entertaining as most of them occur in 20th century New York with swords. Sean Connery is welcome relief to the gruff Christopher Lambert, who has yet to make a better film. The villain, the Kurgan, is a huge man who is both disgusting and terrifying, which helps to create the perfect bad-guy. The film also looks into the theme of lost love, of how immortals cannot fall for women as they shall eventually die and will ultimately cause much grief. It is a problem that all of the immortals must face until they gain the 'prize' of being the last to survive.'Highlander' has since spawned three sequels, a TV series and a cartoon series, which of course won't make sense if you've seen this first installment. I think the original Highlander is a fantastic film; it is something I can watch over and over again and receive a great deal of pleasure from. It is fun and enjoyable even with the violence and the film manages to fit in a few comical scenes, which shows the lighter side of Lambert. Connery, although not the main actor, plays a good part worthy of lots of credit. I have to give this film 10 out 10, I do not think for the time they made this, they could of made it any better. Superb.  "},{"Title":"Supremely silly, but not without a modicum of style...","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Christopher Lambert with the lineage of a Scotsman, whilst Sean Connery is cast as a Mediterranean, only without any hint of an accent??!  This is one of the SMALLEST anomalies with the concept, and if you're expecting anything that takes itself remotely seriously then it could well put you off.  Just make a deal with yourself to ride with the silliness, though, for there are some wonderful touches here.Mulcahy is a director with a keen sense of the visual, and the villain is deliciously hammy.  Lambert and Connery are two actors who I've never understood the appeal of, but they don't distract here.This is the kind of enterprise where one thinks only in the 80's; but the touches of flair shown have no doubt been real influences on everything from the makers of Braveheart to underground fetish clubs in the seedier parts of many cities!  It's a preposterous concoction that probably works best when heavily medicated; but hey, it sounds like a masterpiece when compared to its sequel, which I'll be watching soon... "},{"Title":"Only One There Can Be...","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Yeah it probably doesn't hold up well when compared to Lord of the Rings, but this odd fusion of fantasy, drama, swashbuckling glee, romance and time travel is still a fun romp, especially if you've got the director's cut on hand (sadly, the film still runs even longer in Europe, but the full European version will probably never be released in America).Christopher Lambert is not a very convincing Scotsman, and Sean Connery is not a very convincing Spaniard, but Sean has more energy and panache in his brief role as the mentor Ramirez than Chris has throughout the whole film. Chris looks good in highlander garb, but he's more effective in the New York scenes than he is in the flashbacks to Scotland. One can imagine thousands of actors who would have been more convincing - Daniel Day-Lewis & Liam Neeson come to mind - but Chris is okay as Connor MacLeod. Roxanne Hart is okay but nothing special as the 20th century lover; Chris's Scottish girlfriend Heather is actually the more lovely of the two. Clancy Brown appears to be having a good old time as the film's villain, the Kurgan. Also adding to the fun is the odd mix of traditional symphony orchestra music (by Michael Kamen) and the Queen soundtrack.The sequels were not that good, but the TV series that starred Adrian Paul as Connor's cousin Duncan MacLeod was pretty good. "}{"Title":"Bad acting, but good atmosphere.","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  *spoiler allert* Highlander is a typical 80`s film. Like in most       of these kind of films they didn´t put much weight on acting. Even Connery is pretty bad. But it isn´t the point of this movie perhaps. With the perfect  soundtrack it gives you the heroic atmosphere that  it is supposed to give. So even if it is not a great  peace of art, it is still very entertaining and much  better than most of the 80´s adventure/action flicks.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Great premise, bad execution","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander has a premise that holds a great potential.  The battle of the immortals, the Prize they fight for, and nice catch phrase to boot -- THERE CAN BE ONLY ONE!Unfortunately the movie turns into a goofy work after the first hour or so, almost a parody of its own story.  It is as if the second hour deconstructs the mystery and fantasy of the first hour with some forgettable fighting scenes and infusion of conventionality with labelling a character as the absolute evil to be defeated -- Wouldn't it be much more interesting if none of them were really bad but still have to eventually kill one another?But the least forgivable were the truly absurd sequences that kept jumping out, straight out of the left field.  Like the flashback to the colonial days when MacLeod is a drunken participant in a duel, and of course, he can't be killed by being shot.  That was supposed to be a funny one-minute bit, I guess, but I wasn't laughing.  Instead, I kept asking myself why things like this were necessary and, quite bluntly, What the hell was THAT?The answer to both turned out to be an apathetic shrug and the conclusion that this was a movie that started out great and then turned into a goofy mess.  I give it 5/10.joe k. "},{"Title":"Quite good","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I recently saw the original Highlander starring Christopher Lambert. I thought that this movie was quite good.  The story surrounding the immortals that fight eachother using swords appealed to me, and I am a fan of Sean Connery, who also has a role in this movie(just a small supporting role, really). I also found the movie to be quite impressive from a technical standpoint, especially considering its age.  The Highlander-series have been the flagship-series, so to speak, for actor Christopher Lambert.  Christopher Lambert`s performance was pretty weak in this movie.  What I thought carried this movie was great storytelling, quite impressive special-effects, great sword-fights and great performances from supporting actors like Sean Connery. Considering all the bad movies that were made during the 1980`s, this is in my opinion one of the better movies to come out of that decade. Well worth seeing.7,5/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing more than a passable sword-and-sorcery popcorn flick...","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm glad that the sword-and-sorcery flicks aren't made anymore. The craze died out before they got to be as miserable as some other genres. In case you need a reminder of just how bad most of them were, think back a few years. Films such as Red Sonja and The Blade Master are ill memories best left forgotten. Even Conan the Barbarian was not for my tastes -- even though I'm a big fan of Arnie Schwarzenegger.And so I come to Highlander, the 1986 film starring Christopher Lambert and Sean Connery as immortal warriors who inherit the earth and are always alive, left to battle each other to gain extra super-power (think Mario power-ups and you've got the idea).Lambert's character has been around since the 1500s. Connery's since sometime around 300 A.D., give or take a few hundred/thousand years.Although it's not a great film, Highlander certainly ranks as one of the better sword-and-sorcery flicks, solely because it has a few unique ideas (immortal man living throughout the ages), good battle scenes, and a fairly interesting -- or at least amusing -- story.The story is that of a man who must cope with battling immortals and the emotional task of eternal life, and this entire idea sorta reminded me of the Tom Cruise/Brat Pitt flick Interview with the Vampire; at least as far as the central theme -- a guy who can't die whose story is not one filled with highlights, but rather bitter moments.The film opens up in a car park outside of a wrestling tournament. Lambert battles a very flexible and energetic old fogie, slices his head off, and is arrested by cops and held suspect for murder. The thing is, the sword he sliced the guy's head off with dates back to a year when such swords weren't even made. How can this be? (Answer Who cares?)A nosy female reporter (Roxanne Hart) gets involved in this business, since she runs an on-the-side profession of being a professional sword historian (naturally) and is (naturally) interested by such strange occurences. As she investigates into the sword's background, she (naturally) unlocks Nash's (Lambert) past, realizing that he is one of a select few immortals who battle for complete domination by killing each other off and therefore gaining more power. Naturally.The film's bad guy, Kruger (Clancy Brown, who now voices cartoon shows like Spongebob Squarepants), has been in a bitter feud with Nash for years, dating back to when Nash's name used to be MacLeod, and he was a Scottish war hero. (Think Braveheart, minus the epic scale.) Anyway, they're still at it, and Nash/MacLeod is even angrier at Kruger since he killed his mentor, Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez (Connery) years ago. But his spirit lives on. I think, anyway.Really corny, and really campy, the film rips off everything in sight -- particularly The Terminator, released two years prior to the film, and Conan the Barbarian, both films of course starring The Austrian Oak himself, who would have been more believable as a Scottish war hero than Lambert ever would be. The villain, Kruger, is set on Arnie Mode, particularly in scenes such as the one where he walks into a motel, with techno music pounding in the background like a heartbeat, his eyes scanning the room like a machine. (All the while being filmed in what I saw as a James Cameron Style.) Then he grabs the owner of the fine (and by that I mean absolutely horrid) establishment by the shirt and tells him, Never speak to me. (And the obvious references to Conan are everywhere -- from the filming style of the flashbacks to the swordfight scenes.)But I'm having what the Scots might call a wee bit of fun here. The movie isn't all that bad -- as long as you aren't expecting something more than passable popcorn entertainment. (In light of the sequels and rip-offs, however, this film indeed looks like a classic in comparison.)Highlander inspired an uncountable number of sequels (Sean Connery returned for only one), a television show in 1992, and lots of really, really bad straight-to-video films starring Christopher Lambert.All of this said, considering the sole source of the material, I don't see what all the extreme fuss is. But it is a lot better than Police Academy; I'll give it that much. And at least it didn't spawn six lousy sequels. Yet.3.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"There really can be only one.","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  And this one's it.  The other Highlander movies aren't even worth a glance. I'm not sure what it was that made this movie so great when the others suck so bad.  Perhaps it was the cast, though Christopher Lambert was in all the movies, and does not tend to be in great movies in general, and Sean Connery guest starred in the second one, which still sucked.  But the cast, taken as a whole, worked very well together.  Perhaps it was the soundtrack -- you can't beat Queen, don't try. )  Who knows what the magic was that went into this movie, and not the others.  What I do know is that it works.  And I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Why this one was so good","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The biggest difference between Highlander nad Highlander II (which was so terrible I naver wanted to see the series or any other sequels) was the lack of an explanation. It's as though the filmmakers are saying. Look, you want me to waste your time coming up with an explanation as to why these guys are immortal, what they're doing here, why they have to kill each other, how they know about the game and the 'irresistible pull to a far off land' crap? Or do you want see some guys loose they're heads?It's all execution. Then H2 comes out with the stupidest explanation possible, which contradicts just about everything in the original. "},{"Title":"Why Garfield? You cruising for a piece of ass?","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is still my favourite movie ever! It's awesome! Dodgy special effects, even dodgier accents and some totally cliched scenes, but damn is it entertaining.You can see Russell Mulcahy's music video leanings, but I dare anyone to say his scene changes and camera work aren't striking. The fish tank turning into a loch, the tilt up through the roof of a carpark to reveal the stunning vistas of the Scottish highlands, who cares if the storyline is slightly ridiculous, it LOOKS amazing and the soundtrack by that little known pub band Queen kicks a*se!Clancy Brown is deliciously over the top as the almost pantomime baddie the Kurgan, and Lambert delivers his dumb one liners with glee. You can't help but get into it when he flips off a line to a German officer then fills his Nazi behind with lead. Eeeeexcellent.The comedy is sufficiently amusing, (see Tricky Dicky from Eastenders dueling with Lambert over a petty insult then shooting his own butler for being overly irritating; Hodgkins... ), and the action is exciting and at times brutal.This film knows it is not a cinematic masterpiece, it never hoped to win any Oscars, all it was intended to be was 90 or so minutes of no brainer fantasy escapism and in that respect it most certainly succeeds. Nuff said.  "},{"Title":"Who wants to live forever?","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  HIGHLANDER (1986) *** Christopher Lambert, Sean Connery, Clancy Brown, Roxanne Hart, Beatie Edney, Sheila Gish.  Special effects laden sci-fi adventure fantasy about an immortal Scottish highlander (Lambert) whose mentor (Connery) teaches him how to be invincible with the menacing Brown out to be sole supreme immortal.  The great production design and effective direction by Russell Mulcahy make up for the somewhat stilted acting.  Excellent musical score by Michael Kamen and rock group Queen, particularly the hauntingly evocative Who Wants To Live Forever? "},{"Title":"Perfect!","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is something special, story is so touching and that music... Michael Kamen´s score is fabulous and Queen rocks. This time Christopher Lambert shows what he is made off. His best movie ever (and Russell Mulcahys), no doubt but why oh why he doesn´t make anymore movies like this?? Highlander-End Game was Ok but parts 2 and 3 sucked... "},{"Title":"Quality Film","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is without doubt a classic (not a cult cl;assic - whatever one of them may be)! You don't sit down to watch a film like this expecting to see Godfather type dialogue or detail - this is a purley relax and enjoy type of film. Lambert is one of the worlds most underratted actors whose mainly unadvertised films are varied in quality but always have one thing in common - he is the best thing in them! The Tarzan film he was in was the best of the Tarzan films made with the most convincing Tarzan film - and I dare anyone not to raise a wry smile near the end of Highlander when the girl saves him from having his head chopped off as Lambert gives one of his top laughs and asks what took you! Queen soundtrack also makes this good viewing and lets not forget that there is an added bonus of Connery! "}{"Title":"Fantasy long before LOTR","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film takes you back to the 80s - its choppy SFX and sentimental neon atmosphere as well as the inevitable but meaningless love scene of two hardly distinguishable nude silouhettes identify Highlander clearly one of the films they used to make when I was 20.However, what was unique of it - the flashbacks through time, especially the medieval scenes in the Scottish Highlands - makes this film look surprisingly up to date. Haven't we seen grim hordes of sword fighters in beautiful landscapes recently - in movies like Gladiator and, of course, Lord Of The Rings? Doesn't LOTR tell a story spanning centuries, like Highlander does?In the 80s, There can be only one was one of the cult quotes of us male adolescents, almost as popular as the later Hasta La Vista, Baby. Today, this film looks like an anticipation of the big fantasy sagas of the new millennium. I still like it - mostly because it tells us being immortal is not as worthwhile as you might think. It includes watching your loved ones age and pass away. The music accompanying Heather's death is one of the most beautiful film themes (and Queen songs) of all times Who wants to live forever.Michael Kamen (orchestral score) and Queen (rock soundtrack) definitely turn this movie into a jewel. Don't miss it - it's a kind of magic... "},{"Title":"Still is the one","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander is the story of an immortal named Conner Macleod who fights his way through the ages to the present day (80s) to claim the prize. The story is simple which allows it to be total fantasy without making contradictions to logic. I grew up watching this movie and have always considered it to be a favorite. Forget the sequels and the television series, this movie is and will always be the best of the of them all. There is several things that make this a great film. There is the mystery, the action, the locations, the cast and the music. It is a combination of all of these that make a movie that has everything - action, romance and magic. In my eyes the music is what makes this film a kind of magic. The characters are easily identifiable so that you can understand the good from the bad at first glance. The story in itself has a nice sub-plot that immortality is actually quite lonely. The cast of this film are very likeable especially Sean Connery as Ramirez. The special effects can be crude but since this film is not really about effects it can be forgiven. The sword fights are interesting though it is actually the flash backs that are of more interest. The pacing of the film is good which allows the story to unfold at a comfortable rate blending the modern tale with flash backs of the heroes past.  "},{"Title":"There Can Be Only One","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As a fan if the Highlander movies, and as a fan of the action/fantasy/sci-fi films, the first Highlander was a must see.  Since I had already treated myself to the original version of the first movie, I decided to add a twist on my movie experience by renting Highlander-The 10th Anniversary Director's Cut.  This version has all the action and gore of the original, besides some never-before viewed scenes.Highlander is a whirlwind film which starts in present day New York 1985, and through many flashbacks the story is filled in.  The main character and the hero of this movie is Connor MacLeodd (Christopher Lambert).  Connor is not your typical New Yorker.  He is a member of a race of immortals and cannot die.  He was born in Scotland in 1518, and like all the other remaining immortals has fought his way through the centuries to make it to the gathering of the last few immortals.  Helping Connor through most of the movie, but only in the past is Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez (Sean Connery). Ramirez finds Connor after he has been cast away from his clan for surviving a mortal wound.  Ramirez teaches Connor how to fight.  And the way of the immortals they can only die if their head is taken, they cannot fight on holy ground, and the last one alive gets the prize.  The prize has the ultimate power to change the world forever for good or evil. Ramirez's main goal is to prepare Connor for the gathering and his next face off with the bad guy, Kurgan (Clancy Brown).  Kurgan is described by Ramirez as the perfect warrior and pure evil, and that is why Connor must get the prize.  After the movie is brought up to date, we watch as the last two immortals, Connor and Kurgan, prepare for their final face off.  Only one can come out the victor, and the fate of mankind hangs in the balance.If we want a movie with lots of sword fighting, blood, unforgettable characters, and a good plot...look no further than Highlander, the original version or director's cut. "},{"Title":"Powerful modern fantasy movie","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There is something about this movie. A certain movie magic. I guess the Queen song was appropriate...I don't claim to have seen all of Christopher Lambert's films, but this is how I will remember him. Connor Macleod. The immortal. The Highlander.A fascinating movie that deals with what it is to be immortal. Is it all it's cracked up to be? Is it worth it?Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Well worth seeing","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Connor MacLeod was born in 1518 in the Scottish Highlands. He goes into his first battle in 1536 and is fatally wounded. When he recovers miraculously from his deathbed he is banished from his village, his kinsmen believe he is in liege with Lucifer. After 5 years in exile he meets Ramirez, who explains to Connor that he is immortal, part of a group of immortals that in the future will meet in a distant land and fight for the Prize. 1986, over 450 years after his birth, it is time for `The Gathering'. Connor, now using the name Russell Nash, has to avoid the police and at the same time avoid getting his head chopped off, the only way for one of the immortals to actually die.  It is time for the last of the immortals to meet. Connor sees his old enemy Kurgan that dealt his first blow on the battlefield in 1536 as one of those in the way of the final end, shall he survive this time as well?There Can Be Only One&#133; For me and many other Swedes born in the seventies, this an important film, one of the best action films available during our childhood.Unfortunately Highlander, like so many successes, has had a number of sequels of varying quality. Especially Highlander II &#150; The Quickening, should be avoided. The film takes place part in `present time' (1986) and part in history, the sixteenth century, the eighteenth century and in nazi-Germany.It is well worth seeing and one of `my generation's' classic films. "},{"Title":"Come on!  It's HIGHLANDER!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What can be said about this slightly above average '80's film that sparked a fascination with viewers and hurled itself into American pop-culture?  It has spawned three feature film sequels, two television shows and one cartoon show.  Replicas of the the swords used in the film can be found in armory shops, magazines and catalogs.  It featured a really cheezy sound track by QUEEN and forever condemned its star to the role of the sword guy in a slew of straight to video hits.What can be said?  I really don't know.  Do I like the film?  Well, yes I do.  Do I like its sequels?  Well, I definitely don't think they are any good, but yes I guess I do.  Do I like any of the TV shows it has spawned?  I'll be honest with you, I've never seen an episode.  Not that I have intentionally avoided them, I just haven't watched them.  I actually would love to see the pilot of the series, because it has Lambert in it.It's a classic!  It is probably because of this film and GREYSTOKE that I am such a huge Lambert fan today.  I don't think it is his best film, but it is up there.  If you haven't seen it yet, where the hell have you been?  And how have you avoided it for so long?  "},{"Title":"*1/2 out of 5","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First and wrost of the series stars Christopher Lambery as a scottish clansman asn Sean Connery as his teacher. The movie features beautifully shot flashbacks that take us to the scottish planes for some great sword fighting scenes. It then looses itself inside its own trashy atmosphere and features a bad guy that is more annonying than threatening. Only made watchable by its great special effects.  "},{"Title":"Great movie (regardless of some dodgy effects)","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a true classic, an amazing sci-fi/fantasy adventure with a little bit of everything to remind you what a great movie is like. Admittedly it does suffer from poor special effects in places, specifically the embarrassingly obvious wires after the final battle scene, but in other places the effects are actually pretty impressive, especially considering how long ago the movie was made.  Effects aside, this movie is a wonderful cinematic experience which should be included in anyone's collection.  The story is brilliantly written, the casting and acting are superb, all adding up to a move with a place in my all time top 10 list.  Enough of my gushing, just go out and buy the DVD! "},{"Title":"More then the sum of it's parts","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander is an action movie with a very interesting and well thought-out concept of immortals fighting each of other over world domination. Interestingly, the plot is a lot more interesting than the rest of the movie, which is quite rare in action movies.Sean Connery plays a very good part, but the rest of the acting is nothing to write home about ( I really don't like Christopher Lambert). The camera-work features some interesting fades and zooms, but the action scenes in general are nothing special either. The whole thing is a bit slow too.I think if they did a remake of this movie, with a better cast, a bigger budget and better special effects, it would be a killer. As it is know, it's an run-of-the-mill action movie, that's lifted above average by an interesting story concept and a GREAT soundtrack by Queen (had to mention that here). **1/2 out of ****Stay away from the sequels, by the way "},{"Title":"perfect scenery changes","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  At the beginning of the movie you have absolutely no idea what it is about, you are thrown from Madison square garden to the Scottish highlands. once you see that he is immortal all things fall in place. A great film with never a dull moment. with the music by queen an unforgettable movie "}{"Title":"A wonderful movie","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Its unfortunate that the sequel to this excellent fantasy was abysmal. This, the original, is far, far better. Very good performances from the main cast, especially Sean and Christopher. I highly recommend this movie to any interested in the genre. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What's not to love about this film? The music is phenomenal- Kudos to Queen. The performances are some of the best in the casts' careers-especially the over-the-top performance by Clancy Brown in therole of the Kurgan- 16 years later, ans he's still my  favorite screenvillain.  The script is imaginative and the story told in a fresh and new way-with plenty of action and a romance thrown in to boot! Thecharacters develop well - McCloud is a great character that youhave great empathy with... The direction is superb- the story moves at a great pace, with agreat cast and great locations/sets. The Cinematography is AWESOME. There were a lot of time travel/sci-fi moves in the early 80's that noone remembers (i.e. Time Rider or Runaway)- this one risesabove and has definitely become a timeless classic. "},{"Title":"Has more going on than is apparent on the surface...","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First of all, as of April, 2002 ANCHOR BAY has put out a beautiful Remastered DVD of  HIGHLANDER. The picture is stunning. IT IS NOW SAFE TO BUY THIS EDITION. The previous DVD had a bad rap because of  mastering and compression incompetencies. This film, with its restored Scottish scenes, is one of the most moving films I have seen in a while.  Perhaps because of my Gaelic blood, I dont know. Or perhaps the landscapes. Or the fine  addition of the great Sean Connery that makes this film a joy. But this film really leaned heavily on  me... At any rate, Mulcahey is very aware of what he is doing here, and despite some heavy handed rock-video type camera work and editing, this movie deserves a 4.5 out of 5 stars in my book. Not a fan of QUEEN myself, the one very moving song that fits in perfectly is DO YOU WANT  TO LIVE FOREVER. In addition Michael Kamen does his usual perfectly fitting atmospheric score  for the rest of the film. All in all,  score one more for AB... "},{"Title":"A Cult Classic","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"     I cannot begin to describe what this series has meant to me over the years.  As a child it, captured my imagination and has once again managed to do so as I am now on the verge of adulthood.  The movie has a legion of fans, and a legion of critics.  In my opinion, those who  throw heavy criticism at this movie are without any semblance of an imagination.   The life of an immortal, Connor Macleod, is shown in flashbacks from the time of his initiation (as an immortal.  The movie travels back in forth from present day New York (1985) to the Highlands of Scottland and French countryside. The story may have be an attempt to show the then modern special effects capabilites, but the true reason to watch comes from the story.  Christopher Lambert shows both the joy and pain of immortality.  Sean Connery gives a memorable performance in the film, as he so often does.  The villainous Kurgan, played by Clancy Brown, is frightening yet at the same time quite funny.  The movie seems at first to be blatent 80's nostalgia, but begins to show the  timeless qualities that make this movie great sixteen years after it's release. To those who wish to watch this movie I suggest that you not analyze, just...enjoy.   "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I just bought this movie on DVD, and I must say its one of a kind. I loved Christopher Lambert in it, and that's not a very common thing. The fights were awesome, the effects were really cool, and the story was great, and the flashbacks scenes were probably my favorite part of the movie.Connor MacLeod is immortal, he was born in Scottland during the 16th century, and has lived on until now, 1986. But suddenly a figure shows up, it is another immortal, who wants to kill all other immortals (by chopping of their heads) and win a price of sorts. The two fight it out a few times, but I'm sure you already know who wins.The storyline is pretty simple, but it plays out great, you never get confused, and the flashbacks scenes are plenty and enjoyable. The fight scenes (which are fought with swords) are nicely done, and the film always seems more or less interesting.But the greatest thing with this movie are the camera angles. They are simply terrific! I love them! And so will you! A very good movie. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Emotional fantasy-action with a good plot!","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander doesnt just offer good action scenes (as you might expect) but also a very solid plot and good acting. The film is very emotionally charged and I guess that partly depends on the music by Queen but also the wonderful nature scenes from the Higland of Scottland, not to forget the plot. What really makes the movie a must see is Sean Connerys contribution to it, he puts on a dazzling performance and lifts the movie to new heights as he portrays the heros all too charming mentor. The story of the movie is also very well thought out. The story is told from the present and every now and then the things that happens to Connor (Christopher Lamberts) gets explained by using flashbacks from his past. You never quite now what turn the plot will take as the story unfolds. It all feels very credible, and the only thing that could have been better with the movie is Cristopher Lamberts acting. But the good plot and Sean connerys awesome performance and the pure excitement the movie delivers more than makes up for his lack of acting skills. If you havent seen this movie yet you should go and rent it right away because it definitely has just the right kind of mix between humor, love and action that all movies of this genre should aim for. And everything is wrapped in neatly in a fantasy-sword fighting package. "},{"Title":"Ah please!!!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, for the first time in 10 years, I saw this movie again...what a let down.This is an incredible script, with tons of good ideas and a legendary plotline. But none of this translate well into the movie...the acting is horrible. Christophe Lambert has to be the worst actor of the whole 20th century. Whatever he does, says or tries to impersonate falls ultimately short of an actor's performance. Same goes for all the supporting cast, with the notable exception of good ol' Sean Connery who's once again the comic relief as well as a trigger for the audience's imagination. Ramirez should have got a TV series, not some weird scottish noname cousin..To be honest, I'd have to say that the director tried his best with the means he was given. The flashback sequences were very orginal and have been imitated a lot since 1986. Somehow, he manage to make WWII, medieval Scotland and New York all fit in the same movie. Kudos.But no amount of cinematography can save him from the amateur acting, the silly F/X and the cheap love story. (who writes 800 pages books on medieval swordmaking anyway??)Higlander is probably the only movie that you wish they would write a book from it and not the other way around. A good, well written book. I'd be eager to learn about the history of Conner MacLeod and his immortals pals. But I cant stand watching the film crap the Highlander franchise is producing... "},{"Title":"A unique and unrivalled cinematic experience","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander manages to bring plausibility to immortality in a way that implies it is almost a curse compared to the usual hollywood attitude that it is a holy grail for mankind. It combines incredible Scottish Mountain scenery with the stark reality of 20th Century urban life as well as humour and gritty struggles of personal loss and romance.....oh and there are some great battle scenes too!!   "},{"Title":"Excellent film!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorite films. It's definetely the best of the series, and without a doubt, Christopher Lambert's best film. No matter how many movies I see of his, I still think of him as Connor MacLeod. Awesome soundtrack by Queen, great swordfights, and Sean Connery's in it for part of the film. How cool is that? "},{"Title":"What *were* they thinking?","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First of all; I like the movie. Even though there are some difficulties with the plot etc., the overall movie is great and definitely the best of the Highlander movies. But... (there is always a but..) What *were* they thinking with that villain?!? Come on... the guy is such a cliché! The typical Mr. bad-guy-who-is-invincible-and-can't-be-vanquished but the hero defeats him anyway. He never says anything intelligent to make us -at least- believe he has a brain. Most we hear from him are different sorts of grunts. Definitely a poor villain. On the other hand we have Sean Connery as Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez. (What a name..) He is -as usual- excellent and indeed believable as Connor MacLeod's teacher. Good movie, poor villain.  "}{"Title":"The only Highlander film worth watching","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, I'll be the first to admit that this movie probably isn't for everyone. This fantasy thing is too wild for more realistic and grounded people who can only relate to cops and robbers movies or war movies. Fantasy movies require a bit of suspension of disbelief. That being said, if you're not the type that enjoys high spirited action/fantasy, stay the hell away from this film. But if you ARE the type who enjoys rolicking sword play and a healthy dose of fantasy fun, accept no substitue, Highlander I is as good as it comes. The sequels were all horrible without exception, mainly because the original was written as a standalone work. Lambert plays a tragic character originally born in the Highlandes of Scotland centuries ago, made immortal by a little known accident of genetics that is never truly explained, and the mystery works here. MacLeod is cursed to have the loves of his life grow old and die while he lives on, making for a very lonely man. The movie is a little hard to comprehend at first, switching time periods from 15th to 20th centuries, but have faith, that much is explained. Sean Connery is excellent in the role of Ramirez, Connor's mentor and father figure after he is banished from his Highland home after surviving what should have been a fatal blow from the lead villain's sword (the simple clansmen believe Connor is in in league with lucifer. The swordplay is average but enjoyable, except for the final showdown between the Kurgan and MacLeod, which is the best sword dual in the history of the series (and a wonderful change from the FRIGGEN HUGE gun battles and space battles that are all the rage). Clancy Brown also eats up the screen as the dastardly Kurgan. It's not everyone's cup of tea, but for me, Highlander I is among my favorite movies for its fantastic combination of dashing swordplay, tragic characters, vile villains, and imaginative (and sweeping) plot, great acting by all the main players (Lambert takes a lot of heat but I think he's fantastic in this role), and beautiful scenery. JUST ONE WORD OF WARNING, EVEN IF YOU LIKE THIS FILM, AVOID ALL THE SEQUELS. You've been warned. "},{"Title":"Immortal Adventure","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Simply the best film ever. Lots of action, romance, swordfighting, coolness. Lambert plays the Celtic tribal outcast to perfection,his multi-national accent is amazing and the one-liners are top. A must see film, leave your scepticism at the door. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Average fantasy/action movie","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Average fantasy/action movie that was saved from being a poor movie by a couple of scenes by the great Sean Connery and some great flashback scenes of 16th century Scotland.The movie's New York scenes though are very poorly done in terms of cinematography ,directing,fight choreography and screenplay which for some reason were less in quality compared to the flashback scenes.Maybe these European scenes were shot first with a higher budget,then the producers panicked and decided to cut back their budget and rush the New York scenes later on because they were not sure if this movie will do well.It turned out it's original plot was marketed well and Connery's name did help too as this movie developed a cult teen-age following.This movie could have been much better if the New York scenes were done right. Only for fantasy/sword and sorcery action movie fans and big fans of the lead actors...... "},{"Title":"the best film of the series","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was great witch lead to a terrable sequel that brought a great tv series  to a another sequel to apologise for the first sequel to a second terrible tv series to another sequel and there should of been only one but i glad there wasnt it s one of my fav stories may be confusing but its great and if u havent seen it watch it. "},{"Title":"a story that really draws you in","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The idea of hundreds of immortal beings having to dual down the ages, and the inner turmoil and loneliness of their existance, fascinates me. Gregory Widen had a real hit on his hands when he submitted the script for Highlander as his senior thesis. It's just an incredible story. Plus it's got Christopher Lambert in it ) Apart from being my favourite actor, he is able to portray what I would imagine an immortal would actually feel in all those circumstances.The first instance would be when Connor Macleod is banished from his home after recovering from the mortal wound he sustained at the hands of the Kurgan, having his kinsmen beat him and spit on him. Then he meets and marries his bonny Heather, but soon she dies. It seems this is to be the life of an immortal, a real rollercoaster of emotions, with no release from it.The flashbacks to Macleod's years in the highlands are magical. The scenery is spectacular and just goes to help highlight the highs and lows of Connor's existance. The downside of the movie is the Kurgan. Centuries of living would probably turn some people strange, but the Kurgan can just be weird sometimes.'Highlander' is held together by Christopher Lambert's performance, and the emotions he is able to portray, and a truly original story. It is a movie which definately deserves it's cult status. "},{"Title":"Passes the time","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Firstly this movie is o.k but no way a classic. The film starts off slowly, for the first 20 minutes i had no idea what the hell is going on, but when Sean Connery arrives the film becomes much clearer. But Sean Connery has a blink or you will miss the part which is disappointing as Chris Lambert can not hold the film by himself. The better scenes are in the highlands and not in new york where most of the movie sadly takes place which did shock me. This film starts off orgnial but ends up as i've see it all before movie. At the end its bad guy captures good guys girl, so good guy fights bad guy and kills bad guy and recues his girl and live happily ever after, seen it all before very.  If this is the best in the series then i would hate to imagine what the other films are like. "},{"Title":"The first and best","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" 1986 saw the release of Highlander, a film that not many people saw domestically but was a hit overseas and has since become something of a cult classic that has spawned several films and series that fail to live up to the standards that made the initial film great. And while it may seem rather dated by today's standards (the 1980s-style soundtrack and special effects, as good as they are for the time, doesn't help matters here), it does hold up rather well in terms of its story and action.For the most part, I enjoyed the sword fights tremendously, with each battle becoming more intense as the stakes become higher. The non-linear aspect of the story - alternating between the present day and flashbacks of the past - was almost baffling, but never gets confusing and the two compliment each other rather well. Highlander also offered an interesting view of immortality; its high points and its tragedies. Whereas we would always wish to be able to live forever, these immortals do live on, carrying the burden of watching friends and family die, as well as having to deal with being an outcast to the mortal world. It's something that reflects greatly on Connor and something that is sadly lost in later entries.Overall, Highlander is a perfect starting point (dare I say the only thing worth watching in the franchise) for those who are interesting in checking it out. If you can get past the eighties-ness of the whole deal, you'll find a surprisingly deep and rather enjoyable film. Recommended. "},{"Title":"It's a kind of magic, my dear!","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I watched this movie a few years ago, I was stunned. Surely, about the film, but even more about the music. So I started to find from which band the music was from. I wasn't surprised that it was all Queen. Since then, I was a Queen-fan, and bought a lot of their CD's. But especially the songs in this movie are GREAT! Who wants to live forever is of course very emotional, A Kind Of Magic will never die and Princes Of The Universe must be one of Queens greatest hits ever.I mourned about Freddie's dead in November 1991, but I also think it gave the entire Queen catalogue a new impulse, and this Highlander-project is part of that. Why do I talk about the music so much? Hey, I'm just a musical prostitute, my dear... "},{"Title":"Ahhh the Highlands","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First, let me say that I like this movie. Great story and I've watched it countless times since 1986.  As someone said, an 80s classic. Lately however, and maybe this is just a function of aging, the modern story really seems to lack something the flashbacks do not. Where the historical scenes drew you in, I find now that the present day story suffered from an almost cartoonish quality.Take the bad guy, Clancy Brown; I get a feeling, now, that he was too overtly bad to be real.  Where the psychological and the physical stories meet, his character almost intrudes as the undeveloped single-minded bad guy. Too flat, too 80s evil, too loud a score, leather clad, punkish. Not timeless.Connery is a real highlight as an instructor for the young McLeod. Each time I watch it I'm disappointed at the loss of the contribution to the film made by his character.Okay, so maybe it sounds like I don't like this movie. But to prove it, I recently added it to my DVD collection.  Be forwarned however, that the DVD soundtrack is very uneven and requires lots of adjustments to be able to hear the dialogue and still not be blown out of your seat by the music.Just my 2 cents.  "},{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have never seen a movie so destroyed by sequels.  Even the Batman franchise hasn't suffered the way the Highlander has. I truly adore this film as one of the most interesting fantasy movies I've ever seen. Everything from the opening credits to the end Quickening is powerful and grabs you by the throat. There's a real connection to the character and a vivid journey through time.  The sword fighting isn't the greatest (even for the time) but there's enough drama to make up for it (I wish Episode I had tried to ignore some sword fighting for some story).  So far in his career Russell Mulcahy hasn't matched this one and it holds a special place in my heart. "}{"Title":"Who wants to Live forever ..","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  They are immortals who are destined to live forever. They must duel down the ages until only one remains. Only decapitation by sword can released them from there age-long battle for an incredible prize-Power beyond imagination.From the Scottish Highlands to modern day New York they war for the prize. If the forces of EVIL win mankind will have to suffer an eternity of darkness. With mortal man's fate in the balance it is left to a lone warrior to save the day. Enter Conor Mcleod from the Clan Mcleod.For in the end there can be only one...........As you may be able to gather from my review I love this film.  I would also like to pay my respects to the late great Freddie Mercury who's with Queen provided the sound track. Most of the tracks were written by Brain May.  He wrote the wonderful 'Who wants to live forever' in the back of a taxi cab.Freddie's version of New York New York is truely outstanding.  "},{"Title":"wonderful movie!","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  highlander is one of the greatest movies of the eighties!the story is very original and is definitely written by someone with a lot of imagination.i have also seen the the series of Highlander (with adrian paul) and like them too. The movie is a bit better though, because there's only one real story. In the series the writers must come up wih a different story each week and that becomes a bit of a drag. I've also seen Higlander III and the only reason that movie is fun to watch is because of the flashbacks to Highlander I. I haven't seen II yet, but I have heard it is very disapointing.  In h I The Prize is given to Conner and that's the end. there's no room for a sequel. it's a movie everyone must have seen at least once in their lives.my rate 8  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the best of the Highlander movies and in my opinion, the only one worth seeing.  The plot is great, acting superb, casting perfect, writing quite good and the storytelling quite original (which has been copied by many films since).  This is a wonderfully original movie that has had its style and story copied in many ways ever since.Ignore the rather obvious trolls posted recently (calling it the worst with no substantiation).  "},{"Title":"Connery Rules!!","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander is a brilliant film. Stripped to it's bare essentials, it is a movie of good vs evil. The good immortals vs the evil immortals. The Highlander vs the Kurgan. But surrounding that, are many other things. Both the benefits and struggles of eternal life that Conner must deal with, lost loves, lost friends, revenge.The pairing of Lambert and Connery is excellent. Connery plays the older, wiser and stronger mentor Ramirez perfectly. His scottish accent only adds to his wisdom and the dialogue he is given definitely has some quotes to remember. Lambert also does very well with Connor MacLeod, his non-specific accent suits the traveling immortal that he is You talk funny Nash, where you from? Lot's of different places. The rest of the main cast are close to perfect in their roles, and Clancy Brown delivers a stunning and frightening Kurgan. His punk dress and vulgar speech is neither inadequate or excessive. The soundtrack by Queen also deserves mention. With some great songs that suit the movie perfectly.Watching this movie once is not nearly enough, in order to see it all watch it a few times. It only gets better. "},{"Title":"Here we are! Born to be kings, we're the princes of the universe!","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a movie to see. It is amazingly cool. It may lack in some areas, but on entertainment, it delivers a decapitating blow! The music by Queen (the best band ever) is stupendous, and the story is great if you let it go (if not hacked to bits by the sequel). I recommend this movie to anyone. It's got action, romance, and sci-fi all in one explosive, immortal package. "},{"Title":"This is one great film","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It took me til 2 weeks to finally see Highlander. And now that I have, I am very glad that I did. This film is great and there is no other way to put it. It has great battle scenes and action and Clancy Brown is great as The Kurgan. He stole the show in my opinion. My only complaint is that they kind of just spit out all the facts about the Immortals way to fast. I guess that is what the sequels are for. Which I have yet to see, but after seeing the first one, it's only a matter of time. Full recommendation on viewing. If you collect action films, this will be a great addition. "},{"Title":"Good fantasy","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film will always be one of my favorites (maybe for nostalgic reasons also); the feeling of 80's & soundtrack made by Queen are one reason and other is that Highlander simply is good fantasy movie. Do not take it too seriously and you may have nice viewing experience. "},{"Title":"Worth the time!","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a movie that takes a far-fetched premise and, through a fantastic story and creative segues between time lines, makes it plausible and enthralling.  Lambert's eyes tell much of the story... he's very underrated. Connery almost overshadows Clancy Brown, but both steal the show with ALMOST over-the-top performances.  They traipse the line without falling over it.  It is a great action movie, but at the same time, tells a great story.  The first time I saw it, I expected typical sci-fi B-movie stuff... boy, was I pleasantly surprised!  There are very few movies that I can watch over and over and never get tired of... this is one of them.  I definitely think that this movie should be watched in wide-screen format, and the director's cut adds a level of depth to a few of the minor, but important, characters (especially Rachel).  A good date movie, actually! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"There can be only one.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" One of the most original action sci-fi movies ever made, Highlander is a gritty and edgy urban fantasy film with a great script, fantastic stunts and swordplay, slick direction and an excellent cast. Don't even look twice at its two atrocious sequels; Highlander is the real deal. There can be only one.Conner MacLeod is an immortal swordsman from the highlands of Scotland, a warrior who must live by the rules of the game that govern the lives of all other immortals on Earth. The only way Conner or other immortals can be killed is by decapitation, and when one immortal takes anothers head, he takes his energy and power as well. Conner has survived from the 1500's to the 1980's, taking the heads of enemy immortals in combat..but now only one other immortal is left on the planet the sinister Kurgan, the ultimate master of the duel.First of all, the cast is fantastic. Christopher Lambert stars here as Conner, the best role of his career, and veteran character actor Clancy Brown shines as the delivish Kurgan. Another great talent here is the one and only Sean Connery as Ramirez, an eccentric immortal who acted as MacLeod's mentor. Roxanne Hart is decent as the spunky forensic scientist Brenda, and Billy Hartman and James Cosmo are great as Conner's cousins Angus and Dugal.Great sword battles abound here and the dark, noir undertone of the film combine to create an atmosphere of war in a jungle of metal and steel. Add in a great script, and skillful direction, and you've got an original, action-paced and fantastic piece of wicked cool cinema.I give Highlander a 9 out of 10, and recommend it to any fans of gritty action science-fiction and fantasy adventure "},{"Title":"One of the top ten movies of all time for me??","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  to put it simply its a blend of fantastic story telling.a poetry in motion,mostly filled with tears.A scotsman forced to compete for the ultimate prize his own demise.Death means nothing to him its what he craves for,shunned from his home by the woman he loves and the only family he's known due to the fact he cannot die.Tehn falls in love again only to have his woman killed, his mentor & bestfriend butched by Krugen 'the scots mortal enemy'.moving slowly in time trying not to get noticed..only to meet another police forensic expert .....falls in love.In part 2 she too dies..see the plain resemblance.Queen's soundtrack tells it all in the song who wants to live foreverwhen you know there's no one to live it with you. a touching story  "}{"Title":"A fantastic movie with a mood unlike any other","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander is constantly snubbed by critics. I see it given one star out of 4 constantly but I guarantee you that is misleading. The cinematography goes way out with many trick shots (fish eye lenses, scenes shot through the reflection on sunglasses, etc) which gives the movie a flavor seen nowhere else. The imagery of the Highlands of Scotland are horizon-to-horizon beautiful and help to amplify the historical, immortality aspect which is the core of the movie. The movie has several flaws, one being the contrived battle for the Prize which isn't really necessary but these are far outweighed by other factors.  "},{"Title":"An underrated 80's classic!","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander has been one of my favorite movies for years. Film snobs may scoff at it, but I've always considered it one of the finest action/fantasy films of the 80's.  There's so much to like about this movie. It has an original and captivating story. The swordfights are very well choreographed and exciting to watch. Good performances from the cast, especially from Sean Connery and Clancy Brown. The film also provides characters the sudience actually cares about. An especially noteworthy aspect of the film is the music. Michael Kamen's orchestral score and Queen's songs really work well together and add to the impact of the film. This is a movie I've seen so many times and I just never get sick of it.I highly recommend watching the director's cut, which has a few scenes that are essential to the film but were cut out of the American release. This movie also spawned a great TV series that expanded on the universe that the movie established. Unfortunately, this movie also spawned two lousy sequels that should be avoided at all cost. "},{"Title":"High Quality","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This, I must say is one of my favorite movies of all time, rivalling even universal soldier.  By far the best out of the highlander series.  I think everyone knows what the movie is about so I'm not gonna get into that, but it does have tons of swordplay and action.  The kurgan was played amazingly, a very menacing presence.  The soundtrack was the only drawback of this movie, too much sappy queen stuff.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone, I can't wait for the 4th in the series to come out. "},{"Title":"Glad when it was finally over....","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I cannot understand how such films can spawn sequels. Highlander is a film that goes over the top...its plot is complex, difficult to follow, and not believable. It is good to see Sean Connery, which is what made the film watchable and tolerable for me to what extent it could be. Queen's score is good, though not first rate. The rest of it is what they call fantasy. It is not a very engaging film, and I understand why it did not do so well at the box office in the U.S. I would imagine that a film such as this would have its audience, those die-hards who are fans of blades and steel and blood and guts of an ancient bent just to see such things on screen. But...it did not do much for me. I found it to be a very difficult watch, and did not watch it all in one sitting. I watched part of it one day...and came back to the other half a couple of days later. I was happy to see the end credits...because I thought it was a nightmare that would never end. If gratuitous blood and guts and clanging of steel blades is your bag, you will go in for this one. But if you have some measure of sensitivity, you will clamor for film of a different sort, that makes more sense, and will not be so hard to watch or to follow. "},{"Title":"Weak, Cultified Cannon Fodder","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Cult films have often carried generous followings despite major problems. Unfortunately for Highlander, the list of faults is so weighty that any cult appeal it might have sustained was lost in the first thirty minutes of screen time.Attempting to follow the story line resulted in confusion, disorientation, and frustration. Many storyline questions were posed with little resolution. How do the immortals know that they'll die if they get their heads cut off? How do the immortals know that someday they'll have to compete against each other for some mysterious prize? Dispensing with any rational answers, Ramirez spouts on why the sun comes up - Nobody knows.Characters often have confusing motives. In a scene where Nash demonstrates his immortality to Brenda, he stabs himself in the chest. Next, they kiss because they are suddenly in love. (???) From Brenda's point of view, all Nash shows is that he is crazy enough to (non-lethally) stab himself in the chest. Any sane person would put lots of distance between themselves and Nash, but not in this movie. Self-inflicted injuries are apparently hot and romantic.Editing left much to be desired by including many transition errors. Some of the many jumpy cuts includes a scene where we see a sword flying through the air, then abruptly cut to showing the sword stuck motionless in the ground. At least they could have shown it wavering. The effect was a jarring transition that stung of a sophmoric effort to bypass the effort required in tending to details.Continuity was also a problem for the filmmakers. In one example, an older woman, who becomes an unwilling passenger in a recklessly driven car, first appears going down the street sitting in the passenger seat. Then we cut to find her hanging onto the hood as the car takes a turn. There's no excuse for such sloppy continuity.Actors visibly struggled to control the unnecessarily large and heavy swords throughout the movie (one sword appeared to be nearly 6 feet long). Lightweight swords would have been a more realistic choice. The faster weaponry would have provided for quicker conclusions to fight-scenes, and a mercifully shorter film.Poor dialog stunned me into unintentional laughter several times. Lifeless acting left many potentially involving scenes flat. Enough said.Somewhere, under all that mess, lives the basics of a story line that, given a more suitable treatment, could have been made into a decent movie. Unfortunately, there are many other sword-laden cult movies that did much better at avoiding the many errors that weighed Highlander down. Watch those instead - you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"I saw this film in the late eighties, when I was about 8 years old.","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In the end, there can be only one...If you haven't experienced the eighties, you haven't experienced anything worthwhile in life. The movies that were churned out by Hollywood during 1980-1989, are incredible. You had to have seen them during that period to have really enjoyed them, as I did.The late Freddie Mercury was a Rock legend at the time. This film I believe should be his legacy and tribute to him.Directed by Australian director Russel Mulchay who earlier directed Razorback (1984), this film is the one that got everyone's attention. In order to appreciated this film I strongly suggest you watch it on Big Screen i.e. go to a THX certified cinema. The next step is to buy the DVD, for your own personal viewing any time of the day,week,year. Plot Christopher Lambert plays an immortal Conner Mccloud who must fight for the prize. He is mentored by Christopher Lambert plays an immortal Conner Mccloud who must fight for the prize. He is mentored by Ramirez (Sean Connery), also an immortal like him, who teaches him sword-fighting skills in order to defeat the kurgan (played by Clancy Brown) the strongest of the immortals.When an immortal is killed by decapitation, his life essence is seen to pass from his body into the victor where it merges. This life force is called the Quickening. It resembles chain lightning which is electrical in nature. So the immortals battle for this Quickening, till only one remains.For in the end there can be only one...Connery is a real joy to behold. His acting is professional as always. It was also a welcome change from the James Bond genre. Christopher Lambert is the star if the film and rightly so. No other actor could have filled the role as well as he did. He shows amazing intensity and feeling throughout the film. His eyes, I believe are his biggest assets. Then there is the character opposite that of Lambert's. Clancy Brown plays the Kurgan, in a role that he has immortalized for all time. He also seems to be enjoying himself throughout the film. Incidentally if you are a big Clancy Brown fan watch Ambition (1991), Season of Fear (1989) and Love, Lies and Murder (1991)(TV). These are two of his other good films and worth buying.Visual effects in the film were light-years ahead of its time along with the excellent musical score. Photography again is brilliant and making use of never seen before techniques. This film would make George Lucas green with envy, as I believe he likes sword-fighting (the laser sabre battles in Star Wars). Steven Spielberg could take some pointers from this film as well. 10/10 points. Perfect score.Email to me for more movie recommendations Vivekmaru45@yahoo.com. "},{"Title":"Heads roll","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Another action-packed teen flick.  The camera switches from medieval slaughter and mayhem to modern cop show slaughter and mayhem.  Like to see cars blow up?  Want to see swords plunged into bodies?  Can't wait to see heads cut off.  Enjoy a hero who glares a lot and mumbles?  Then you'll love this turkey.No wonder it became a television series. "},{"Title":"Probably one of the best films ever.","Date":"28 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I watched this as a kid and it always stuck in my mind as an awesome movie. As I've grown up, i've re-watched it numerous times, each time it gets better and means more to me.Im not going to talk terribly much about the storyline, its quite obvious and I'm sure enough other reviews give you a clue. What i will talk about is its grandeur, artistic brilliance and emotional depth.The movie is tied together expertly, linking past to present seamlessly and captivating its audience absolutely. The 'bad guy', is addictively bad, you can't stop watching him. Sean Connery is at his best, a pompous but deep and warm character. Christopher Lambert is always intriguing and for me, acts superbly in this film, he conveys emotion well and his voice is suited to someone who has lived for so long in such different places. The cinematography is perfect, a contrast between jaw droppingly beautiful Scottish highlands and the dirty glamour of 1980's new york. Even though the film only spends a portion of its time flashing back to the past, it manages to recreate and portray medieval life with both much more realism and romance than the likes of braveheart which truly didn't do anything for me. The costumes are fantastic, especially the first time you see the kurgan in his bone armour, CG will never be a match for creativity. The music, well.. certain parts send shivers down my spine and could easily lead me to tears. I'm not going to spoil anything for you, but consider this - you live forever - you are essentially human, with human wants and needs, and a human desire for love and to have a family, yet you cannot. Everyone you will ever meet, you will lose. Everyone you ever let yourself love, you must watch die. And you must cope with their memory for centuries. There will be no end to it. Tie this precept with the majesty of the Scottish highlands, and Queens 'who wants to live forever' - a heartbreaking song in its own right made all the more powerful given the life of its writer and singer, and its very easy to be emotionally overwhelmed.There is no film like this, and i doubt there will ever be again. The screenplay is near perfect, the cast is perfect with the exception of 'brenda', the story is superb, acting is excellent, the backdrops and locations give me goose pimples.. The music, as its done by Queen, is and will always be unique, completely unrivalled, in both its placement, its fitting, and its quality.I cant give this film any less than 10/10. As long as you aren't emotionally retarded and appreciate audial and pictorial beauty, i can't see how you wont love this film. "},{"Title":"How this movie ever survived I will never know","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After being a huge fan of the Highlander series, and seeing Highlander Endgame in the theatres, I decided I would watch the original movie, which I had heard is the best.  I was very surprised to find Highlander to be one of the worst movies I've ever watched.  The 80's was of course known for its cheese, but this was like moldy cheese. I knew I was in for a bad ride as soon as they started the movie with shots from a wrestling match, which as far as I could tell had nothing to do with the rest of the movie.  The acting was worse than anything Keannu Reaves has done, the dialogue was worse than Star Wars Episode II, the special effects were just an excuse to blow things up, and there was absolutely no plot.  The effects were so bad that I could tell how objects were moving and falling, and blowing up.  I felt like I was at the Universal lots watching them do a demo(I have been to Universal).  They gave away the whole point of the movie in the first half hour of the movie, so the next hour and a half was simply idle storytelling. The rest was just waiting to see how Connor kills the bad guy, since you knew he was going to.  Which was simply anti-climatic anyway.  With lines like don't move pal, don't even breath from the New York cop, it's a wonder this movie ever became a cult classic and spawned 3 more movies and a tv series!  The only thing good about this movie was the excellent soundtrack composed and performed by legendary rock band Queen.  Somehow this movie made its way into the annals of cinema history, so it's obviously a must see if you know anything about Highlander, but just be prepared to chuckle throughout and definetly not to take this movie seriously! "},{"Title":"Crap","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Oh yeah, samurai (who happen to be Egyptian with a scottish accent and a Spanish name) in 600BC; 'Toledo Salamancas' (some sort of lizard?); organic human bodies with metabolisms immune from, well, just about anything other than decapitation (true, you don't see the immortals eating).  My 8-year-old kid would probably think this 80's punk cartoon was cool, for all the wrong reasons (lots of fighting, with a few boring bits in-between).I wouldn't normally bother voting for this sort of crap, but was astounded by the IMDB rating for a tedious adolescent fantasy with almost no serious effort put into plot, characters, or anything else.  This is the pubescent equivalent of cheesy porn.  If I ruled the world I would probably decapitate its perpetrators. "}{"Title":"this movie is so, so bad","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" i just watched the part where the highlanders 'scottish' wench dies of old age (weighed down by that awful make-up) and says with a crap accent how she wishes she'd had the highlanders babies. all with a nice bit of queen pumping in the background. poignant. it's like watching an episode of rab c nesbittthis movie is bad on a tremendous number of counts. it looks and sounds trashy. the costumes, sets, acting, sound, accents, dialogue, music and everything else are just absolute cringe-worthy crudit seems to borrow from or parody the terminator as well (made just a few years earlier). the trench coats, the bad dude with the leather on, the heart thumping sound... but this movie doesn't ever come close to possessing terminator qualityin fact the film must have looked so bad half way through that the makers decided to make it look intentionally funny, which also failsthis movie sucks so badly. the only people that could ever be into it are pathetic ac-dc t-shirt wearing fuzzy nerd boys (or people that used to be, but still like the movie for its nostalgia value)i hated this movie when it came out, i hate it even more now. it's not even funny on a b-movie level. do yourself a big favour and avoid this awful rubbish!!! "},{"Title":"is this a good movie?  no.  is it completely nonsensical fun?  hell yeah!","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'll give it up to Russell Mulcahy, he knows how to direct... kind of. Somehow his camera is always moving or finding some kind of intense or superfluous or just bat-crazy motion to get something, anything, out of this insane story. Of course, there can be only *one*, as is a moral of Highlander that seems to be contingent on the franchise providing McCloud (Christopher Lambert) with new opponents who, as with zombies to a degree, need to be decapitated so that he can be the *one*.Watching the director's cut of Highlander, having never seen it but being well aware of the lineage and even with two of the dreaded sequels Endgame and The Source (and yes, thankfully, they are worse than this), I'm struck by how it's not necessarily a really good movie, but it's wildly watchable. Its plot is convoluted at times into a gymnastic pretzel, its actors are either oddly wooden (Lambert), Christmas Ham (Sean Connery), or a total bad-ass (Brown) ripped off partially from Schwarzenegger in Terminator. Did I mention the action and fights? Good heavens.But why should I go on about plot details, they'd only... take up about an entire treatment explaining it all, which would include explaining why McCloud is 'the one', or what a quickening is, or why Sean Connery plays an Egyptian with a Spanish name and flamboyant costume, or how that one woman who's the secretary is also the little girl is... nevermind. Suffice to say, McCloud is in 1986, but he also looks back to the 16th century when he was first discovered to have the devil in him, and soon discovered that he couldn't be killed- unless his head is cut off. So, he learns from Connery (who arrives on screen in one of the great entrances in movies, almost unironically from Mr. Bond himself) how to sword-fight and have fun on mountains and NOT swim since he can't drown, and then it cuts ahead to 1986 again where, apparently, an old nemesis played by Clancy Brown is out for blood- his blood- and those around him will suffer as they may.Make any sense? Somewhat surprisingly, Highlander is taken seriously by a whole lot of people. No problem, as I'm sure there are some who will just look past everything that is hokey and corny and badly choreographed for the mythology that is created. Surely it is entertaining, and sometimes (whether or not unintentionally) gut-bustingly hilarious, but it's hard for me to take much of this seriously, because of it being dated and badly staged and (mostly) acted without much room for any dimension save for hamming it up or going for one-note bad-assedness. While it's fun as anything in 80s action flicks to watch Connery fight Brown on the steps of an incredibly goofy display of a crumbling castle, not for a moment is it actually quality, imaginative storytelling. In fact, this is like some amazing relic from, um, two decades ago that those who remember liking it legitimately in the past should revisit to *really* know what they're seeing - which includes some of the incredible and incredibly sappy Queen songs often slapped on in place of a score. "},{"Title":"Only one bit annoyed me","Date":"29 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" My Auntie Margaret was telling me about this film when we were listening to It's a kind of Magic by Queen. I bought the video and watched it with my wife. It was going well until one scene happened that I did not like.The main lead has been accused of witchcraft and has been publicly beaten by village and banished. And I was waiting for a revenge scene and guess what? THERE WAS NO REVENGE SCENE!!!! If i wrote it I would've had him go back and beat up the villagers who hurt him, even the children. The prostitute needs to be hurt the mostI'm giving it 5/10 as it was good fight scenes between the Higlanders as I felt bad for Christopher Lambert "},{"Title":"Not bad but not as great as many make out.","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Highlander is set in mid 80's New York where Connor MacCleod (Christopher Lambert) lives & works as an antiques dealer, however he in reality belongs to an ancient race known as the immortals & was in fact born in the Scottish highlands in 1518. An immortal can only be killed by decapitation, a war has raged between immortals for centuries until only two remain, Connor & an evil Russian dude named the Kurgan (Clancy Brown) who has an attitude problem. Now in 80's New York the last two immortals meet for the ultimate prize, some form of supernatural power that will gift the winner unimaginable powers & possibly spell the end of the human race if Kurgan wins...This seemingly very popular American British co-production was directed by Russell Mulcahy & I have to say while I thought it was alright I don't think it quite deserves the stellar reputation it has amongst some, far be it from me to say what someone should enjoy but I just don't see anything particularly special here in Highlander at all. Originally released in the US in a slightly cut down 110 minute version the longer European cut ran 116 minutes & that is the one I will be basing my comments on. The script by Gregory Widen, Peter Bellwood & Larry Ferguson is certainly ambitious in it's central concept with a secret race of ancient immortals who have waged a private war with each other for centuries in order to obtain some secret power that will let whoever has it rule the Earth but the mishmash of ideas never really came together that well for me. The film constantly flips forwards & back in time to tell the story that is unfolding in present day New York but at the same time weaves plenty of flashbacks to the past to reveal how the current situation came about, certainly for the first hour or so Highlander never really settles down which some may like but I didn't to be honest. Just as I was getting used to one location & one set of character's the film suddenly switches back or forward to a different time-line which doesn't really give time for character's to develop. There are some odd comedy relief moments too which I thought were out of place & there's a distinct lack of explanation for a lot of what happened including any sort of background on who the immortals as a race were or where they came from. I think the main message of the film is that knowledge is the real power as evidenced by the ability MacCleod receives at the end. Having said that it moves along at a decent pace, it's certainly something different, there's some pretty good sci-fi set-pieces & it kept me entertained for a couple of hours if nothing else.Highlander resembles a music video at times with the way it's lit, very staged fighting scenes & director Mulcahy constantly starts a shot out wide & then has his camera move in closer on the action or the scene to presumably get some sort of sense of scale. This technique gives Highlander quite an epic feel at times as there are many wide shots which reveal a lot of scope & scale. The fight scenes are alright, there are some sword fights, a couple of mild decapitations & a slightly cheap looking action scene in which a car drives on the wrong side of the road. I must admit I only saw this a few hours ago & none of the set-pieces really stand out in my memory & I'm having a hard time thinking of them.With a fairly modest budget of $16,000,000 Highlander is well made with decent production values although some of the optical effects look very dated. Filmed in New York, Scotland, Wales & London. Rock band Queen provided some of the very out of place sounding songs & music. The acting is, well, OK I suppose. Lambert can't really act, Clancy Brown overacts wildly while the always watchable Sean Connery brings a bit of class to proceedings in a small role.Highlander is an alright sci-fi film that tries to be out there & different & it is to be fair to it but that doesn't automatically mean it's any good, does it? Followed by five sequels, Highlander II The Quickening (1991), Highlander III The Sorcerer (1994), Highlander Endgame (2000), Highlander The Source (2007) & the animated film Highlander The Search for Vengeance (2007) as well as two live action TV show's Highlander (1992 - 1998) which ran for 119 episodes & Highlander The Raven (1998) plus two animated show's Highlander The Animated Series (1994) & Highlander The Adventure Begins (1994). "},{"Title":"Paging Frodo & Gandalf!!!","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander takes an interesting premise and unfortunately turns it into a cheesy 1980s fantasy film with gratuitous blood and gore.  The only 2 good things about this film is the magnificent Scottish scenery and the great rock songs by Queen.  The actors all overplay their roles.  Even Sean Connery is bad!  He has done much better movies than this.I saw Highlander 2 and it wasn't that good, and I'm proud to say that I haven't even rented the other sequels because they're probably not that good either.  Heck, I don't even watch the TV series with Adrien Paul!Rent the Lord of The Rings movies instead.Rating *1/2 "},{"Title":"Highlander","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I knew something about one of the actors and the music with this cult film, but I didn't really know what it was about, obviously it was something I wanted to see however, from director Russell Mulcahy (Resident Evil Extinction). Basically Connor 'The Highlander' MacLeod (Christopher Lambert) was born in 1518 in the Highlands of Scotland, he is banished from his village after surviving a stab wound, the people believe this is the work of the Devil. Five years later he is met by swordsman Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez (Sir Sean Connery) who reveals to him that he is immortal and he kind can only die when the head is cut from the body, and when an immortal takes off the head of an opponent they will gain the loser's power and it is absorbed into them. Over time Ramirez teacher Connor the ways of the sword and fighting skills, until tragedy strikes when he is killed by the enemy, evil murderous immortal brute The Kurgan (Clancy Brown) who lusts for many immortals' powers for The Prize, enough power to forever rule the earth. Over the centuries Connor fights his way against all the enemies, until the time of the Gathering comes, when other battle surviving immortals have come together to fight, until one remains and wins The Prize. This battle has gone into the present day (1985) in New York City, and Connor, as Russell Edwin Nash and The Kurgan, as Victor Kruger, are the last two remaining. In the end, in Madison Square Garden, of course good triumphs over evil, and love interest Brenda J. Wyatt (Roxanne Hart) explains to him that The Prizr is the ability to be aware of the thoughts of people, to help them cooperate, and he has also become mortal, and can have children and grow old. Also starring Alan North as Lieutenant Frank Moran, Beatie Edney as Heather MacLeod, Sheila Gish as Rachel Ellenstein, Jon Polito as Det. Walter Bedsoe, Braveheart's James Cosmo as Angus MacLeod and Celia Imrie as Kate MacLeod. Lambert is alright, Brown is a good cheesy but nasty villain, and Connery in his time is obviously the great wise man, this film was really popular it spawned sequels and a TV series, the story was a bit patchy in places, but for all the sword fights and the songs and some music by Queen, including Who Wants To Live Forever and A Kind of Magic, this is I guess a fun enough action adventure fantasy. Okay, to watch at least once, in my opinion! "},{"Title":"Soporific ham'fest set to the worst movie soundtrack of all time","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is for fans of boring-yawn inducing cinema, people who enjoy watching 'named' actors being paid huge sums of money to deliver the on-screen equivalent of roasting pork. The soundtrack is hideous the editing during the sword fights is abysmal, instead of showing off the action, whoever shot this abomination thought the audience would much rather see footage of the surrounding architecture, take a look at the fight in the car park, great coverage of concrete pillars and parked cars. Sean Connery is just awful, certainly gets my vote for most over used / rated actor of all time. In fact Connery should hire a real life pig to do his acting for him, could not be any worse than the ham performance he puts in here. This movie is awful on every level, from script There can be only one yawn, to acting, Christopher Lambert should have quit acting after Subway The aforementioned D.P who tries to avoid showing off any action, and the editor who makes sure. The soundtrack is the worst i have ever heard, by macho gay rockers Queen. Horrible, utterly horrible. Given the choice i'd rather watch Jesus Franco's ten worst movies back to back than sit and watch Highlander again. I score this 1 / 10 for the 5 second scene with the leather vixen in thigh boots she's the only talent on show here, see the same director repeat this scene in his later and slightly better movie Richochet. I'll bet all Russell Mulcahy movies feature a similar scene, should have got into glamour photography instead of directing yawn-a-thons like this.   "},{"Title":"Highlander...","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sucks, just plain and simple, sucks.No plot, no dialogue and spawned too many equally rubbish movies and a television show.Now the rules say this has to have ten lines, but I can't think of ten things to say about this movie apart from.Acting - sucked Plot - sucked FX - sucked Accents - suckedFilm as a whole? SuckedI think I would rather watch Boggy Creek 2 again.Or even a well placed Coaster movieHell, any Aflick movies going spare to take the taste away?Guess what...SUCKED! "},{"Title":"res ipsa loquitor","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Immortals are dying.  No more need be said.  But since they do not allow you to post less than four lines, I'll add the Christopher Lambert cannot act.  Not here, not anywhere.  And someone should just loan Sean Connery money at a reasonable interest rate to keep him from having to appear in slop like this again. "},{"Title":"  A  W  F  U  L   ! ! !","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   Highlander is the STUPIDEST movie of the series ! I couldn't wait to watch it and when I did it maked me sick I almost couldn't watch it all . It's one of the stupidest movie I've ever seen. The second part is so much better than this (stupid) movie ! If you don't saw it never try to !!! "}]