[{"Title":"Pretty Good!","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"206 out of 276 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have a problem with a lot of people's review of Manhunter.  Every single bad review that criticizes Cox or Noonan invariably mentions the movie Red Dragon in the same breath.  How about being a little objective?On its own as the original Hannibal Lecter movie, Manhunter is a good movie. Cox plays Lecter convincingly, and you can read from other reviewers who praised his work shows that with a little objectivity we can see an alternative representation of Lecter.  It is true, as one other reviewer says, Hopkins acts Lecter, Cox *IS* Lecter.  Cox never seems to be acting, he really plays the part with mystery and ambiguity not like the distinctly maniacal Lecter that Hopkins portrays.Cox plays a true psychopath - one devoid of feelings, and yet a consummate actor.  Some of the world's best actors are in fact psychopaths.  A psychopath is not necessarily a killer - a psychopath is simply someone who does not feel for other human beings, which is often why the psychopath killers of this world were in fact convincing actors - for example Geoffrey Dahmer and Charles Manson.So when we analyze the profiles of true psychopathic serial killers, we can quite clearly see that Cox plays the better Lecter than Hopkins.  We can see Cox is devoid of compassion, and yet acts like a normal person.  Hopkins on the other hand, never passes the creepy stage - he is too creepy and doesn't have the acting ability of a true psychopath to mask that image from the public eye.  Cox shows that he could blend into normality without being caught.And therein lies the problem with the negative reviews.  We read countless negative reviews of this movie bemoaning the fact that Cox is not as creepy as Hopkins - but my dears, that is exactly why Cox plays the better Lecter! "},{"Title":"Blasphemous opinion","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"184 out of 239 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This will no doubt elicit howls of outrage, but I have always thought that Mr. Cox's portrayal of Hannibal Lector to be far superior to that of Mr Hopkins'.  Mr Cox portrays Lector as someone coldly intellectual, almost reptilian and inhuman, while Mr Hopkins gives a performance that always brings to mind that of Ernest Thesiger as Dr. Pretorius in Bride of Frankenstein.  Mind you, I really enjoy Ernest Thesiger as Dr. Pretorius; I'm just saying that the charming, witty and OH! so urbane serial killer has been done to death, and had been even when Silence Of The Lambs came out. Rent this video if you want to see how it's supposed to be done. "},{"Title":"A positive review!","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"122 out of 141 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  How many times have we heard The film isn't as good as the book? Let's face it. What film IS?! Red Dragon was a masterpiece and so is Manhunter.To appreciate that there are two issues. Firstly, the film was created in 1986. It's stylised and looks slightly dated. The soundtrack is excellent but again very 1980's. Secondly, Red Dragon was not an easy book to write a screenplay for. There is way too much information that made the book so enthralling to squeeze in to 2 hours.The cinematography, in particular the clever use of light and colours, is breathtaking. The choice of locations was also very deliberate. The scene where Will is running out of the building after speaking to Hannibal Lecter. They chose a building with a long spiral ramp down. The ramp is white, clinical. Running down the ramp is like those dreams where the bad man is chasing you and you can't get away. Will runs his heart out but doesn't get very far.I agree that Cox plays a different Lecter but then the book wasn't about Lecter. There was some mention made but Lecter in this film is very much a Cameo appearance. The way in which Will goes about catching the killer is every bit as clever as Starling's methods, if not more so. In addition, we are treated to the thoughts, the inner monologue, the frustration and triumph of a hunter.Make no mistake, if you expect an up-to-date movie as good in every respect as the book, you'll be disappointed. If you're sensible and expect nothing more than 2 hours quality entertainment you'll enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"What? No Tattoos?!","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"97 out of 116 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm starting to think that I may be one of the only people who saw this film when it was originally theatrically released! Years after that, as a freshman in college, I was managing a video store when a woman came in looking for the recently released `Silence of the Lambs.' She said she knew William Petersen from childhood and told me that he was in THE first Hannibal the Cannibal movie. Having not read the novel or seen the movie for a while, I never related the two before that. But I specifically remembered `Manhunter' for its creepy killer, spectacular use of Iron Butterfly, and the strange & frightening notion (for then) of FBI profiling. These three details alone speak volumes for the film's acting, style and writing. The irony of forcing oneself to share the same maniacal thoughts as a killer in order to catch them is the stuff of nightmares. Since reconnecting with `Manhunter' back then, I've remained a constant fan of the film.But the film suffers today in several ways. First off, any comparison to `Silence of the Lambs' is going to come up short. `Silence' is simply a better film &#150; a classic of the highest caliber that will continue to sustain itself with the passage of time. Those already acquainted with Jonathan Demme's world will probably have a hard time accepting `Manhunter.' But audiences should judge the film on its own merits, and recognize that unlike `Red Dragon' it was not designed to resemble an established world of a classic movie &#150; which is both a curse and an advantage for both films. I recently saw `Red Dragon,' by the way, and loved it. Walking out, I found myself asking whether I liked it better than `Manhunter.' These comparisons can get very silly because not only am I basing my impressions on a book, but also a previously filmed version and a closely related `sequel.' Best method let each stand alone, THEN decide if either was successful. Both films succeed for similar and different reasons. The approach of  `Manhunter' is much more cold and observational than `Red Dragon.' This style (often concerned with widely symmetrical composition), like Kubrick's, can greatly benefit the story if used properly. I really liked it here. The neatness and sterility of the 80s décor also works perfectly in this format, providing a nice contrast to the horrors sometimes contained within its walls. As for the music, it has not aged well. The synthesized stuff in the first hour is effective at times (especially when it's just a single, sustained note a la John Carpenter, or those bits that sound like `Blade Runner'), and the inclusion of In-a-Gadda-da-Vida is inspired, but the electronic balladry during Dolarhyde's romance is simply awful and detract from the scenes. Obviously, the danger of using such modern music is that it can become outdated and cheesy very quick.  Is it just me, or does this especially seem true of 80s music? Given Michael Mann's career, he clearly wouldn't agree. I guess one never knows. The Tangerine Dream score for `Risky Business' or Phillip Glass' for `Thin Blue Line,' for example, still hold up remarkably well from this period. The performances, however, are still wonderful. Petersen (whom I've heard didn't like the job he did) reaches just the right blend of seeming haunted, detached, morose, and as Dolarhyde describes him, purposeful. Dennis Farina, himself a former Chicago cop, exudes realistic authority as Jack Crawford. Tom Noonan obtains a disturbing childlike innocence and deliberation in his terror. And Brian Cox&#133;poor guy, will always be compared to Anthony Hopkins. It's unfair because he gives us a Lecter that is different, to be sure, but intelligent in a way that, to me, is more realistic, intriguing and ultimately frightening. Hopkins' Hannibal is so supremely horrible that he's practically supernatural at this point, not unlike Dracula or the Wolfman. I enjoy all of that too, but just on a different level. 8/10  "},{"Title":"are you all crazy?","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"100 out of 139 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I can only surmise that the detractors of this film are under 25, the new generation of cinema-goers who need all the ultra-violence and gore to make a film complete. This is quite simply, one of the best films of all time. Tom Noonan is amazing and absolutely masterful in his portrayal of Dollarhyde, and even comes across as sensual, when he is obviously deriving sexual satisfaction watching Reba fondle the sleeping tiger. One of the sexiest scenes ever, by the way. This is what I think people who don't get this film are missing, the little nuances, such as his look of sexual ecstasy watching Reba with the tiger, you can see he is imagining himself in the tigers position, being the recipient of loving caresses. And his awkwardness when Reba finally makes love to him, its all these things that you actually have to engage your brain to understand, thats where people just don't understand this film. The music is incredible, especially Shriekbacks This Big Hush, where Dollarhyde is in bed with Reba, is just inspired. William Petersen was born to play Will Graham, the tormented retired forensic cop, brought out of retirement by the Tooth Fairy's slayings of whole families. Brian Cox's portrayal of LECKTOR is superb, playing the straight man to Hopkins over the top campness. I cant understand why Cox didn't play the proper Lecktor role in the subsequent films. But thats what people don't get-its not about Lecktor. Its not about Red Dragon. It is BASED on the novel Red Dragon, which is why it doesn't follow the book ad verbatim. Don't watch this as a prequel or sequel, watch it on its own merit as one of the best films ever made. "},{"Title":"Basically the most underrated thriller of all time.","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"64 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Besides the fact that it was released without much hoopla in 1986, and that it was recently remade(the same exact movie except for the end) as Red Dragon, Manhunter is undoubtedly the most overlooked movie of the past 20 years. The plot is tremendous, Mann's direction is outstanding, and the acting(especially Noonan) is equally amazing. What Mann realized while making this film is that a thriller was not just meant to shock and disgust the audience but to develop the characters carefully so that there is an even greater sense of anticipation for the climax of the movie than there otherwise would be. Recent thrillers are clearly lacking in the character development that made movies like Manhunter and Silence of the Lambs so good. Its a shame that Red Dragon had to be made, since it is basically a strait ripoff of Manhunter except for a different ending which is much worse than the original and way too predictable. Anyone who thinks Red Dragon was a good movie should watch Manhunter and compare the two. If you try this you'll see that there is no comparison. Tom Noonan's performance alone is worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Recover the mindset.","Date":"17 June 2012","Score":"35 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Retired FBI specialist Will Graham is lured back into action to track a serial killer who is killing families, seemingly linked into the lunar cycle. In the process it opens up some old mental wounds that were born out during his last action out in the field...Before the gargantuan success of Silence of the Lambs, where the name Hannibal the Cannibal moved into pop culture, and before director Michael Mann became a named auteur often referenced with relish by hungry film students; there was Manhunter, Michael Mann's brilliant adaptation of Thomas Harris' equally brilliant psychological thriller, Red Dragon. It feels a bit redundant now, years later, writing about Mann's use of styles to bear out mood and psychological states, his framing devices, his commitment to his craft, but after revisiting the film on Blu-ray, I find myself once again simultaneously invigorated and unnerved by the magnificence of Manhunter. Visually, thematically and narratively it remains a clinical piece of cinema, a probing study of madness that dares to put a serial killer and the man hunting him in the same psychological body, asking us, as well as William Petersen's FBI agent Will Graham, to empathise with Tom Noonan's troubled Tooth Fairy killer. Here's a thing, too, Francis Dolarhyde (The Tooth Fairy) is a functioning member of society, he is quite frankly a man who could be working in a shop near you! This is no reclusive psychopath such as, well, Buffalo Bill, Dolarhyde is presented to us in such a way as we are given insight into this damaged mind, he is fleshed out as a person, we get to know him and his motivational problems.Dream much, Will?Mann and his team are not about over the top or camp performances, gore is kept to a premium, the real horror is shown in aftermath sequences, conversations and harmless photographs, but still it's a nightmarish world. Suspense is wrung out slowly by way of the characterisations. Will has to become the killer, and it's dangerous, he knows so because he has done it before, when capturing Dr. Hannibal Lecktor. Needing to pick up the scent again, to recover the mindset, Will has to go see the good doctor who has a penchant for fine wines and human offal. These scenes showcase Mann at his deadliest, a bright white cell filmed off kilter, each frame switch showing either Lecktor or Graham behind bars, they are one. When Lecktor taunts Will about them being alike, Mann understands this and visually brings it out. Dolarhyde's living abode is murky in colour tones and furnished garishly, and with mirrors, paintings and a lunar landscape, yet when Dolarhyde is accompanied by Joan Allen's blind Reba, where he feels he is finally finding acceptance, this house is seen at ease because of the characterisations. Switch to the finale and it's a walled monstrosity matching that of a killer tipped back over the edge. Brilliant stuff.If one does what God does enough times, one will become as God is.Lecktor, soon to be back as the source material Lecter in the film versions that follow, is actually not in the film that much. Brian Cox (chilling, calculating, frightening and intelligent) as Lecktor gets under ten minutes of screen time, but that's enough, the character's presence is felt throughout the picture in a number of ways. The Lecktor angle is very relative to film's success, but very much it's one strand of a compelling whole, I realise now that Mann has deliberately kept us wanting more of him visually. Noonan is truly scary, he lived away from the rest of the cast during filming, with Mann's joyous encouragement, the end result is one of the best and most complex serial killer characterisations ever. Lang scores high as weasel paparazzi, Allen is heart achingly effective without patronising blind people and Farina is a huge presence as Jack Crawford, Will's friend and boss who coaxes Will back into the fray knowing full well that Will's mind might not make it back with him. But it's Petersen's movie all the way. His subsequent non film career has given ammunition to his knockers that he is no great actor. Rubbish, with this and To Live and Die in L.A. he gave two of the best crime film portrayals of the 80s. He immerses himself in Will Graham, so much so he wasn't able to shake the character off long after filming had wrapped. There's a scene in a supermarket where Will is explaining to his son about his dark place, where the ugliest thoughts in the world live, a stunning sequence of acting and a showcase for Petersen's undoubted talents.Newcomers to the film and Mann's work in general, could do no worse than spend the ten minutes it takes to watch the Dante Spinotti feature on the disc. Apart from saving me the time to write about Mann's visual flourishes, it gives one an idea of just how key a director and cinematographer partnership is in a film such as this. The audio is crisp, which keeps alive the perfect in tone soundtrack and eerie scoring strains of Rubini and The Reds. Some say that the music of Manhunter is dated? I say that if it sits at one with the tonal shifts and thematics of a story then that surely can never be viewed as dated. And that's the case here in Manhunter. The director's cut is included as part of the package but the transfer is appalling, and for the sake of one cut scene that happens post the Dolarhyde/Graham face off, there's really not much to the DC version anyway. The theatrical cut is perfect, brilliantly realised on Blu-ray to birth a true visual neo-noir masterpiece. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Imperfect but absorbing","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"42 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've read 'Red Dragon' many, many times, and it is one of my favorite novels ever...and, as is, is virtually unfilmable. The centerpiece of the book is a long, detailed flashback detailing the motives (and practically the entire life) of the killer; it's the kind of thing you can get away with in print, but in a movie it'd stop the story dead. And so, alas, it's completely absent here. Too much background material is jettisoned in the translation and too much time is spent on Will Graham, the policeman in pursuit, for this to come close to the brilliant novel it's based on, but it's honestly about as good a movie as could have been made from this material.The best thing about this is the acting William Petersen is occasionally a little wooden as Graham (and no one, really, could stand there and talk to himself in lines that were silent thoughts in the book) but appropriately haggard and obsessed. Kim Griest, one of the best near-forgotten actresses of the eighties, captures the character of Graham's wife perfectly, and Tom Noonan is fascinating and frightening in equal measures as the Red Dragon (no mean feat, when we never really find out why he's doing what he's doing). Joan Allen does a good turn as a blind woman he falls in love with, in a relationship so obviously doomed that it causes suspense just by existing. Dennis Farina is his usual solid self as Petersen's superior. Altogether, the cast does its best to convey characterizations with the minimum of information the film actually has, and do very well.The film itself is about as stylish and eighties-era as you'd expect from Michael Mann, and in the 'Miami Vice' style leans on using songs (rather than a score) for some big moments, but while it's dated it's not gratuitous, and everything fits pretty well. It's a bit low-budget, but at times this makes it harsher and more frightening than it might have been; now that this has been remade as a more expensive, slicker production, it's easier to see that sometimes less is more. Don't look for nearly as compelling or rich a story as in the novel, but if pure atmosphere does it for you, this will do it for you. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful and fun","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"41 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As I watched Manhunter the first time I kept thinking something about it seemed familiar. From the credits I discovered it was from Red Dragon by Thomas Harris, a book I had read.William Peterson plays the enigmatic FBI agent Will Graham, who has left the job after almost being killed by Hannibal Lechter, but who is now coaxed back to help catch a killer who is murdering whole families in different locations in the United States.I enjoyed Brian Cox as Lechter. He displays the normal quality of Lechter which allowed him to go undetected for so long before being arrested and receiving the moniker, Hannibal the Cannibal. Perhaps because I saw Manhunter before Silence of the Lambs, I prefer Cox to Anthony Hopkins in the role.The Freddy Lounds character is the stereotypical reporter you love to hate. He's in Graham's face and as obnoxious as they come. You almost root for something bad to happen to him.Tom Noonan is delightful as the quiet Francis Dolarhyde. He's the loner that no one notices. I pitied him, then I feared him.I recommend this film for those who enjoy suspense with a bit of a horror twist. It's not a horror film, but some of the elements are there. There is also a good soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Scarier than Lambs ...","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"52 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is basically the prequel to Silence of the Lambs. It received nowhere near as much attention, nor any Academy Awards, but nonetheless, as a purely scary movie, it is the better of the two. Hannibal Lecter isn't as memorable, nor as well acted, but he's more real, more frightening. Unlike in SOTL, he is a direct threat to the principal good guy, in that he nearly killed FBI agent Will Graham and drove him to near madness. Graham is the man responsible for capturing Lecter, but to do so, he had to get further inside Lecter's head than is safe for sane humans, and throughout the film we fear that he, in pursuit of a new serial killer, is in grave danger of losing his sanity in the process. To add to the terror, Lecter is playing his mind games, while supposedly helping Graham, he is also secretly in cahoots with the killer, known only as the tooth fairy. Aside from dealing with the physical and psychological dangers presented by Lecter, Graham must also try to reconstruct the mindset of the killer, and this provides the real drama of this film. He is a man on the edge, he's been through psychological hell thanks to Lecter and wants nothing more than to live in peace with his wife and son, but when his old boss Jack Crawford enlists his help, showing him photos of the murdered families, he cannot refuse. And throughout the entire film we are drawn into his struggle, the battle between his unique genius for seeing into the minds of psychotic serial killers versus his desire to maintain his sanity, protect his family, and simply lead a normal life. As such, Graham is a far more compelling character than was Jodie Foster's Agent Starling. Although this movie has its flaws (chiefly, a Miami Vice like reliance on its music soundtrack) it is a genuinely frightening psychological thriller that is definitely more scary than its more famous and critically acclaimed successor.  "}{"Title":"Hannibal unglamorized","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"40 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film reminds me of a deglamorized verison of the Hannibal films. IMO it has a more realistic view to it. Instead of the likable and friendly Ed Norton, we have the moody and intense William Petersen playing Will Graham. Brian Cox's Hannibal is just as clever as Anthony Hopkins' but not as charismatic. Thus, that makes him more realistic, instead of superhuman, like the character later becomes. Instead of a spooky dark basement prison as in Slience or Hannibal, we have an austure white cell. Ralph Fiennes' Dolarhyde is quiet to the point of being a mute and almost semi retarded almost. I can't see how the girl would be attacted to him (even if she is blind). Tom Noonhan's Dolarhyde is more amible and friendly. He actually speaks in a friendly voice, at times even being a normal person. Even the ending is more realistic. Instead of having a supspense full thilling end, it ends rather anti-climaticly...but thus is life. "},{"Title":"One of my top 5 best movies","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"51 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Mann's 1986 adaption of the Thomas Harris novel Red Dragon now titled Manhunter is without a doubt one of the best thrillers (or can I say horror movies) ever made (I say horror because what else do you call movies about serial killers).  Manhunter is a winner on every level, from directing (but what did you expect from Michael Mann), acting, and all the other major technical jobs.  I actually think it's better than Silence of the Lambs because it involves you more with the characters and what goes into catching a killer thus making it that much more intense.  Now don't get me wrong Silence of the Lambs is really good and Jonathan Demme did a great job but the only reason some think it is the superior Lecter movie is because it is the mainstream Lecter movie, but for that I applaud it (how many other movies has been loved by the public and won oscars yet has a guy sling jizz in a woman's face).  Manhunter is, like all of Mann's movies, kinda artsy but thats also one of the things about his movies that make them so good. And no other directer except maybe Oliver Stone or David Lynch knows how to use music to set the mood better than Michael Mann, be it the score or songs in general.  The performances in Manhunter are all good except William Petersen's and Tom Noonan's which were GREAT!!!  William Petersen does a great job at showing the emotional toll the search for the killer has on him mentally, and I love the fact that he's a good guy with a kind of dark side in him.  There is something in Petersen's face that to me really shows his determination in catching the tooth fairy and he really is an underrated actor who should have bigger roles than he does.  Tom Noonan has made a career out of playing villians (at least until lately), the only ones that kinda stick out are The Ripper from Last Action Hero and Cain in Robocop 2. But those were typical bad guys and his performance as Francis Dollarhyde in Manhunter is hands down the best depiction of a serial killer ever.  Now I say that without knowing anything about serial killers other than whats on the news and in books but I'm sure they have some feelings (nobody's totally evil) and Tom Noonan shows this in his performance.  The killer is a cold blooded killer but has a human side that is shown once he meets Joan Allen's character.  There were scenes between them that really showed (through Noonan's performance) how messed up Dollarhyde is, like when she is kissing him and they have sex there is this look of unease and being totally uncomfortable on his face that really help flesh out the character.  Brian Cox, who played Lecter or actually Lecktor, does great with his performance also but this movie isn't about Lecter so he's only in it for 10 minutes at the most but does great with that time, his Lecter doesn't come off as being the embodiment of evil like the Hopkins performance but his Lecter is more of a sly, manipulitive character.  Not that I'm saying he's better than Anthony Hopkins because Mr. Hopkins deserved everything he got because of his performance but different movies have different interpretations.  The movie does leave out some things about Dollarhyde's past but I think they were not needed because Tom Noonan did enough on his part, but the ending does change a lot but then again after creating such a compelling character as Will Graham (one of my fave characters ever...right up there with William Sommerset from Se7en) I didn't want him to get mutilated and almost killed like in the books ending.  Plus if you think the killer is dead yet there is some hesitation in that AND the killer knows where you live I don't think you would go back to that house with your wife and child like in the book....oh and the kid's name is changed from Willy to Kevin but Willy would sound so corny, can u imagine the scene where Kim Griest says stay here with me...me and Kevin being stay here with me...me and Willy you wouldn't be thinking of the scene itself u would be thinking who the hell would name there child Willy.  And the director's cut does add some more depth to the characters and the new scene at the end where Graham visits the family that was to be Dollarhyde's next victim's is really good, it's not all dialogue like you saved our lives and all that s**t, it's played in the character's face....there needed to be no dialogue for it.  Manhunter is one of the best movies ever in my opinion and will ALWAYS be one of the best of it's sub-genre.  Hat's off to Michael Mann and Anchor Bay for releasing that limited edition DVD.  One more thing this movie has my fave line of dialogue from Lecter, the whole have you ever seen blood in the moonlight scene was cool.  "},{"Title":"The best film of its genre","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter is the best 'serial killer' genre film I've seen to date. It covers the 'serial killer' phenomenon from all possible angles - from the killings themselves and the motives of the killer, to the manhunt and the effects it has on the agents tracking the killer. Each of these four angles could themselves be the sole premise for such a film and it's to Mann's credit that he not only manages to deal with each of these angles in a substantive manner but also skilfully weaves them together into a coherent story.The film moves at a steady pace and, while always conveying the urgency of the characters' actions, it never feels rushed. The process of tracking the killer is shown to us in meticulous detail right down to the unspoken rivalry and/or contempt that the different branches of the law enforcement system have for each other. And it's this last point that touches on that which makes Manhunter so clever and in my opinion better than the book itself.Everything important in Manhunter is subtly hinted at so it's left up to the audience to infer Graham's ability to track serial killers (he's half-way there himself); relatedly, Graham's motives for choosing Lounds to lure the killer (whether he was aware of them or not); Dolarhyde's disgust/insecurity at his own physical appearance (and the root of his desire to kill). This is the true brilliance of Manhunter. Rather than force-feeding the audience, Mann recognises that the characters in this film are driven by their ability or inability to deal with their own psyches. The subject matter is therefore subjective and should never be clear-cut enough so that it can be explained in black and white.For those who say that there was too much focus on Graham and that the book focused mainly on the tooth-fairy, I will remind you of the film's title and to recognise the differences between this title and the book's. Mann quite rightly went his own way with the film. I've always felt that there's very little artistic merit in reproducing a book in film form - that's one step up from listening to a book read out on a tape.While on the subject of reproducing the book in film form, I'm unfortunately obliged to mention the more recent Red Dragon film. I noted that this far inferior film actually has a higher rating than Manhunter and it makes me laugh that a film so formulaic, coarse, and obvious (on all levels) should be held in higher esteem. But I suppose it stands to reason that if babies like drinking formula they want the same thing from their films.Manhunter is not just a technical masterclass in direction and writing but also in acting. Each character is fully drawn out by the actors and they each relate to the different characters in consistently different ways. Peterson has never been better as the introspective lead investigator who innately empathises with these killers and so understands how their profound insecurities can lead to murder. The progression of his character throughout the film is believable and quite expertly conveys to us his desperate attempt to separate himself from 'his man'. Farina is, as always, brilliant and as much as I'm a fan of Scott Glenn, the former's Jack Crawford is the grittier and more hard-edged. With every glance and eye-movement, Farina brings to bear his first-hand knowledge of what it is to be a cop doing his job under time pressure.Standing out from this excellent ensemble is of course Brian Cox as Lecktor. While there is some merit to Anthony Hopkin's unfortunately more renowned portrayal of the same character, his is undeniably a caricature of a serial killer and, therefore, not realistic at all. A serial killer must appear to be, by definition,a very normal person - that's how he manages to kill a 'series' of people as opposed to just one and then being caught! My problem with Hopkin's Lecktor is that he is quite clearly not fully there in the head and so even the rawest recruit from the FBI down to the Cub Scouts would be able to pick him out as suspect no. 1. Cox gives us something entirely different. His Lecktor is smart, charming, and beneath the surface empty, devoid of sentiment and compassion. Again, it's to Mann's, and the actor's credit that, by the time his three scenes are done with, we have an implicit feeling as to what may be driving this Lecktor as well as an uncomfortable liking for him.Three stand-out sequences to look for 1) the 'walk-through' of the tooth-fairy's letter through the forensic process. Not a quick, flashy cut in sight. Instead we have a patient almost soothing series of scenes that convey exactly what the different forensic specialists do better than any film before it or since (yes, they each have their own departments and there is not one indication that Jimmy Price and co. carry a gun, let alone go tracking down the killers themselves!). 2) Graham's visit with Lecktor. A dream-like sequence where the two play the best mental game of chess I can remember seeing in a film. 3) Dollarhyde encountering Reba. Michael Mann at his best shows us in three scenes how the fantasy-driven psychosis of a serial killer can be shattered to the point that the real person beneath is partially and briefly exposed.File under 'Masterclass'. "},{"Title":"Mann's first masterpiece?","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Michael Mann directs Manhunter, a 1986 thriller which sees actor William Petersen playing an FBI specialist tasked with tracking down a serial killer. The film was based on Thomas Harris' Red Dragon, the prequel to Silence of the Lambs.Though he directed Thief some years earlier, it was with Manhunter that Mann's distinct style first appeared. This style, which I call Armani decorum, seems to have a preference for clean, uncluttered compositions. Elsewhere Mann trades the old noir look of Thief - with its dirty alleyways and grimy, rain swept cities - for 1950's modernism, block colours, expansive glass panes, geometric divisions and contemporary, linear houses. With Manhunter we also see Mann's first experimentations with colour. Consider the sterile whites assigned to master criminal Hannibal Lecter, the sick green hues of the Tooth Fairy's home (the film's serial killer) or the cool blues of our hero's bedroom (watch how blues slowly turn to whites when we investigate a crime scene).All these stylistic traits lend Mann's films a unique look. Rooms are divided into flat surfaces, characters are dressed in pastels, scenes are assigned panels of light, compositions are inspired by Alex Colville and Edward Hopper and buildings are relentlessly modernist, with fluorescent bulbs and geometrical, flat surfaces.The shooting locations are carefully chosen as well. Atlanta's Museum of High Art acts as a sand-in for a prison, artist Robert Rauschenberg's home is used prominently, and the stylish Marriott Marquis hotel pops up several times.Like Antonioni, Mann uses architecture and urban settings to emphasise, not only the psychology, but the alienation of his characters. His characters seem as hollow as the surrounding decor, and are always gazing, somewhat naively, out toward some fantasy horizon. Like the heroes demonstrate in Thief and Collateral, this fantasy always takes the form of a simple beach or ocean. Mann treats water as a kind of tranquil haven, a sense of serenity which his characters aspire to but which remains forever out of reach.And of course windows and glass feature prominently in Mann's films. They act as a container or insulator, the noir cages of early film noirs, with their brick walls, dark shadows, cramped spaces, iron bars and tiny windows, neatly transformed into an aesthetic of vast window panes and transparent sheets; commit a crime and the whole world is made of glass.In this way, Mann seems to have reversed the very aesthetics of noir. He has re-imagined noir, transforming clutter, confinement and darkness into a world of slick neons, expansive spaces and transparent walls.These glass windows/walls seem to themselves pop up frequently throughout Mann's filmography. They induce a sense of paranoia, his characters always under observation, suspicion and/or vulnerably exposed. They also provide little protection, offer only false security and of course allow his characters to gaze longingly out at that distant horizon. Think those fleeting gazes in Miami Vice, Heat and Manhunter; glass facilitates the existentialist's desire for escape.And so glass plays a big role in Manhunter. Indeed, The Tooth Fairy specifically preys on homes with large glass windows. These windows allow him to spy on the inhabitants inside. Once he kills his targets, he then places shards in their eye sockets. Toward the end of the film, our hero then dramatically breaks through a plane of glass, entering the inner sanctum of The Tooth Fairy and finally confronting that which he has been trying to keep at a distance throughout the film.Narrativewise, Manhunter adheres to genre conventions. It does one interesting thing, however. The film's hero, Will Graham, spends most of his time attempting to delve into the mind of his opponent. By becoming the killer and entering his darkness, Will is able to understand The Tooth Fairy and effectively hunt him down. But in becoming that which he hates, Will only distances himself further from humanity and further from those he loves.While Will falls further and further into this abyss of evil, The Tooth Fairy begins to re-connect with humanity. He falls in love with a blind woman and for the first time in his life experiences a normal human relationship. So on one hand we have a good man spiralling into darkness, and on the other we have a serial killer climbing back towards humanity. The implication, of course, is that if the monster is capable of being a man, then so too must monstrosities lie within Graham.A braver film would have really delved into these issues, would have focused more on the Tooth Fairy's response to normality, but Manhunter ultimately resists humanizing the monster and seems content to keep things on a surface, superficial level. But then, Mann's story is itself preoccupied with surfaces, told more with music, mood and visuals, than dialogue.The film's big flaw, though, is its lacklustre shoot out, in which Mann uses weird editing and jarring subliminal jump cuts. This scene was filmed with a skeleton crew on the final night of shooting and it really shows. But perhaps Mann is attempting some odd symbolism with this scene. Consider the way Will breaks through the glass, the way the shots are all shown twice and the way The Tooth Fairy dies in a pool of blood visually similar to William Blake's Great Red Dragon. Perhaps the odd jump cuts signify that this event has happened twice; we know Will was similarly slashed in the past by Hannibal Lecter.8.5/10 &#x96; Mann's minimalist visuals and music lend this film a unique edge. While later serial killer films (Lambs, Zodiac, Seven) continue to fetishize a sense of Gothic darkness, Manhunter dares to paint a prison cell brilliant white. Incidentally, while these later serial killer flicks would prove influential on 90's TV (X-Files), Manhunter led to the birth of such flashy forensics shows as CSI (also starring William Petersen). "},{"Title":"Moment of Truth","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter (1986) directed by Michael Mann - is a masterpiece, pure and simple. It took me five times but I finally realized it. I see it as the best adaptation of the favorite book written on the subject of serial killers and investigation of their crimes. I also discovered William Blake and his fascinating art, including the painting which gave the book its title, Red Dragon, thanks to Mr. Harris. Michael Mann certainly read the book Red Dragon before he started to work on the movie and he was able to get inside of it as well as the book's main character, Will Graham was able to get inside a murderer's mind. The scene where Will Graham (William Peterson) finds out who the killer is makes me shiver every time I watch the movie. I can not recall another moment of truth as powerful and convincing as this one. It is more powerful that the similar scene in The Sound Of The Lambs where Clarise Starling figures out who and where the Buffalo Bill can be. Michael Mann took his time understanding how important the scene was and it received a royal treatment in the movie. I used to be disappointed that Mann cut the book's very impressive ending but after many viewings I think I understand why he did it. For me, the whole movie was a build up for the moment of truth scene and after Graham figured who the murderer was making us the participants of the process, it did not really matter (at least for me) how they were going to catch Francis Red Dragon Dolarhyde. "},{"Title":"The most complete movie ever made","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have looked through this movie 20 times and can't really find a single thing that is wrong. Maybe Will's dictation to himself in the victim's house is too pretentious but otherwise the whole thing is scarily good.There is nothing heroic about it and the ending is about the best of all time in any movie. Yes, the soundtrack is a bit silly in some places but at the final scene it is brilliant.Moreover, this shows just how bad the movie producers are when they thought this one was bad and then went on to produce the other rubbish with Hopkins.Never mind, this is sweet and pure. "},{"Title":"The unforgettable debut of Hannibal Lecter","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" FBI Agent Will Graham (William Petersen, you have seen him on CSI) has captured the diabolical Dr. Hannibal Lecter or Lecktor (Brian Cox), nearly losing more than just his mind in the process. But when Graham is called out of retirement to hunt the psychopath known as The Tooth Fairy (Tom Noonan in a role Enternainment Weekly calls one of the freakiest madmen Hollywood has ever given us) he must once again confront the horrors of Hannibal The Cannibal. If Will Graham enters the mind of the serial killer, can he ever come back? Joan Allen (The contender), Dennis Farina, Kim Greist and Stephen Lang co-star in this shocking thriller directed by Michael Mann and adapted from the novel Red Dragon by Thomas Harris. But be warned Fans, myself and critics alike consider MANHUNTER to be far superior to THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS...as well as one of the most unnerving serial killer movies ever made. Enjoy it. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A personal fave!","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"22 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sure, it kind of looks like a long MIAMI VICE episode, but once you get past that, you'll find one of the most involving thrillers of the last 20 years. William Petersen is excellent as Will Graham. My favorite device is how Will starts out his profile addressing the killer in the third person (The house must have felt cool to him), then moves to the second (You stood here and watched them), but it's only when he lets himself move to the first person (I enter the house) that the solution becomes clear. It's a journey that he doesn't want to make, but he knows it's the only way to find this guy before he kills again. Brian Cox is excellent as Lecter (you have to love the phone trick); it's too bad he wasn't brought on for SILENCE OF THE LAMBS. Might have sent his career into overdrive. The best sequence is the analysis of the Tooth Fairy's letter to Lecter at the lab. See if you can spot all the present-day TV stars! I count 3 the dad from LIFE GOES ON and Bletcher from the late lamented MILLENNIUM; Bulldog from FRASIER; and Chris Elliott, who now voices Dogbert on the DILBERT animated series! "},{"Title":"A stunning film","Date":"8 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter is an amazing film, we as the audience are not treated as fools, not everything is fully explained or laid out, it contains no throw away dialogue in case we forgot what is going on, all is told through breathtaking imagery and acting, I do not have to see the gruesome details of horrific crimes in order for me to have an emotional response, like the classic shower scene from Hitchcock's Psycho a lot of what we see is implied, at first we only see a silhouette of the attacker we hardly see any blood, we don't see the knife puncture flesh, yet it is still disturbing and horrific.William Petersen excels as the main agent working to track down this vicious serial killer nicknamed The Tooth Fairy, and Brian Cox gives a truly chilling performance. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I just saw this movie 23 years after it was released and I have to say WOW! The cast, the music and the flow of the movie takes you in and delivers one hell of a roller-coaster ride in slow motion. The movie guides you into and thru another world that is both comprehensive and convincing.I remember reading the book after seeing Silence of the Lambs and it was a great story - what I would expect from this author, but I had no idea that there had been a movie made. This is obviously a small budget film but that does make it all the more appealing to me. The focus has to be on the acting and the plot and this movie shines because of it.Best of all, there is no politically correct message crap that you have to filter your brain thru like most movies made today.A huge THANK YOU to everyone involved in this movie for the great escape it gave me.This will definitely rank in my top ten of all time favorites ) "}{"Title":"Superior to Silence of the Lambs","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am a large fan of Hannibal Lecter. Tonight I finally saw this film. The novels are great, that I have read so far. Red Dragon is the best I've read so far.I didn't expect much out of this. I love Anthony Hopkins's performance even though I DO like Brian Cox. He just isn't my favorite. I also didn't think this was gonna be that great because it strayed away from the novel but I was wrong.Will Graham (William Petersen) is an retired FBI profiler. He has the great forensic gift...or curse...to think as a psychopath. Graham retired after arresting and almost losing his life to the infamous cannibalistic mass-murderer and brilliant psychiatrist, Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Brian Cox). Graham is put back on the case by Jack Crawford (Dennis Farina) to capture a serial killer known as the Tooth Fairy, who kills entire families, the killer's real identity is no secret, he is Francis Dolarhyde (Tom Noonan).Graham is scarred by the traumas he suffered in his career. He is putting himself and his family in danger. He calls on the incarcerated Hannibal Lecter for help. While Dolarhyde is falling in love with a blind co-worker named Reba McClane (Joan Allen) and searching for Will Graham, Will is also closing in on Dolarhyde. I honestly enjoyed this film more than Silence of the Lambs, which is also a great movie. In this, they gave Hannibal Lecter an everywhere-and-nowhere prescense by only showing him a handful of times and referring to him frequently during the film. Brian Cox equaled up to Anthony Hopkins, whose performance is the one I prefer but I find Brian Cox's Lecter to be more realistic.The film is not a lot like the novel, as I mentioned before, but also does a great job at sticking to the main idea of Thomas Harris's masterpiece. I found the tortured Francis Dolarhyde as a more chilling character than the Jame Gumb/Buffalo Bill.The acting is great. The songs they used in the film were perfect (Strong As I Am, used in the betrayal scene). I did not care much for the movies score though, but it was tolerable.If you are a fan of the other Hannibal Lecter films, you'd better watch this. You will never regret it. I assure you that you will have a good time and will be surprised by this underrated classic. "},{"Title":"Awesome. Way better than Silence of the Lambs!","Date":"29 April 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A tremendous film. Based on the Thomas Harris novel, this was the first appearance of Hannibal Lecter (here spelled Lektor). He's not a huge part of the film. Played by Brian Cox, he serves a lot of the same purpose as he did at the beginning of Silence of the Lambs, as he gives advice about a serial killer to the lead FBI agent on the case (William Petersen). Petersen and Dennis Farina are after a murderer known as the Tooth Fairy, who has murdered two families on nights with a full moon. They're hard at work before that third full moon. As with most Michael Mann films, this is mostly about style, and that style is absolutely gorgeous here. It's very 80s, but Mann takes all the worst tackiness of the decade and makes it look oh so cool. The story is excellent, very breathlessly paced and tense. Creepy Tom Noonan eventually pops up as, of course, the murderer (no spoilers) and Joan Allen plays a blind woman whom Noonan starts to date. I would easily label this as a masterpiece, if it weren't for one completely failed element William Petersen. That guy is an awful actor. Besides being able to grow a cool 80s beard, I'll never get why anyone ever hired him. Those scenes where he sits alone speaking aloud, trying to get inside the mind of the killer, are laughable. There's also one big plot point that pisses me off (SPOILERS) when Petersen approaches the home of the killer, he sees the guy straddling his next victim with a piece of broken mirror in his hand. Instead of just shooting the guy through the window, he smashes through it with his whole body, lands right next to the guy, allowing himself to get his ass kicked and several cops to be ventilated by Noonan's shotgun. What an idiot! "},{"Title":"Faint Endorsement","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had to comment on this movie.  I didn't see it when it originally was in the theaters.  I have seen it on video twice.  READ THE BOOK!!  It is great. The movie takes many liberties with the plot, and I think it is worse for the discrepancies.  However, on its own it is a pretty good movie.  I don't care for Mann's directing skills.  I think he was the biggest problem with the movie.  Peterson, Noonan, Allan, and Farina are great.  Allen was the closest thing to my visual interpretation of the character in the book to what was put on screen.  Cox is actually quite good although much different from the Hopkins' performance (they are completely different roles).  Cox get Lector's effiminate/gossipy persona down cold.  I love the scene when he is talking to Graham and he curls his feet up like a teenage girl talking to her boyfriend.  Noonan and Peterson are really amazing.  I think if it had a better director it would have been huge, the plot was basically fool-proof. I think when it came out it would have rated a 8.5-9 rating.  However, Silence was much better and the lighting and soundtrack have dated it poorly, so I would give it a 7 for today's viewing climate.  Read the book, it is much better than Silence of the Lambs.  Hopefully, the new movie will not change much from the book, but I doubt it. "},{"Title":"Engaging Thriller that Has not Aged","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In Florida, the retired FBI agent Will Graham (William Petersen) is visited by his former chief and friend Jack Crawford (Dennis Farina). Graham lives with his wife Molly (Kim Greist) and their son Kevin in a seaside house and was retired after capturing the notorious Dr. Hannibal Lecktor (Brian Cox) that affected him and left Graham disturbed. Jack needs Graham to help him to trace the profile of the Tooth Fairy serial- killer that attacks in the full moon and has killed Mmes. Jacobi in Birmingham and Valerie Leeds in Atlanta and their families. Graham discusses with Molly and accepts the assignment, and he immediately visits the crime scenes and the dangerous Dr. Lecktor in prison to seek help to find the motives. Then Graham asks Jack to send his efficient agent Jimmy Price (Dan E. Butler) to Atlanta to seek fingerprints in the bodies of the members of the Leeds family. Soon they learn that the Tooth Fairy has contacted Dr. Lecktor that gave Graham's address to the serial-killer. Will Graham succeed in stopping the killer before the next full moon?Manhunter is an engaging thriller by Michael Mann based on the novel of Thomas Harris that has become famous years later with the movie by Anthony Hopkins. I saw Manhunter many times, the last one on 30 April 2003, and this thriller has not aged. Yesterday I saw again now on a shameful DVD released by Universal-Studio Canal with the most ridiculous subtitles in Portuguese that makes impossible to understand many parts if the viewer does not understand English.Manhunter has top-notch performances with great development of characters and outstanding music score. Brian Cox is a scary Dr. Hannibal Lecktor. The climax with Iron Butterfly's In-a-Gadda-da-Vida is frantic and scary to see the blind character of Joan Allen in the middle of the chaos. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Dragão Vermelho (Red Dragon) "},{"Title":"Brian Cox proves that less is more","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Released back in 1986, and disappearing without trace at the box office, Manhunter brought Hannibal Lekter to the big screen, and perhaps more importantly, showed just how nasty he can be without any form of violence.As two families are murdered a few weeks apart in the southern states of the USA, the FBI make a connection to a lunar cycle and realise their killer is following a pattern. With a deadline imposed, the next full moon, and no clear leads, FBI chief Jack Crawford, with some desperation, pulls a retired agent out of the field.That retired agent is Will Graham (a compelling William Peterson) who is faced with the unenviable task of having to go and meet Dr Hannibal Lektor in order to try and gain some insight into the mind of the killer (the 'Tooth Fairy') they are chasing.For my money the scenes between Graham and Lektor are every bit as good (if not better) than those between Starling and Lector in Silence of the Lambs.The key difference here is that Michael Mann never allows the tension of fear to ebb away between Graham and Lektor. As Lektor (Brian Cox) sits on the edge of his bed, his dark eyes never moving from the young FBI agent, he is conversational, even pleasant with Graham. He talks about aftershave, and about various magazines. Then casually asks for Graham's home telephone number. Never has such an innocuous request been delivered with such underlying menace.As Graham and the FBI continue their hunt for the 'Tooth Fairy' ( a similarly impressive turn by Tom Noonan) it is Graham's growing mental turmoil which underpins the film. Reluctant at best to help his former colleagues, he is furious to find his wife and stepson targeted at one point, and as the clock ticks down toward the next full moon and the leads dry up one after another, you can sense the growing frustration build in Graham. This is not a man on a career mission he does not even want the job. But as he tells his wife partway through the film 'It's gotta stop! (meaning the murders).One small but key scene comes early on aboard an overnight plane. With the crime scene photos laid out on his lap, a dozing Graham is jolted awake by a stewardess. The passengers are asking to be moved, unnerved by the content of the photos.It is these small touches by director Michael Mann which give the picture its heart. Lektor is not a cool icon, despite what Silence of the Lambs would have you believe; he is what Graham describes him as at the start of the film. He is 'insane'.That said, there is something undeniably fascinating about the power which Lektor exerts from his cell. Brian Cox's lines are hardly more than The Terminator's, yet he uses them just as shrewdly. Contemptuous of the authorities which hold him behind bars, and mistrustful yet oddly respectful of his nemesis Graham, Cox's Lektor is a man with time to burn, and a score to settle.By contrast, the 'Tooth Fairy' is indeed a tortured soul. Resentful of society, and brutalised by a childhood which sadly the film does not touch on (for that you need the book), Tom Noonan brings depth and even sympathy to a character who has already murdered ten people before the film even starts.Better or worse than Silence of the Lambs, the comparison makes no difference to Manhunter. It is mightily impressive from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"Stylishly-Made movie","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is absolutely a Michael Mann movie. The slick pacing and the music lend to a somewhat spooky tone. This isn't Silence of the Lambs, but stands pretty well on it's own. William Petersen is good as the FBI agent. The scene where he watches videos of the families, and slowly sees what the killer is seeing, what is driving him, and how he kills is worth seeing this for. Stephen Lang is plays a great slimy character, and Tom Noonan's character is appropriately terrifying. Good, underrated movie. "},{"Title":"Above Average Thriller","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When watching Manhunter I was a little underwhelmed, I was hoping for more. Saying that it is above average and a solid serial killer/cop thriller.Manhunter was based on the book Red Dragon by Thomas Harris, the first film about Hannibal Lector. and led to the films of Silence of the Lambs, Hannibal, Red Dragon (a remake) and Hannibal Rising. This was Michael Mann's baby-steps into theatrical film making after television work, and led he to direct excellent films like The Last of the Mohians, Heat, the Insider and Collectial.The plot of film was Will Graham (William Petersen), an expert profiler, who is called out of retired by the FBI to investigate a serial killer, the Tooth Fairy, who had brutally murdered two families in the Deep South of America. Graham is reluctant at first but he scene of duty makes him get involved with the case. After some early success, the case becomes stuck and the intelligence serial killer Hannibal Leckter (Brain Cox) is enlisted to help. Things take a further twist when the the Tooth Fairy starts to communicate with Leckter and the FBI investigation becomes a race against time because the Tooth Fairy kills his victims on the full moon.The acting is top-notch. I thought William Petersen was better suited to the role of Will Graham then Ed Norton was. Brain Cox was chilling as Hannibal and did do well in the role, and overall I think Cox is a better actor then Anthony Hopkins. Other good actors were involved in this film, such as Joan Allen, Tom Noonan and Dennis Farina. The tone of the film was more understated then the other entries in the series, and realistic in performances. You get to see the psychological battle within Graham, but I thought the dream scene wasn't needed. Michael Mann also shows that he is a good set-piece director, to gun battle, to the attempted police set-up and the torture scene of a reporter. Some other aspects I like was you didn't get to see the Tooth Fairy until the middle of the film and you done get to see what drives him or even much about him. Compared to Red Dragon their is a scene when you hear the Tooth Fairy getting psychologically tortured by his guardian when he is doing weight and that felt clichéd. Also in Manhunter, it attempts to humanize the villain and show he was intelligence; like a serial killer in real life you most possibly wouldn't know of what he gets up to. However, watching the film, it felt a little heartless and therefore you lose some of the feelings of engagement with the characters and the events. Also, the soundtrack was awful.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Superior (forgiving the 80's look)","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What Chris Brown seems to forget (and probably many other reviewers) is that this film WAS made in the 80's, with a far less budget than Silence of the Lambs (SOLTL) and without the polished Hollywood look that we come to expect from films these days.You can't deny the Miami Vice look and the soundtrack can be a little heavy at times, but this film does not suffer for these effects.Will Graham's character is portrayed very well, reclusive and quiet after witnessing things that many of us never want to see, you can almost feel the inner turmoil that he bears, trying to stay away from gruesome crimes, yet yearning to put a stop to the horrors he is being shown.I did not dislike any of the characters, I thought the casting was excellent, with the actors adapting to their roles with ease. The casting of Tom Noonan as Francis Dollarhyde was pure genius.I saw this film after reading the book and was not disappointed. When taking the journey from page to screen you have to accept that not all of the book will make it in. There are some chapters of the book that I think are missing from the film and would have developed Francis's character even more, but the transition is good and not as flawed as some you will see.The tension that develops as the Police try to snare to `Tooth Fairy' is well balanced and adds to the dark feel of the film.SPOILERThe one scene that was missing that I thought should have been included is when Freddy Lounds calls the Police, pretending to be the `Tooth Fairy' very tense scene, with the Police frantically trying to locate the call box, shame it didn't make it into the film.END SPOILERI really enjoyed this film, look past the eighties feel, open your mind to what can be done without enormous budgets and you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"praises for MANHUNTER","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The first work based on a Thomas Harris novel I saw was film version of The silence of the Lambs. (Interesting)Then I read the book Hannibal (even more interesting). I waited for the movie version. It was good but WHY CHANGE THE ENDING! The book's (totally unreal) ending was perfect - Starling dancing away with Lecter, possibly even getting married! But in the movie she resists him - how weak!Then I read RED Dragon - another splendid writer's performance.Then I read Black Sunday. Another interesting story ahead of it's time (so to speak). Then I saw the movie on late night TV. It was well done but once again the ending was changed! (the movies seem to need a happier ending, don't they?).This Hollywoods' mania to twist the plots around, spurned me to READ The Silence of the Lambs - sure enough,the film's polished rendition left a lot to be desired compared to the written counterpart.Then I realised that someone had made a film of Red Dragon too. Took it out on video, and after all the previous comparisons, at last a movie that has brought the subtlety of the book and it's raison d'etre alive on the screen. Sure it wasn't polished like the Silence or Hannibal(I counted at least 3 times when you could see the microphone AT THE TOP OF THE SCREEN)but This was at last a believable film and a veritable rendition of Thomas Harris's intent. The Serial Killer was spot-on(at least what I imagine a such a personality could be like), and Hannibal was at last depicted like a madman as he truly could be and not a likable romantic.Great psychedelic colours and music,(I mean how dated is In A Gadda Da Vida! -but it worked beautifully), in fact one can watch this movie a couple of times to fully appreciated it. I expect the new remake will be a more polished blockbuster affair, but I hope that that the quality of the screenplay matches this Manhunter! "},{"Title":"Apples and Oranges","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The bulk of comments concerning this film center on the debate of its superiority/inferiority versus Silence of the Lambs. That line of criticism does not do justice to either movie.Besides the Thomas Harris link, there is no connection between them at all. Sure, there are shared character names, most notably Dr. Lecter, but not shared characters. Cox's and Hopkins' interpretations of the infamous cannibal could not be any more different. Whose is better? That's irrelevant here. What is relevant is Manhunter's success as a stand-alone feature film.Michael Mann's film is standard serial killer fare, which is not necessarily a bad thing. What separates it from its cinematic brethren is its style and class. It's easy to follow a hunter-prey storyline. What isn't easy is to provide the audience with well-rounded characters who convey that grey moral ground of real life. In that respect, Manhunter is a success. From the FBI agent teetering on the edge to the killer struggling with his emotions, Mann weaves a complex story that takes a step above the genre.The movie is definitely of the 80s. Timelessness is the top determining factor of a film's classic status. Whether or not Manhunter stands the test of time is yet to be seen. The music is already dated, but not to the point of impeding the story. Fortunately, it has not suffered the same fate as the now campy reruns of Miami Vice.Manhunter is not a great movie. It is an above average genre film aided by a stellar cast and crew. Take it for what it is and enjoy an underappreciated thriller. "}{"Title":"One of the best thriller/shock movies you will ever see","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" All the superlatives in the world, will never count or replace the fact of you not seeing this movie. The first and greatest of all the Tom Harris/Hannibal Lektor tales. Brain Cox/Dennis Farina/William Petersen in a Mike Mann film wrapped in the musical score, of Michel Rubini and The Reds...Oh wow I've watched this movie 3 times in the last year still as fresh as ever, on my first outing...Yes there's a little bit of 80s Miami Vice and a small splattering of American Gigolo' in the aura of the movie...The post modernist, beach style white, flat roof houses very much Frank Lloyd-Wright influenced gave credence and method, to the mood scene.Nice piece of work cleverly executed with a near perfect cast. A must for any collection...Also makes good training material, for investigative bodies and enforcement agencies... "},{"Title":"A superior film","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I had seen Silence of the Lambs before Manhunter. In fact, I had never heard of Manhunter till one late night while I was in University, flicking through the channels and this caught my eye and after I watched it, it became one of my favourite films and I became a fan of William Petersen's work.I can't understand people saying the book 'Red Dragon' is better than the film. No offence to Thomas Harris but I found Red Dragon boring and couldn't get into it. I even found myself comparing Manhunter with the remake starring Edward Norton and Harvey Keitel and found it lacking. I just couldn't get into it and the actors were rubbish and there were first rate actors in the film.This film was one of the first films to deal with profiling and it was a fairly new technique when the film came out. Up till then, crime films were the police looking at the evidence and being able to tell who had done it because the killers were caught red handed either leaving their prints behind or eyewitnesses seeing them at the scene of the crime but then more and more crimes happened where there was no connection between the victim and killer that the police could see and so they needed profilers to help with the more complex cases and they could build a profile on the type of person the killer was by looking at the crime scenes and the victims and using the profile to catch the killers.Some people knock William Petersen's acting but I think he is one of the best actors I have seen. His character Will Graham is a tortured soul who struggles to get past what happened to him when he was pursuing Hannibal Lecktor. He is now called out of retirement to hunt a serial killer called The Tooth Fairy who is stalking and killing families. Graham has to once again get into the mind of a killer and stop this man before any more families are killed and he has to do it without destroying himself like he nearly did with Lecktor. When he meets Lecktor, you can still see the power Lecktor still has over him. Brian Cox is just as good as Anthony Hopkins as Lecktor. He is understated in the way he talks and moves but you can see it in his face with sends chills down your spine as you see him toy with Graham. Tom Noonan as the Tooth Fairy/Francis Dollarhyde is convincingly scary but manages to show a vulnerability in the character at the same time.What I found interesting was the relationship between Reba, a blind girl and Francis. I wondered if she would be able to stop his murderous impulses and Francis would have some form of redemption but it doesn't happen and the madness takes over. But it is obvious that she has touched some part of him that none of his other victims have as he hesitates to kill her at the end.Another appeal to the film is that Will has already established a career in the F.B.I and after all the experience he had, found it hard to get out of Lecktor's head but we see him get more determined to catch the Tooth Fairy and in having to deal with things he didn't want to at the start of the film, ironically it makes him better mentally. It is also fascinating to see Will as a family man because we see how his job affects his family as well as him.Michael Mann is one of the best directors. He never slows the pace and keeps the audiences attention on the screen till the very end and by then you feel like you have ridden a white knuckle rollarcoaster. Brian Cox said in an interview about Mann, he implies horror but never explains it and that is more scary as the audience are left to imagine what has gone on. The editing and special effects ain't brilliant but for one thing it was the 80's, for another, I also heard that the film was behind schedule and on the last night where the shootout between Francis and the police happened, there was no special effects guys around.The action and music just go well together, like a puzzle.For anyone who hasn't watched it, just do it because I think it is one of the best out of the franchise with brilliant actors who you can recognise in other films and TV series who weren't well known back when this was getting made but whose careers have flourished since the making of the film. "},{"Title":"Dated But Not Unimpressive","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Comparisons between Michael Mann's MANHUNTER and the other films that followed the Hannibal Lectar franchise are inevitable but unnecessary . Stylistically and context wise MANHUNTER is an entirely different movie from its successors which makes it difficult to say whether it's a better or worse film As a stand alone movie it just about works . The audience needs no pre knowledge of Dr Hannibal Lector because he's very much a peripheral character so much so that if you cut him out of the story no plot changes would be needed at all , in other words Hannibal is a disposable character and to be honest when I first saw this movie in 1990 I found Cox's performance very distracting as I tried to figure out where in the British Isles the accent was from ! Perhaps if Dr Lector didn't appear this film would be entirely forgotten today ? It certainly has little to do with Hannibal the cannibal and concentrates on FBI specialist Will Graham tracking down a serial killer dubbed  The Tooth Fairy  Michael Mann directs in a minimalist 80s style which I'm afraid appears somewhat dated viewed today . Mann was well known at the time as the creator of Miami VICE and like the 80s cop show the synthesiser soundtrack coupled with non original rock tracks often seems the most important aspect . In the mid 1980s I was a teenager and used to love movies and TV shows that had pop music playing over the narrative but like I said this type of directorial flourish quickly become dated . Though to be fair to Mann he does manage to bring a depressing and bleak atmosphere to the movie without ever having to resort to blood and gore and gimmicks unlike Ridley Scott did with HANNIBAL If you like murder mysteries or films that have a typically mid 1980s feel then I can certainly recommend MANHUNTER "},{"Title":"watch without prejudice","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Your ideas will be set by reading the book or seeing SOTL.Cast them aside and enjoy fine performances, notably Noonan and Cox.Cox doesnt resort to the hamminess or prissyness of Hopkins, and his performance implies the physical menace and detachment of Lecter excellently.Mann's direction can be sometimes overblown, but in this case it adds to the tension. "},{"Title":"'Hannibal' Before He Became Famous","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This was the first look at Hannibal Lechter, but it really didn't have the impact of Silence Of The Lambs and the two subsequent movies also dealing with Lechter. Those - Hannibal and Red Dragon (a re-make of this movie) - all had Anthony Hopkins as the famous criminal. Hopkins take on the character was so memorable, so riveting that he made it his own. In this movie, Lechter is not memorable. Few people could tell you who played him in this film. The answer Brian Cox.That's not to say it's a bad film. It isn't, but it's no great shakes, either. The first half is very suspenseful but the second half of the movie is disappointing. It is interesting to look back now and see a young Bill Peterson in the lead. I am used to seeing the CSI television star as a more mature Gil Grissom.I watched this movie back in the '80s before I knew Petersen, Cox, Hopkins and the rest.....and it was better. Sorry to say, the other films have simply eclipsed this effort. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece.","Date":"16 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This will continue to ease into Cult-classic status, which is a shame, considering this film would blow-up with critical acclaim if it were released today.Michael Mann has created his own world here. It's a realistic, scary, yet completely beautiful movie that will probably never receive the attention it truly deserves.This film is crafted with a similar attention to detail as 'A Clockwork Orange' or '2001'. There's just something that tells the viewer as he/she is watching it - that somebody behind the camera REALLY CARED about what he was putting on film.SOme of the little editing nuances, lighting, and music blend together like coffee and cream.William Peterson's performance is pitch-perfect for the character who seems completely obsessed with his mission. Very similar to 'Unbreakable' from M. Night, or the Red Dragon remake, only this has twice the style and attention to detail.I Love this movie!You'll like it if you liked Collateral, Silence of the Lambs, Unbreakable, Highlander, and To Live and Die In L.A.The Blue-hues here are just all-over as Mann makes that one of his trademarks... loaded with style, suspense and horror. Perfectly paced thriller. "},{"Title":"A Healthy Shift in One's Gauge for Judgment","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What I find intriguing about Manhunter is both what makes it appealing and what makes it less impactful than it could have been. That is Michael Mann's stylistic comportment, his handling of Thomas Harris' material as one of his trademark masculine crime thrillers. It falls under the umbrella of Heat, Thief and Collateral. Seeing it in this way makes it appealing because of how the gruesome elements are taken in stride with Mann's modern police procedural flavor, again casting wonderful real-life cop turned character actor Dennis Farina for good realistic measure. But just as well, the impact is dulled by what a subsequent trilogy has shown to be Mann's comparatively narrow vision. The Silence of the Lambs, Hannibal and even Red Dragon were given such potency by such utterly fascinating and memorable characters. Mann keeps himself at arm's length from them by foregrounding the mechanical and methodical aspects the plot.Still, Manhunter is definitely a very effective dramatic thriller, because procedure, physicality and technology are not only Mann's idiosyncrasies but his approach to his characters. He skillfully and almost subliminally injects the film with an undercurrent of inner panic. Part of this is because of the implicit inference that, in his capture of the diabolical Dr. Lector, Detective Will Graham's approach of putting himself in the place of sociopathic killers may have led him to having unsound feelings towards his own family. This is something, it is delicately conveyed, Graham has never entirely recovered from, a thought suggested by the nature of his reluctance to come out of retirement to track a serial killer of entire families known as The Tooth Fairy, a thought that still lingers in light of the pawn of a Hollywood denouement. But where the sense of the repressed is most externally evident is in the way the otherwise suave Graham always appears to be diminished by the film's attention-drawing modernist architecture and design (which oddly works as the exterior for a mental asylum), as well as in the way the rhythm of the film suddenly shifts from drawn-out scenes with the pensive Graham to eruptions of racking terror and brutality.Manhunter opens with a scary middle ground between both The camera, chaperoned by a nasalizing 1980s synthesizer, tracks the beam of a flashlight through a pitch black house, up a staircase, to a bedroom where a couple slumbers. The beam settles on the wife, who stirs, then sits up and gazes into the harsh light, whereupon the image goes black. The point has been made. This has been the caravan of The Tooth Fairy, who will massacre these people and their children, though it could also be Graham's conception as he relives the night of butchery while fixing on crime-scene dailies and blood-tainted chalk lines. They're sharing a fearful rapport.I know it is not at all fair hinging criticism of Manhunter on a comparison to Red Dragon, which was based on the same first novel of Hannibal Lector, because between the two, Manhunter is definitely the better film. Red Dragon is part of Hannibal's official film series which deeply explores not only Dr. Lector but the emotional gamut of each character, but Brett Ratner's version gives us hollow scenery characters and is far from faithful to the nature of Dr. Lector. What makes Anthony Hopkins' Hannibal so extraordinarily formidable is that he has the forethought of a genius, having risen so far above the collective conscious that he can scarcely be troubled by the comparatively negligent and inactive view of the ordinary person, even a famously brilliant FBI psychological profiler. Red Dragon nearly butchered this sense. Manhunter is superior because it neither augments or diminishes the character, played by Brian Cox. It is a separate film, interested in other things.It is actually a healthy shift in one's gauge for judgment to see a completely removed take on Anthony Hopkins' trademark character, who has not only risen high above the collective conscious but cut deeply into it. Manhunter is the objective angle, before Lambs shifted the whole paradigm on Harris' ominous creations. Declining any comparisons is the key to enjoying Manhunter. Indeed it can actually be fascinating to see Cox take Lector on an entirely different trajectory, Mann seeming completely unaware of the untapped watershed he had in the palm of his hands. He's kind of like Mike Yanagita in Fargo, a character from the cop protagonist's past with only peripheral involvement in the action but functions as a necessary thematic connector to a character in the cop protagonist's present. Regardless, Mann is fixated on the anxiety and torment of the hunter more than his psychotic quarry, and with that focus on voyeurism it is very effective.Here, Tom Noonan's creepy rendition of The Tooth Fairy is the more interesting psychopath, a deeply tormented soul, responsible for monumentally monstrous acts, finding compassion for the first time in his life at the same time Graham is mercilessly hunting him down. Noonan's look is what lends him such presence as a character actor, an imposing six-foot-six menace, another figure by which Graham is dwarfed. Played by William L. Petersen, Graham seems to reflect Mann's uninflected cerebral self-involvement. And it seems to have bred a slew of subsequent film and TV thrillers harboring categorically cultish depictions of forensics, as well as sole protagonists who roam fresh crime scenes alone in order to dive headlong into a sociopath's upsetting animus. Manhunter paved the way for the age of insight into the devil, which is vital to depicting him. "},{"Title":"Split Script","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A very serious, and conveniently photogenic, FBI man named Will Graham (William Petersen) takes a personal interest in catching a serial killer. It's an average thriller.The first half is quite good as Graham, recovering from psychological trauma of a previous case, learns about the current killer, called the tooth fairy; consults with other cops; and gathers forensic evidence. He interviews Hannibal Lecktor (Brian Cox) in prison, to see if Lecktor can help him psychoanalyze the tooth fairy. There is a subtle sense of alienation about all the characters, trapped in their urban environments. Glass and windows play into this motif.Unfortunately, the second half is terrible. It's like it was written by an amateur scriptwriter. While the first half focuses on Graham, the second half alternates between Graham and the tooth fairy, presenting a choppy, back-and-forth plot structure. Further, the killer is introduced too abruptly, and scenes generally lack effective transitions.We never learn much about the killer's motivation. The lunar cycle theme is not explained, nor are we given much explanation about the red dragon. Various geographic locations seem arbitrary. The appearance of the killer, especially when he's first introduced, is laughable. And the film's ending is preposterous and silly.The film has a distinctive 1980s look and feel, with its fashions, slow-motion camera shots, and music track. Except for the killer, casting is acceptable. Acting ranges from acceptable to below average. Joan Allen gives a really nice performance.If the second half had maintained the quality of the first half, this film would have been quite good. As is, Manhunter is an average cop movie, wherein the villain is a kind of stereotyped, and rather typical, bogeyman. "},{"Title":"Best film of 1986... a supercool thriller by Michael Mann","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" MANHUNTER came out in 1986, around the time of the TV show Miami Vice craze. And there's an obvious reason the same man that created VICE also directed MANHUNTER...Michael Mann! The VICE touches are evident in MANHUNTER very bright colors, regardless of setting, an uber-cool look, 80s music underscoring important scenes (yet, ironically, even today, the music seems appropriate for each scene and still adds to them rather than take away). But MANHUNTER is certainly not a VICE ripoff! It is the engrossing story of some severely disturbed, deeply wounded human beings. In the pre-credits, we get a point-of-view shot of a figure lurking inside a home up the stairs, then the wife awakens...roll credits...MANHUNTER begins! Opening scene, we are introduced to our hero, retired FBI profiler Will Graham (played brilliantly by William Peterson), who quit after being traumatized by his last capture of gruesome serial killer Hannibal Lecktor (played here in chilling form by Brian Cox). That's right, Brian Cox, not Anthony Hopkins! And although SILENCE OF THE LAMBS is the wider-known film, you'll still enjoy this film a lot and Cox's interpretation of Lecktor (the way it's spelled in this film). Graham is recruited by his old boss Jack Crawford (Dennis Farina in an extremely fine performance) to help nab the serial killer who killed the family of the opening credits, the Leeds family. The first half of the film focuses strictly on Graham, his inner demons, his quest to catch the killer and the convolution of these two things. Graham has the unenviable ability to go into the mind of his prey and outthink them at their own game.Then Mann does something brilliant. He dares to tell the story of the killer in the second half and his introduction is a smooth transition. The killer is named Francis Dollarhyde (Tom Noonan in a truly magnificent performance), a tall, hulking, yet immensely sensitive man. Dollarhyde's love interest, one of his co-workers, is a blind woman Reba McClane (played by Joan Allen in a very fresh, sexy, captivating performance). Reba is actually attracted to Dollarhyde and they have a rather touching courtship, a kind of beauty-and-the-beast relationship.The two separate, yet overlapping, stories collide to a very exciting climax as Graham and the cops close in on Dollarhyde, who has taken Reba hostage. This climax has an energetic pace and a rocking music score to go with it that I've always loved. MANHUNTER is also a great example of the police procedural and the thought and detail it takes to catch this killer. The cast is pure gold here Petersen, Cox, Noonan, Allen, Farina. Additionally, Stephen Lang as a scumbag reporter and Kim Greist as Graham's wife are well cast. Watching Mann's recent masterpiece COLLATERAL actually reminded me of the brilliance of MANHUNTER the atmospheric mood, stylistic look, and cool music mixed with complex characterizations and great pacing. I actually find MANHUNTER a much more watchable film than SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, which is so mired in slowness and horror, that it has a lot of dull moments and boring characters. But MANHUNTER, while very stylish in presentation, has a lot more working for it. It is filled with substantive detail, has a great premise, and contains great acting, esp. by Petersen, Noonan, and Cox. It is a very deliberate, intense film. They actually re-made MANHUNTER as RED DRAGON, which is an excruciatingly boring and unwatchable film...Trust me, MANHUNTER is the film to see! "},{"Title":"Disturbing without ever patronizing","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of the central problems of the Hannibal Lecter series as it was revamped for the '90s and beyond became apparent to me when I heard one of the producers remark on the DVD of Hannibal Rising that they wanted to bring new blood to the franchise. Beyond the tasteless quasi-pun, the real problem surfaced as a question how do you turn sadistic serial murders into a profit-making franchise? There was a time when writers made serial narratives concerning infamous villains - i.e., e.g., Fu Manchu or Dracula - because there was something unexplored about the villains particular genius for committing evil and escaping that had not yet been completely explored in the first entry of the series; interestingly, Bram Stoker wrote only the one Dracula novel, which explored the character exhaustively; when that character arrived in Hollywood, his first appearance was an extreme truncation of the original novel, thus leaving plenty opportunity for further exploration of the character in film.So the problem the producers of Hannibal Rising raise is, has the character been exhaustively studied or not? Because if he has, additional sequels are a waste of time.And having witnessed Hannibal Rising, I confess I believe the character exhausted; but that's another review.Here, let me just say that it was good to see Mann's film again recently, to return to the series' cinematic origins, to get a clearer perspective of the Lecter character as he was originally conceived.What makes the Lecter character fascinating in Manhunter is that he is pure genius become pure sociopath. This is a character who first committed murder just to see what it was like, not out of any sense of outrage or revenge. The most important line in the film is when Lecter remarks to the FBI profiler, if you do what god does often enough, you become god (assuming that what god does most often is kill people). While the character of the practicing serial killer, the Tooth Fairy, is rich in unresolved and unresolvable sexual tensions, this line from Lecter describes the real ground both he and the Tooth Fairy walk, a march towards some assumed omnipotence that requires murder as its ultimate manifestation.what's disturbing about this wish for god-hood is that we all either feel it or at least the temptation of it pulling at us at some time. Like the profiler in the film, we aren't really sure we have a real defense against Lecter's claim that he and we are alike.Mann's success in this film is his ability to recognize the seriousness of these issues while still constructing a rock-solid police procedural around them. Unlike the later series, there's nothing romantic about this film, although there are certainly thrilling set-pieces sprinkled through-out. I notice that some of the reviewers critical of the film remark the naturalistic, low-key atmosphere of the film as (severely critical) slow or as (apologetically lightly critical) low-budget. Actually, Mann has all the resources with which to make his film, and he moves it along at a pace that is thoughtful while allowing sudden interjections of rapid action sequences. This is what Mann does best, this is why anyone would hire him to direct a film, this is why his fans pay to see his films. This is a thinking adult's director, not a splashy flash-in-the-pan wannabe.I don't know if I will ever see the other Lecter films again in 10 years; but I've seen Manhunter once a decade so far, and it remains wholly satisfying - albeit in a disturbing way, of course, given its subject. But I have a suspicion I will like it just as much 10 years from now, when I see it again.By the way, I prefer the 'director's cut' (which rates a 'ten'). "}{"Title":"tom noonan is the red dragon","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" sorry to all the people that think ralph fiennes (still looking for someone to explain how that translates to ray fine, it has got to be a gimmick, and please don't give me a load of replies about it being some English/whatever bit, he is English/whatever and his family seems to be the only one that pulls this) but, tom noonan nailed the red dragon.i read the book, i saw both movies, and i still think tom noonan nailed it.so manhunter isn't a literal translation of the book. but, for my money tom noonan fits the character to a tee. he catches all the nuances and gets them all right.his portrayal of an insular, pathetic, loner with a speech problem is quite believable. "},{"Title":"EDGE OF YOUR SEAT FILM","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Why make a repeat of this film. how do you get better than perfect. cutting edge, ahead of its time.William peterson is as good as it gets. this film is what all other films of its type should be compared to. the music by RED 7 is excellent. Steven Lang along with Tom Noonan give perfect pitch to a masterpiece... check it out... "},{"Title":"Manhunter - Michael Mann.","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter(1985) based on the Thomas Harris novel Red Dragon, is director Michael Manns third feature film. After receiving critical acclaim from his fantastic debut Thief(1981), and then having a critical flop with the divisive The Keep(1983) this film marks a return to top form. Manhunter starts out with a man eerily creeping up a flight of stairs about to commit a heinous act of violence, which is made all the more tense with a piercing synth score and just In the split second of it happening Mann cleverly cuts to Jack Crawford(Dennis farina) the agent-in-Charge of the Behavioural Science Unit of the FBI. Who is trying to coax out Will Graham(William Petersen), a former agent with the FBI, who retired with after a run in with the infamous serial killer Hannibal Lektor. Crawford knows that he can can play on the emotions of Will Graham, who has the ability to empathize with psychopaths and killers, an ability he finds extremely disturbing. After showing him pictures of the two dead families both of which were murdered a month apart on a full moon, he reluctantly agrees to track down the 'Tooth Fairy' played by Tom Noonan, which leads him needing to get back into the mindset, he pays a visit to Dr.Lecktor, expertly played by Brian Cox. Where the psychological sparring begins. As with most Mann films, his films are based around two men, who are the opposite side of the same coin. In Heat(1995) we got a thief called McCauley played by DeNiro, and a cop called Hanna played by Al Paicino, both characters who were self aware that they were the same person, but on different sides of the law, In Manhunter there is a similar undertone we see Will Graham, struggling with his ability too understand and even empathise with the serial killer he's chasing after, and on the other Francis Dolarhyde, who yearns for a normal life which he tires to have with Reba McClane(Joan Allen), it gives this film an interesting dynamic. The acting in this film is marvellous with a great central performance from William Petersen who gives an intense brooding performance, he sells every emotion he conveys on the screen. His counterpart Tom Noonan also does a terrific job of taking what could of been a one note character in the 'Tooth Fairy' and turns him into a believable and compelling character that hates what he's doing but believes he has no choice. The un-doubted star of the film though is Michael Mann, his aesthetics are visually stunning to look at and add another depth to this film that is oozing in style. And while the film is product of it's time, there is something very appealing to it's synthetic score and art deco design. One drawback of the film is it's shaky final act which feels like a bit a let down after all the hard work the first two acts put in place. Overall It still remains a fantastic thriller which spawned numerous copycats, and a film worth investing your time in. "},{"Title":"Chilling atmospherics and wicked performances","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm honestly ashamed that I hadn't seen Michael Mann's Manhunter, at least entirely, before tonight. When I was younger I was enamoured with Jonathan Demme's taut, frazzling Silence Of The Lambs, intrigued by Ridley Scott's bizarre, velvety, comical Hannibal and very underwhelmed by Brett Ratner's Red Dragon. Then, recently I've been singing the praises of NBC's crack at the Lecter mythos, which has been nothing short of mind blowing. But I never thought to go back and revisit this sleek, moody genesis of the tale, and damn am I glad I did. Mann, one of my all time top directors, gives his usual class to this macabre procedural, feeding surreal, almost paranormal vitality into a story which could easily go the clinical route of pedestrian thriller. William L. Peterson is minimalist glory as the profiler who goes a bit too deep into the minds of serial killers, Will Graham. It's the best work I've ever seen him do, and both Mann and him let the character organically percolate into some scenes of rare maturity among Hollywood fare, for instance explaining to his intuitive son in a supermarket just what his job entails, in explicit detail, and that there are monsters out there that have to be dealt with, not sugar coating the horror for his son. He's called by Jack Crawford (Dennis Farina, deliberate, down to earth, my new favourite incarnation of the classic character) head of the behavioural unit at the FBI, who needs Will's specific skill set to capture an elusive killer called the Tooth Fairy (Tom Noonan, using his ghostly appearance and unassuming, soft voice to work wonders of creeping, contemplative dread), who is slaughtering families in their beds. Will consults the infamous Dr. Hannibal Lektor, here played by Brian Cox. While Anthony Hopkins took the theatrical route, and Mads Mikkelsen the abstract, esoteric approach, Cox grounds the good doctor in a jovial state of good natured charm, with brief, unnerving glimpses at the beast beneath. Because in this film we never actually see Hannibal outside his jail cell, let alone committing any of his notorious atrocities, it makes the character, and Cox's performance all the more effective. The fear of apprehension is worse than knowing exactly what it is we are afraid of. Joan Allen is great as a blind girl who unwittingly finds herself in The Tooth Fairy's clutches, and Kim Griest must be commended for her work as Will's wife, a thanklessly written role that she skillfully brings to new heights, turning the few scenes that her and Petersen share into pure cathartic gold. The film clocks in at a streamlined two hours, with the fat trimmed and not a moment wasted on anything but the sheer breathtaking atmosphere of the story. Mann, who clearly was getting homesick for the dulcet tones of his go to composers Tangerine Dream, employs the next best thing, in this case The Reds, radiating an ambient soundtrack of pure malice and suspenseful, synth drenched beauty that encapsulates the mood perfectly. I must say that even after NBC's recent booming success with Thomas Harris's source material, I feel like this is the finest manifestation of his work I've seen put to film as of yet. Just don't hate me for taking so long to finally see it lol. "},{"Title":"Amazingly well-done","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter is the first film in the Hannibal Lecter movie franchise and it was directed by Michael Mann and it is also written by him based on the book by Thomas Harris, called Red Dragon.The story of MANHUNTER is cool. Let me break it down for you When asked to investigate a killer known as The Tooth Fairy, FBI profiler Will Graham comes out of retirement to lend his talents to his case, but in doing so he must confront the specter of his past and meet with a jailed killer who nearly counted amongst the victims.MANHUNTER focuses on the forensic work carried by the FBI to track down the killer and shows the long-term effects that cases like this have on Graham, highlighting the similarities between him and his quarry.The film features heavily stylized use of color to convey this sense of duality and the nature of the characters' similarity has been explored in academic readings of the film.MANHUNTER was the first film to introduce serial killer Hannibal Lecer, who would later appear in the 1991 critically-acclaimed film, The Silence of the Lambs, directed by Johnathan Demme, the Ridley Scott sequel, Hannibal, released in 2001, the 2002 remake / re-imagining of Manhunter, directed by Brett Ratner, Red Dragon and the black sheep, critically disappointing released in 2007, Hannibal Rising, directed by Peter Webber.The actors are amazing. William Peterson is great as Will Graham. Tom Noonan as Francis Dollarhyde / The Tooth Fairy is really dark in the role. Brian Cox plays Dr. Hannibal Lector and he is fantastic. Kim Griest, Dennis Farina, Joan Allen and Stephen Lang all do great jobs in their performances.The music is really awesome and fantastic. The direction is amazing and the dialogue is really amazing and spectacular and I don't think it's not as as bad as critics said to be or made it out to be.Overall, MANHUNTER has a few flaws, but the critics is amazing and fantastic and amazingly well-done and I could not have seen better.8.9/10. "},{"Title":"Michael Mann's profiles in madness","Date":"26 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Before the term profiling entered the popular imagination as a crime fighting technique and a long time before television shows reduced the efforts of the FBI's best and brightest to stupid and unrealistic catch-the-killer-before-the-last-commercial plots, Manhunter came along like a boulder landing on a roach. This exploration of open wounds in society is not for the squeamish or those seeking paint by numbers stories. It's a wild bull of a film and William Petersen is just the right man to take us into his character's indelible line of work.J. Edgar Hoover would have regarded profiling as little more than witchcraft, so the most valuable contributions the post-Hoover FBI have given the world since the mid 70's include the art/science of really finding out what makes violent criminals tick and using this to try and predict their next moves, undoubtedly saving more lives than anyone can say with mere statistics. A serial murderer such as Ted Bundy or Jeffrey Dahmer could go on wreaking havoc until they are A put in prison or B die themselves. The remorseless offender who exists to kill doesn't function like a normal felon. Their business is a much more deranged and secret activity than gangs or bank robbery. They blend into society scarily well most of the time, as Michael Moore's TV Nation displayed in a grimly comical piece on how folks in a typical suburb didn't bat an eyelid while the show's crew put out some very bizarre signals that something wasn't so normal in their community. The person who's overhearing you discuss the latest news about a ripped from the headlines crime might just be the crazy killer!Brian Cox wasn't the first actor cast in the role of Hannibal. According to Mann's commentary track on the Divimax version of this film he personally supervised, Brian Dennehy (who later starred as John Wayne Gacy) was going to play the discredit to psychiatry until he said Cox should have the part. And Cox provides a disturbingly low key take on the shrink the world would become much better acquainted with five years later. Joan Allen is in top form as a woman who's much more free spirited than the visually unchallenged men she's around. As is Tom Noonan, the unhinged suitor who has delusional eyes for her. The song In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida gets it's best use ever here in a scene that has to be seen! (Slayer also recorded a version of this Iron Butterfly classic, briefly heard in Less Than Zero.) The remake Red Dragon is fresher in many minds than this original take on the Thomas Harris series of novels that inspired a zillion nightmares. And in the 90's, The Silence of the Lambs and the CSI franchise became the pop culture standards for most people's ideas about elite law enforcement. But I prefer Manhunter, for Mann's direction and those performances that stare back at your soul unwaveringly. "},{"Title":"The final answer","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter beats Red Dragon. On many counts.The line up is superb.But the film belongs to Tom Noonan. Monster or human; who knows, and if I had him in my sights, who cares.But the scene on the dockside when he thinks she's escaped. Wonderful, and thank you Michael Mann. Completely Atmospheric!.And yes; William Petersen is just perfect - and Dennis Farina (with two n's), who needs more.In a Gadda da Vida.Apparently I'm supposed to add another line, or I won't make it! . "},{"Title":"Manhunter is Bill Peterson's movie and his coming out party","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie before Silence, and quite frankly, neither Cox nor Noonan did anything meaningful for the characters they were playing. This movie is all about the birth of a young star who would be picked to lead the most successful TV franchise in history, and become the prototypical FBI profiler for every show and movie to come out since.Just as Michael Mann changed the TV landscape with Miami Vice, by melding MTV-type music videos with kitsch, cops, and fast cars, Mann also foretold the future of all forensic crime dramas with the introduction of a young William Peterson, who I would argue was born to play GIL GRISSOM .Am I the only one who sees the parallels, beginning with the similarity in name? GIL GRISSOM/WILL GRAHAM. Not at all coincidental.If Cox had been given the time and the acting latitude that Tony Hopkins was handed on a gold platter, who knows how much better he could have been as Lecktor.Noonan's character was somewhat frightening in the scene with the Tattler reporter, but compared to the average bad guy in Criminal Minds, he could be mistaken as the Easter Bunny.Let's face it. Manhunter was not so much the first debut of Hannibal Lecktor as it was of Gil Grissom and the sheer level of emotional intensity that a top-notch profiler has to personally invest in every bizarre and bloody case he tackles.Take away the loud and annoying 80's music. Leave in InnaGaddaDavida, and Manhunter is a masterpiece for all time. "},{"Title":"awesome movie","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just great... The colours, the characthers, yes the whole plot...  It gets me inside, and peterson is very good and not at least TOM NOONAN... Should be given a OSCAR for his part... THE MUSIC is very, very good, just like MIAMI VICE and the last sequence with IRON BUTTERFLY... IN A GADDA DA VIDA honey.. THIS movie is a must see... I loved it.. its dark, very dark in its own way  "},{"Title":"An okay movie that means well but dies of overstylization","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The raw materials of a damn good film are here, but Mann's typically awful (and I mean hideous) musical choices (at least for his 80s movies) are on full display in Manhunter, and the first bit of remedy would be to chuck every song and piece of music, bar none, and either (1) don't feature any music or (2) bring on the musical subtlety (not Mann's strongest point). Then I would shake the actress playing the protagonist's wife, an entirely unbelievable and utterly annoying Hollywood-style wife, and jettison her, rewrite the part and make that character way marginal. Lastly, I'd give in to the story and shed the endless reams of style that are - yes - taking up the story's space, to quite annoying effect. All of these remedies would help make the movie less about Michael Mann and his direction and more about the story that direction is supposed to be...well, directing, you know? And I guess that's problem #1 with Manhunter it's more about the director than about the unfolding supposed-to-be- engrossing story itself.What's amazing is that Hannibal Lecter doesn't scare in the slightest, and suspense just isn't happening here. Even revulsion isn't happening, and it should be present in bucketfuls. There just isn't any hit to the gut that the movie's working (supposedly) to give you. Very disappointing. I just wish I hadn't bought it. Oh well. "}{"Title":"Tom Noonan scares the hell out of me !!!","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Surely one of the movies of the eighties,so why on earth film a remake? It can not be bettered !An  idea would be to get Thomas Harris to write a new novel about how Will Graham caught Lecter in the first place, then get Michael Mann to film that.Anyway back to the movie and what amovie , a near masterpiece. A slow boiling psychological thriller in which Michael Mann pulls off a clever trick in not showing us the Tooth Fairy until a good way through the film at which point you are bursting to see him.And is'nt Tom Noonan the perfect Francis Dolarhyde. He was born to play him.The book which is even better, strongly emphasises the sheer physicality of the character and his almost superhuman strength which makes me question the decision to put Ralph Fiennes in the new role.And William Peterson should have gone in to hyperspace after his role as Will Graham.One drawback is the ending.Read the book and you will know what i mean.  "},{"Title":"Beautifully Done","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Having thoroughly enjoyed Thomas Harris's excellent book, my expectations of this film were not especially high, but I was very pleasantly surprised. Clearly I had underestimated Michael Mann. I thought this was an excellent film, very clever visually, and with a great soundtrack. The acting was remarkable - William Petersen brilliantly interprets the character of Will Graham, and Brian Cox very subtly, but unnervingly, assays the background role of Hannibal Lecter known here as Lektor. It is not flawless - it is a very '80s' film in some regards, and has dated - but overall it is a remarkable and thoroughly entertaining thriller. Brett Ratner, Edward Norton & co. have got a lot to live up to with their proposed remake, but I, for one, very much doubt they can top this film.9/10 "},{"Title":"Brian Cox is Hannibal Lecter","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Great idea producing a remake of 'Manhunter' making the Anthony Hopkins trilogy complete. In fact so great, that Michael Mann should take on the challenge making remakes of 'Silence of the Lambs' and 'Hannibal' as well.Brian Cox is the true Hannibal Lecter! THEN the Hannibal Lecter trilogy it is complete. Anthony Hopkins stinks as Hannibal Lector as does the dungeons like cells compared to the horror of the clinical sterility from mental institution of 'Manhunter', and probably for real, which is unlikely for a health institution, but I may be naive . The chilling scene in Lecter's cell with the dentist like music ('Freeze' by Klaus Schulze) is one of the best I have ever seen on screen, and really got under my skin. I did not like 'Manhunter' much the first time I saw it in 1988, where it was released in Denmark, but I could not get the scene out of my head. After the release of 'Silence of the Lambs' I dug into 'Manhunter' again, and I can not think of another reason why I did not like it at first other than I must have been having a bad day when I first saw it. To me 'Manhunter' outshines all the Anthony Hopkins releases completely.PS There ought to be a law against remakes. "},{"Title":"Incomplete.","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well, everyone who has seen it has a unique opinion on Manhunter. I myself saw it years before recently seeing it's newest form Red Dragon. I used to think this was a brilliant movie -- until I saw Red Dragon and re-watched this movie. There are GIGANTIC holes in the plot of this movie. All the questions I have always had about this movie were answered by Red Dragon. In Manhunter, certain (important!) plot points are completely passed by which basically makes this movie incomplete. We are given absolutely no background on Francis Dolarhyde (aka The Tooth Fairy). We have no idea what he is or why he does what he does. In fact, we don't even know the character. We might as well have had Michael Myers or Jason Vorhees up there doing the killing. I have yet to read the book, but at least in Red Dragon (film version, I'm confusing you, I know), Francis was a multi-dimensional person. He was shy, awkward, torn, moody, and even had a sense of compassion. On here, he's nothing but a run-of-the-mill nut. The relationship between Hannibal Lector and William Graham is also grossly uncharted. Only having seen the other film do I now actually comprehend the meaning of the dialogue they share in THIS movie. Also, many people praise Brian cox and say he's a better Hannibal than Anthony Hopkins. How? He's onscreen for all of what, 5 minutes? And for what, to dispatch some routine dialogue? And don't even get me started on the dialogue in this movie. Everything is so forced and hammy, it makes me wonder how I ever enjoyed this movie in the first place. The one strong point of this movie is in Michael Mann's directing. Although the movie is painfully dated, it still looks gorgeous and is enough eye-candy to keep you entertained for the two long hours this movie takes up. But, as I said before, this movie is just incomplete. Huge chunks of the story are missing, thereby making certain plot-points very cloudy (I never understood the tiger scene until Red Dragon.) I know you're all tired of the comparisons and probably think it is blasphemous of me to say this, but Red Dragon is by far the better movie. Red Dragon clarified so much that Manhunter had stumped a layman like me on. Only after seeing Red Dragon, a movie made 16 years later, does this movie finally make sense. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The 80's was not a good decade.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Why people like this film and hail it's brilliance, I will never know, this film aggravates me. The only reason I sat through the entire thing is that I wanted to compare it with Red Dragon and the other Hannibal films.This film reeks of the 80's...not the good parts. It has terrible acting, it's like all the actors were reading off cue cards. The plot didn't seen to exist in the end, so we really don't care about the characters at all.Brian Cox is a horrible Lecktor. He had no charisma, and it was impossible to believe this man could contain the knowledge of how to cook a human, he seemed more like a liquor store robber. He seemed like a reject from a Guy Richie film.The Toothfairy was even worse...how are we supposed to be afraid of something that looks like a mutant Bill Murray?Anytime the movie had a chance to be creepy or suspenseful, it ruined it with the music. Not like all 80's music is bad, just the songs Mann decided to put in the scenes...they kill the mood. In between the innapropriate songs was silence...dead, dull silence, which makes the film seem twice as long and twice as boring.To tell you how bad this film is, the only thing that amused me throughout this entire flick was the scene in the grocery store, where you could see boxes of Mr. T Cereal in the background.This is one of those products of the 80's that you look back on with shame...kinda like the mullet. Avoid this, go see Red Dragon. "},{"Title":"Real and intense, may feel a bit dated for some.","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As much as I like The Silence of The Lambs, this is the starting point as well as the best movie of the whole series. Michael Mann is one of my favourite directors, particularly due to movies like this and Heat. He has that conspicuously distinct style of his own.William Petersen plays criminal profiler Will Graham. He at first seems awkward, but later after he meets Hannibal Lecter, you realize that he's more of a troubled personality than it seems. Brian Cox's Hannibal Lecktor seems more real than Hopkins' characterisation, that's what makes him scarier. He's supposed to be a psychopath, and in real life, psychos don't show signs of being psychopathic, they act normal; they just don't feel for anyone else. Tom Noonan as Francis Dollarhyde is a sociopath in just the same way as Lecter is a psychopath. His peculiar appearance and build adds to his mystique.The score is pure '80s, like when The Big Hush plays in the background in Noonan's bedroom. I liked it personally, maybe because it evokes some of the nostalgia within me.The cinematography and direction are top-notch. Tints are heavily used in scenes according to different moods. Some scenes, e.g. when Graham imagines how Dollarhyde went on with his murder and why he used the mirror shards (when the victim's eyes light up) were genuinely unsettling. The forensic lab scenes were also great, when they catch up with one clue and run on to examine another one. It adds to the realistic charm of this movie.Manhunter can bring out some very polarized opinions from the audience, and that's understandable, most complaints being with the movie's pace and apparent datedness.For me, though, it's a 10/10 psychological thriller, an under-rated classic. This movie is meant to be watched alone, preferably at night. "},{"Title":"Why Manhunter is Superior to Red Dragon","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw the unedited, original version of Manhunter in 1986 and knew, right then and there, that I had seen a film that would forever live among my favorites. Sixteen years later, Director Brett Ratner set up camp (i.e. lights, cameras; security personal; two of Red Dragon's stars, Ralph Fiennes and Emily Watson) on the corner of my street as my toddler and I watched him re-make the one film in which nothing needed to change. Not even the score. Where others find the music to be overbearing, I found it haunting and suspenseful, and memorable, much like that heard in The Exorcist.The relatively unknown cast, was chosen with skill. Each major player turned in phenomenal performances. Simply put, it is my opinion that the remake fails epically by comparison. Without further ado, and not too many spoiler moments, I'd like to comment on the performances of both movies' stars and then encourage the reader to rent Manhunter and see for himself.William Petersen, as FBI profiler Will Graham, is intense, sometimes gritty and others, sublime. Ed Norton's Will Graham was too young, too one dimensional and not at all believable in this role. Dennis Farina, Graham's superior at the FBI, is convincing and works very well with Peterson. Harvey Keitel's Jack Crawford did not impress. Joan Allen's, Reba, is nothing short of stellar. If I hadn't known better, I would have, without a doubt, thought she was blind. When speaking, she artfully hides her actual vision by looking blank in the general direction but never focusing in. I remember thinking how hard that must be to do. Emily Watson's Reba was just pitiful. Her character appears weak, her expression is just blank and her performance, as a whole, was extremely sub-standard and disappointing. Serial killer, Francis Dollarhyde, aka The Tooth Fairy, played by Tom Noonan, delivers a spot on portrayal of a dissociative sociopath and includes the very rare experience of empathy and attachment later in the movie, At that moment, I believe the audience forgets he's a killer.. He looks so genuinely vulnerable and leaves you wondering if things would have gone differently for him at an earlier stage in his life. Ralph Fiennes, however, is not at all menacing in my opinion, doesn't appear to be wickedly clever. He bored me to tears. Lastly, the original Hannibal Lecktor, played by forerunner Brian Cox, is as good as it gets. You can cut the tension in the air whenever he is in a scene which is not often enough. His pathology is so deep; he's manipulative, calculatingly brilliant and quite menacing....something Ralph Fiennes just did not pull off. Cox brought this complex character to life and made it his own. That's where it remains his to this day.Manhunter is clearly the better film in every way. It has poignant moments around almost every corner. Reba's seeing an anesthetized tiger is just one of those. She allows the vet to place her hand by its mouth to feel its breath, convincing her it was alive. Then, with a fascination hard to describe, she drapes herself over this man-eater and uses senses other than sight to soak it all in. She is mesmerized by the intensity of the moment. We watch, transfixed, as she hears his heart beat and strokes the beasts' fur. Dollerhyde's voyeuristic reaction is shared by the audience here. You're left feeling jealous of her handicap as you know what she experiences in that moment is not attainable for those with sight.. It is a very moving, seductive scene.Good stuff, Michael Mann. "},{"Title":"A Stylish But Aloof Serial Killer Thriller","Date":"30 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've always admired Michael Mann's ability to make even the darkest of crime movies emit a neon, martini-sweet glow. He can shock us, disturb us, magnetize us; but all traumas are wrapped up in a quasi-cool package, kept swirling around in pulp noir fantasy. Recurring in Mann's films, or at least the ones I've seen, is the persistent distinction that, while the atmosphere may look like a colorized Kiss Me Deadly, something much, much bleaker lurks beneath the surface.Esteem goes much farther than an emotional connection when it comes to a Mann picture like Lynch's Lost Highway or Antonioni's Red Desert, sitting back and getting lost in the thickly spread luster is much easier a task than walking out of the theater moved, tears streaming down our faces from the penetrative emotions thrown about left and right. We're left cold, drowning in the sorrows of the characters, suffocated by the elusive sheen of Mann's camera-work. Manhunter, a thriller that initially introduced the world to Hannibal Lecter (rebranded Lecktor here), is a rather aloof serial killer suspense drama, murderous in its tension but icy in its pathos.William Petersen plays Will Graham, a retired FBI profiler lying low after a gruesome attack by cannibalistic murderer Hannibal Lecktor (Brian Cox). His resting period is cut rather short, however, when he is approached by his former superior (Dennis Farina), who is in desperate need of help. A new serial killer, billed The Tooth Fairy, is wreaking havoc on the area, slaughtering families at random in hopes to attain some sort of mental catharsis. With Graham's chilling ability to put himself into the mind of the person under investigation, he very well could be a valuable asset. So reluctantly, knowing he could very well end future killings, he accepts the blood-stained invitation, aided by the now-jailed Lecktor.The interest Manhunter provides steadily increases, especially after it introduces The Tooth Fairy himself (spoiler warning). As Francis Dollarhyde, Tom Noonan is convincingly disturbed, so much so that we see him as a psychologically scarred monster, not a two- dimensional one that so many serial killer based movies provide us with. He is a victim of a neglectful society; all he ever wanted was for someone to like him. I suppose the most problematic fixture in Manhunter is Dollarhyde; he is the only character that holds immense interest. Noonan is so dedicated, so expressive that we fear that reading too much into his performance would ruin his startlingly effective capacity to freak us the f-ck out. Petersen, on the other hand, is much too understated to be believably haunted by his past, while Kim Greist and Joan Allen, two magnificent actresses, are wasted in roles too small to go anywhere. But the film is dripping with style, and when the writing fails to move, the cinematography takes the spotlight and galvanizes what's left of glass-littered-on-the-ground reality. Mann's excessive tinting works well here dark blues wash out scenes of comfort, of love; greens, pinks, and oranges hint at imminent threat. Even the score, mostly consisting of synthetic, distinctly '80s mood pieces, heighten Mann's hallucinogenic embellishments.Manhunter is entertainment of the highest quality, subversively stylish, intelligently directed; but it remains so brisk, so distant, that even the slimmest thrill is brought to entirely new levels because it somehow feels more hospitable than everything coming before its insertion. "},{"Title":"Dripping with style and substance","Date":"29 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This piece of the Hannibal Lecter puzzle is a fascinating one. A highly stylized and beautifully shot psychological thriller of the best kind, brimming with the kind of 80's color scheme that still resonate to this day in the works of Nicolas Winding Refn (of Drive and Only god forgives) Michael Mann brings the Thomas Harris book to life with a sense of respect, while still adding his own trademarked action heft; a believable realism amidst chaotic and fantastical events.The character of Will Graham in particular, recently played with golden intensity by Hugh Dancy in the Hannibal TV-series, is portrayed with a sort of quiet, brooding agony by the much underrated William Petersen.The score is also worth a mention, really adding to the suggestive atmosphere. Shriekback really complements the visuals and helps the film achieve that eerie cool that is Mann's signature mark.All in all, I truly recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys visually haunting films, as well as casual viewers looking for a smart, psychological thriller with a little edge. Not quite as dark as Silence of the Lambs, but more intense than its 2002 counterpart. "},{"Title":"The Immanent Nature of Life & The Absolute","Date":"17 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Though it appears to be a film about a serial killer and death, Manhunter is a film primarily concerned with the immanent nature of 'life' and the absolute. The symbolic allusions to eastern thinking in Manhunter are manifold. It appears to deal with the very nature of enlightenment itself. There are markers all over. It is a film peppered with clues which make the viewer as much the forensic detective as Will Graham himself. I mean, look at those gleaming white offices, that sparklingly white cell of Lecktor's, Lecktor's all-white uniform, the sedated tiger, the inflorescence that pervades to the very core of the film straight from the strangely alive opening titles; even the architecture is grounded in the complexity of curves and ethereal whiteness.Some of the clues reveal the essence of this oriental philosophy hereThe killer distorts his face deliberately with a stocking; he pens a letter which speaks of his great 'becoming'. His home is cosmically decorated with maps of galaxies and nebulae. He is obsessed with seeing, a seeing that Mann reinforces all the more by introducing a woman who is blind. Perhaps the clues are too many in fact. There seems to be too much information that eagerly seeks the approval of Mann's hypothesis that seeing is both the key to enlightenment and the escape from darkness.Even the killer's death scene lays him out in the form of a butterfly, suggesting the eventual chrysalis of the killer's mind into the realm of nirvana. His becoming is realized in death. His macabre death pose is oddly peaceful and reminiscent of Jarmusch's later squashed haloed head in Dead Man.In amongst all the talk, two key and very short dialog scenes stand out above all othersThe scene with Lecktor on the telephone, where Lecktor explains to Graham why he felt depressed after killing someone.We don't ask for our natures, they're issued to us along with our lungs, our pancreas and everything else. Why fight it? Didn't you feel so bad because killing him felt so good, and why shouldn't it&#x85;? Lecktor asks.And the scene just before the last act when Graham discovers how the killer knew so much about the family's home security, where he says to Jack, (Dennis Farina's character)My heart bleeds for him as a child. Someone took a kid and manufactured a monster. At the same time as an adult he's irredeemable. He butchers whole families to pursue trivial fantasies&#x85; as an adult someone should blow the sick fu#k out of his socks&#x85;.Do you think that's a contradiction Jack? Does this kind of understanding make you uncomfortable?As the killer achieves realization in death so too does Graham appear to achieve it in life. It is said that everyone achieves nirvana at the instant of one's death. The key, though, appears to be able to self-realize whilst still alive. Graham, with his epiphany in the hotel room, appears to do this.Moreover, and perhaps more obviously symbolic, the film is book-ended in the oceanic space of the Pacific Ocean, and the great peace of water. It is this absolute emptiness upon the edge of which the Graham family stands at both the beginning and the end of the film. The ocean itself represents 'before birth' and 'after death'. It is, in effect, oblivion, (a symbol that Mann uses later on in 'Heat' in a pivotal scene with Robert Deniro)Whether it is Manhunter's lighting or sound score, everything points to this oblivious and mystical aspect that underlies all life. Yet unlike many blatantly mystical films Manhunter never lingers on its symbolism, and never appears contrived. It helps that the central performances are solid and believable, whether Petersen as cop, or Noonan as killer; or the periphery characters of Graham's wife, Kim Greist, and the son, or Brian Cox as Lecktor, and Farina as the other cop. The casting agent should have got an award for assembling such a marvelous and capable team.Together with The Keep and Thief (and to a certain extent, Heat), both interesting (and sinister) films in their own right, Manhunter represents Mann's trinity that explores the circuminsessional penetration of all things, enlightenment, and the darkness of ignorance. "}{"Title":"A triumph of tone and style","Date":"12 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Michael Mann's adaptation of the classic detective novel by T. Harris -- which doesn't need any introductions by now, I'm sure -- is a triumph of tone and style. Mann's firm grip of the story manages to achieve eeriness without resorting to exploitative or gimmicky methods. There is little to no violence and yet the result disturbs us still most of the horror is implied rather than explained, as Brian Cox put it in a recent interview.Graham, the detective set to track down the Red Dragon, is torn apart by getting too close to the killer's mind, and so the movie is more of a psychological thriller rather than a police procedural, more about the feel rather than the action. Gorgeously shot, Manhunter is eye-candy to boot, a sort of a darker, more cinematic version of the Miami Vice TV series. "},{"Title":"Manhunter","Date":"4 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Detective Will Graham (William Petersen), a retired FBI serial killer specialist reluctantly returns to work to catch a murderer (Tom Noonan) who has killed two entire families. The press has nicknamed the killer Tooth Fairy and in order to outwit him Graham must relearn to think like a killer, an ability he has tried to forget due to traumatic experiences in the past. To achieve his goal, he consults the notorious imprisoned serial killer and master of psychological manipulation Dr. Hannibal Lecktor (Brian Cox) who has been put behind bars earlier by Graham.Even though the now-tacky synth-driven score never allows the viewer to forget which decade the movie was made in, the overall style hasn't dated at all. Director Mann's cold and cerebral portrayal of the world of Will Graham is still effective, and the shocking scene of death-by-fire comes across as highly memorable thanks to the general focus on mood rather than violence. The more tender scenes between the murderer and a blind woman (Joan Allen), such as her caressing a sedated tiger, are very haunting and add more layers to the killer's already interesting character.It may be unfair to compare Manhunter to the Lecter movies that came out many years after it, but the Hannibal character portrayed by Anthony Hopkins in three movies has become so iconic that it's impossible to not instantly think of him when hearing the name Lecter. Even though Brian Cox looks somewhat menacing too, he is no match for Anthony Hopkins, but the role is quite small so it doesn't affect the overall quality much. The other actors do generally a good job; especially Tom Noonan looks very creepy in all of his scenes and is much more convincing in the role than Ralph Fiennes is in Red Dragon (2002), a later movie version of the same Thomas Harris novel. William CSI Petersen is also good as the main good guy.In the end, Manhunter is a well-made thriller and recommended to any fan of the Lecter books. What it loses with the Hannibal character, it wins back with Tooth Fairy and provides good entertainment for friends of serial killer thrillers. "},{"Title":"Style and substance","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw this version WAY before I saw Red Dragon, and so was not tormented by mental comparisons between the two. What I saw was a super-stylish, smart thriller with just about perfect casting. Mann's setups are all beautifully balanced, his music cues are flawless, and the editing superb. A much-younger-than-most-of-you-remember-him William Petersen plays the protagonist with a nice balance of haunted fatalism and odd intensity. He just can't really help himself - he HAS to solve crimes, no matter what the personal cost (and it is high). Tom Noonan is pitch-perfect as Francis Dolarhyde. Yes, he's loathsome, but it is truly pathetic how close he comes to saving himself. Noonan understands that no believable baddie can be without some pathos. But then there's Brian Cox as Lecktor. No pathos as all, but extremely good. He's more like the Lecktor of the books - smooth, sleek...like an otter, I think he's described. Not the virtuoso scenery-chewing of Hopkins, as everyone points out, but I really liked this performance. Do yourself a favor and check out this movie. "},{"Title":"Francis Dollarhyde","Date":"30 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Francis Dollarhyde sits in a van across from his lover's house observing her as she kisses another man. The man is young and slick, the antithesis of the middle-aged Dollarhyde, who suffers from a facial deformity. Only the woman does not know any of this; she is blind. And while Dollarhyde enjoys her affection (an affection that may or may not be facilitated by her inability to see his imperfect face) he is overwhelmed with anger and despair. You see, Francis Dollarhyde is a serial killer; he murders families then arranges their bodies as an audience for a ritual of transformation he conducts with the family's mother. The objective of his crusade is to become, as the great red dragon, a mighty beast awed and adored by all.The concept of serial murder as a device for psychosexual edification stems from the original American ghoul, Ed Gein, a Wisconsin farmer who experimented with female corpses in an effort to create a dress made of human skin. Gein's psychology was extrapolated from mid-western folklore by Thomas Harris and utilized in his second novel, Red Dragon. In Michael Mann's 1986 film adaptation, Manhunter, the principal antagonist is portrayed with equal parts dread and sympathy. Note how Francis Dollarhyde (Tom Noonan) is first introduced he has kidnapped tabloid reporter Freddy Lounds and threatens to staple his eyelids to his forehead if he fails to open them. There is no overt violence in the scene. His aggression is communicated via the respected genre convention of perceived violence. At this point in the film, our paradigm for his behavior is the murder scene photos we've observed earlier. Therefore, when he threatens a brutal, sadistic act, the audience creates a harsher mental image than the director could have provided. This serves to fortify the character's menacing qualities while preventing us from developing a sense of disgust towards him. Thus, we may later feel sympathy when his psychology is explored. Hence, Manhunter is just as much about Dollarhyde's journey as Will Graham's. "},{"Title":"The monster is born","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The first episode of Doctor Lecter, before The Silence of the Lamb and Hannibal. The Doctor is already in prison and he is already playing from there with some serial killers and the FBI. But the book is slightly still in construction, and the film is too. We do have the serial killer, and the new technique of profiling. But it is still not entirely squared out. The FBI man is still relying on his instinct, his sixth sense, his intuition, his inner eye to understand the feelings and the thoughts of the killer and capture him by being able to foresee what he is going to do. But that paranormal element is not convincing, though it is commonly used in some detective TV series. Thomas Harris is going to get to real profiling only in the next volume. Even the great visionary power of Doctor Lecter will become the unavoidable logic of the mind, of the psyche, of the deranged mental power of the insane doctor only then. He is a genius in his psychiatric field and his derangement gives him the capability to know no limits. But that is still to come. Here though Thomas Harris settles some accounts with journalists and has one burnt alive. He also settles some revenge with story telling and twists the story line in some unforeseen ways now and then. These moments are magic in a way since they are unexplained and they restart the dynamic of the tale that could have become humdrum. The story seems to settle some accounts with a couple of commonplace if not trite ideas. The whole logic of the killer is to think that his being seen over and over again by a women during the last five minutes of their lives as if their eyes were silver mirrors would lead him to be loved and to come to terms with his desire to kill. His last victim actually loves him in a way and/but she is blind. She loves him because she is blind and he kills her out of no reason and she will not be able to see him when she dies. Of course that victim will survive because our FBI man-hunter will come into the picture unannounced. Thomas Harris also deals with the idea that all serial killers were boys who were mistreated when children, probably by their parents, even more probably somewhere by their mothers. That kind of a cliché is so simple that it does not sound true nor serious, some kind of a joke, maybe a big wink with a grin at the nasty and dirty mind of the reader. But this cliché will be present in absolutely all the Doctor Lecter books, in a way or another. In this case it is really superficial. It is interesting to see, after reading it, this first episode in the story of Doctor Lecter, first episode as it came out of the mind of its author because we can see and feel the genetic dimension of the saga, because it was to become a saga and today it even has become a cultish trip into criminal insanity.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines, CEGID "},{"Title":"the titles are appropriate","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  having watched both red dragon and manhunter i can say that the titles are appropriate.  manhunter fouces mainly on will graham and his torment where as red dragon goes into much greater detail about dolarhynde.  as with all movies they come close to the book but not quite.  my advice read the book and you'll see how both movies compliment eachother.  only problem with manhunter is that it doesn't deal with dolarhynde enough.  in the movie he comes off weak.  but anyhow the movie is good.   "},{"Title":"Never mind the two sequels, what about the prequel ?","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's 1992 and Silence of the Lambs has just won the Best Picture Oscar. Streetwise TV producers start rediscovering Michael Mann's Manhunter and by the time they are being shown together as a double bill, public pressure is put on Thomas Harris to write a sequel.If any film was crying out for a prequel, it just has to be Manhunter, AKA Red Dragon. If the hunt for the Tooth Fairy and Buffalo Bill was engrossing enough material for two films, why have we not seen how Will Graham almost mentally destroys himself capturing Lecter in the first place ?It is revealed in SOTL that Buffalo Bill was a former patient of Lecter. Maybe the cornered Lecter was plotting far ahead and knew he must eventually be caught. Maybe his best chance of freedom or at least prison favours lay with the betrayal of madmen whose psychosis he had cunningly nurtured.We know very little of Lecter's sexual nature or what compelled him to become the monster he was. For those who like plot twists how about if the young Lecter makes a mistake with his first victim and is about to be uncovered by a small town policeman called Officer Starling who he arranges to have killed in what is made to look like a bungled robbery ?In the history of Hollywood we have only ever had one Best Film Oscar have its film sequel also win Best Picture (The Godfather). If Brian De Palma or John Carpenter are looking at guaranteed box office interest in a prequel, I've got stacks of ideas on this one if Thomas Harris isn't interested ! "},{"Title":"Not a review, at least not of the movie.","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favourite movies, and I'm a little disturbed by the level of the debate I see before me.  It looks and sounds a bit eighties is one of the silliest criticisms I've ever read, whilst claiming that SOTL is better because its got a woman in the lead is not much better.  I've never rated Demme as anything other than technically competent, and recent evidence backs me up.  Although SOTL probably is a great movie, seeing it recently, one is struck just how much of it is copied from Manhunter/Red Dragon (as much Harris' fault as Demme's).  Mann is having the last laugh while Demme churns out Oscar friendly dross.Cox is clearly better than Hopkins.  He sees Lecter for what he is, a cold, disturbed but never camp or hysterical monster.  Hopkins' Lecter is less scary than Joan Rivers, with that ridiculous voice and Hopkins' rather feeble physical presence.  I think those who criticise Manhunter fans for being deliberately obscure are often partially motivated by their horror at having their hero/idol (for that is what Lecter undoubtedly is, to many people on many levels) truly revealed, sans all the cheap sexual tension that Starling provides in the other movies.  in any event, there is no way the Lecter of Red Dragon would fall for that awful accent which sounds, at least to British ears, like Elvis Presley breathing out helium.  "},{"Title":"Prequel to Silence of The Lambs?","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  An (previous) encounter between Dr. Hannibal Lecter and a gifted detective. A very good story. Not as slick or polished as Silence of The Lambs but a very good story none-the-less. Hannibal Lecter plays a much smaller role in this detective thriller. Not as goolish or morbid just a good thriller. If you love detective stories you will want to watch this detective battle wits with a serial killer.  "},{"Title":"An opinion on the transition from novel to film.","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Manhunter is the film adaptation of the Thomas Harris novel, Red Dragon.  Overall, the director and screenplay writer make a decent attempt to visualize the macabre world of Francis Dollarhyde.  The choice of soundtrack music, if not a bit Miami Vice, does much to add to the ethereal, sensual side of the killer's psyche.However, I was disappointed at the absence of a proper description of Dollarhyde's motivations and fixations.  I felt this actually made Red Dragon a superior work over Silence of the Lambs.  The film lacks a purpose behind the killing and the portrayal of Dollarhyde misses the ferocious strength and crippling shyness found in the novel.  In this regard, Silence did more to develop the killer and covered much of the material found in the book.Harris fans may be a bit disappointed with Lector, but they will find this film a worthwhile view.  With the popularity of Silence and the possibility of a film version of Hannibal, this film screams for a remake. "}{"Title":"Decent Suspense Flick","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Manhunter, the prequel to The Silence Of The Lambs, is only a fair suspense flick.  Will Graham is a retired F.B.I. profiler who quit his job after a harrowing pursuit of a serial killer. His former boss, Jack Crawford, needs his help because a maniac has butchered two whole families and Jack wants him stopped before he kills again.  The killer does not scare or frighten us, but in the book he was an imposing, terrifying figure.  Still, even though this is not up to the standards of The Silence Of The Lambs, you might want to give it a chance and see how it fits you.Manhunter is Rated R for brief graphic violence and gore, and for language. "},{"Title":"Correction to the Title listed above","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For anyone who has read Red Dragon and seen the movie you and I both know that the book/ movie has nothing to do with the Pursuit of Hannibal Lecter. This movie is centered around the FBI agent who CAUGHT Lecter and how he goes about catching another serial killer. Just like in The Silence of the Lambs, the FBI use Lecter to help them find the killer. Lecter is already in jail at this point!! My recommendation is simple Read the book.. watch the movie... watch Silence of the Lambs.. and wait for the release of Morbidity of the Soul....  "},{"Title":"typical Michael Mann movie","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was more action than psychologic thriller. The book was marvelous and the movie did it's best to show it on screen. I saw a director's cut that had a couple different segments one being where Will actually goes to see the next family. If you like the movie and you know how to read then get the book. "},{"Title":"Damaged dream-vision","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There are few things as thrilling to me as discovering a branching off point where public imagination deepens, imagination as the ability to engage images from the ether and tether them into a story. These points force you to accept more, demand that you refine senses and notions. Mann was really up to it, and still is, despite vocal opposition. There are few American filmmakers as devoted as he is, to a visual language and sensory experience.But, I wonder if this wasn't consumed at the time as just a gripping investigation into senseless evil, perhaps a bit weird. Did it register at all as something quite deep and novel? Since then we've had Lynch, so perhaps we're much better prepared to retrospectively appreciate subtleties in this (and imagine my surprise, Lynch was originally slated to direct).What does this mean? On the surface this is a police procedural, and ever since turn-of-the-century detective fiction, this sort of procedure had a center in scientific logic and storytelling. Holmes unfolded a story in a way that the telling itself, remember the stories usually ended with an explanatory denouement, restored order in the universe.Film noir changed all that, by submerging the narrator inside a story that fell apart by his being there. All we had to investigate was broken bits of erstwhile logical machinery. Images were tethered in not quite rational ways, this deepened our sense of narrative because we had to imagine where everything was being framed from. It was no longer about the story, so much as seeing-experiencing from the inside. It seemed as though some kind of sorcery or fate was at work.We have both worlds here. The one at the top is the rational world of cops and forensics experts, where all sorts of tech-gizmos and stock procedures are brought around to analyze what seems like pattern in madness. Things are reasoned from the outside. Advances are made, but not enough to bring in the killer.The initial investigation cleverly makes the point of inadequately surrounded narrative from the outside. We have pov-shots that mirror the killer's from the pre-credit scene. We have a brief glimpse, a flash, of the actual bloodspattered bedroom. We have dry forensic coverage of the actual event narrated from a report. And we have our man shaken by the sight before mirrors and the voice of a victim from a recorded phone message, as though still alive and everything quite ordinary. It unsettles, but we have seen nothing, we had to imagine. So right off-the-bat, the way we reason with this is looking for images.The rest of the case is pretty tight. It has many of the staples that are now common in serial-killer lore, the Bible quotes, the botched arrest that backfires, the patterned killings. Something quite reasonable of madness that terrifies.Se7en was made from all these spare parts, but it rested on us seeing and following patterns. It was set-up as simply a race against evil. This is much more challenging in a key way. This other world shared by both the protagonist and the killer is a world of powerful intuition, mental images and all sorts of semiconscious machinery. It's a world of melancholy synth music - Klaus Schulze amazes - and detached reflection, of clinical empty space and bright iridescent sunlight. There is a very sensual, very ordinary dream scene onboard a plane. Both characters are framed against painted backdrops of a sunset, both pore over homevideos of the victims (one fanning his fantasy, the other looking for answers). This is where narrative is envisioned internally, cinematically. In ordinary hands that would be simply referenced, an encounter with perhaps attractive madness. That is also our introduction to the killer, but there is more. That guy has a world, and that world has logic of its own, and we go on to get a powerful anchor in that world in a way that affects our own logic.Mann was a natural filmmaker, so intuitively must have known that this anchor should register as the most deep. It's knowing this man that gets under your skin, knowing that next to the rational cop world exists this one that is not randomly cruel but has causal dynamics. Touching this world is conveyed with the most sensual , breathtaking imagery, the scene with the tiger asleep you just have to see. It is the ever-so-light shift into his world of latent visions and fragile light that affects (this segment is guided by a blind woman being there to 'see', my guess is a reference to Peeping Tom).The two worlds eventually converge in the one above, so the film fully makes sense by the end, but that's not the point. The point is investigating into human beings attempting control of images and desires that only on the top level are about crime and a story.It's about inner-seeing and stepping into the ether to share the dream of that vision with a part of you that is oblivious and unaware.That vision that is shared and wires the two of them together is purely cinematic; surround yourself with the right images, and you can deeply affect the story that affects the identity of who you are (the gist of the famous Kuleshov experiment, among other things).That vision goes two-ways and is the work of deepening the imagination to encompass a broader world (much more clearly in the cop's case, since everything is imagined).That vision damages both. On the viewer's level, it similarly damages preconceptions of a solid world.Which is the really terrifying thing here. Deepening yourself and your sense of humanity by understanding 'evil' hurts. Isn't this true? We learn empathy through personal loss after all, don't we? "},{"Title":"Creepy 80's fun","Date":"8 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Watching the not so humble beginnings of the Hannibal Lecter legacy of terror is like watching a small child murder a puppy. It's horrific and you know where it is leading. Manhunter marks the very first appearance of Hannibal Lecter, only here he isn't played by Anthony Hopkins. Brian Cox plays the sly psychopath as he helps FBI Agent Will Graham to hunt down an elusive killer nicknamed The Tooth Fairy. This gruesome murderer seems to pick his targets at random and Graham hopes that Lecter will be able to help pinpoint The Tooth Fairy's pattern. But you can't exactly trust a serial killer so Lecter causes even more problems for Graham, making his chase all the more thrilling and dangerous.I have a very keen interest in serial killer films so I was guaranteed to like this movie from the start. This is a step by step serial killer flick that also captures the dark depravity of the psychopathic mind spot on. It tells a thrilling and disturbing story from start to finish that builds suspense so well. The film isn't even told from just one perspective. At times we see the film from Graham's position as he hunts down the killer, trying desperately to get into his mind and decipher the killer's motives. Then a large portion of the movie is from the killer's point of view where we get to see the darkly twisted motives that drive this creature to insanity. It makes the film human on both ends of the spectrum while also building a narrative that flows and builds very well.But what's really fun about Manhunter is just how timely it is. This film doesn't try at all to convince you it wasn't made in the mid 1980's. It's got all the music and style that fits so well for that time period. A lot of it can be conceived as cheesy but I find it to be a lot of fun and give the film a wildly entertaining mood. Plus, I didn't find this film unsatisfactory in the thrill department. It manages to be very creepy and very suspenseful, even amidst some of the 80's cheese. The style of the film is very 80's but it's also very Michael Mann. Mann directs the film with a lot of haunting precision. It is a very well shot film that elicits fear and anguish pretty easily. Mann does a great job at creating a film that is both terrifying and interesting.Manhunter is a different film but it is very good. It is disturbing but in a more subtle and haunting way. You can complain about some of the 80's cheese all you want but this isn't a film that is completely submerged in the absurdity of 80's movies. It is a serial killer film done just right and with extremely creepy precision. "},{"Title":"Judge the film on its own merits","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The thing about this film is that it contains characters, notably Hannibal Lecter, before they became household names. In Red Dragon, Lector is a minor character (it's even spelled Lecktor here, and he only has about three scenes in the movie, and they are effective enough, because he's not the key character.) Obviously, the character was expanded in Silence of the Lambs and its sequel Hannibal, prequels, Red Dragon (based on the same source novel) and Hannibal Rising so people watching this film wanting more Hannibal, and wanting Anthony Hopkins to play him.Watch this movie pretending none of those other films ever existed, and that Hopkins never played the role, and you'll enjoy the film.William Peterson (who later went on playing a very similar character in CSI) delivers as a profiler who gets too close to his work, just getting burned by the insanity he has to try to comprehend without being swallowed up by it. Dennis Farina (Law and Order, amongst other things) plays Jack Crawford, an FBI agent who balances his friend's sanity versus the need to stop a maniac. These are the important characters in the film, and it's about them. The remake Red Dragon shoe-horns Lector into the film where he doesn't need to be, really.The scenes with the Dollarhyde character are truly uncomfortable to watch, which is the point, I guess, particularly when he seduces the blind girl and then wants to kill her in a jealous rage. It's very effective.Okay, we have to look at it, Brian Cox as Hannibal Lecktor, not to be confused with Hannibal Lecter, played by Sir Anthony Hopkins and having become a pop-culture icon. Cox is very effective. His Lecktor is not possessed of super-human powers. He's just a very clever psychopath. He's effective for his role in the plot, compared to the way he gets portrayed in the sequels and prequels and remake.In short, check your preconceptions at the door, and you'll enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Tidy FBI vs. Serial Killer Story.","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" William Peterson is a traumatized FBI agent drawn back to duty by his colleague, Dennis Farina, to track down a serial killer, named the tooth fairy for his habit of removing his victims' teeth, played by William Noonan. Brian Cox is Hannibal Lecktor, who remains safely locked away and plays a minor part in the hunt. Joan Allen is a blind woman taken captive by Noonan and saved from slashing at the last moment.It precedes The Silence of the Lambs, by the same author, William Harris, but is independent and not quite so commercial. I GUESS it wasn't as commercial anyway, since it didn't receive nearly the media attention that Silence of the Lambs did.I'm not sure why. Maybe because it didn't have Jody Foster in the lead, and lacked Anthony Hopkins' touches as Horrible Hannibal. But William Noonan brings his own kind of menace to the role of the tooth fairy. Noonan is a strange-looking guy. The character is supposed to be seven feet tall and he's shot in such a way as to make the claim convincing. He's balding and dolichocephalic and always speaks in a direct, matter-of-fact mid-American voice. He's far more ambiguous a character than Hopkins, to whom I'm comparing him because he and Hopkins are the chief villains in each film. Noonan can feel human emotions. He sensitive. He meets the blind photographer, Joan Allen, and is attracted to her, so he takes her to a veterinarian friend and lets her feel the fur and the fangs of a giant narcotized tiger. Well, that's quite a thrill for her, so she seduces him. Can you imagine Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lector being seduced? It's only later, when Noonan comes to believe that Allen has betrayed him, that his cool rage emerges.Tightly directed, except for a couple of action-scene clichés that appear in slow motion. The image of a red dragon has cropped up now and again during the film, and when Noonan's bullet-riddled body is spread eagled on the floor, the blood spreads out from his torso like dragon wings. The photography is uninviting -- not that it's inappropriate -- with all the lights apparently being fluorescent. Or, if they happen to be blue or pink, they seem to be coming from neon signs. It's summer but the entire film seems to be filled with chill.There are some gruesome scenes that might disturb some people, though maybe not much more exuberantly horrifying than some of those in Silence of the Lambs. Okay, so there's a man strapped in a wheel chair, set on fire, and rolled down the ramp of a parking lot into the camera with flame streaming behind him. True, it's worse than what my dentist does to me, but it's no more shocking than what Richard Widmark did with a wheelchair in Kiss of Death. "},{"Title":"It's just you and me now, sport. And I'm going to find you, God damn it.","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Not having read Red Dragon, I am not biased in my review. As I have always said, a book is a book, and a movie is a movie, and there should not be any comparison in a review.This was an interesting movie in many respects. It was a good thriller; like an episode of Law and Order and CSI together. I don't really like Dennis Farina, so I am glad he was just a peripheral player.I like seeing William Petersen long before he was tapped for his CSI role. I hardly recognized him at first. It is easy to see why he got the role because he exhibited many of the same qualities in this film.Michael Mann (Heat, Miami Vice, Collateral) does a good story in this genre and I really enjoyed his writing and directing of this film.Veteran actor Brian Cox made a great Hannibal Lecktor, and was so much more of what a serial killer should be that later reincarnations of the character.A really interesting movie that was only weakened by the fact that is was in the style of the 80s. "},{"Title":"Manhunter - Red Dragon","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie after I had seen the remake with Edward Norton and Anthony Hopkins. First of all I would like to say, that in my opinion Manhunter way better than Red Dragon.Brian Cox as Dr. HannibalLecktor acts less scary on the first view than Anthony Hopkins does, but Cox makes Lecktor more cold and calculated a psychopath without any emotions. But the difference between RedDragon and Manhunter is definitely in the roles of Will Graham and Francis Dollarhyde. William Petersen shows Graham way more intense and obsessed, Edward Norton is just too nice and does not show the intensity and the conflict of the character. And Tom Noonan and Ralph Fiennes  well I just think that Ralph Fiennes is to good looking and does not fit in the role as the shy Dollarhyde. "},{"Title":"A great thriller","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter is based on the novel Red Dragon written by Thomas Harris, the film is a great thriller that has some nice suspense, interesting lighting, great acting, creepy music and a nice soundtrack. Although I like Anthony Hopkins as Hannible Lecter I found Brain Cox to be a more human Hannible and that's why I also like him as Lecter, his cell is not dark and creepy like in Silence of the Lambs (although it is very atmospheric and I find it cool) but a bright white. William Petersen is great as Will Graham, he shows what it must be like to go into the mind of a killer and when he talks to Lecter a man who he captured but got injured in the process he holds in his fear and emotions towards him. Tom Noolan did a great job as Francis Dollarhyde since he's quiet and shy, you feel sorry for him but also feel scared of him because he's a killer.Manhunter is my favourite out of the Hannible movies but I still enjoy watching the others, this is a thriller that should be seen. 10/10P.S Check out Hannible's last name it's spelt Lecktor in this one but Lecter in the others. "}{"Title":"The only really good Lector film","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film has been neglected for too long as the pre-Silence Lector film. In addition to being much better than any of the overrated Anthony Hopkins films, Lector doesn't even have that big a role. The film focuses more on the investigation to track down the Toothy Fairy. Even though he plays an important part, Lector actually has few scenes. The central character is Will Grahm this time around. Finally, both Brian Cox and Tom Noonan give much better performances than either Anthony Hopkins or Ralph Fiennes did in the remake Red Dragon (Edward Norton was better than William Peterson however). Manhunter is one of the most suspenseful serial killer films ever made. Its a bit flawed, becomes a bit cheesy at the climax, and hasn't aged too well (director Michael Mann seems at moments to think hes still directing an episode of Miami Vice). Still, there isn't too much to fault (many fine films are inevitably dated) and overall Manhunter packs a punch. You can keep Anthony Hopkins as far as I'm concerned, this is the only Lector film that actually matters. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Brian Cox is Hannibal Lecktor","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter has been on my long time favorite movies list since I saw it in theatrical release. I agree that I like Brian Cox's performance as Lecktor more than Anthony Hopkins'. In fact, the art direction of Manhunter is much better than that in Silence of the Lambs. One might only take exception to the differences in the climax of Manhunter versus the book Red Dragon, but the dialog between Lecktor and Graham is nearly word-for-word out of the book, and that's fine by me. As with John Huston's adaption of The Maltese Falcon to film, if you have great dialog as the source material, why change it? I like the portrayal of the FBI better than the remake Red Dragon (which has Will Graham hopelessly miscast with Edward Norton). The music, the cinematography, and the costuming scream Miami Vice, but with Michael Mann at the helm that's to be expected. The scene when Graham realizes how the killer is selecting victims is a stirring moment... you can discern the realization on William Peterson's face. This is a great film! "},{"Title":"A dark, sensual odyssey","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A groundbreaking piece of work that inspired a genre of forensic-themed films such as Seven and TV series such as CSI; that show's William Petersen even starred in this. The first of Thomas Harris's novels to be adapted for the screen and the first Hannibal Lecktor film (from Harris's novel Red Dragon, remade again with that title many years later). As the film was directed by Michael Mann, it has a cool sensuality and style that seems perfectly appropriate for the subject matter.Will Graham (Petersen) trails serial killers by immersing himself in their mindset. He's already put Lecktor (Brian Cox) behind bars and is using him as a type of consultant in his search for a new killer, The Tooth Fairy (Tom Noonan). But being the smart, sharp tack that he is, Lecktor is also using Graham for his own nefarious purposes.Manhunter, shot by Dante Spinotti and designed by Mel Bourne, has a unique Euro/Miami vibe and is enriched by a great electronic and contemporary score by artists as diverse as Kitaro and Klaus Schulze. Will Graham's pursuit of The Tooth Fairy is visually compelling and a fascinating study of forensic procedure and one's man's professional and personal obsession.Dennis Farina's TV and movie career exploded due to his superb performance as Grahmam's FBI boss Jack Crawford, as did Petersen's. Tom Noonan is a revelation as The Tooth Fairy (Francis Dollarhyde) and brings amazing depth to his psychotic but tragic character.Brian Cox, in my opinion, is the scariest Lecktor, an anal retentive intellectual who spends the entire film behind bars, but never permits us to feel safe around him.The violent conclusion, where agents raid Dollarhyde's house, is spectacular but flawed, and appears to reflect post-production problems. Some shots don't cut properly and the use of optical slow motion feels more like a band-aid than one of director Mann's stylistic choices. The film's prologue is atmospheric and creepy, and the short scenes of Petersen with his son (on the beach) and wife (in bed) are beautifully shot and scored.The film is less a horrific experience (like Silence of the Lambs) than a dark, sensual odyssey into the mind of a very disturbed individual, one of many who lurk amongst us. "},{"Title":"Alright for it's time","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought it was good. I was horrified with some of the editing though, especially near the end you find yourself saying Did a 5 year old edit this? lol. I did see the remake Red Dragon and maybe it's just because it's newer and kind of done a different way, but I like Red Dragon better. I actually saw Red Dragon before I saw Man Hunter so it's possible that my opinion on which is better would be different had i seen the original first. I thought the acting by the man who played Will Graham in Man Hunter was a little over dramatic but not too shabby. I'd suggest it, but maybe suggest Red Dragon first. "},{"Title":"Seriously Lacking...","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I watched Manhunter last night expecting to see something based on the Thomas Harris novel.  What I found was a movie loosely based on some of the events in the Thomas Harris novel.  If they had changed the names, they probably wouldn't have even had to get permission from the author to do the screenplay.Perhaps it's the lack of the divine Sir Anthony.  Perhaps it's that DeLaurentis was just having a bad few months while directing it... Perhaps it was the bad acting.  I can't put my finger on ONE thing that made me think it was terrible, but I can say that it isn't worthy of bearing Thomas Harris's name.  The book was beautifully written.  It was suspensful, yet slow-moving.  He let the suspense build on itself, and to do this in a screenplay, the movie would be hours longer.  I was very disappointed with the lack of flashbacks.  In the book, Dolarhyde spends much of his time remembering the time he spent with his grandmother.  That was an integral part of the story line.  Also, Dolarhyde lived in his grandmothers old house in the book.  In Manhunter, it's a very art-deco new looking thing.As I said, if they had only changed the names in the screenplay, perhaps they could have gotten away with a movie that was based on nothing but imagination.... But as a portrayal of Red Dragon, it doesn't stand a fighting chance.  I give it no stars.  Perhaps even negative stars. "},{"Title":"Should be Remade","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was a somewhat intriguing movie, after reading the book.  I wouldn't recommend seeing the movie first.  The movie doesn't provide any details about Dolarhyde and what makes him.  However, the book is incredibly well-done and gives you almost too much information on this creepy character.  The actor (Tom Noonan) does an excellent job with the role.  However unfortunate for the unknown playing Lecter, after Hopkins took on the role it is unbelieveable that anyone else could play him. It just doesn't fly.  It's worth seeing, if you've read the book. I would LOVE to see this movie remade with the cast we already know from Silence of the Lambs. It would be huge. "},{"Title":"Best film of the 1980's","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  How many great films were made in the 1980's?? Apart from Michael Mann's truly seminal and masterly thriller, Manhunter, the only other one I can think of is Wes Craven's original Elm Street movie. The fact that this movie will forever remain in the shadow of its sequel, the incredibly overrated and inferior Silence of the lambs, is obscene. Mann has created without a doubt the greatest serial killer movie ever. Se7en came close; but nothing compares to the thrill of Mann's subtle shocks and thrilling pacing. The acting is impeccable throughout, and Brian Cox blows Anthony Hopkins off the screen as an incredibly menacing Hannibal Lector. A modern classic, and very nearly flawless.  "},{"Title":"Early Harris interpretation","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is based on the first book entitled Red Dragon regarding Dr. Hannibal Lecter (of Silence of the Lambs), written by Thomas Harris.In Manhunter, director Michael Mann manages to create some tension, but not consistently. The plot is good and manages to hold its own, however you never quite believe Brian Cox as Lecter, especially after seeing the part so brilliantly played by Anthony Hopkins.The acting from William Petersen, Dennis Farina, Kim Greist, Tom Noonan and Joan Allen is good, however, in what turns out to be a solid mid-eighties drama-thriller.Saturday, June 16, 1991 - Television "},{"Title":"Great, but flawed adaptation-wise","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While it's true that this adaptation of Thomas Harris' novel isn't overly authentic, Michael Mann has succeeded in creating a genuinely decent and convincing thriller.Now facing competition and the obligatory comparisons from its updated incarnation, Red Dragon; more viewers are now aware that this legacy actually began in the 1980s.Overall Manhunter, in my view, is a very chilling and suspenseful thriller &#150; the first 40 minutes bare great testimony to this. There is a sense of something ominous, brooding&#133;emphatically sinister and macabre. The film isn't particularly violent, certainly not in comparison to Red Dragon (which I personally thought was a little too violent, for my liking) but the notions of fear and anxiety help to conjure a sense of horror which is rich and almost unsurpassed. Horror that doesn't have to rely heavily upon depictions of graphic violence is always an impressive thing.The inconsistencies with the plot in relation to Harris' Red Dragon is perhaps where the film fails somewhat. By replacing the original ending of the novel with a gun-toting finale just seems to defeat the entire `Manhunting' process. After laboriously trying to hunt the killer piece by piece only to have him gunned down seems to defeat the object. This lowers the expectations and makes for an abrupt ending; not good. On a minor and perhaps insignificant area, Mann should have included the body tattoo on Francis Dollarhyde &#150; apparently he was against this as he thought it `trivialised' the character. These small aesthetic details can add a certain spice to a film, no matter how small or seemingly unimportant.Nonetheless, the acting is superb and helps to give a new slant to how the characters are portrayed both in the novel and Red Dragon. Brian Cox, for me, is a superior Lector than that (camp) Mr Hopkins. Even Tom Noonan's portrayal as the anti-hero Francis Dollarhyde (as it's spelt in this film) is practically flawless&#133;perhaps more detail could have been spent on his background and psychosis, though.A great soundtrack and stylish direction makes this film trump Red Dragon. It just seems, though, that there is never going to be a totally authentic and `true' adaptation of such a great novel. For my money though, I'll stick by the original movie adaptation &#150; Manhunter. "},{"Title":"What is so great about this","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I sat down to watch Manhunter about two years ago hoping for a good thriller.  What a disapointment.  I was scared once, and it was a false scare.  The music was inappropriate for a thriller(and I am an 80's nut), the acting wasn't great, and the whole thing felt like Miami Vice.  Do yourself a favor and watch Red Dragon.  I may buy that movies DVD when it comes out. "}{"Title":"Do Yourself a favor and Read the Book!","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A decent movie, but it misses a lot.  The book is an excellent piece of work to be sure.  The screenplay adaptation is weak and does not hold true to the characters, although William Peterson is very good as Will Graham as is Tom Noonan as the Tooth Fairy.  A major problem with the film is that it looks too Miami Vice-ish.  Very early 80's.For a better time, read the book.  Hell, read all three. "},{"Title":"Better than Silence of the Lambs","Date":"24 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I walked from the theater to a book store and bought the book. Lektor is better. The story is better. The monster is better. The detective is better. "},{"Title":"What a disappointment this movie is.","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's amazing how such an startling masterpiece as Silence of the Lambs could have derived from such a horrific story such as Red Dragon, or, in this particular case, Manhunter.  Adapted from the book Red Dragon The Pursuit of Hannibal Lector, Manhunter follows FBI agent William Graham as he solicits the help of Dr. Hannibal Lecktor (note the spelling of his name in this film as opposed to the later two).  It's a shame that this film was actually made 5 years earlier than Silence of the Lambs (1991) and no one had really even heard of it.  I now know why.Not a very entertaining film, Manhunter grossly underachieved what the great Thomas Harris tried to bring to the audience through his book.  Not to be confused with the Academy Award winning &#145;Lambs, Manhunter seriously lacks any smidgen of character development.  We never truly understand Will Graham, and as good as Brian Cox is (Nuremberg), it was just too hard to believe anyone else to be the `great' Hannibal Lector.  Maybe it is because, like so many others before me, I watched &#145;Lambs first, Manhunter drew a great sigh from my chest, and made me very happy when the credits finally began.  "},{"Title":"Sir Anthony not included","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Yes, believe it or not, the award-winning 'Silence of the Lambs' wasn't the launch-platform for one of cinema's greatest villains &#x96; Dr Hannibal Lecter. In fact, he was with us back in the eighties, albeit in the guise of one Brian Cox. Now, many dismissed this as an inferior film to 'Lambs' and, indeed, it doesn't really fit with what is basically the 'Hannibal trilogy,' i.e. Lambs, Hannibal and Red Dragon. However, it doesn't mean it's a bad film.Just because we have a few names we recognise (mainly Dr Lecter, but if you're familiar with Silence of the Lambs you may also remember the name 'Jack Crawford') don't go thinking it fits neatly into Sir Anthony's take on the charismatic cannibal. It's kind of its own body of work with Brian Cox giving us a very different take on Dr Lecter. Whereas in Lambs Dr Lecter was basically the star (certainly more memorable than poor old Jodie Foster, who couldn't compete with Anthony Hopkins when it came to great and devilish lines) in Manhunter, he's kind of a side character, only in a few scenes and only just about relevant to the plot.Here, a former FBI agent comes out of retirement to catch a killer, nicknamed 'The Tooth Fairy.' And he pretty much goes about tracking the beast down, only popping in once or twice to get his old pal Dr Lecter's opinion on the goings on. Okay, so maybe I'm being a bit flippant &#x96; there's more to it than that, but not an awful lot more. It's not about Dr Lecter, that's what people who have seen Hannibal etc need to know before they invest a couple of hours of their lives into watching it. It's basically an FBI agent tracking down a killer, but that's not so bad.For a start the direction is pretty cool. Yes, it all looks a little too eighties in places, but the shots are pretty nicely done &#x96; often filtered in blues and reds, depending on the danger level. Plus you have the soundtrack. Although that will appeal more to people who are fans of electro eighties music. Having grown up in the decade that fashion forgot, I approve of the film's score.Don't go expecting an Anthony Hopkins Hannibal performance. Brian Cox is far less 'Pantomime' and much more understated, but, what he may lack in overt menacing, Tom Noonan more than makes up for in general sickness, so if you're into your serial killers, he should provide the creepiness factor.It's not Hannibal. It's something else &#x96; an eighties serial killer hunting movie. If that's your thing, give it a go (just close your eyes when men in tight pink shorts come on!). "},{"Title":"Budget serial killer movie with a great ending","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a film which has its moments but in general there is budget feel to this - like it was made for TV rather than cinema. That is why I marked down to a 6/10.As I mentioned in the title the ending is superb and very dramatic. One of my favourite endings to a film.This film is precursor to all those Hannibal Lecktor films that what were so successful in the 1990s. My understanding is that this film was based on the book 'Red Dragon', but they didn't want to call it that because people might think it was martial arts film. Hannibal Lecktor is played by Scottish actor Brian Cox in a more subtle way than he would be portrayed in later films. The main stars though are William Peterson as Will Graham, the mentally scarred man-hunter. He would go on the make that role his own in CSI, and Tom Noonan as the very scary and believable serial killer nicknamed the 'tooth fairy'. These two actors deliver memorable performances and elevate this low budget movie into a cult classic.Not quite as accomplished as Silence of the Lambs but still worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Three, four, five and six.","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A hand-held POV opens Manhunter, and the serial killer known as the Tooth Fairy silently intrudes on his victim's home, climbs up the steps, pokes a harsh light at their sleeping body, and we know what happens next. It is as frighteningly effective as the night-vision sequence in the basement, or how Lecter and the countless male eyes hover over Clarice in the masterpiece Silence of the Lambs, the next in Thomas Harris' series. And then it steps into a different film, something quite drudging and overly serious and so unmistakeably 80s. In what is Mann's most stylistically distinct film, he creates a strict colour code that maps out our characters. For the brilliant profiler Graham and his wife he drenches the frame with a cool, romantic blue, which is an easy way of hiding just how shallow of a character she really is, and how little solace she actually provides to the man who could have easily become a killer himself. Elsewhere, Dollarhyde's remote home is lit overhead by this eerie green glow as if a UFO was endlessly hovering above, and for much of the police work and office and holding cells we have pure white - nothing grimy, nothing morally decadent, but it matches Brian Cox quite well. The entire building is even more impressive - the post-modern architecture of the Hugh Museum of Art in Atlanta, with its cavernous spirals, pristine walls and more glass windows than you could imagine.In Cox we have the most polite and affable version of Lecter, which has sparked endless debates on him vs Hopkins' performance. His supporters argue that it is precisely the veneer of authenticity and kindness that makes Cox so genuinely psychopathic and terrifying, but what good is it if there is no opposing force, no shattering of the mirror? Near the end of their conversation, Graham want to hear no more, and goes to leave, and the door conveniently does not open immediately, and he is forced to block out Lecter as he struggles to escape. He runs and runs and runs until he is outside, huffing and puffing with fear, and that is how he is captured candidly by Lounds (and that further ridicules the reaction). Lambs had no need to do this, to force emotional stress - Clarice was terrified, but all the same she could have left Lecter in that cell and never visited again, but she doesn't, and it is all the more intriguing, personal, and intense. Cox's Lecter provides no reason to fear or be swallowed up by his gaze, and brings nothing substantial to the film's narrative. What doesn't help is Petersen's performance, who takes each whispered and immersive comment profiling the killer to maximum profundity, and then adds second person perspective to milk very last drop of seriousness. In one moment, Petersen simply gazes at the camera in close-up, brooding endlessly, and the score hits overkill as it attempts to signal a moment of fear and retrospection. As if that wasn't enough, each scene is also heavily synthesized, painfully and overly so. It's as if the sound mixer had somehow been snubbed on the credit list, and to compensate they had turned the volume knob all the way up in every pivotal moment. It makes no attempt at subtlety, but blares and blares, drowning out everything else on the screen. One of the film's better moments is marked by the score's absence; the quiet, intimate, conversation between Graham and his son, where he attempts to explain the current situation, and does not resort to dumbing down or use of clumsy metaphor. A rare moment of triumph for the soundtrack has Shriekback's Coelocanth sync up perfectly with the booming heartbeats of a tranquillised tiger, and the way the flute repeats three notes immediately conjures up imagery of a powerful beast stalking its prey through an Eastern jungle. Dollarhyde feels drawn to that kind of natural power, but it is also an intensely intimate moment for the blind Reba, as she runs her fingers through the fur. We have been warned of the serial killer's intentions for the 'surprise', and yes there is surprise, but in a good way, and the anxiety we hold is blissfully replaced with a scene of such sensuality, a hundredfold more for someone who relies on hearing and touch. And so, they sleep together later that night. The film ends in the messiest climax of them all. A small consolation to this is something I liked; the way in which wife and son are remarkably safe and out of the picture, and it is not some life or death situation which forces the detective to take action, but his own increasing fears and troubles. But it is nigh impossible to sell the slow-motion jumping through glass moment. Mann had to shoot this with a skeleton crew and no special effects backing him up, and it shows; he switches up all the lights to obscure the packets of ketchup masquerading at blood, his edits jump erratically from profile to close-up with no regard for coherency or pacing, and in perhaps the weirdest decision of them all, he utilises jump cuts to show gunshots and flailing bodies drop again and again. Oh, and he tosses more slow-motion in there. "},{"Title":"Twisted movie","Date":"23 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter is a twisted movie. A look into a the deranged mind of a psycho. Peterson plays the protagonist who must profile, and catch a serial killer. The depths of depravity is too much. Peterson suffers the emotional stress in order to figure out the inner workings of the sociopath. The protagonist becomes distressed with the case, and needs the help of Hannibal Lecktor. Lecktor knows the detective who captured him is fatigued from the ordeal, and Peterson must struggle with Lecktor. One finds the social depravity hits a new low when (Cox) the Lecktor character is introduced. Cox portrays a colder and harder Lecktor, better than the Hopkin's role of the evil doctor. Mann directs Manhunter in a 1980's (Miami Vice) music, blue lighting, cold/direct, and blunt style. Manhunter left an impression on me. Maybe too effective of a movie. Six out of ten stars. "},{"Title":"Decent on its own","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Being the first movie of the Hannibal Lecter franchise it does a decent job, but what bothers me the most is that Lecter merely gets any screen time and Brian Cox has a weak performance if you ask me, people tend to praise Cox for his job in Manhunter, but i prefer Anthony Hopkins, his performances are exactly what made The Silence of the Lambs'' gain such a massive cult following and interested people in further movies.Maybe people just love this movie so much, because as always, it is the first installment? I don't base my reviews on whether it was the first film, the second or the third and etcetera. It does not have the suspenseful vibe, The Silence of the Lambs had. Maybe i am not being a 100% objective, just because i think it gets largely conquered by its so called sequel. But the movie itself is not horrible by any means, just inferior when compared to The Silence of the Lambs.Nevertheless, everybody who loves Hannibal Lecter movies should this movie a watch, just to thoroughly understand the franchise. Not bad by any means, watchable on its own. "},{"Title":"A nice story, but not well told.","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" First adaptation of the novel Red Dragon by Thomas Harris written. Analyzing the movie as a separate work, which is based on the novel but is not a mere reproduction of the book, it is possible to have a contemplative look about it, not just a comparative one. Thus, it is possible to judge the work by itself. The film's main character is the investigator Will Graham, owner of unique skills that is retired from the FBI. He is summoned to active duty to investigate a new series of murders and will count with the help of one of the psychopaths who he led to be arrested. The film describes this story in a too simple way, just touching the surface of the emotions of the characters rather than promoting a dive on them. Thus, the characters seem mere pieces of a game and not people involved in a plot that goes beyond the events we are told. The story is presented, but as it is not too developed, it doesn't captive. "},{"Title":"Skip This and Watch Red Dragon (2002) Instead!","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As the film opened, a deep striking chord of 1980's electronic music loudly resounded echoing what I found to be one of the picture's greatest flaws it tried too hard to be dramatic. Overdramatization was everywhere in the unfitting music that ruined the mood to the acting of most the characters. When a segment should have consisted of a casual conversation it turned into a cheesy delivery of a line in a way that no real person would react in that current situation. The soliloquies Graham had with himself while talking to his invisible enemy were probably the worst evidence of this.The storyline deviated from Thomas Harris' original book Red Dragon in ways that were really detrimental to the plot. One of the strongest points in the book was getting an inside view of Dolarhyde's life story, background, inner demons, psychotic torn personality and struggles. It made the readers understand, pity, and sympathize with him. By omitting those details the intentions and motives seemed to be completely different and almost hidden from view. The best villains always seem to be the ones that viewers can relate to and almost end up rooting for in the end. This story failed on that level completely.Many times you've heard the saying It's all in the details. These filmmakers must not have heard that one before or ignored it. The modern art style buildings and décor of the sets made it visually appealing but didn't fit the book's description or the time period. It made the story that much more impersonal, unrelatable, and unbelievable that this might happen to everyday families like the Leeds and Jacobis. Another stark mistake was the obvious error of showing the wrong William Blake painting that Dolarhyde's sense of power originated from. They couldn't even get the main image of the film and its symbolism correct.Most of the acting was nothing to boast about but Brian Cox did give a solid Lector performance (or Lektor as they just had to be different)that I think Anthony Hopkins' probably used as some inspiration and built upon later in The Silence of the Lambs (1991) and Red Dragon (2002). Overall the movie was a real disappointment, as if we heard the story from someone after playing the game Telephone with their mishearings and mixed up details. And let's not even address that awful shootout in the end. They completely ruined that twist from the book. If you want my advice go watch Red Dragon (2002) instead, it is far better than this. "}{"Title":"Forgettable adaptation that plays like a Miami Vice episode","Date":"5 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Given the huge popularity associated with the character and world of Thomas Harris's cannibalistic erudite serial killer Dr. Hannibal Lector, it seems only fitting to go back and revisit the film that first brought Lector - rather forgettably - to the screen. Manhunter based on Harris's acclaimed novel Red Dragon was originally released back in 1986 and documents the hunt for a serial killer code-named The Tooth Fairy by dogged FBI agent Will Graham. If this story sounds familiar and you have not read the novel, then perhaps you saw the remake from a few years ago, which featured Anthony Hopkins reprising his Oscar-winning role of Lector. The remake - which keeps the name of the novel Red Dragon - is actually far more faithful to the book, more coherent and suspenseful, was a bigger box office hit, and features a far better cast, but because filmmaker Michael Mann's name is associated with its predecessor everyone must pretend that the remake is somehow inferior.Arguably the biggest problem I have with Manhunter (then and now) is that it plays less like a cinematic thriller than an over-extended episode of Mann's then hugely popular TV series Miami Vice. The photography, jarring synthetic pop music score and visual tricks are all staples of Vice. The stop-and-start pacing are also a trademark of Vice, and what worked OK in an hour long TV show does not work well at all in a feature length film. The film lurches from scene to scene rather than flows and, as such, generates precious little suspense. We get very little feel for the characters involved and thus develop little to no concern with who makes it out alive. If anything, Mann's directorial style here is a huge detraction and the material suffers for it.William Petersen snags the lead role of Will Graham. Petersen was supposed to be made a star by the previous To Live and Die in LA, but no one noticed him. Here he makes another stab and it is a thoroughly lifeless performance filled with too-cool-for-the-room posturing. There is no vulnerability or personality to his character. Petersen would need to wait a while before his role on TV's CSI would make him a household name and that was only because he finally was able to inject some humor and quirkiness to his acting rather than the empty brooding he does here. Tom Noonan is almost of no consequence as the Tooth Fairy. He generates little in the way of fear or sympathy, and gives us no insight into his character. He comes across as a lesser Miami Vice villain that Crockett and Tubbs would have disposed of within 60 minutes. Kim Greist is wasted in the nothing role of Graham's wife and Joan Allen trots out every cliché in the book as a blind woman who is initially the Tooth Fairy's girlfriend then potential target. Contrasting her to the later Emily Watson who brought a no-bull earthiness to the part, Allen does not compare favorably.British actor Brian Cox gets the task of essaying the role of Lector here. There are film elites who insist that this is the definitive take on the part and better than Anthony Hopkins more celebrated turn. When I watched the film back in 1986, I found the scenes with Cox's Lector to be pointless and almost brutally boring. Cox's Lector is cold aloof and nearly devoid of personality or charisma. Your eyes start wandering away from the screen and it is difficult to understand why this tiresome character is taking up even minimal screen time. By contrast, Hopkins' Lector is charismatic, bold, chilling and charming. Someone who is endlessly fascinating yet you would never want to meet him in a dark alley. In short, there simply is no comparison to which performance dominates the screen.In 1986, Manhunter received middling to good reviews, but came and went in an eye blink. It remained largely forgotten until director Michael Mann developed some serious cinematic feats to his resume and Harris's work became prime material thanks to The Silence of the Lambs, then everyone attempted to go back and rehabilitate it into something its not...like very good. Even re-watching it today, it is a film that sacrifices story, suspense and character to the kind of brooding, faux-cool late 1980s nonsense that was already wearing thin at that time. "},{"Title":"Open your Eyes","Date":"14 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Welcome to the first incarnation of the Hannibal Lector cinematic franchise. It pales in comparison to The Silence of the Lambs, but Manhunter has incredible moments of it's own. The direction by Michael Mann is outstanding, and visceral. Every set piece is vividly colorful, and eerily dangerous. The cinematography is beautiful. The acting is top notch. The portrayal of the Tooth Fairy here is so terrifyingly done by Tom Noonan, who even looks like Ted Levine in Silence. I know, it's in the same universe, but the resemblance is scary. I also loved Joan Allen's performance as the blind woman, played absolutely so convincingly. I wasn't too crazy about Brian Cox as Hannibal Lector, because once you've seen Anthony Hopkins do him, you can't see anyone else doing him. After all, that's why they remade the film with Hopkins in 2002. Silence stole the thunder, but you need to see this first attempt at the source material. I was fascinated, and really creeped out. "},{"Title":"Mann is a director who can manage the soundtrack like no other","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am convinced that there are few directors with a good ear for music and ability to use it well. Michael Mann is one; Peter Weir and Terrence Malick are the other notables in this league. Mann uses good music here but the choice of Iron Butterfly's In a Gadda da Vida in the crucial scene in Manhunter was smart. Mann's music choices in Heat, Violent Streets (Thief) , and The Last of the Mohicans are other examples of his acute aural talent. He enhances his films with his soundtrack management and choices. Bravo on that front, Mr Mann!If there was one actor who was good in this film it was Tom Noonan as the killer. And I just discovered he is a director and scriptwriter as well. "},{"Title":"Awesome Police Procedural","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Former FBI profiler Will Graham (William Petersen) returns to service to pursue a deranged serial murderer named the Tooth Fairy (Tom Noonan) by the media.This film, which I last saw on VHS (probably around 2002) is not as Miami Vice as I recalled. Sure, it is still Michael Mann in the 1980s and you have some bright colors and beaches, but that is relatively minor. What you have more than anything is a really smart police procedural with a detective tracking a killer and trying to get inside his head.We also have the advantage of knowing the killer from the start, so we get to follow him as well, and see how he reacts to his budding romance with a blind woman. For a man so hideous and doing such hideous things, she may be the perfect companion. "},{"Title":"A master pieces in terror","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is very scary movie. It does have sequels. And it has a remake. The sequels are silence of the lambs Hannibal and Hannibal rising. The remake is Red Dragon. This is the first movie made about Hannibal L.e.c.t.e.r. It is for more scarier then silence of the lambs could ever be. Silence of the lambs sucks. It for more scarier then Hannibal could ever be. Hannibal sucks. This is very scary movie. There is one movie I can think of that is scarier then this one. Red Dragon. This is one of the scariest movies made before 2002. The story line is great. The acting is great. The special effects are great. It as a lot of suspense. If you like scary movies. Then you need to see this. Do not bother with the sequels they are overrated. "},{"Title":"Amazingly well-done","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter is the first film in the Hannibal Lecter movie franchise and it was directed by Michael Mann and it is also written by him based on the book by Thomas Harris, called Red Dragon.The story of MANHUNTER is cool. Let me break it down for you When asked to investigate a killer known as The Tooth Fairy, FBI profiler Will Graham comes out of retirement to lend his talents to his case, but in doing so he must confront the specter of his past and meet with a jailed killer who nearly counted amongst the victims.MANHUNTER focuses on the forensic work carried by the FBI to track down the killer and shows the long-term effects that cases like this have on Graham, highlighting the similarities between him and his quarry.The film features heavily stylized use of color to convey this sense of duality and the nature of the characters' similarity has been explored in academic readings of the film.MANHUNTER was the first film to introduce serial killer Hannibal Lecer, who would later appear in the 1991 critically-acclaimed film, The Silence of the Lambs, directed by Johnathan Demme, the Ridley Scott sequel, Hannibal, released in 2001, the 2002 remake / re-imagining of Manhunter, directed by Brett Ratner, Red Dragon and the black sheep, critically disappointing released in 2007, Hannibal Rising, directed by Peter Webber.The actors are amazing. William Peterson is great as Will Graham. Tom Noonan as Francis Dollarhyde / The Tooth Fairy is really dark in the role. Brian Cox plays Dr. Hannibal Lector and he is fantastic. Kim Griest, Dennis Farina, Joan Allen and Stephen Lang all do great jobs in their performances.The music is really awesome and fantastic. The direction is amazing and the dialogue is really amazing and spectacular and I don't think it's not as as bad as critics said to be or made it out to be.Overall, MANHUNTER has a few flaws, but the critics is amazing and fantastic and amazingly well-done and I could not have seen better.8.9/10. "},{"Title":"stylized Michael Mann thriller","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Will Graham (William Petersen) and his wife Molly (Kim Greist) are retired in Florida with their son after getting worn out by his FBI profiling job. His former boss Jack Crawford (Dennis Farina) asks him to return for one more job. The serial killer 'Tooth Fairy' kills entire families in their homes during the full moon. He decides to consult with serial killer Dr. Hannibal Lecktor (Brian Cox) whom he put away years ago resulting in his retirement. Lecktor manages to steal Will's home address using Dr. Sidney Bloom (Paul Perri)'s office. Dr. Frederick Chilton (Benjamin Hendrickson) discovers that Lecktor is in contact with the Tooth Fairy. Will uses muck-raking reporter Freddy Lounds (Stephen Lang) to write an unflattering article about the Tooth Fairy who turns out to be Francis Dollarhyde (Tom Noonan). He takes revenge on Freddy and then he falls for blind photographic expert Reba McClane (Joan Allen).It's fascinating that the serial killer isn't in the movie until late in the first hour. This is more about the procedural. It's not a whodunnit mystery. It's also a chess game between Will and Hannibal Lecktor. This was before CSI in 2000 or 'The Silence of the Lambs' in 1991. This was the mid-80s and it was probably the first time I've ever heard of the term profiler. The detailed forensics are more compelling than ever before. Michael Mann has made a stylized movie probably influenced by TV show Miami Vice. He uses colors to accentuate moods. It's got a specific look. William Petersen is great as Will and basically reprises a similar role in CSI. Brian Cox is functional as Hannibal Lecktor but nobody is ever going to touch Anthony Hopkins. "},{"Title":"Haunting and effective enough to deserve appreciation alongside Lambs.","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" They're the worst thoughts in the world Will Graham tenderly confides in his son, sharing with him the unique and seemingly impossible burden that he is carrying, to a boy who can't possibly grasp the full implications of it but is nonetheless haunted by his father's now tentative walk through life. I was haunted too, as William Peterson plays this character as he should be played, a figure staring into the abyss, and nearly destroyed by this. He seems fragile and anxious, yet with a firmness and resoluteness usually found in the best cops and detectives and investigators. What also brilliantly conveys this psychologically perturbed mind is the general 'look' of the film; the set design, the lighting, the cinematography. I'm particularly fixated with the idea of the exterior worlds being expressionistic and reflective of a character's psychology, and here that is present without being overbearing.There's a cold neon glare to much of the film, as in the scenes in the police department, a decay to the scenes of Dollarhyde, a sterile desolation to the environment of Lektor, but a warm melancholic blue to Will's family life, which I like to think reflects the general undercurrent of sorrow throughout the film. The film largely works because it allows us to understand Will Graham's mind-set enough to know that every step he takes in the investigation is a chipping against the rock of his fortitude, every time he commits himself psychology it threatens to derail him, and leave his family behind. This driving force keeps momentum, and is also sustained in the dynamic between him and both Crawford and Lektor (spelled with a K in this instance as if he is the product of some Nazi experiment or a perhaps just a Krautrock band). Crawford, played by Dennis Farina is suitably hardened and relatively unsympathetic, yet manages to get across the genuine concern of his character, and the protection that he knows is necessary to give to preserve Graham as it were. Continuing with my appreciation of the production design, I love the cacti that sit in darkened corners of Crawford's office, looking lifeless if not manufactured and a dismissive attempt at bringing some life into a cold environment. Even colder is the lair of Lektor, who resides in an almost dystopian looking building, with endless stairways that Graham can't seem to escape and walls of pure white. I've held off from mentioning Silence of the Lambs until this point, if only to let Manhunter stand on its own terms and has a minor protest against how heavily that overshadows this film. But Anthony Hopkin's interpretation is so solidified and absolute in the minds of some people that it is helpful to describe Cox in contrasts to him. Whereas Hopkins had more of an intellectual charm, a superiority that was in play with his savage and sadistic aspect, Cox is far more cold and detached. He has a presence that is indomitable and feels like it might asphyxiate you, but he feels further away. Of course the way the character is played is specific to the material, and in Silence, Lector needed a sort of intimacy to be able to communicate with Clarice, something that isn't present here with Will. He sits with his mouth always slightly agape, as if both the intellectual and physical menace is readying to spill forth. The conversation between these two is framed perfectly, with their faces each appearing to be caught between the bars of Lektor's cell. Whereas Demme used zooms to arrive intensely close to faces, particularly on Starling and Lector to indicate the overpowering and demanding weight of their relationship, here Mann lets the camera rest back somewhat, watching these two men caught in the sight of each other and the psychological chains binding them. Much of the melancholy of the film situates in the tragedy of Francis Dollarhyde, played with a perfect amount of physical imposure and as far as this character goes, emotional vulnerability, by Tom Noonan. Dollarhyde and Gumb both share a mystery to their character by not having their origins or motivations explained to simply justify the way they are, and although Gumb was a pitiful character trying to craft an identity, Dollarhyde in comparison feels like a character that we can both loathe and actively feel despair for, but both are impeccably played, so I'm not going to pick favourites. I will however admire both for their decisions to loudly play music that creates unsettling juxtaposition between their psychotic unstable states and the charm and melody of the song. Goodbye Horses wins for the unsettling serenity, but In-Gadda-Da-Vida has swells to an intense cacophony. Dollarhyde goes tentatively on a romantic journey that almost feels like it could be a part of another film, yet it plays with such miserable inevitability and a neon dampness that it works really well as a part of the whole narrative. The character is trying to fulfil some utterly distorted vision of change, of becoming something impossible, that when he falls in love, or the distant and regressed and ordinary part of him does, he rejects it. There is a beautiful moment when in bed with his infatuation, Joan Allen, he pulls his hand up to her face, resting it there, beginning to cry. There is such conflict between the two identities, battling for their own change, that is inner fire and destruction is tangible.The music, particularly the ending song, drifts into sentimental '80s triumph, and I got the impression that perhaps that was a commercial studio decision, and not Mann's, but the jarring effect is I suppose only in keeping with the odd, unhinged atmosphere. This is a product of its time, in the best sense, and to visualise this imagine an old, green-screen computer, with the glass of the monitor broken and blood seeping between the cracks. That is Manhunter. "},{"Title":"The Roar of the Red Dragon","Date":"9 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In Florida, retired crime scene investigator William Petersen (as Will Graham) is approached by former co-worker Dennis Farina (as Jack Crawford) about returning to work. He's recovered, but Mr. Peterson had to quit after a mental breakdown; for good reason, he survived a confrontation with notorious serial killer Hannibal Lecktor (Brian Cox). Yes, it's the same one who eats people and was famously portrayed by Anthony Hopkins. Lecktor is in prison and a new serial killer, called The Tooth Fairy (Tom Noonan), is on the loose. This one slaughters entire families every month, during the full moon. Peterson takes the case and, to get into the killer's mind, he seeks advice from Lecktor. This is helpful to Peterson, but Lecktor is also communicating with the new killer...Manhunter was adapted, by director Michael Mann, from Thomas Harris' novel Red Dragon. The most famous of the author's books is The Silence of the Lambs, which won a truckload of awards for its 1991 film version. This movie was a relative failure, but it's excellent. His screenplay holds back when it could condense more information from the novel; however, Mr. Mann directs with imagination and flair. The cinematography, by Dante Spinotti, is a great asset. The aforementioned cast members are nicely supported by blind love interest Joan Allen (as Reba McClane), fiery-haired tabloid reporter Stephen Lang (as Freddy Lounds), and worried wife Kim Greist (as Molly). Although you can often catch Mann trying his damnedest to be cutting edge, he succeeds.******** Manhunter (8/15/86) Michael Mann ~ William Petersen, Dennis Farina, Tom Noonan, Joan Allen "},{"Title":"William Petersen hunts for clues to a serial killer by asking himself questions about the killer's feelings","Date":"24 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter (1986) is a very intelligent and satisfying police procedural and thriller. William Petersen's character is a detective who once tangled with and jailed Dr. Hannibal Lektor. He's on a new case. His method is carefully to reconstruct the crimes and how the criminal is thinking, so as to lead to undiscovered clues. He constantly asks himself questions that put himself in the place of the killer. The script and story are very clever in this respect and fresh.Petersen's associate is Dennis Farina, always immensely believable in such parts.Petersen consults Lektor, played by Brian Cox in a top-notch portrayal. Lektor is affable, clever, but also taunting. Underneath he is unpredictably violent and cold. He is calculating and looking for weaknesses. The set piece of Petersen's visit is wonderfully photographed in a large white hospital with winding ramps.The new serial killer is played by Tom Noonan, and very well indeed, very believably. He's the Red Dragon, a megalomaniac schizophrenic type. He gets ample screen time while first dating and later kidnapping a blind co-worker.The film explores Petersen's family life in plenty of detail. Petersen's style of detecting has once taken a heavy psychological toll on him. The press also butts in in the form of reporter Stephen Lang.Direction is skilled and tight, using a good color palette, locations and some suspense-generating shots.The music is an original score, electronic. It's the kind of music that director Michael Mann prefers. In this case, it is a relatively unobtrusive score, silent quite often. In some cases, a single note is used and effects obtained by altering its volume, louder and then softer. This creates tension and then diffuses it.This fine neo-noir is recommended. "}{"Title":"A Decent Red Dragon Adaptation","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" --WARNING There may be some spoilers ahead for those who haven't seen the film, so just a heads up. In order to accurately review this film, it may be necessary to talk about some key moments.--This is a film I watched based upon reading a lot of excerpts and snip- its stating that it was one of the finer accomplishments of the 80s in terms of style and substance; not really very appreciated at it's time but much more understood and respected throughout the years. It's not hard for an average movie goer to spot exactly why it was so initially rejected by both viewers and critics alike. It's influences of the time were immediately noticeable and mostly considered uninspired along with it's pacing and atmosphere, which weren't exactly the norm during the blockbuster boom of the 80s cinema landscape.However, from the acting to the specifics and details regarding the hunt for a killer, as interesting and well thought out as everything was during this movie, it still feels like it's been 1up'd by many more films that have come after. I felt constantly pulled in and pulled out of this film by no one thing in particular. It was just hard to go from segment to segment and feel any sort of consistency in interest. The style and the pacing as slow as it was, both were hardly ever the problem; more the fact that much of what the film focused on just wasn't genuinely that interesting. It seemed like it wanted to be much more than it was.Brian Cox playing Hannibal was one of the high points in the film, and from what I've gathered this was intentionally done, but I find it a critical mistake to make your most interesting segments regarding a character that doesn't even take a front seat in the book series till Silence of the Lambs and then is left largely behind by the en, more or less forgotten. Manhunter is not a bad film, but it isn't very hard to see why it didn't catch on at it's time. Not an easy recommendation unless you feel the need to see every movie adaptation involving the Hannibal mythos. "},{"Title":"Totally 80s And Totally Amazing","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I recently started watching Hannibal, and I was enjoying it quite a bit. I'd hadn't seen any of the movies involving Hannibal Lecter either, so I decided I would start with Manhunter. What a great place to start.I was blown away by this film. First of all, I love the 80s vibe. The music, the clothes, everything. It's awesome, and Michael Mann really knows how to capture that. It's shot beautifully and is full of different vibrant colors, which makes it a real pleasure to watch. It's just got a great feeling to the whole film that you can't beat.The performances here are absolutely amazing. William Petersen plays Will Graham, and he is incredible. He makes you feel for his character, and you get the sense that his way of getting into the mind of a killer really troubles him. Brian Cox plays Hannibal, and I think he does a good job, but the film isn't really about him so he's not in it a whole lot. Tom Noonan does a great job as the main villain. He's slightly sympathetic but also insane. The whole cast is great and it makes it interesting to watch. Even though I loved it, I acknowledge some issues. There were some weird editing flaws in the climactic ending, which stood out to me. Also, some things in the plot seem to appear, and then kind of disappear and never get mentioned again, like the main villain knowing where Will lives. Threatening and serious at first, but then kinda fades away, and when you get to know the villain more, it doesn't even seem like he had the intention of doing anything to Will's family. Manhunter is absolutely amazing. If you like thriller or mystery films, you will love this, and if you want to see a movie with that 80s vibe, check it out. "},{"Title":"Petersen is the man, hunting a sicko, in one of the 80's most engrossing films","Date":"28 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter is a much overlooked movie, that didn't play in some states in Australia. When I first saw it, I didn't appreciate it, as expecting action, whatever. When I saw it six years and more accepting of movies and story, my whole view of the film changed. I choose this over Red Dragon any day, and I reckon a lot of other will too, if they haven't seen this. Take my advice. See it. This one has much more suited actors, and is more scary and bloody suspenseful. William Petersen is tailor made for this role, truly showing a guy, torn and scarred, slowly recovering day by day, from Lectors attack, that fateful night, after din din, which didn't only leave physical scars. An array of affected emotions is where Norton vastly lacked in showing us. From the very first frame, Petersen's performance has us. He reluctantly, though out of guilt, if feeling morally obliged to the victims, accepts the case to track down the tooth fairy, who's selecting families as victims for his sick and repressed sexual fantasies. Brian Cox's Lector is different, from Hopkin's where I still think Tony's better, but Cox is chillingly riveting, showing just what this great and versatile actor was capable of in his heyday, and still is. The others are also great, the tooth fairy killer, Dollarhyde, will made the hairs on your wrists stand up literally, while the blind woman is very strong too who could be the psycho's next victim, unless hot shot tracking expert, Will Graham (Petersen) has anything to say about it. The great character actor, Stephen Lang is at his scummy best, as a low life reporter, who gets his just desserts. The music rocks, a little unnerving when played to the tense scenes, affecting when played against the sad ones, and there are a few scores, all of which I liked. This excellent movie's a serial killer's smorgasboard, scarring unforgettable moments, triggered from writing this. If a lover of SOTL or Hannibal, and.... Red Dragon, the remake of this, you'll be totally absorbed by this, where the movie choosing more story over action, where too here, we get to know Graham's family more. The music works beautifully against the story but that's a trademark of Mann's films. The climax is smashingly terrific would say, while the whole movie is filmed to A1 perfection. The movie almost has a flawlessness to it. Violence is moderate in quota, and one feels this quota restrained, though some images are pretty strong, and like the others, this film is definitely not for the disturbed where this made four years, prior to Silence Of The Lambs, doesn't change that fact. "},{"Title":"Better than Red Dragon","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Before Silence of the Lambs there was this. If you were lucky enough to catch this before SOTL showed up in the theaters (as I was) then it made the theater experience fantastic. Brian Cox was a better Lecter in physique, but Hopkins did a better job of portraying Lecter's cerebral side. The director on this does a spectacular job, giving the movie his signature Miami Vice look and feel. The most exciting part of the film is punctuated by the greatest drum solo ever heard by human ears, played by Iron butterfly. I had seen Manhunter on VHS and told a friend of mine about it one night, over a few beers and explained how he needed to rent it before going to see SOTL in the local theater. He took my advice and thanked me the next week. He said It was great, the wife and I had a serial killer weekend! "},{"Title":"THE Original, and the ORIGINAL Lecter","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When 'Silence of the Lambs' became a big hit in the early 90's, this 1986 original (from the novel Red Dragon by author Robert Harris - who also wrote such 70's thrillers as Black Sunday) quickly became forgotten, especially its 80's 'Miami Vice' style, no doubt infused by Vice show runner Michael Mann certainly, aside from Michael Bay, the most stylish of Hollywood directors. Also included is a short but key scene with character actor extraordinaire Brian Cox as the original Hannibal Lecter (here and in the book spelled Lecktor). His performance, as stated in another review, is better than Hopkins. Rather than reveal the plot - redone with Hopkins and Edward Norton as lead FBI consultant Will Graham some 20 years later at the tail end of the long series - I wish to instead focus on the novel (there were 4 others to follow which paralleled the movies). In the book, the author outlines the making of a serial killer to a great degree, so much that it could be a Criminology textbook. And, having taken Criminology, I must point out the only error in that he merges two distinct, but different, psychopathic profiles. It doesn't matter, as this IS fiction, unlike say 'The Texas Chainsaw Massacre', and it is perfect. I used to own the VHS tape, and cassette soundtrack (Excellent! With both pop songs and original musical compositions), however have lost both. I must buy the Blu Ray DVD soon, but there has been no CD release or otherwise of the soundtrack. Some of the songs can still be found on their respective artist's own catalogue, however. There is a great lead performance by William Petesen, later of CSI, which alone should have brought this into reissue sooner. There is also Chicago cop standby Dennis Farina, and sexy Kim Griest, as well as solid turns from every other supporting player (including, of all people, Chris Elliott during his dramatic acting period). I can think of few talents on par with director Mann (please IMDb him and you might be surprised at his output, and quirkiness). The same goes for the intensity of Petersen, and Brian Cox as Lecktor. If there is one, good thriller-horror movie you need to watch, this is it. It is the ORIGINAL, at least as far as the crop released during the modern, post 1970's era of flash AND substance is concerned. And it is so intense that during its showing at my local cinema, a half dozen people walked out following a particularly gruesome - graphic without being degrading - scene near the beginning. Now THAT is directing (Hitchcock would be proud). "},{"Title":"Very underrated, but very good","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Overshadowed by later Lecter incarnations, this remains my favorite of the lot. I've seen all bar the most recent version and this one stands out as the most unusual. Leaving Shriekback to do your soundtrack was always going give the movie a lonesome and spacious feel. William Peterson is excellent Will Graham, putting a lot of feeling into the role and outdoing Edward Norton who starred in the same role in the remake. The backing cast all perform capably, but Peterson makes the movie. Brian Cox' version of Hannibal manages to trump Hopkins' later portrayal. The lighting, very shadowy and dark, mixes well with the soundtrack and the directing by Micheal Mann. A very emotional film (though not a tear-jerker), you'll find yourself drawn in and, at times, captivated by an enthralling movie. Definitely worth watching. A must see. "},{"Title":"Good tense start for Hannibal Lecter","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When people think of Hannibal Lecter they immediately think of Anthony Hopkins as the menacing and sinister cannibalistic psychiatrist. But what most people don't know is that before Silence of the Lambs there was Manhunter a 1986 adaptation of Thomas Harris's novel Red Dragon starring William Petersen as Will Graham, Brian Cox as Lecter (pronounced Lecktor) and Tom Noonan as Francis Dollarhyde aka The Tooth Fairy.To be fair Brian Cox's and Anthony Hopkin's performances as Lecter are very different from one another. Hopkins sinister and scary performance won audiences over including the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor while Cox plays Lecter more low key while giving some subtle menace due to some great dialog in the few scenes that hes in. William Petersen makes for a great Will Graham who's tormented by his past with Lecter and that he can think like the killer so that he can predict his next move. Tom Noonan is very great as Francis Dollarhyde who doesn't show up until halfway into the movie but his performance is very creepy especially during the scene where he rips off the front dashboard of his car when he believes his girlfriend has cheated on him.(The only downside is that we never fully understand why he commits these murders. That's explained in the book.)Michael Mann's direction for this movie is very stylized. It doesn't hide the fact that it was made in the 80s but the atmosphere is very tense and suspenseful. Mann even uses color filters in scenes that best evoke emotion and its a nice subtle touch. The soundtrack is dated but the synthesized music works very well during the most suspenseful scenes. As for In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida during the final sequence, its cool and it works in that 80s type of way.The movie on a whole is solid and it deserves to be looked at as the introduction of Hannibal Lecter to cinema. Its not as good as Silence of the Lambs but its a good tense start for Hannibal Lecter. "},{"Title":"Call me crazy, but this is my favourite Hannibal Lecter film","Date":"18 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Here it is, Manhunter. The first cinematic appearance of one of the scariest movie serial killers of all time. I have seen all the Hannibal films with Anthony Hopkins in it. To be honest I thought Silence Of The Lambs was overrated but I still enjoyed it, Hannibal was laughable and aside from visual style there is not much going for it as a crime/thriller, Red Dragon was actually my favourite. I think that had to do with the story (or the character of Will Graeme was very interesting). I did want to see this and now I'll tell you what I think.The plot of this film (if you don't know or haven't seen Red Dragon) is that Will Graeme is an ex-FBI agent that has such an understanding of how serial killers think that he is treading a thin line between insanity and doing his job. He gets called back to investigate a serial killer Tooth Fairy because of his teeth, of which have been analyzed forensically. The Tooth Fairy is a lunatic who brutally slaughters families and puts broken pieces of mirrors into their eye sockets. He goes somewhere with how the tooth fairy thinks but it isn't enough to work out who he is. He goes for the help of a psychologist/convicted serial killer Dr Hannibal Lecter.Now the acting is great. I know I'm in a minority opinion but I think Brian Cox is actually a better Hannibal than Anthony Hopkins (don't get me wrong, Hopkins also does a very good job). I think that William Petersen also does a very good job as Will Graeme. For a fact everyone here does an excellent job.I also love the atmosphere of this film. Most of the scenes in this film are very atmospheric and really gives off a creepy vibe. In particular the scenes where Graeme is looking through the house and trying to get into the mind of the Tooth Fairy and the scene where he talks to Lecter for the first time among others.So would I recommend this film? In all honesty, Yes. I think that this is certainly worth watching. If you have the slightest interest in this sort of thing then I would certainly recommend you this movie. I am not saying you'll prefer this to the more recent incarnations of Hannibal. But it is a good little crime/thriller that is certainly worth at least one look. "},{"Title":"Excellent serial killer thriller","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter kind of went under the radar when it was released in 1986. It wasn't until the massive success of The Silence of the Lambs five years later that it started to become more widely noticed. The reason, of course, is that Manhunter is the first cinematic outing for the character Hannibal Lector - made so iconic in Lambs by Anthony Hopkins. In this movie he goes under the different spelling of 'Lecktor' and he is played by Brian Cox. There has been a fair amount of debate as to which is the better performance. I personally think both are great but very different. Hopkins is considerably more over the top albeit very well controlled; whereas Cox plays the character in a subdued way. There is considerably more ambiguity about his Lecktor. He and his sterile cell appear more realistic than Hopkins in his dimly lit dungeon. This approach makes this Hannibal a more intimidating one in some respects. He hides his psychopathic nature far more but, of course, we know it's there. He seems more normal and by extension, deadlier. Like before, in this film Lecktor has an acolyte serial killer actively working on the outside, in Lambs it was Buffalo Bill, while here it is the Tooth Fairy. Tom Noonan is excellent playing the latter, unlike Buffalo Bill he is portrayed with an element of sympathy at times. Noonan is very good at showing the lack of self-esteem that is in some way connected with his psychopathic violent tendencies.The story itself follows the character Will Graham, a criminal analyst who has the ability to enter the mind-set of a killer. This skill makes him highly adept at catching maniacs but extremely vulnerable to mental breakdown. His previous exertions in catching Hannibal Lecktor had made him quit the FBI. At the beginning of the film he is persuaded to return to service to hunt a serial killer who has just murdered two families.Manhunter is a very different film stylistically to Silence of the Lambs. Both may come from novels by Thomas Harris and also share broadly similar plot-lines but the look and feel are entirely different. This film is directed by Michael Mann who was the creator of the Miami Vice TV series and the later acclaimed thriller Heat. He is a visual stylist and this factor is evident throughout Manhunter. He makes consistently great use of colour and framing. The visual polish is at odds with the gritty material. I would guess for some viewers this will be a weakness but I felt that in some ways it made the disturbing aspects of the story slightly creepier in that they stood out more glaringly against the sheen of the presentation. The underplayed performances also contributed to this, the horror of the events didn't need being overplayed; they spoke for themselves. The soundtrack is more variable in effectiveness. For the most part it worked alongside the visuals very well but there were some 80's rock tunes that were a little cheesy; Iron Butterfly's In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida, however, was well used in the nerve-jangling climax. "},{"Title":"One of the best Thrillers ever made. A Brilliant Classic from Michael Mann.","Date":"16 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter is one of the best thrillers ever made that's filled with great direction,performances,script and visual style and one of Michael Mann's best films and a classic. It's not only one of my favorite Thrillers but,one of my favorite films of all time.Based on Thomas Harris' novel Red Dragon,Manhunter tells the story about Will Graham(William Petersen)a retired F.B.I agent who catches serial killers and is able to get inside the mind of the killer. Graham is asked to come out of retirement to help catch a serial killer named Francis Dollarhyde(Tom Noonan)nicknamed by the police as The Tooth Fairy who kills every full moon. Out of retirement,Will Graham must find The Tooth Fairy,get into the mindset of the killer and stop him before he kills again.Released in 1986,Manhunter is a brilliant,powerful film that received mixed reviews from critics and was not a Box Office hit. But over the years Manhunter has gained a Cult following and is not only considered one of the best Thrillers ever made but is also the film that paved the way for other classic Serial killer thrillers such as The Silence Of The Lambs(1991)and Se7en(1995)and introduced audiences to the iconic film character Hannibal Lecktor. From beginning to end Manhunter is an amazing and unforgettable film that is truly a cinematic experience that blows you away the first time you watch it because it's not only thrilling and intense but also mesmerizing and gripping. One of the things I love about Manhunter is the way it's structured. The first hour focuses on Will Graham,the cops,the mystery and investigation of the killer and why,when and where he will do his murders and killings and as a viewer you are glued to the screen and never bored. The second hour focuses not only on Will Graham and the investigation but also on Frances Dollarhyde and his world and I love the fact we don't see Dollarhyde giving viewers a build-up to his arrival and when we see Dollarhyde for the first time it's scary,frightening and unforgettable. Manhunter is filled with such suspense,atmosphere and has a very dark tone and there is a sense of dread and fear that hangs over the film like a tightrope. Will Graham is a great character that we can identify with because despite having his wife and kid around and being retired you can see that Will feels very isolated and still carries the mental scars of being an FBI agent and hunting down serial killers. When Will is asked to come out of retirement to catch the killer you can tell he doesn't want to do it but feels like he has no choice but to stop the killer. Manhunter succeeds not only as a Thriller but also as a character study of Will Graham his journey into darkness and trying to get out. The photography by Dante Spinotti is beautiful and masterful giving the film and characters different visuals and colors whether it be the colors blue,red or green or the orange of the sunlight that captures the characters state of mind whether it's in the day or night. One of the things I love about films and Film making in general is that a film brings into a world and Manhunter brings a viewer into a world where it's grounded in reality but also a surreal feel to it and you are glued to the screen because the style and visuals just come off the screen and hits you right in the face. Manhunter is one of the most visually stunning films ever made. The screenplay by Michael Mann is terrific and well-written with dialog and scenes that are fresh and memorable. Many fans have been debating over which film is better Manhunter or The Silence Of The Lambs. While both films are similar in terms of story lines,both films are great classics and should be excepted on their own rights. The ending of Manhunter is excellent and thrilling and is filled with great suspense and Action matching the film's tone and is one of the reasons Manhunter is a classic. The cast does great jobs in their roles. William Petersen is excellent and gives maybe the best performance of his career as Will Graham. Petersen brings intensity,depth and greatness to the role. Tom Noonan is brilliant as killer Francis Dollarhyde,one of the best villains in movie history. Noonan is frightening,disturbing and scary in his role. Brian Cox is wonderful and memorable in his small role as Hannibal Lecktor,a serial killer Graham caught and has great scenes with Petersen. Dennis Farina does a great job as Jack Crawford,Graham's friend and F.B.I man who helps Will out. Stephen Lang does a fantastic job as Freddy Lounds,a sleazy tabloid reporter. Kim Greist does a wonderful job as Molly Graham,Will's wife and has a great chemistry with Petersen. Joan Allen is great as Reba,a blind co-worker Dollarhyde romances. Noonan and Allen's scenes together are great and memorable.Michael Mann's direction is fantastic moving the camera and giving the film a unique visual style and keeps the film moving at a fast pace. This is probably Mann's most visually stunning film to date. Great job,Mann.The score by The Reds and Michael Rubini is amazing matching the dark,somber mood of the film and fits in well. The soundtrack is amazing as well with songs like Rubini's Graham's theme,The Prime Movers Strong as I am Shriekback's This Big Hush,Red 7's Heartbeat and Iron Butterfly's IN-A-GADDA-DA-VIDA which is used to great effect at the end. Manhunter's soundtrack is definitely one of my favorite soundtracks.In final word,Manhunter is a flawless classic from beginning to end from the acting,direction,script and style. If you love Thrillers or Cinema in general I highly suggest you see this film. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "}{"Title":"Brimming with style","Date":"24 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Since both movies share Dr. Lecter in common, you can't help but compare The Silence of the Lambs with Manhunter. And both of them are fantastic movies, so this clearly isn't a contest. That having been said, Manhunter does have Brian Cox as the psychotic doctor, and it's such a resonant performance. He does so much with so little screen time (seriously, the guy's like a footnote in the grand scheme of things) and you feel like he's a real person. Really scary, 'natch.But Manhunter is above all a Michael Mann film, and that's what I love about it. It has the mood and color use of Miami Vice, a great eye for visual compositions, and it's psycho-thriller-as-police-procedural. There's energy to be found even in the usually mundane lab scenes, so the whole thing comes off understated yet kinetic. It's got a great soundtrack, too, I mean the Red 7 ending just packs a punch.This movie's incredible.9/10 "},{"Title":"It's just you and me now, sport...","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Fresh off his successful television series Miami Vice, Michael Mann returns to the big screen with a landmark psychological thriller. Based on Thomas Harris' second novel Red Dragon, this film is the first in the Hannibal Lecter series and possibly the best by far.Former CSI lead William Petersen excels radiantly as emotionally scarred FBI Agent Will Graham who is about receive a last-chance opportunity from his boss Jack Crawford (played by the always admirable Dennis Farina). An opportunity to catch an enigmatic serial killer called The Tooth Fairy with a metaphysical quest to shadow the 'Red Dragon' based on William Blake's painting of the same name. In order to enter the killer's theoretical mind, Graham must confront the man that severely damaged his reputation&#x85;Hannibal the Cannibal.As masterfully played by then-unknown Brian Cox, the enquiringly misspelled Dr. 'Lecktor' is presented here as a contrast to Anthony Hopkins' portrayal. Instead of the eccentric and socially refined Hannibal, Cox gives the viewer a restrained and intangible depiction in the form of a normal-looking prisoner. From a film-goer's perspective, this is the most ingenuous version of the title character that the I've ever seen. Now, don't get me wrong Hopkins certainly deserved his Oscar and the acclaim, but Cox has accomplished more in 10 minutes of screen time than Sir Tony's monopolizing scenery-chewing in Red Dragon. The next paragraph brings me to the Tooth Fairy himself, Francis Dollarhyde.The tremendously talented and always under-appreciated Tom Noonan has been type-cast throughout his whole career as the baddie. Noonan's riveting performance successfully brought out his undiscovered talents to the forefront. Just watch the scene in which he grants a slide show of the victims' families to sleazy tabloid journalist Freddie Lounds (Stephen Lang) for evidence. In the book, Dollarhyde was given a detailed past of his abusive childhood and personal motivations. However, none of this is revealed in Manhunter because we are more concerned with Graham's investigation rather than how Dollarhyde came to be. And I'm so glad that the Dragon tattoo was never in the final version otherwise, this film would have never been taken seriously.The one scene that really stood out was the grand finale between Graham and Dollarhyde. Set to Iron Butterfly's psychedelic opus In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida, this confrontation was choreographed perfectly, edited flawlessly and photographed impeccably by Dante Spinotti. From watching that sequence alone, that could have been a movie of its own for that matter.The one question that comes to the mind Can Graham ever come out of Dollarhyde's darkness? Find out for yourself! "},{"Title":"It's just you and me now, sport.","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter certainly is noteworthy for first introducing us to the character of Hannibal Lecter, five years before The Silence of the Lambs firmly fixed him in the publics' consciousness. While Silence is famous and well regarded for good reason, this movie is every bit as good and deserves a look from dedicated thriller fans. Based on the Thomas Harris novel Red Dragon, it follows the actions of a former FBI agent, Will Graham (future 'C.S.I.' star William L. Petersen), who made his name capturing Lecter (here spelled Lecktor). His associate at the Bureau, Jack Crawford (Dennis Farina) appeals to him to help out in their search for a psychopath who butchers entire families every full moon. And the clock is ticking, for the next full moon isn't too far away. Graham has an uncanny ability to get inside the heads of serial killers and think as they do, which he puts to use here (however, this ability is also taking a toll on his mental well-being). Now, folks conditioned to more explicit serial killer films that amp up the body count and ladle on the gloomy atmosphere may be somewhat disappointed with Manhunter, but its subtlety and nuances should be appreciated by others. We don't get introduced to our villain, Francis Dollarhyde (a truly scary Tom Noonan) until past the half way point, and even then we don't purely see him in the act of stalking and killing; we actually see him make a connection to a blind new acquaintance (an appealing Joan Allen) that leads to his downfall just as much as any detective work. And the detective work here is quite compelling, as this film does work as something of a procedural in the various means of working clues. The film is stylishly directed by Michael Mann, who also adapted the novel, and looks great as shot in the 2.351 aspect ratio. It begins with an awfully creepy sequence, yet it's careful about doling out any and all shocks, never being in too much of a hurry. Some sequences truly stand out the fate of sleaze ball journalist Freddie Lounds (Stephen Lang), Reba's (Allen) encounter with a sedated tiger, Francis and Reba spending time together while, unbeknown to her, footage of the next family he intends to slaughter rolls in front of them. The acting from all concerned is effective. Brian Cox has a different take on the role of Lecter than Anthony Hopkins - it's less flashy, but in its own way suitably chilling. Here Lecter plays a similar part to the one he plays in Lambs as he gets consulted on how to get into the mindset of the killer. Kim Greist, as Grahams' wife, has not much else to do other than be concerned. Familiar faces in the supporting cast include Bill Smitrovich, Peter Maloney, Michael Talbott, Dan Butler, Patricia Charbonneau, Frankie Faison, Garcelle Beauvais, Chris Elliott, and Marshall Bell; buffs will know that Butler and Faison also went on to appear in Lambs and that Faison has been in all of the adaptations of Harris's Lecter series. The film is long, but worth sticking with; only towards the end does it get a little silly as Graham insists on playing Super Cop. Until then, it's grimly compelling. The story would be filmed again under the Red Dragon title 16 years later. Nine out of 10. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly great","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have not read the book Red Dragon that it's based on nor seen the remake of that name so I can say that I am fully capable of judging this movie on it's own merits. And I was surprised to see how much I got into this film. One thing that caught me was the main character Will Graham played by William Petersen. Petersen played the part really well and displayed the tortured psychology of the character perfectly so you really didn't feel that Hannibal Lecter's (or Lecktor in this film) words about him were empty. Brian Cox as the legendary cannibal was very different from Anthony Hopkins in Silence Of the Lambs. Where Hopkins was theatrical and let the insanity show, Cox was a lot calmer and down to earth when he analyzed Graham's psyche and that made it seem very realistic. While I do enjoy Hopkins portrayal as well I found Cox's interpretation to be refreshing after having seen Silence... so many times. And the villain Fracis Dollarhyde was scary and unpredictable while easy to sympathize with. I loved that character. I have no idea why this movie bombed at the box office. The creepy atmosphere, the compelling story about a man on the edge of insanity and the strong performances made this a winner. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful and stylish thriller - but this is not a Hannibal Lecter movie","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Building on the visual style established in the excellent Thief, director Mann further cements his distinctive look with this slick, atmospheric and polished film, that is only marred by underdevelopment of some of the supporting characters.The plot is fairly straightforward but interesting. William Peterson puts a refreshing take on the Will Graham character by playing him in a very controlled and dispassionate way. This approach allows his relationship with his wife, played by Kim Griest to pursue some interesting dynamics. However, this is very much the B plot, as the focus on the film is Will Graham's attempt to track down a ruthless serial killer, scarily played by Tom Noonan using the less is more school of acting. He is perfect casting and his physique is absolutely spot on for the role. There is effective support from Joan Allen (as a blind Reba McClane), Dennis Farina as FBI investigator Jack Crawford and of course Brian Cox with a very different (but still interesting) take on Hannibal Lecter, in much more of a supporting role.However, I did wish that some of the character's backgrounds could have been fleshed out more. I never quite felt that the connection between Lecter and Graham was as strong as it needed to be. Also it would be been better to have seen more of Stephen Lang's amusing (if slightly over the top) tabloid journalist character's prior relationship to Graham.Dante Spinotti's photography is impressive, and the Mann's choice of music works well in the film, although it would have been interesting to see what Tangerine Dream would have done, as I felt they could have produced another excellent score. Mann integrates all the elements with the same precision as on Thief, resulting in a slick, atmospheric, tense and enjoyable, if slightly aloof film. "},{"Title":"Mann Hunter","Date":"22 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I think this should be more classified as an excellent Murder Profiler movie than the first movie to introduce Hannibal Lecter. Yes, he is there, but he's such a minor character. No worries as he's hardly a distraction to this outstanding little thriller I had the pleasure of seeing again after like 20 years. As most great thrillers go, this had me gripped to my seat as William Petersen plays an FBI profiler hired to a serial murder case. The killer leaves a few clues behind, but everyone is stumped. They bring Hannibal Lecter in a desperation move, and clue by clue, they piece it together. Quite engrossing, and highly recommended. Watch for Joan Allen in an early performance towards the end. "},{"Title":"Enter The Mind Of A Killer, You Might Never Return!","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" William Petersen, Brian Cox, Dennis Farina, Joan Allen and Tom Noonan star in Michael Mann's 1986 thriller based on the Thomas Harris novel, Red Dragon. The starts with FBI boss, Jack Crawford (Farina) asking his friend and colleague, Will Graham (Petersen) to help find a killer who has murdered 2 families that may be connected. Will agrees and his method is to think like the killer, but he also seeks help from the sociopath who tried to kill him and forced him to retire, Dr. Hannibal Lecktor (Cox). The killer, Francis Dollarhyde (Noonan) works as a photo & video specialist and plans on killing another family during the lunar cycle to fulfill his fantasy of becoming a Red Dragon based on William Blake's painting. Francis finds love in the form of blind co-worker, Reba McClane (Allen) and as he grows close to her, the harder it is to continue his killing spree. Soon, Will learns who the killer is and tries to save Reba and the next family from death. This is an underrated 80's film and I think it's one of Mann's best with a great cast, especially Noonan because you feel sympathy for his character. I also like the music and recommend this. "},{"Title":"In this first screen appearance of Dr. Lector, he is little more than a footnote.","Date":"24 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is the first of four reviews I will do on the movies involving the character Hannibal Lector, the horrifying creation of Thomas Harris who even now ranks among the most terrifying villains imagined. A physician and psychiatrist who not only manipulates and murders his patients, but eats them as well. In this first screen appearance of Dr. Lector, he is little more than a footnote. Most of the film concentrates on the toll taken on Will Graham in his return to the FBI and his pursuit of the Tooth Fairy. The film contains the classic Michael Mann darkness, and the action is brisk and to the point. Petersen, Cox, Farina, and Noonan give splendid performances, and the overall feel is better (in my opinion) than Red Dragon, the remake of this film. Rated R for violence and language as well as disturbing content and images, this is definitely not a family film. "},{"Title":"Thankfully... it's not as overrated as SILENCE OF THE LAMBS","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm a bit unsure about this one. I felt a bit demented watching this one. No, not as much as HALLOWEEN but still... that Toothfairy guy Tom Noonan really freaked me out!!! Heck, he made Brian Cox's Hannibal Lector look like a boyscout in comparison. But I love the 80s vibe of the whole thing, I love the fact that the star is pre-CSI William Petersen and not an A-list Hollywood star (this gives the film a more genuine and realistic feel), I love the Michael Mann style here - this was his Miami VICE peak of creativity. The music is pure 80s! Again, the content is a bit disturbing in spots but the mood is really effective here. Kudos to Mann for creating that mood/style. I noticed a similar style in THIEF (helped greatly by the Tangerine Dream score) - I think Mann really knew what he was doing in the 80s.Overall not really my cup of tea but at least it's not as ridiculously overrated as SILENCE OF THE LAMBS. And that's a good thing. "},{"Title":"Cult","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Not a big success during its release, but now a cult classic and a big influence of several movies and series about forensic science, Manhunter tells the story about FBI profiler Will Graham, who is asked to come back from retirement to help the FBI in solving a series of brutal murders and catching the perpetrator before he strikes again. Graham is driven by his own dark memories and in his obsession of catching the killer he seeks help from sentenced serial-killer Hannibal Lector, Graham's ghost from the past, and even jeopardizes his family. The story is Based on the novel Red Dragon by Thomas Harris.The cast is outstanding and especially William Petersen's portrayal of Will Graham is excellent and makes you wonder why Petersen wasn't on Hollywood's A-list. A lot is said and written about the character of Hannibal Lecktor and the differences between the portrayals of Brian Cox and Sir Anthony Hopkins, but Cox's portrayal should be regarded on its own without keeping Hopkins in mind. It's a small but important part in the movie and Cox does an excellent job. Tom Noonan is chilling as Francis Dollarhyde and also the rest of the cast give good performances , especially Dennis Farina.Although it's a race against the clock for Graham, the movie itself moves at a slow paste but never drags along. Each scene is a visual treat with a stylish use of colors and art-deco surroundings, backed by a superb soundtrack. The best example of this is the scene where Dollarhyde and his date, a blind woman played by Joan Allen, are with a veterinary surgeon and a dazed tiger. The tiger symbolizes Dollarhyde, the sleeping predator, and in the background a suspenseful track by Shriekback. Michael Mann, in his first collaboration with cinematographer Dante Spinotti, has made an exciting, gripping and stylish thriller, which stands out in this genre. In part it has the looks of Miami Vice, but in contrast to the TV show produced by Mann, Manhunter withstood the test of time, making it one of Mann's best movies. "}{"Title":"The Movie That Introduced Us To Hannibal","Date":"17 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The legend of Hannibal The Cannibal started all in this film - Manhunter.It is an American thriller film based on Thomas Harris's novel Red Dragon. It was written and directed by Michael Mann.The movie stars William Petersen as Will Graham and features Brian Cox as Hannibal Lecktor (not Lecter).The story begins when FBI profiler Will Graham comes out of retirement to help investigate a killer known as The Tooth Fairy.In doing so,he must confront the specter of his past and meet with a jailed killer,Dr.Lecktor,who nearly counted killed him and counted him amongst his victims. Dennis Farina co-stars as Jack Crawford, Graham's superior at the FBI, while serial killer Francis Dollarhyde,The Tooth Fairy,is portrayed by Tom Noonan.The movie was good but it does not hold a candle to the other great Hannibal movies like Red Dragon and Silence Of The Lambs.The acting were good and so was the screenplay but the movie lacked the tension and the suspense needed to keep the movie interesting.Comparing Manhunter and the Red Dragon,I have to place the latter as superior as compared to the former.Acting Edward Norton was better as Will Graham as compared to William Petersen.Anthony Hopkins was better as Hannibal as compared to Brian Cox. Ralph Fiennes was better as Francis Dollarhyde as compared to Tom Noonan. Harvey Keitel was better as Jack Crawford as compared to Dennis Farina. Philip Seymour Hoffman was better as Freddy Lounds as compared to Stephen Lang. Emily Watson was better as Reba as compared to Joan Allen. Only Kim Greist from Manhunter was better as Molly Graham as compared to Mary Louise Parker. So for acting,Red Dragon was better compared to Manhunter. Direction Michael Mann of Manhunter did a better job as compared to Brett Ratner of Red Dragon. Rating Red Dragon is a 10/10 while Manhunter was a 9/10. "},{"Title":"good acts and steady screenplay","Date":"21 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This one comes out in the 80's when Hannibal Lektor was unknown to the world. The movie seems boring in beginning but it stand to its ground soon after. Michael Mann has made it stylish in his own way with reference to the screenplay and the background score as well as music. The environment is always gripping to the theme. William has done a good job as Graham and is efficient in depicting the characteristics of the character. The role of Hannibal is very less and its not able to create the impact upto the mark. Its nice but not great. The character of Dollarhyde is rather more promising. On whole the movie is not great but its good and worth watch. The thrills are adequate as per the time it was released. Go for it if you like crime thrillers. "},{"Title":"Groundbreaking movie","Date":"10 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When I started watching this movie I was surprised at the reference to Hannibal Lecter. I initially thought that it may be a cheap imitation of Silence of the Lambs. However, rather than being a cheap imitation it actually predated Silence of the Lambs. I found the plot to be very interesting and involved. The acting is also excellent with a few fairly unfamiliar faces in lead roles. The person being manhunted is also one of the creepier characters I have seen in a movie for some time. The only thing to watch out for is that there is quite a lot of dialogue in places and you have to concentrate so you don't miss out on any of the clues. High recommended. "},{"Title":"manhunter is a classic","Date":"3 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" i love manhunter (spoiler warning) all the acting is great love Brian cox as lecktor but William Petersen is even better as he gets into the mind of a serial killer, this is the core of the film for me!yes the music is a bit dated (but i still listen to the soundtrack on my laptop now and again). i love Michael Mann's use of colour lots of blues red and greens(but i like most Michael Mann films)as to who was better as lecktor/lecter both are good but cox is less intense than Hopkins but i prefer cox sorry sir Anthony!!!!!!! give it a go you might like it, just don't compare it to silence of the lambs or red dragon which are just as good films, although it is strange watching manhunter and red dragon back to back (you can watch the graham lecktor/lecter scenes spliced together on you tube search formanhunter vs red dragon) hope this was useful "},{"Title":"A much more true to the novel film.","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The big difference in the two films the actor portraying Francis Dolarhyde. Ralph Fiennes is a great actor and does a good job as the serial killer. But Tom Noonan, in the earlier film, was much more as Thomas Harris had depicted in the novel. For one thing, Noonan was a very large man and, if I remember correctly, was really bulked up for the role. He also had more of a scar than the later version. These two things made him more monstrous than Fiennes, who was a far more sympathetic character.Peterson was good as Will Graham though I think his and Edward Norton's interpretation of the character were equally fine.Noonan being slain b y the special bullets in the climax, was almost word-for-word, action-for-action, from the novel.This all said I liked both movies... but I liked Manhunter a bit better. "},{"Title":"Manhunter stands on its own merits","Date":"20 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I always liked Manhunter. It's a different movie than Silence of the Lambs, in that, to me. Manhunter was more of a police procedural while SotL was almost a horror movie. I thought Manhunter was way more subtle, particularly in terms of Brian Cox' Lecktor (which is, for me, the most memorable performance). I will never forget the disadvantages dialogue, which is in the memorable quotes section. Or the you're so sly, but so am I line. There is virtually no overacting in Manhunter; I particularly liked the dry discussion of body armor vs. the shooter's propensity for a head shot. Beyond that (and acknowledging how unfair it is to compare the two), they're two different movies that are both very good in their own way. If anything, Manhunter is more believable; Buffalo Bill had Clarice cold in SotL, so for her to escape was the one point where the viewer's intelligence was questioned. "},{"Title":"Manhunter vs. Red Dragon","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have to admit that I saw Red Dragon with Edward Norton in it before i saw this movie. Although Manhunter had beautiful cinematography and excellent locations I felt the same way watching Red Dragon. There is nothing holistically wrong with this movie only that it does feel longer than the running time indicates. In the beginning of the film I thought some of the camera work especially the opening scene a little coarse. Will Peterson did a fine job but i prefer Edward Norton as the actor. There was only one main problem in the film that I did not appreciate and that was the final sequence where there was some weird editing done. Overall this film being one of Michael Mann's early films is not bad but I do not revel in it like some people I know who like it. Direction 8/10 Plot 6/10 Writing 7/10 Cinematography 8/10 Acting; 7/10 Overall 6/10 "},{"Title":"Why ruin the ending?","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  ***Possible spoiler***All in all I went into this movie with limited expectations, and I was pleasantly surprised. I had just finished the book and I felt that the movie did the book justice, which is quite rare. BUT then they go and ruin the ending! They take what is a brilliantly twisted and totally surprising, shocking ending, and turn it into a lame shootout. I only hope that Red Dragon manages to capture the atmosphere of Manhunter but uses the proper ending. "},{"Title":"Manhunter doesn't do book justice!","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As a huge fan of Thomas Harris, author of the book Red Dragon that this film is loosely based on,and of the other two brilliant movies in this trilogy, I thought this movie was a huge disappointment. When I rented this movie, the synopsis on the back of the movie stated that this film is far superior to The SOTL. I can't disagree more. The monologues of detective Graham when he was at each crime scene were beyond hokey and very soap opera-esque. The movie also didn't delve deep enough into the psyche of Francis Dollarhyde, therefore leaving this character rather flat. The book gave us insight into what makes him so disturbed, which is the most fascinating aspect of Harris' novel, and should have been included in this movie. The actor who played the infamous Hannibal doesn't even come close to Hopkins' portayal. Hopkins has the ability to add an understated creepiness and elegance that is the essence of Dr. Lechter, which was completely absent in this movie. My final complaint is about the end. (If you have never read the book, and want to, this is a spoiler so stop reading now. It is not a spoiler for the movie.)They completely left out the wonderfully disturbing end of the book where Francis must silence the Dragon that haunts him. He does this by actually eating the famous William Blake painting that was his obsession. In an unexpected way, this shows the depth of the character's psycho-pathology even more than the horrible murders he commited. In a nutshell, don't waste 2 hours of your life watching this sorry excuse for a movie, read the book instead. "},{"Title":"Mann-hunter, NOT Red Dragon","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  BIGTIME PLOT SPOILER!Anybody who has read and loved the superb pop fiction masterpiece by Tom Harris, Red Dragon and subsequently seen the 1986 film version Manhunter would have to concur that the film is not a particularly worthy reflection on the book. Why the big deal? Is not MH a fairly efficient, better-than-average crime thriller imbued with fairly solid characterisation? Perhaps ....but that is simply not enough in this case. The book is sooooo great that it absolutely demands a better interpretation than what is on offer here. Firstly, why Red Dragon' is such an enthralling read ( and for that matter the pivotal reason that has elevated Tom Harris above the also-rans and never-wases of popular crime/suspense fiction ) is the author's uncanny knack for imbueing within his key villains all-too recognisable human character traits beneath the monster's mask. He stirs empathy within the reader, creates understanding of the killer's or psychopath's motives and process, so that the reader is compulsively drawn along. Whilst these characters are repellent in thought and deed they are unquestionably real people - haunted, condemned or driven to explore the darkest reaches of human behaviour, going where the sane dare not tread. This is the fundamental flaw of the Mann film, as the thorough exposition within the book detailing The Tooth Fairy/Red Dragon/ Francis Dolarhyde's drive towards apotheosis is completely watered down, and jettisoned utterly by the film's final act. Frankly the ending of this film was a total washout, the hero executing a dime-a -dozen last-second rescue to save an innocent girl from a villain reduced to a gawky shotgun-toting lunk - hardly the ferociously muscular alpha-predator envisioned within the book. NOT impressive - NOT Red Dragon. As pointed out by a prior poster, the most affecting scene for me within the novel is where the self-loathing killer, Francis Dolarhyde( who has murdered entire families in an effort to be transformed by their deaths into his idealised self-image inspired by the William Blake painting  The Great Red Dragon ) unexpectedly is touched by the affections of a blind co-worker. In a desperate attempt to save her and his few remaining shreds of humanity from the rampant inner Dragon, Dolarhyde decides to devour the painting and thus attempt to end the nightmare. This wonderfully evocative and hauntingly symbolic scenario was completely excised from the film version, therefore leading me to conclude that Manhunter simply cannot be regarded as the definitive film version of this compelling novel. The film does have a few positives however - Brian Cox is understatedly chilling as the first incarnation of Hannibal Lecter, William Petersen is effective as Will Graham ( if not a little too smooth and self-assured for a character which in the book is older, more haggard and susceptible to the darker aspects of his profession as a criminal psychologist ) and Tom Noonan is earnest in his role as Dolarhyde - a role which is stripped down to the bare bones from the novel. I'm not anticipating the forthcoming remake will completely hit it on the nose, but I doubt that the makers could completely skew the thrust of the story as Mann did here with Manhunter. "}{"Title":"The forgotten movie","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Like many people who have seen Silence of the Lambs, I didn't know of Manhunter, the first in the series, and by far the best one.  Director Michael Mann who also wrote the screen play does exactly what he wants to do, make the audience enter the mind of a killer.  Unlike Silence of the Lambs and Hannibal, this movie has something more going for it something rare. In one scene, probably the reason that I think this is far better then the sequels, where it shows the scene from the eye view of the Red Dragon.  We sort of understand as to why he does the things he does, it doesn't excuse his wrong doing but makes us understand.  Having never read the book Red Dragon by Thomas Harris I really can't say if the movie remains loyal to the book, but alone on its own, not even Ridley Scott (my favorite director) can make a sequel that will make me like Manhunter less. "},{"Title":"Interesting, shame about the soundtrack","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As an earlier alternative to Silence of the Lambs it makes for interesting viewing, but is no match for its far superior, later brother. Following an incredibly similar plot with many of the similar ingredients of Silence, I found it notably worse in two main areas.Firstly the acting isn't anywhere near to the standard of Hopkins et al. Brian Cox isn't dreadful, but I didn't find him to have the same sometime restrained brutal menace of Hopkins.It might have seemed a good idea in 1986, but time hasn't aided the film's dire soundtrack. This is eighties pop at its very worse. Even if Manhunter had been the most tense, edgy thriller of the decade, you would still end up laughing at the dreadful plinkety plonk keyboards employed here.Ultimately enjoyable, but don't rush off to your nearest CD shop looking for the score. "},{"Title":"My patience almost broke down...","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My patience almost broke down when watching the video of this movie. I assume that in haste to get this onto video stock as cheaply as possible, they took the wide screen and just showed the middle bit. Hence long scenes with action off to the left or right - or both in one part of a conversation! And the less said about the soundtrack the better. Both of these factors made a reasonable movie almost unbearable - I only watched it because I enjoyed the book. So a weird 8 for the acting and plot, and -8 for the production to video and soundtrack. Making, I believe an unfortunate zero. Please - will someone just re-edit it, kill the soundtrack and rename it Red Dragon so we can associate it better with the book - surely they will make money on it by association with the other Harris novels. "},{"Title":"A Stiff, Hobbled Misfire - Harris's Novel Deserved a Better Adaptation","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Movie-going audiences get their first peek at Hannibal Lecter in this underachieving early adaptation of Thomas Harris's first novel, Red Dragon. Brian Cox is first in line to tackle Lecter, but seems misdirected. He comes off as just some guy in a cell, not the overwhelming, absurdly intimidating presence he is in the book or, later, in the expert hands of Anthony Hopkins or Mads Mikkelsen. That's not the only bit of directorial blunder. In fact, given the amount of star power involved in the film and the gripping power of the source material, it's a major surprise that it's all so blunt, dull and empty. William Peterson (of later CSI fame) leads the show as Will Graham - bland, erratic and prone to nearly-comical mood swings - with a similarly underwhelming effort from character actor Dennis Farina as his supervisor, Jack Crawford. And it's not like the director is some hack. Michael Mann is typically very good behind the camera, but in this case he's just completely missed the mark. There's no underlying tension to the proceedings, none of the complicated character arcs that made the original tale so engrossing. Francis Dollarhyde, the fascinating maniac behind the string of murders driving it all, is cut off at the knees thanks to a criminal lack of exploration. His famous full-torso tattoo is left glaringly off-screen, the false teeth that become his trademark converted into a rudimentary, totally unexplained, side prop. As he falls, so does the film. Despite the two-hour running time, it seems shallow and incomplete, rushed to an unsatisfying new ending that's painfully generic. No surprise it took Hollywood another sixteen years to give it another shot - this is a stain. "},{"Title":"A Decent Psychological Thriller with 80's Flair","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There are apparently a lot of people out there who feel Michael Mann's 1986 thriller, based on a book by Thomas Harris, is an under-rated gem. I'm not one of those people. It's not a bad film, but it never really made much of an impression on me and I find myself having a hard time sitting through the whole film sometimes. William Petersen stars as retiring FBI Agent Will Graham, who returns to his job for one last case. A serial killer on a lunar cycle is killing entire families in grisly fashion and the FBI has no leads on the psychopath, and Will Graham (the man who caught Hannibal Lecktor) is the only one who can enter his mind-frame and stop him before the next full moon.One aspect of Mann's film that catches me off guard every time I watch it is the blatant 1980's flair accompanying it. There were a lot of films from that decade that you can watch and they are somewhat timeless; this film slaps you in the face with it's 80's style. From the bright neon green opening titles to the 80's rock soundtrack swallowing some scenes, there is no forgetting what era this film is from. For the best example of all this, rewatch the final confrontation at the end of the film the use of Iron Butterfly and the strange neon purple dawn feel like something from an 80's music video.The movie did have it's highlights, mostly from the cast. While Anthony Hopkins will always be THE Hannibal Lecktor in my eyes, Brian Cox did a fantastic job as the first person to play the character. He had the same eerie sense of menace and evil as Hopkins would years later. Tom Noonan was great as psychopath Francis Dollarhyde. I didn't think he was as good as Ralph Fiennes in the 2002 version of the film, but I still enjoyed his performance as the disturbed antagonist. I should also give an honorable mention to Dennis Farina, whose performance I enjoyed in his role as Jack Crawford (Graham's superior in the FBI).The first Lecktor story has never been my favorite of the series, but it's not the worst either (that dishonor goes to the 2007 prequel fiasco). I enjoyed the novel and, while this movie takes quite a few liberties with the storyline, it manages to say true for the most part. I wish they have delved into Dollarhyde's back-story as was done in the book, giving the audience a better understanding of what created the monster; I also felt the Reba McClane plot was rushed during the final act. We get some good performances from the cast and a visual style that feels like an LSD flashback at times. It's a good addition to the Lecktor series but certainly not the best. "},{"Title":"Manhunter From Earth","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I resisted seeing this for a long time, mostly because of how bad the title, was and is, but that's the biggest strike against this movie, that and the music, but still...Better then Red Dragon hands down, better than Silence Of The Lambs...different. Silence Of The Lambs is a kind of a horror film with psychological motifs, this is a psychological film with elements of a thriller, the difference being this film is less exciting and a bit more thoughtful, but not too much. The music is terrible, but oddly effective, as opposed to everything and everyone being terrifying and inhuman as in Red Dragon and The Silence, and Hannibal, and Hannibal Rising, all of the characters are frail, the killer here looking more ridiculous and sad and then intimidating, same goes for the hard boiled detective.It's a more stylized Red Dragon but the stylization helps really underline those elements of the story, which for me anyway, really make it interesting; the home movies aspect, the symbol of the eyes, the melting personalities, merging desires, the role of the observer and analyst, etc. Hannibal Lecter is not the star of the show here, and the film benefits. "},{"Title":"Excellent Michael Mann thriller","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Although this is the first film to feature the character of Hannibal Lecter (here named Hannibal Lecktor for some reason), he is far from the central focus of the film, and actually has fairly limited screen time. It seems bizarre that people launch debates like 'Cox vs. Hopkins' when Cox has such a limited role. That said, Cox is certainly a different sort of Lecter but still an excellent one, choosing to portray Lecter as an emotionless, evil man rather than Hopkins' creepy portrayal. Lecter is really barely even in the movie.Essentially, outside one or two creepy scenes, Manhunter is a straightforward thriller that seems very 80's and very much like a Michael Mann movie. As expected from Mann the visuals are excellent and occasionally stunning, and frequent Mann collaborator Dante Spinotti's cinematography lends the film a gorgeous look. The cast are excellent, Tom Noonan plays a convincing Dollarhyde (better than Fiennes as far as I'm concerned), Petersen is surprisingly very, very good as Will Graham in the film's central role, and the remainder of the cast are all good as well.Although I have respect for Jonathan Demme's body of work (in particular his concert films), and Ridley Scott certainly does have (or did have) talent, Michael Mann is still my favorite director to make a film based off a Thomas Harris novel. I really don't even see how anyone can argue against this film's sheer visual excellence. It's simply beautiful from start to finish, something that even Demme's superior Silence of the Lambs cannot claim to be.Of course, the score is famously problematic and dated, and while it works spectacularly well in places other areas are just misguided and plain bad (Dollarhyde's romance, for instance, is given a cheesy and predictable romantic score). The problem isn't even that it is dated, it's that Mann seems to depend on the score too much at times, and it just is not that good. Sleek and ultra-modern at the time, it now sounds horribly dated and over-the-top.Mann's screenplay achieves great depth at times, but also falls into a procedural routine at others. Ultimately the visuals and performances carry Manhunter, a film which ends up being tremendous if flawed entertainment.8/10 "},{"Title":"The Original and Best Lecter Movie","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter is the less well known relative of Silence of the Lambs, and unsurprisingly due to the success of the Jodie Foster/Anthony Hopkins' film, has never had the recognition it deserves in my opinion. Silence of the Lambs is a very good film, with great performances and direction. I feel that Manhunter is the superior film for numerous reasons. The direction by Michael Mann is excellent, as is the superb cinematography by Dante Spinotti. The whole film has many beautiful touches, colour changes and moody schemes. Only in watching the documentary can you really appreciate the effort and thought that has gone into the film. The acting is brilliant throughout. William Peterson as the damaged FBI profiler is superb, he is on the edge throughout and the story focuses on his turmoil and profiling skills. Brian Cox is fantastic as Lecter. He comes across as extremely clever and manipulative, but is way more believable than Hopkins' Lecter, and as a result much more chilling. He is a true psychopath, rather than some superhuman monster. Tom Noonan as Dollarhyde is also excellent, after seeing him for the first time you cannot imagine anyone else playing the role. The film was one of, if not the first movie to really show the art of criminal profiling, and as a result is gripping to follow as the whole story comes into shape. The music is definitely stuck somewhere in the eighties, and does age the film to some extent. However this is not a problem, most of the music is good, and all is forgiven by the superb ending with Iron Butterfly's In A Gadda Da Vida pumping out through an incredible finale. Very highly recommended. "},{"Title":"classic action/thriller","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" man hunterwas released in 1986 and is a prequel to the silence of the lambs. it was remade in 2002, with different actors under the name red dragonand while both movies are very good,there are some differences.man hunter is very atmospheric in tone, utilizing music more.it is very stylistic, yet also has substance. the action and drama scenes are well done and lit very effectively.the film is much darker in its mood or tone than red dragon,and very effective in building suspense.the acting is well done, particularly william peterson in one of his earliest performances.i really enjoyed the movie and cared about the characters and became emotionally involved.well done movie.will more than satisfy fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"The Movie Within","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is the pinnacle of Mann's 1980s style -- a coherent and contained package of vision, atmosphere, tone and musical accompaniment...Miami Vice without the kitsch.In fact, there was a Vice episode (Shadow in the Dark) that uses the same narrative a lunatic home invader and an investigator who loses his grip getting into the mindset. This would all be very ordinary, but...Note the clever construction -- the entire mechanics of the movie are contained within the killer. He literally casts and moves the actors in his movie; he is obsessed with vision...heck, he works in a film laboratory between his homework assignments.The Tooth Fairy's inspiration is Blake's Great Red Dragon paintings. This is such a rich source -- Blake being one of the fathers of the modern idea of 'imagination' itself -- that we can seriously take the cinematic idea of his 'glorious becoming'. Using the Doors would have been too obvious, so Mann smartly uses Iron Butterfly as the soundtrack for the climactic scene.Note also Cox's take on Lecktor as a locus of evil -- here he plays the part of the writer...who else can toy with the protagonist this way? He even advises 'one will become as God is', etc. Even better, is Lecktor's containment (in an art museum!). It's difficult to tell who's imprisoning who in that sterile pure white cell...brilliant visual narrative here. Contrast that with the clumsy way 'Lecter's' dungeon was presented in Lambs.Mann even has Petersen square off with the architecture of the crime scene, rather like Leone's spaghetti gunfighters.It's the cinematic richness that sets this apart from the pack -- how could this have flopped at the box office? "}{"Title":"What movie did people who love Manhunter see?","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" THERE ARE SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEW!I admit, I am one of those come-lately fans who did not read Thomas Harris' novels until after the movie Silence of the Lambs was released. And I read _Silence_ before reading _Red Dragon_. I didn't see Manhunter until February of 2004, well after the video release of the newer film Red Dragon. I was looking forward to seeing this stylish thriller that so many critics, amateur and professional, said was much better than the newer version.What movie did these critics SEE? Much has been made of the 80's feel of Manhunter. Obviously, it was made IN the 80's, but did Every! Single! Location! have to be hi-tech white? Graham's home, the victim's homes, and Dol(l)arhyde's home (which was his grandmother's huge old house full of antiques in the book.) even the prison (No, real prisons aren't as atmospheric as the cell in Silence of the Lambs, but neither are they pristine and white like Manhunter's location.) all seem to be filmed on the same white soundstage, with few props and nothing to make them look like real locations. I remember 1986, and my life did not look like a set from Miami Vice, nor did I have cheesy love songs playing at inappropriate moments.Overall, I thought that the film was far too rushed. I was disappointed that Red Dragon did not show the book's flashbacks into the horrific childhood that made the serial killer prey on families like the one that abused him, (I can see why not, though; this would have been traumatic for a child actor.) but Manhunter left out MUCH more of the book, including important scenes that gave insight into investigator Graham and the grown-up serial killer.Yes, Anthony Hopkins went over the top in Silence and Dragon. He's playing an erudite serial killer trapped in a cell, with nothing to amuse him but his books and a very rare visitor to scare. If it weren't for Hopkins' performance, no-one would remember that Brian Cox played Hannibal Lecter (Strangely enough, spelled Lecktor in this movie.), because his performance is as dull as the rest of Manhunter.William Peterson's acting brought out none of the likability of the Will Graham in the book.Part of this is in the writing for example, the scene where he hugs blind Reba--never touch a blind person without letting them know--and tells her I'm Will Graham--which means nothing to her--has none of the sensitivity of the Edward Norton version of Graham's gentle speech about how you didn't draw a freak, you drew a man with a freak on his back. Tom Noonan tries as the serial killer, but isn't given much to work with. I was particularly irritated by the fact that his character is said to avoid sibilants and fricatives, seconds after he delivers a line full of them! This is BAD writing; scriptwriters need to pay attention to their own words. Joan Allen is the one who comments on the his odd speech pattern, about two minutes after her character, Reba, meets Noonan's Dollarhyde. This is too bad--in the book and the movie, time has passed and they are actually in her house when she delivers this line. Their relationship is an important part of the book and the Red Dragon movie, but, like the rest of Manhunter, it feels rushed. It's a pity that Joan Allen wasn't given more to do--she gives a lovely performance, understated without being wooden.There were many, many minor details that made Red Dragon seem real and human and Manhunter seem like a made-for-TV movie. One example that sticks out in my mind is the home movies. In Red Dragon, we see the families that were killed, and feel, with Ed Norton's version of Will Graham, sadness that such sweet loving people have died. As in true home movies, the families talk to the camera, make self-conscious jokes and seem very, very real, though not glamorous or exciting. But Manhunter's home movies show silent actors ignoring the camera. O1ne scene where the whole family was in front of the camera eating breakfast made me wonder who was filming and panning around the table. It's a small detail, but yet another thing that made the movie far too stylized and not nearly as interesting as its source material. It was much more like watching video surveillance than watching genuine human emotion. If stylish means stark and slow, Manhunter is, indeed, stylish. "},{"Title":"The real Red Dragon","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I dont comment non-Chilean movies but this deserves an exception. No big budget productions, no oscars awarded for saying Mister Lecter-Mister Lecter by the phone, no offenses to audience's intelligence. Precise acting, nice cinematography and a very good story. If the plot of Red Dragon would be real, would be like Manhunter. Have you ever seen a criminal all in white, standing in the middle of the cage or speaking with a bass voice? I dont care about the 80s look of this film, as I dont care about the 60s look of Hitchcock movies. I've seen this movie a million times and I dont understand why people prefer Silence of the Lambs and Red Dragon (the movie). "},{"Title":"Paging Dr. Lecktor/Lecter; good start to the lucratively lurid franchise","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  MANHUNTER (1986) *** William L. Petersen, Dennis Farina, Tom Noonan, Joan Allen, Stephen Lang, Kim Griest, Brian Cox.  `Miami Vice' creator Michael Mann subtly blends style over substance filmmaking in this atmospheric lulling adaptation of Thomas Harris' best seller `Red Dragon' that is best known for introducing audiences to Dr. Hannibal Lecter (here, Lecktor, portrayed by an equally mindgame loving Cox) while serial killer profiler Petersen tries to get in the mindset of `The Tooth Fairy' (Noonan very creepy) who slaughters entire families.  Great visual look is the hook.  "},{"Title":"Exceptional Heart Pounder.","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I felt that Michael Mann's Manhunter was an excellent treat.  I had just seen Red Dragon, and was interested in seeing this earlier version of the story.  Boy was I glad, though Red Dragon had Anthony Hopkins, this one is the better of the two.  Michael Mann is a solid director and when he does projects, such as Ali, Heat,and Last of the Mohicans, you can be sure that they are worth your money, and this one is no exception.  It plays like an episode of Miami Vice, no wonder considering thats another one of Mann's works.  FBI Agent Will Graham tracks a deadly serial killer known as the Tooth Fairy, who believes that he is becoming The Red Dragon.  Graham uses an interesting method to track down his man, he thinks like a killer, using evidence and the help of a one Hannibal Lector, he goes through the killers actions, describing what he was thinking.  Iron Butterfly's classic Hard Rock Anthem In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida has never sounded so chilling or worked so well as in the final moments of this film.  Do yourself a favor and rent a milder version of the Hannibal Lector series, Manhunter.  "},{"Title":"Red Dragon meets Miami Vice--Pastels abound.","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was expecting more from this flick.  I have tremendous respect for Mann's work in Last of the Mohicans and The Insider.  But, apparently, this film was launched during the height of the Crockett/Tubbs era.  Thus, we have long montages in which the wildly dressed, enternally shadowed, Don Johnson character romances his wife, stares of into space, yells for no reason, relates to his kid, etc.  Most of it is pretty cheesy, and the time lost means that essential plot elements (for example, Dolarhyde's relationship with the blind woman) are basically squeezed in.  I realized that without having recently watched Red Dragon, I wouldn't have understood a lot of what was happening. What this movie makes you realize is how much of a watershed Silence of the Lambs was.  It's clear from watching Manhunter (with its nebulous references to dreams, the effeminate nature of the killer, etc.) that serial killers weren't understood at all by hollywood in 1986.  This understanding was finally bottled in SOTL, and the resulting chill factor became a template for everything from Seven to Red Dragon. Thus Manhunter doesn't really work as it ought to.  It's basically the Miami Vice template trying, unsuccessfully, to comform to a subject matter with enormous but misunderstood potential.  The obvious similarities between Manhunter and the later Red Dragon (so many that I don't know how Mann is not credited with the latter's screenplay) only serve to highlight the way the first fails and the second succeeds. However, I will admit this I'm a sucker for everything mid 80's, from the clothes to the cars to the architecture.  I mean, look at the houses in Manhunter, and compare them to Red Dragon!  Where would you rather live? "},{"Title":"Not what I expected...","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS! SPOILERS! SPOILERS! SPOILERS! SPOILERS! I saw Manhunter for the first time last night, and I was anything but thrilled.  The movie in no way compares to the newer movie, Red Dragon. Whereas Red Dragon delves deeply into Graham's past, Manhunter (particularly the opening) almost seems to hide his past.  I understand that filmmakers want to give the viewer some credit for their intelligence, but Manhunter goes beyond that, as if to keep past events a secret.  Also, I was often confused as to how (SPOILER!!!) Dr. Lecter was able to send mail, why he was allowed a phone (unsupervised, no less), etc.  These are all things that Red Dragon explains; and without these explanations Manhunter seems full of plot holes.  Additionally, (SPOILERS!), the relationship between Dolarhyde and Reba in Manhunter seems forced- to quick to feel even slightly plausible. (MORE SPOILERS!)  At least in Red Dragon things seem to move more slowly between D and Reba; and D really seems to like her.  Furthermore, the ending of Manhunter is so generic that it's insulting (again, Red Dragon far surpasses Manhunter- the two movies are also very different at the ending). Manhunter never really develops it's characters.  The actors, while not horrible, seem two-dimensional- they never even give the audience the chance to care about them.  Lastly, as with many movies made in the 80's, the cinematography in Manhunter is bad, as are the effects.  I would definitely not recommend watching Manhunter before seeing Red Dragon.  Manhunter gave away plot points, but it never satisfied. "},{"Title":"The book would probably be better but the movie is horrible","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie not too long ago.  I have to give credit to the film for the fact that I saw both Silence of the Lambs and Hannibal before hand, and so naturally I was exceedingly unhappy with the Hannibal in this movie.  The plot wasn't even what I'd been lead to believe.  (To me - for some simillarities are uncanny except for the obvious things) Silence of the Lambs couldn't have been more simillar if two different people had written the story.  I don't think that I liked the acting, and I certainly disliked the plot.  Still, I'll see the remake with Anthony when it's out.  I'll give the plot another chance.  But not the man who played Lector. "},{"Title":"Great Thriller.","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the official prequel to  Silence of the Lambs and  Hannibal. It's a rare and underrated Gem of a Suspense movie but luckily, it's gotten a Cult following. It's based on Thomas Harris's Red Dragon, it is about a Detective named  Graham who is assisted by a Mental patient named  Hannibal Lector to find an insane criminal named  The Tooth Fairy. Entertaining and chilling portrait of going after a Criminal, if you enjoyed  Silence or  Hannibal check this movie out.10/10. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a beautifully filmed movie with great acting.  Tom Noonan is especially good in this.  Unfortunately, the film is marred by extremely slow pacing.  It seems that so much craft was used in the filming of each shot made the editor and director less willing to cut out some of the fat from the movie.  Incidentally, the DVD transfer on this movie is one of the best I have seen, especially the audio. "},{"Title":"A Fairly Mediocre Film and A Lame Adaptation of the Book","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not going to go TOO deeply into this film, as I believe my associates before me have already deeply analyzed the film. Having recently read through Red Dragon, I felt compelled to see the movie and see just how poor of an adaptation it was - I'm a cynical person, what can I say?The film - at best - was your run of the mill, utterly clichéd serial Killer on the loose film. The movie actually began pretty well, bearing strong likeliness to the book. A half hour into it, however, things began to really diverge from the book's flow and we are left with a tangle of scenes that seem to have very little flow at all. Acting was a little stale in several cases (William Peterson's attempts to seem enraged with the killer's thoughts are weak and are only comparable to a soap opera) and, while I know this is a thing of opinion, I was completely unsatisfied with Brian Cox as Hannibal Lector (spelled Lecktor in this film, for some reason).Manhunter could have been a pretty good had they kept in the real meat of the book - the background of Francis Dolarhyde and his struggle with the Red Dragon. Over a quarter of the book was about Dolarhyde's childhood and a good third was about the struggle with the Dragon. Truly one of the most incredible scenes in the book is when Dolarhyde faces down and devours (literally) the Dragon. All these scenes make the character seem really alive and something more human than it appears. So, what does the movie do with these scenes? TOTALLY discards them! The film leaves us with an unimpressive 2-D cardboard cutout of Dolarhyde, which was perhaps what dampers the film most for fans of Red Dragon.The film may enjoy some cult flavor, and is a decent addition to the Lector trilogy. At best it would be wise to rent this flick before buying it. You may regret purchasing it if you read the book first.I'll leave you with some book-to-movie differences (AKA Minor Qualms)- Too many scenes with Graham and his wife attempt to milk empathy from the film. 'Suppose it's the director's way to atone for cutting out all of the phone conversations. - Missing Francis Dolarhyde background - Dolarhyde's house is a one level, instead of a two level (now I'm just being picky.) - Love interest with Reba is cut down from the book's eight scenes to just two (combing six into one). - Dolarhyde's schizophrenic Dragon personality isn't even included in the movie. Therefore there is no showdown with the Dragon. - Movie's ending is completely FUBAR - completely clichéd and unworthy of even being considering an interesting ending. The book's plot twist ending is thrown into a paper shredder and comes out as your average good guy shows up at the last moment to save the girl type.FILM SCORE 6/10 "}{"Title":"Anyone who tells you that this is better than Silence...","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ...is completely wrong. My feelings are that if a movie is going to be based on the book, either follow it exactly, or go your own way. Unfortunately, Manhunter tries to do both. First of all, throughout the first half of the film, the storyline stays consistent with Red Dragon, although William Peterson never really looks tortured as Graham, and the strained relationship between him and Molly is lukewarm at best. But the film began to fall apart with Brian Cox's odd portrayal of Hannibal Lector, and the complete misrepresentation of Harris's intentions behind the interview with Freddy Lounds. In Red Dragon, Graham agreed to do the interview with the Tabloid reporter to draw the Tooth Fairy out of hiding. And subconsciously, he put his hand on Lounds' shoulder in a photo to make Lounds look like Graham's pet. And, as those who read the book know, Dolarhyde killed the Jacobis' and Leeds' pets first, animal mutilation being a childhood trait of many serial killers. This was completely glossed over in the film. From there it's all downhill. Dolarhyde's entire experience with the blind girl is condensed into one night. This is the problem with much of this movie. Things move a little too fast and it's very difficult for someone who hasn't read Red Dragon to catch every detail. But anyway, things got even worse when Dolarhyde's planned murder of the blind woman turned into Graham ignoring Crawford's warning and crashing through a window to stop Dolarhyde. A pathetic attempt at making Graham more heroic. The situation degenerated into a gun fight, and you can guess the end. The key problems with this film were the complete lack of any understanding of Dolarhyde's character. No background, hardly anything more than a mention in passing of the painting, and absolutely nothing of his inner struggle between the shy boy and Red Dragon, his Becoming. It seems like Michael Mann got bored halfway through making the film and just wanted to end it. He should have instead of trying to wrap it up under 2 hours. Awful. Anyone who tells you otherwise is just trying to be different. "},{"Title":"awful adaption of a great book","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After I saw Hannibal on the opening day, I came out of the theater wanting to know more about the Hannibal Trilogy I kept hearing about. So my brother told me if I wanted to see Manhunter, I had to read the book. So I read the book. It took me 4 and a half weeks to finish the book, but it was worth it. After I read it I couldn't wait to watch the movie.  I imagined what it would be one of the best movies ever. But... When I watched the movie, I was letdown by Michael Mann's bad adaption of a great book. The ending was terrible, Will Graham was not fully explained, Hannibal Lector was not scary, it wasn't as exciting as the book, and it didn't show the origin of the tooth fairy and how the Red Dragon painting could talk to him. I think a new good director should remake the book Red Dragon, call it Red Dragon, and do not change anything from the book. I think it would be a good movie. It think Red Dragon had a better book than SOTL, but SOTL had a better movie.    "},{"Title":"decent film...dragged on forever","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    Like many others here, I agree, and I was not very impressed.  I heard all sorts of good things about this movie, how it's so much better than Silence, and how it's just so great, etc...but this movie dragged on too long.  There were too many scenes where you're sitting there, thinking- why do we need to see this?  Get on with the suspense.  That's what the movie is supposed to be about, right?  There are very few scenes in this movie where you're even close to excited, let alone on the edge of your seat, and like I said, there are too many lulls in between action.  This movie should have been edited down, and maybe a scene or two with some suspense added.  Petersen is great as the agent out to find the killer, and the other actors do a great job as well, but the overall story and the pacing is way off.  6/10 possibly a 5. "},{"Title":"Wow on this movie, this cant compare","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was absolutely awful.  It might have been that I saw the directors cut in widescreen and dubbed sound but i don't think so. Basically the same plot as Silence of the Lambs, SOtL is like Manhunter with some acting, some plot, some directing and some producing.  How can you have 2 unscary scenes of Hannibal Lecter (they spell it different in all 3 movies so that's how I am going to spell it)?  Brian Cox is the worst Hannibal Lecter they could ever choose.  He is definately no Anthony Hopkins (which has been written more than once). I would have loved to see more Lecter because he was the supposedly horror element of it.  Also, I don't base my love for movies on gore or violence but this movie had absolutely no murdering at all.  Somehow I thought that it was about a retired detective trying to find a SERIAL KILLER that is still on loose.  There is no violence in a whole movie about a SERIAL KILLER?  The 80's pop also sucked.  I find no redeeming value in this trash at all.  In fact, the only part that at least 1/15 interesting was the fact that the word lecter was spelled different and the killers kinda looked the same.  That is pathetic.Overall, this movie deserves  a 1 and should be put on the worst 100 as number 5.  If you want to see a good movie about a detective finding a killer with a brilliant psychopath's help, go see the movie SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, and not this crap.  Hannibal and Silence of the lambs were great, this movie stinks.  Go figure "},{"Title":"Was this made for TV?","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was so disappointed with this movie because the 'Red Dragon' is such a great book and I may have expected too much.  The story is just too intense for the TV audience that this movie must have been made to reach.  We never actually see anything happen.  It takes over an hour before the so called 'madman' is even introduced.  When he is, he's as gentle as a lamb.The movie dwells far too much on the investigation and very little with the Dragon who is actually the main (and most compelling) character developed by Thomas Harris.  Sure, the police work is praise worthy, but it doesn't adapt well to the screen.  Then of course, there's the ending.  Harris should have sued.  The producers simply rewrote the book (poorly at that) and wrapped the whole thing up in time for the 'Eleven Clock News'.What I don't understand is the comparison of this film to 'Silence of the Lambs' and the comparison of the Hannibal Lecter roles.  Maybe they are too different people since the character in this film goes by the name of 'Lekter' or 'Leckter' (as the headline in the Tattler reads) or whatever.  For me, Sir Anthony Hopkins is the only cannibal worth inviting to my dinner party.  'Silence of the Lambs' is #65 on AFI's list of best all-time movies, but 'Manhunter' is nowhere to be found.  There is a reason for this - it's called quality film making. So, simply read the 'Red Dragon' as Thomas Harris would like you to and meet the characters as he intended.  Or watch this disappointing movie and see a two hour episode of 'Crime Scene Investigations'. (Note to William Petersen  Please don't take offense.  Just keep the day job!) "},{"Title":"Was it worth the effort?","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The obvious thing to say about this film is that Brian Cox is not Sir Anthony Hopkins in his role as Hannibal Lector.However, this could be forgiven if he was even a bit scary -- he wasn't!  All in all, I found his role perhaps the most credible in the film, which is a little worrying as otherwise it might be a good film!The soundtrack was a highlight, or a lowlight more like.  All that phenomenally naff 80s synthesizer music - that the likes of Jan Hammer have a lot to answer for - abounds as the film gets towards an allegedly gripping climax.The FBI agent was thoroughly weird, not only because he employed Lector to help him catch the mass murderer, but his level of getting inside a murderer's mind was more than a bit extreme, and not easily believable at the same time. "},{"Title":"What went wrong?","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Having read the 'Lector trilogy' my favourite by far, is definitely Red Dragon. Thomas Harris creates a unique experience that was always going to be hard to re-create on screen (How to portray Will Grahams psychological battle with himself, poses many headaches) Maybe a lot of the flaws can be put down to the era that it was made in, but for me I was left feeling that maybe Mr Mann had misinterpreted the whole book. The Lector I know is deliciously camp and condescending, whilst Brian Cox seemed intent on creating a two dimensional and predictable 'daytime drama' character from the role he was given. Peterson is awful, appearing as more of a Bruce Willis Loose cannon character than the troubled Graham that is portrayed in the book. The whole experience leaves me wondering what went wrong? An intense, gripping book filled with juicy roles and not one part of the promise the book shows was fulfilled. A destined to be a great film, yet Michael Mann found the transition too difficult. "},{"Title":"semi-disappointed","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, I read Red Dragon, and I understand that there is no way that they could have made the film just like the book, but they could have kept the film a little closer to the book. This film is by not as good as silence of the lambs and brian cox's hannibal lector is good but is easily overshadowed by anthony hopkins. I dont mean to completely bash this movie, its not by any means bad, but disappointing to someone who has read the book.The acting is good, but I couldnt stand how the movie was so 80's looking. So either just read the book, or just see the movie or else you will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"The best of the bunch","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is in my opinion the best of the ''Hannibal'' films , because of the actors and the atmosphere created by Michael Mann . William Peterson is by far the best Will Graham , he looked the age the agent would be and projected a tortured soul at odds with his abilities better than E.Norton , who's good in his own right but miscast in that role . Brian Cox is superb as Lecktor , arrogant , damaged , manipulative the interaction between him and Graham was intense I wished there was more , but this film and the book is about Graham not Lecktor as are the subsequent films which exploit the serial killer craze . Also Tom Noonan as Frances was a better choice , tall and different looking , he projected a powerful misfit sans tattoos , they weren't needed . You can see the Miami Vice like touch for sure , but I think it works .What people don't seem to get is that serial killers don't scare you , they charm you , draw you in , thats why they get away with it for so long and why Cox's portrayal was so superior .If you compare the two films Hopkins portrayal is almost comedic , the voice he puts on sounds like a put on voice , while Cox who based his interpretation on British serial killer Peter Manuel was natural , still trying to irritate in his powerlessness .This is the one to see . "},{"Title":"Gorgeous, thoughtful, and still underrated","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It is baffling that some consider this film to be inferior to the over-the-top theatrics of Silence of the Lambs and Red Dragon. It's at least the equal of Silence (Michael Mann's flashy style is restrained by comparison), and the fact that Red Dragon borrowed or outright copied large portions of this movie should be proof enough that Mann hit all the right notes the first time. I prefer Cox's Hannibal. Hopkins's larger-than-life portrayal was one of a kind, but he was not real. He could do anything driving people to suicide by whispering to them or staging the world's most elaborate prison break on a whim. He was a perfect being; Cox is not. Cox plays the insane man as insane. While Hopkins's stare was cold and calculating, Cox's stare is unfocused, like his mind is not all there. He also has a sort of immature cheekiness. He portrays intelligence and cunning while seeming mentally unstable and therefore unpredictable, which makes him more chilling, in my view.Tom Noonan is a memorable villain just due to his appearance. Ralph Fiennes was too muscular and good-looking to be a self-loathing wreck Noonan's extremely tall build and awkward movements increase the creepiness of his character by a factor of 10, and his facial expressions convey crippling anxiety more than any dialogue could. It takes real acting talent to make a villain both sympathetic and revolting. Mann's direction is full of so many cool visual touches, it's impossible to list them all here. I'll limit it to saying the blue lighting when Graham is with his wife is beautiful, and there is great interest in trying to figure out just what it is about the background details (many of them imperceptibly off) that make the film's mood so constantly unnerving (the cereal aisle in the grocery store, for instance, providing an extreme contrast between Graham's nightmarish inner world and the mundane outer one). Again, I like the other treatments of the Lecter novels, but because of the realistic depth that goes into the characters and the beautiful photography, this one is for me the most affecting. "}{"Title":"Why I generally prefer this movie over Red Dragon","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Don't get me wrong, I like both Manhunter and its 2002 remake Red Dragon. However, I must admit that I generally like Manhunter better. Here are three reasons why 1) Although William Petersen and Edward Norton were both in their 30s when they played Will Graham in Manhunter and Red Dragon, respectively, Petersen's portrayal of the character was more believable. Petersen was sporting a beard in the role; this effectively made him appear more mature than Norton, who, I felt, looked too young to be convincing as a retired FBI agent.2) It had good theme music, especially the music played during the scene where Will Graham is sitting at a restaurant during a rainy night. It was helpful in adding to the dramatic nature of the film.3) The climax, which includes not only the showdown between Graham and serial killer Francis Dollarhyde, but also the Iron Butterfly song In A Gadda Da Vida. Brian Cox is no Anthony Hopkins, but he still did a good job as Hannibal Lector. In addition, Tom Noonan was great and menacing as Dollarhyde. "},{"Title":"Quality thriller","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I won't get into comparing this film to The Silence of the Lambs or any of the other related films starring Anthony Hopkins - they are just different types of movie that happen to be based on books by the same author and that share some characters, most notably Hannibal Lecter. Every time I see this movie I enjoy it. It's let down a bit by some overblown 80s rock music contained in the soundtrack, and some of the fashion from the era is hard on the eye. However, other parts of the soundtrack are really good - ambient music that really adds to the mood of some scenes. The look of the film is generally stylish - typical Michael Mann. All of the actors do a good job too. I particularly like the way the film depicts the investigative procedure - the slick way in which the FBI experts employ their brains and technology in trying to stop the serial killing. One of the best films of the 80s, I reckon. "},{"Title":"Manhunter is the actual culmination of Harris' ideas","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The point of Harris' entire life-work was to force us into the process that his serial killers themselves are undergoing (at a much more disturbed and transgressive level, of course). We are intended ourselves to transform (in idea only, to be sure) into people who can begin to understand, however much we ourselves fear and loath the transformation, how Harris' serial killers think and feel.To some extent, we are beginners on the same path that Will Graham is farther along upon, that Clarice Starling starts upon and that Dr. Lektor, Dollarhyde, etc, are unspeakably far along upon. The narrative of the Harris books is a vortex upon which more and more people, beginning down that transformative path (sometimes with the best of intentions), do, in fact, transform from humans into something other than human (except for Will Graham and Dr. Bloom).Where Silence of the Lambs, Hannibal and Red Dragon all fail is that these three movies continue to keep us at a distance. We are not convinced that we ourselves could become victim to the vortex by these three movies. Partially, this is a function of Hopkins' over-the-top performance and improper displacement of the actual focus of Harris' trilogy Harris focuses upon the agents, Graham and Starling, who begin the transformative process but end transforming in highly divergent ways.Moving from book to screen, the necessity of Harris' vision entails that the film-maker begin to transform us from pure observers or watchers into beginning to transform ourselves, to begin to fear our own attraction to power, to horror, to transgression. Michael Mann is able to do this, while Demme/Scott/Rattner are unable to do so, by the things in Manhunter that so many commentators hate instead of plotting the movie solely as a police procedural (as the three other movies are), instead Michael Mann turns the movie primarily into a sinuous, constantly cryptic, meandering journey through the experiences (which we share) of Graham and Dollarhyde. The plot is irrelevant, the importance is that we draw ever-closer to becoming Dollarhyde.The driving music, the inherent attraction of Noonan's Dollarhyde (who has excellent taste in clothes, architecture, music and is himself a film-maker of sorts) are not superfluous as many believe but very much the essential core of the movie. We gradually become attracted to Noonan's inherent coolness, and identify ourselves with Reba McClane, the blind girl who begins an affair with Dollarhyde.This identification leads to what I believe is the central scene in the movie when McClane rubs the fur of a drugged tiger. We, along with McClane, begin to feel, admire and even long for the power of the tiger. We, on some level, wish to transform into a tiger, into something other than human. We take the first steps of becoming Dollarhyde. And that is what is truly frightening about Manhunter. "},{"Title":"Tale of the Dragon","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ********SPOILERS******** Manhunter is about an FBI agent Will Graham, William Petersen, who's job of getting into the minds of vicious serial killers and start thinking like them in order to be able to catch them, as well as a brutal physical attack by Lector, landed him in the hospital with a mental and physical breakdown and had him retire from the agency with a service related disability. At the start of the movie Graham is asked by his friend and FBI agent Jack Crawford, Dennis Farina, if he can come out of retirement and help in a case that has the FBI and the local police stymied. There's been two brutal murders of families in two different cities, Birmingham AL and Atlanta GA. that evidence shows were committed by the same killer. But there seems to be no connection why they were targeted except that they accrued when there was a full moon. The FBI now feel that he'll strike again the next time the moon is full. Graham goes back to work with the FBI to solve the murders but as soon as he does his mental state starts to suffer when he tries to think and act like the killer. Even worse with the help of Dr. Hannibal Lector,that's how they spell it in the movie Manhunter, Brian Cox, the serial killer that Agent Graham put behind bars that led to his breakdown incites the killer to target him and his family. Based on the book Red Dragon by Thomas Harris the film is more effective even though not as extravagant as the three Anthony Hopkins films about Dr. Lecter. With the Dr. Lecter in this movie being more reserved and normal he thus comes across as more of a psychopath and far more dangerous then the Anthony Hopkins Lecter. The crazed Anthony Hopkins doctor Lecter was so off the wall with his eyes bugging out of his head and almost drooling from the mouth that it made him look more like a cartoon then a person. Even the killer in Manhunter Francis Dallarhyde, Tom Noonan, is also more normal in his relations with those around him. Dallarhyde even has a sweet girlfriend Reba McClane, Joan Allen, who thinks that he's creative, then the killer Buffalo Bill in the Anthony Hopkins version Silence of the Lambs which makes Dallarhyde far more dangerous because he can easily fool you until it's to late. Agent Graham correctly hit's the target almost at once; The mode of operation of the killer and that It's visual which Graham couldn't at first understand. But there's one important clue that takes him until the end of the film to decipher, it has to do with what the killers blind girlfriend does for a living. And with that key Graham unlocks the mystery and sets the stage for the movies smashing and explosive final. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Terrible","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the worst adaptations of a book to ever be seen on film. This film is terrible from top to bottom.  While I believe that Petersen and Cox are both talented actors, even their performances in this film were atrocious.  If you haven't seen this film, avoid it at all costs. Actually don't do that.  See the film so that you too can experience the kind of mind-numbing disappointment that those of us who have seen Manhunter recall upon hearing its title. "},{"Title":"Only for intelligent audiences","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Manhunter is a masterpiece. It is as simple as that. As an adaptation of the book - it is not literal, but thematically it isquite perfect. And that is all that matters.Cox as Lektor is perfect. If you want to see a Movie e.g. a pictureso divorced from reality that you can walk out at the end feelinggreat and not really thinking about anything, then go for Hopkin'stake on the character. This is Lektor played as real as possible. It'sa chilling performance. William Peterson gives a powerhouse performance, pulling offsome terribly tough scenes (including a lot of dialogue to himself)to emerge with one of the finest characters of the 80's.If Francis Dollarhyde existed in our world, Tom Noonan's take onhim would, I'm certain, not be very far removed from reality. I adorethe fact that he is portrayed here as a human being, and notsignposted as a monster. That was another problem with Silence- it had to have its villain live in a DUNGEON for goodness sake, inorder to convey his mentality to the audience. Here, there is noneof that. You are treated to an adult story, as adults.In the end, what is so great about this film is that it never onceinsults its audience. All expositional dialogue is totally avoided -and the actors SHOW you their characters, rather than insist onexposition - something which clouded all other Harris adaptations.Lektor is a monster because of the look in his eyes, and notbecause he announces that he enjoys eating human liver.  Ftftftft!!!Michael Mann is one of the all time great film makers - and here heoperates at his peak. Fast, often unbearably tense and grim ascan be, this is a masterclass in measured film storytelling.This is a subversive, challenging film. It is not Hollywood product.Seek it out only if you are after something more subtle andintelligent. Its a genuine masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"Perhaps the most underrated forgotten thriller of my lifetime","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's not often that a movie is put together so tightly that you become enveloped into it. Manhunter is for who ever enjoys a mystery with a tantalizing soundtrack. The pity part of this movie is that most people have seen Silence of the Lambs but forgot, or didn't see this first. If so, I believe they're idea of Hannibal would've been a much more precise one. Anthony Hopkins portrays Hannibal as he acts but Brian Cox BECOMES Hannibal. Without seeing Hopkins roll first I was able to establish a certain craving for knowing more about Hannibal overall. Just as in Jaws, Manhunter only teases your pallet with Dr. Hannibal Lector where Hannibal the movie throws him up all over you. The scene where they find the note in his cell is riveting! How they analyze it is intriguing. The believability in this movie is unparalleled. This is my favorite movie. "},{"Title":"Superior in almost every way","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ** Massive spoilers ahead **I had an itch to compare, so I rented Manhunter last night to compare to Red Dragon, which I watched yesterday afternoon. This after just finishing the book yesterday morning.Manhunter is superb. The most amazing thing about it is how perfectly it follows the book up until the very end, even in the smallest touches. I mean, they even use the same headlines in the Tattler that Harris uses in the book. It starts getting off-track when it first introduces Reba into Dolarhyde's life -- they compress and just change that storyline too much -- but the first three-quarters of the movie are lifted practically straight out of the book, dialogue and all. They kept a lot more of it and followed it precisely when they did. It makes a huge difference. The biggest change Mann made to the storyline is that he chose not to concentrate on Dolarhyde's evolution at all and simply show him as a serial killer. There's no facial scarring at all, so when they do happen to have Reba comment on his speech it makes no sense. It's frustrating because Mann could have dropped a couple of scenes he invented (but which didn't take away from the story at all) to make more time for the Dolarhyde/Reba development, and reimagined the scenes of theirs he already had, and done it just right. In a word, urg. Mann also chose just to change the ending completely, which is rather inexplicable considering his fanatical faithfulness to the rest of the book. He has Graham and Farina go after Dolarhyde in his house. No fire, no Dolarhyde going to Florida after Graham. It's weird.But his choice in actors was virtually flawless, in my opinion. With the notable exception that Fiennes makes a better Dolarhyde -- but that could merely be because Ratner followed the book more closely in that instance than Manhunter; Tom Noonan probably could have done a good enough job with Fiennes' material -- the actors in every case were better than in the other movies. And -- I know this is heresy -- I think that may even apply to Anthony Hopkins. After watching SOTL again, I think I might actually prefer Brian Cox's take on Lecter better than Hopkins'.It's a close call. Hopkins has the advantage of being able to portray Lecter in the outside world in the other films, and I think he does a better job of that than Cox would do, but taking strictly the Red Dragon storyline -- I think Cox does a better job. Well -- hm. I don't know. Cox's Hannibal seems more attached to reality, though. Ah, I know what it is Hopkins is better at portraying Lecter's refined nature, but Cox doesn't overact like Hopkins does in all three of the later films. Hopkins is best in SOTL, but I wish to god he'd played Lecter down in all three of them. For me there would be no question of him as the better Lecter if he'd played Lecter with less glassy, wide eyes and more just as a pleasant, droll connoisseur who happens also to be insane. I'm thinking of his portrayals in Shadowlands or 84 Charing Cross Road, with the serial killer edge. That would have been brilliant. Ah well. I am intensely curious, though, now, to know how well Cox would have done with the SOTL material. I think he could have been damn good.As for all the other actors, though, no question for me Manhunter's were better choices. Peterson loses it some when he has to rage a little, but overall he nails Graham. More brooding, more pensive, more defensive, less eager -- angrier -- he's just outstanding, MUCH better than Norton. Jason disagrees with me, but I think Dennis Farina does by far the best Crawford. He likes Scott Glenn in SOTL. Scott's take is fine, but I like Farina's better, though it might just be that he mixes with Peterson better as actors. Joan Allen is closer as Reba, stronger, more direct, even though she never gets the chance to live the character that Emily Cox does in Red Dragon, which is too bad because Joan Allen is a great actress. Stephen Lang is closer as Lounds, Kim Griest as Molly, and even the families chosen to portray the Leeds and Jacobis are better They're less caricatured; their videos look more like real home videos.What it comes down to is if you were to take the first three quarters of Manhunter and the last quarter of Red Dragon -- basically use the Dolarhyde/Reba storyline from Red Dragon in Manhunter -- you'd have an outstanding film remarkably true to the book. First and foremost read the book, but after that, watch Manhunter and be amazed. "},{"Title":"MANHUNTER - watched again, after hearing all the RED DRAGON fuss.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Saw this movie when it came out, rented it a couple of years later,  then rented it tonight, after about 14 years.  It's as thrilling and scary as I remember, and especially strange to watch - made in the days before CSI. Where are the cell phones, the DNA? Anyway, this viewing made me question the last twenty minutes or so.  The movie progresses just fine until Will figures out who the serial killer is. But it is the night of the full moon. What made Will think this guy would be at home?  And what a nice home this killer has, given what he does for a living!  Why isn't this guy going after another family? Oh well,...now I'm ready to see the new one - Red Whatever, although it's probably bloody. "},{"Title":"The best of the Lector movies","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  With Red Dragon coming out fairly soon, I feel  I should help defend the original film. Sure,  Anthony Hopkins wasn't in the film, but who  cares. With a fairly small budget and a bunch  of no-name actors (even to this day, except for  Joan Allen), this film helped create a character  more sinister than Hannibal. The villain was  so graciously portrayed by the underrated Tom  Noonan, was more evil and hateful than Lector,  and unfortunately, this role will most likely  change in the upcoming `Red Dragon.' Even  Brian Cox gave a great performance as Hannibal  Lector. Sure, Red Dragon will be darker and better  financed, but the true believers of the series  know Manhunter will still be the better film  simply because it didn't rely on a gimmick  (like Red Dragon and Hannibal). Nonetheless,  I felt this film was well made, even if it did feel  like an extended television show (which was  Michael Mann's day job at the time). Hopefully,  the original will still outlast the lavishness the  new version is promising. "}{"Title":"I loved this film.","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It obviously didn't have a big budget, but that didn't stop this greatdirector from plunging us right into the story, and into the brain ofthe notorious Hannibal Lecter.  In this film he's played by Brian Cox,an actor that you've seen in a bunch of stuff but here he really setsthe screen on fire and probably could've been just as good as AnthonyHopkins in the Silence of the Lambs films.  This film is shot withpanache and verve and has a great score and Joan Allen too.  What morecould you want?  Check it out if you haven't seen it-  you won't bedisappointed.   "},{"Title":"A silly Hollywood-ized version of a truly great book","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Why is the killer doing all of this...well...killing?  Watch the movie and you'll never know, but he sure is scary, huh.  No?  That's OK...I didn't think so either.  Upon seeing this movie and trying to forget all that I had learned from the book I began to realize that nothing is really ever revealed other than this guy really wants to find this other guy who is killing people.  I also found myself laughing out loud at the numerous parts when Will Graham (played by William Petersen) is talking (and sometimes shouting) to himself his own thoughts.  This is just plain silly movie-making and, for me, is proof positive that this is one book that never should have been adapted to a movie simply because the really important stuff takes place inside the head of Graham.  I was also disappointed that they chose to omit the surprise that is at the end of the book as this is something that could easily have been done and would have added only a few more minutes to film.Now I would like to state that the translation from a book to a movie is almost always disappointing simply because the book's author is able to go into much greater detail than any movie's budget and time constraints can ever allow.  So I have to cut this movie a bit of slack due to this factor. However, I am not going to cut it too much slack simply because it is obvious that Mr. Mann and his crew changed this story rather dramatically (especially at the end) simply to cater to the lowest common denominator of film viewers...those unfortunate folks who simply NEED to have a cliched shootout at the end of every one of their movies.  To you true music lovers, these are the same people who unconsciously insist on every song ending with a major chord as it saves them from having to actually think about the piece once it is over.  In other words, the movie is wrapped up nice and neat...a fast-food drama for a fast-food culture.  I feel bad for those of you to whom this sort of thing is appealing, but my heart truly goes out to those rare breeds who actually enjoy thinking and are forced to wade through endless amounts of Hollywood's junk-food in their search for any real brain-fodder.Quick recap  I found this movie to be two hours of unnecessary mileage on my VCR and television.  To those of you who liked it, read the book and then watch the movie a second time to see just how bankrupt of substance it really is.  A great injustice has been committed on Thomas Harris. "},{"Title":"Woof woof","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If it weren't for Silence of the Lambs and Anthony Hopkins, it's very unlikely that anyone would remember this cheese-ball thriller. The producers reportedly lost so much money on this film that they were glad to license the rights to the sequel to the people who finally made Silence. Thank goodness they did, too, since this movie's failure helped to create one of the most intelligent and effective thrillers ever made.Manhunter, by contrast, is best remembered as a footnote. Michael Mann manages to remove every trace of subtlety, characterization or human emotion from Thomas Harris' original novel. In most cases they've been replaced by moronic dialogue and idiotic machismo. I literally had to stop the movie at one point and go find my copy of the novel because I was so stunned by the stupid things characters were saying (Lector cut you pretty bad, didn't he??). Of course, Thomas Harris has a much better ear for human speech, and eye for human behavior than that. I'm all in favor of screenwriters adapting novels and making changes (even major changes) that turn them into better MOVIES, but the changes made to Harris' Red Dragon -- from the stupid lines the characters say to the unbelieveably corny, made-for-tv climax -- do nothing except reduce a smart, original thriller to generic second-rate Hollywood pap. And second-rate may be putting it too kindly.Low points include Alpha Chimp shouting matches between Petersen and Farina, aforementioned stupid dialogue (and plenty more where that came from) the complete re-writing of the ending to replace virtually all the suspense (not to mention originality), the reduction of the romantic sub-plot (one of the most effective and sympathetic parts of the novel) to a mere side-note that gives the villian one more victim to terrorize, the bizarre production design that makes everyone look like they're living in an off-white city of the future, and, lest we forget, the sub-Tangerine-Dream synth soundtrack.But in the end, this movie is such a total disappointment because the original novel (as with Silence of the Lambs) is so good. Again, I have no qualms about movies where the original novel has been distorted beyond all recognition if it works in favor of the finished product. But the changes made in this movie, in almost every single case, betray an amazingly complete lack of appreciation for either the subtleties of human nature or the very story the film is supposed to portray.  "},{"Title":"An excellent psychological thriller","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Like many people, I saw Silence of The Lambs first and discovered Manhunter during the ten year void before Hannibal, anxious to see another Lecter film. If your main reason to see this film is Lecter, don't bother with it. Because when I first saw it I watched it up until Lecter and just gave up on it. That was a stupid thing to do, and a few months later when I rented it again, I loved it. I've watched it over and over since then, and it gets even better each time around.For this movie alone I have finally accepted Brian Cox as Hannibal. Of course I liked Anthony Hopkins better, but I still like Cox's take on Lecter. He plays him as actually pretty charming, which makes it all the more unnerving when people talk about the things he's done. But I don't know why I'm focusing so much on Lecter, he has only 3 scenes, the true star is Will Graham, played by William Peterson. It's amazing how well they made this character get into mind of the killer. There's this great scene in the last half hour or so (probably my favourite)where he visits the house of a murdered family and re-enacts the killer's thoughts. Not his crime, but his thoughts.Tom Noonan is great too, as the killer. He isn't exactly a terrific actor, but he has the look and facial expressions down perfectly. He looks a lot like what this killer would look like. Tall, awkward, emotionally fragile. There is a spectacular shootout at the end with inna godda da vida playing, and the slow motion shots and jump cuts (intentional or not) give it a great surreal feel.Manhunter is one of the best psychological thrillers I've ever seen, it has many twists and turns, but more importantly it has heart and very interesting characters that all have depth. Don't compare this to Silence Of The Lambs or Red Dragon, it's great on its own and some may even consider it superior to them.My rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Excuse me, stylish?","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I find it ironic that a film considered by some as `stylish' is devoid of suspense, or any kind of visual flair... The directorial style seems to be simply point the camera and shoot (look at that scene between Peterson meeting Hannibal for the first time - the scene cuts back and forth between two medium shots - then compare it to the direction of Ratner's same scene in the legitimately `stylistic' Red Dragon).  One or two slow motion shots and jump cuts do not constitute style to me.Moving on, the soundtrack is mainly non-existent to inappropriate, I don't believe Brian Cox for one second as a serial killer (maybe an exhibitionist), the plot is NOT as clear as it should be, dialog is too on the head, key scenes are simply talked about and not dramatized, Tom Noonan isn't the least bit frightening or sympathetic as a character with the potential to be both, Steven Lange as the reporter is so over the top I almost passed out (look at Philip Seymore Hoffman in the same role, amazing difference) the color scheme belongs in Miami Vice, and the ending simply boils down to a simple shoot out with ridiculous jump cuts. I don't love Silence of the Lambs, but I think its light years about Manhunter. I think my mother got it right when she stepped into the room as I was watching it, and asked if it was one of my friend's student films. But hey, I do think that William Peterson IS better than both Jodie Foster, and Ed Norton who plays the same role in a fairly uninteresting, uninspired manor.  I should be judging this film on its own merits, but frankly I don't see any, other than some good plotting, which is no credit to Michael Mann, simply the source material which was infinitely better executed the second time around.  The whole production of Red Dragon must have used this as an example of what NOT to do.  Thank goodness.  "},{"Title":"Lecter, Schmecter! Forget about that. Manhunter is a first rate thriller.","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First off, I've yet to see the remake of this movie 'Red Dragon' so I can't enter into any debates comparing to two. But I enjoyed this movie a lot when I first watched it back in the 1980s and a recent reviewing on DVD proved it to be just as fascinating and interesting as ever. Personally I was never all that impressed by Anthony Hopkins Hannibal Lecter in the hugely overrated 'The Silence Of The Lambs' in the first place, and 'Hannibal' was one of the worst major releases in the last few years, so the less said about that the better. Brian Cox ('Rushmore') plays a much more low key Dr. Lecter in this movie, but to me is very effective in the few scenes he is in. And that I suppose is the most important thing to emphasise about 'Manhunter' - Lector is only one very small part of this movie, which is, as the title implies, focuses on FBI Agent Graham, played by the underrated William Petersen ('To Live And Die In L.A.', 'Gunshy'). Petersen is the star of this show, end of story. The strong supporting cast includes the ultra-creepy Tom Noonan (some may remember him from 'Robocop 2'), Dennis Farina ('Get Shorty'), Joan Allen ('Pleasantville'), Stephen Lang ('Last Exit To Brooklyn') and Kim Greist ('Brazil'). 'Manhunter' may not be Michael Mann's best work (that for me is a tie between 'Thief' and 'Heat'), but it is first rate thriller that values intelligence over sensationalism, quite a rare thing in the often tired serial killer genre. Forget about Hannibal Lecter, watch this movie because it is excellent in its own right. An extremely underrated movie. "},{"Title":"what were all of you watching?","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  oh dear where shall i begin... first i must admit that i have not read any of harris' novels. i rented this because i wanted to compare it to the upcoming red dragon. this movie is unbearably slow. the acting is terrible. the script is silly. why is graham constantly yelling at the camera? apparently this is supposed to convey a descent into madness and schizophrenia, but it doesn't. to those of you praising cox's lecter in this film over hopkins' (in silence of the lambs of course, hannibal was completely ridiculous), let me just say i am more afraid of my dentist than i was of cox. he isn't menacing, he's just sort of there. maybe it was the socks. noonan is skilled as the toothfairy and joan allen is also good as reba. i enjoyed the scenes with the tiger and later at reba's house. as a piece of 80s nostalgia it is EXCELLENT. check out the totally cool lucite bannister at stately leeds manor. the soundtrack is fantastic, there were moments where i grew confused and thought i was watching bladerunner. where can i find that heartbeats song??! i think this would be an excellent movie to watch high, especially the trippy end sequence. also to all of you claiming that there is no way red dragon will ever measure up and is obviously a shameless attempt to cash in on the hannibal character, why don't you actually SEE it before you condemn it? this is very childish.  "},{"Title":"Manhunter is a perfect example of how easily a truly exceptional crime novel can be badly screwed up when made into a movie.","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Did you read the novel Red Dragon, by Thomas Harris, the book on which Manhunter is based? If not, watch the movie, you'll probably love it. However, if you have read the book, be advised that the movie will disappoint you in every way you can imagine.Red Dragon was just a great book. The story was intense, and it was extremely difficult to put down. Given that, it is hard for me to understand what would make Michael Mann think that he should change anything in the story. While not necessarily really pretty, the ending in the book was different and completely unexpected. It left you with that wow feeling that is so satisfying, especially when you almost unconsciously expect a flowery ending. I would have LOVED to see that put on film! But no, Mann decides to scrap the surprise ending and slap on a cutesy Hollywood ending. That really p****s me off. Can I say that? And it's not just the ending, by the way, there were enormous chunks of the story that were simply not included in the film. ENORMOUS chunks of the story. This movie would have been so much better if it remained faithful to the full story presented in the book.Not only that, but they obviously hired some idiot to do the casting. Brian Cox performs horribly as the evil supergenius Hannibal Lector, but that may be a result of the fact that I had already seen Anthony Hopkins' performance of the same character (one of the best performances I have ever seen on film) before I saw Manhunter. I'm sure Michael Mann felt like a complete idiot when Silence of the Lambs was released. Tom Noonan was HORRIBLY miscast as Francis Dolarhyde, the insecure serial killer in Manhunter. Oh, did you not know that he was insecure? That's because those idiots didn't put anything about that in the movie, even though this extreme insecurity (the background of which was also left out of the film) is the fundamental reason for Dolarhyde's homicidal tendencies.If you liked this movie, I can understand why. It was an entertaining enough film. But I can also tell that if you liked this movie you did not read the book. The book is about 10,000 times better than the movie, and the conversion from book to film is so manipulative and disappointing and generally poor that once you realize what has been left out, it is almost painful to watch. Basically, what they did was they took a spectacular book and made it into a run-of-the-mill crime film. For shame. "},{"Title":"Very arresting","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There's always going to be inevitable comparisons between Manhunter and Silence of the Lambs. To keep comparisons brief, to me Silence of the Lambs is the superior film, but Manhunter is almost as good and a great film in its own right.It's very stylishly made, with use of colour and lighting that is beautiful and gritty and photography that is both luminous and unnerving, while Michael Mann's directing is top-notch and some of his tightest ever. A clever and incredibly thought-provoking script helps as does the strong characterisation(Dollarhyde is particularly well realised here). The story, which does a credible job compressing an in some ways unfilmable book in two hours(even if you wish there was more detail sometimes), in Manhunter is very arresting, with a particularly suspenseful first half and an atmosphere that gives one chills. It begins grippingly, setting up what's to follow very well indeed, and ends excitingly if slightly anti-climatically. Pacing is deliberate but never dull.When it comes to individual scenes, three really stood out, both as three of the best of all the Lecter films and also as an example of how great a director Mann is. One is the Tooth Fairy Letter analysis, two is the Dollarhyde and Rena encounter and three is Graham's nail-bitingly dream-like visit to Lecter. Nothing to complain about the acting, coming off particularly strongly is Tom Noonan who is truly frightening as Dollarhyde while also giving room for pity. Brian Cox's Lecter is very different to the more iconic performance of Anthony Hopkins, it's more ambiguous and more understated but no less creepy or entertaining(in fact because Cox acts like a killer-acting-completely-normal-to-the-outside-world it's somewhat more realistic and unsuspecting). It may not be as well known a performance but it's a great one in its own way and shouldn't be overlooked just because of it being different. William Petersen's lead performance is fine too, at times appropriately haunting.My only complaint actually is the music, a couple of the song choices come off well and fit, especially In a Gadda Da Vida, but most of them come over as cheesy and misplaced, Heartbeat being the biggest offender. The electronic score is also at times too intrusive, often really doesn't fit the tone of the film at all and has a really dated sound to it, even for a film made in the 80s. Overall though, Manhunter is great, arresting stuff and not to be missed. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Pound shop Hannibal movie","Date":"5 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's OK if you simply want a reasonably accurate film of the book, perhaps in the background while you do something else. There are occasional good moments and performances but no real consistency except for the dated soundtrack (which must have sounded old even in 1986) and Miami Vice aesthetics.What is lacking is the drama and suspense fans will be familiar with from the books, other films and recent TV series. It's not bad or wrong, it's just not very good. There's not much else to say and I'm not saying don't watch it just don't be disappointed - as I was, having read quite a few more positive reviews. "}{"Title":"Glossy, Highly Stylized Version of Red Dragon From the Director of The Keep","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Fans of the sensational The Silence of the Lambs were surprised to learn that Anthony Hopkin's character Hannibal Lecter debuted (sort of) in the 1986 thriller Manhunter which few had heard of and fewer still had seen. Manhunter was a slick looking adaption of the Thomas Harris best-seller Red Dragon from Miami Vice producer Michael Mann that lost much of it's depth of character because of it's glossy, music video-esque approach to the material. Brian Cox played Hannibal Lecktor as a rather laid back psychopath who used his limited screen time to assist the FBI agent Will Graham in his hunt for a serial killer while simultaneously attempting to orchestrate the agents' murder at the hands of the tooth fairy. Cox isn't bad in the role; he's just not very memorable. It's hard to imagine this is the same character Hopkins portrayed with hissing delight, savouring the impact of his words and radiating danger. Manhunter is a good movie but doesn't feel like it exists in the same universe as the films and television series spawned by The Silence of the Lambs...all of which are superior. "},{"Title":"No where near as good as The Silence of the Lambs, FACT.","Date":"10 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" MANHUNTER is a 1986 film about a retired FBI agent who accepts to go back on the force to hunt down a serial killer that fellow FBI agents call The Tooth Fairy because of the way he carries out his murders. In his quest to find the murderer he must seek help from the brilliant yet psychotic Dr. Hannibal Lector who he caught in his previous case.In my opinion, this is no where near as good as The silence of the lambs. I know I spelt Lector wrong in the summary above but that it how it is spelt in the superior sequels to this film and I can't remember how to spell it in this film.I don't really recommend this film but go check it out if you please.**/***** poor. "},{"Title":"Manhunter A Functional Thriller","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The first and lesser-known attempt at bringing Thomas Harris' Red Dragon to the screen, Manhunter was the film which originally introduced the cinematic world to Dr Hannibal Lecter.The film follows William Graham, an FBI agent tasked with tracking down a dangerous serial killer labelled The Tooth Fairy. Returning from recovery having been attacked in the process of capturing Lecter, Graham struggles to deal with the stress of his work and the threat of a ticking clock.The first striking thing in the film is the colour the perfect white innocence of the home we soon see tarnished in blood; the pale blue serenity of Graham's bedroom. From the outset we see Manhunter as a well shot movie, its palette one of its most appealing and enthralling facets. We get into the plot without delay, William Peterson effectively showing his character's fragility following his recent incident. Both hero and villain are well played, showing us the torn monstrous side of the former and human side of the latter in a manner which leads us to question their similarities, seeing elements of each in the other. Everything plays out with a satisfactory supporting cast and a sufficiently entertaining plot. There is a complaint to be made about some of Graham's lines, the repeated over-acting with which Peterson curses the bastard and son of a bitch a little irritating. Apart from this drawback, the film suffers from no major flaws, though I found myself lost as to how certain developments had been made at some stages. It is hard to believe some of the case progression within the narrative. The ending, too, leaves a little to be desired, following a rather uninteresting formula.A functional thriller with an appealing image and the underlying interior struggle of its protagonist, Manhunter delivers what it promises. "},{"Title":"Great, atmospheric, and flawed","Date":"27 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I tend to agree wholeheartedly with most of the first few pages of comments on the motion picture. The movie is very successful in its clinical, analytical approach to psychopathy and to investigation. I daresay that this picture--along with Petersen's cerebral portrayal of Will Graham--is the single biggest influence on the genre of television shows now known to the masses as the procedural. One might say that Gil Grissom's teeth were cut here. And I honestly have a difficult time determining whether Cox' or Hopkins' Lecter is the creepier. Cox' frank, almost chummy portrayal is definitely the more deceptive of the two.I love it on its own merits, and would be proud to keep it on my shelf alongside the later Lecter pieces, but for a few cinematic errors. Without revealing any events in the movie, I can point out that the editing is simply crappy at times, particularly just before the climax. There is also one major gaffe involving a visible boom mic, which I've allowed myself to live with, but which I cannot avoid pointing out to others each time I see it aired.I haven't yet seen Red Dragon, but can say that although I really do love the original, I wasn't upset to hear that it was being redone. "},{"Title":"80's nostalgia","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter , is Micheal Mann's take on Thomas Harris's novel Red Dragon featuring everyones favourite cannibal Hannibal Lector. Its easy to understand why some people would choose this over Red Dragon, reason being it has a classic 80's vibe to it which is just plain 'cool' to be honest. The Will Graham over here is actually a moody and genuine troubled character rather than a almost measly Ed Norton , Brian Cox's is role on Lector is actually one that makes the character very creepy rather the Welshman Hopkin's who makes the character look intriguing and I often wonder what it would of been like if he went on to star in the other Hannibal movies. Dolarhyde over here is played in such a way where he actually frightening but then at the same time sympathetic but not a lot like Ralph Fiennes version were one actually feels sorry for him. The pace at which the movie moves at is good although it might feel a little slow in places and might have a few unnecessary bits in it which probably make it a little longer than it need be. However Manhunter is certainly worth a check out , it might not be the best book-to-movie adaptations but having after seeing it is easy to understand why people would prefer this over the original as in someways it is more entertaining than Red Dragon , Worth a look at if your a fan of Hannibal and also thrillers or if you just fancy watching something different.RED DRAGON - 8 OUT OF 10HANNIBAL LECTORS LEGACEY OF EVIL BEGINS HERE... "},{"Title":"Lambs not a sequel","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" First off it's important to note that Silence of the Lambs is not a sequel to Manhunter. The ONLY characters that appear in both films are Lector and Jack Crawford. Both films can be enjoyed on their own terms. They stand alone. The novel of Silence however is more of a sequel to Red Dragon in that mention is made in the dialogue of Lambs to the events in Red Dragon. Lector is a different character. In Manhunter/Red Dragon he is barely glimpsed and a secondary character. The backstory between Lector and Graham is not well delineated in the film or book. In the film it states that Lector is a serial killer and that Graham captured him. That is it. also remember that in lambs Lector tells Clarice that he had been imprisoned for 8 years. In Red Dragon Lector comments to Graham that he is wearing the same appalling aftershave he wore in court 3 years prior. So that means 5 years go by between Red Dragon and Lambs. That is a long time. To me Brian Cox seemed bored in the role. Hopkins was genuinely scary. Also remember the 5 year span (which by the way was the same as in the film. Lector would have had time to develop his over the top persona as a way of scaring people. There is something else to note. Lector knew Graham. He had a history with him and therefore there was no reason for him to manipulate him. He didn't know Clarice. And because she was a woman she was more susceptible to fear than Will Graham. Also interesting to note is that the dialogue spoken to clarice by Dr Chilton in the film of Lambs when warning her about Lector is taken word for word from the book of RED DRAGON and was in fact spoken to Will Graham. To me Hopkins was better because you would expect a psychiatrist to be cultured and educated. Cox came across as just a serial killer. The aspect of cannibalism makes him far scarier. But Manhunter is an effective thriller with a great performance by Will Peterson and a brilliant performance by Tom Noonan. I do think Will Peterson is more effective than Edward Norton who was too young for the role. But to compare Lambs to Manhunter is a ludicrous they are separate films. The novels are related the films aren't. I saw Manhunter when it first came out and by the time lambs came out it had faded from my memory altogether. But Lambs stuck with me. There is a reason. Great film-making. "},{"Title":"Terrific,but it has its flaws","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Now,although this was a big flop back in 1986,I consider it to be one of the best thrillers of all time.It works well because it isn't too gory or explicit plus the cinematography and score is amazing.However the editing could have been much better.Don't let the Based on the Novel Red Dragon by Thomas Harrisfool you.The film isn't like the book in various ways.There was more exploration into the killers mind and contained more of a psychological feeling towards Graham and the killer.To people who are unfamiliar with the book or remake,certain aspects may seem strange and unexplained.I feel it rushes into things a bit fast.The remake is good and bad in its own ways.The remake is a bit over the top with some Dumbed down ideas to put in.It also suffers from an all star cast that cant really convince you that they are being another character.It dose have its strong points and it is true to the book its based on.And if you watch all of the Hannibal Lecter films and have read all of the books,don't stress with all that time line stuff.The films screw it up more than your brain can!.Try both and decide for yourself! "},{"Title":"Riveting, Crackerjack, Ultra-Stylish Crime Picture About The Ultimate Burnt-Out Cop","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Will Graham is a retired fed with emotional problems following the traumatic case of a serial killer called Hannibal Lecktor. He is persuaded to help find another horrific killer on the proviso that he is not directly involved. But before long his obsession with the work overtakes him, clouding his judgement and endangering his family ...Michael The Man Mann's Manhunter is my favourite of the many excellent films by this great director. He adapted it from a great novel (Red Dragon, by Thomas Harris) and it was funded independently by Dino DeLaurentiis, allowing him an artistic and editorial freedom which he exploits to the hilt. It's probably the definitive eighties stylish crime picture, with achingly beautiful photography by Dante Spinotti, and ultra-intense synth-and-snare-drum music by Michel Rubini. The style is excessive for sure (when this cop has a hunch, they scramble a Learjet in five minutes to follow it up) - Will's family is impossibly perfect, the killer's artistic egocentrism is ludicrously pretentious and Farina's character seems to control more resources than a modest-sized country, but it's just so damn cool it doesn't matter. I like movies that take fantastic subjects and treat them with banality (e.g. Dark Star or Time Bandits), but this one does the reverse, creating a hyper-reality to each frame; every furrow in Petersen's brow becomes an exhausting emotional moment. The style suffuses even the conventional moments, like the bit in the motel room when Will literally jumps up and has a Eureka moment - in any other movie it would be silly, but here it is entrancing. Mann's seamless direction extends to the cast - Petersen and Farina epitomise his macho intelligence, Noonan is riveting as the giant, impenetrable killer, Allen is terrific as the blind girlfriend and Cox is suitably creepy as the haunting spectre of the previous case - all five performances are outstanding. Petersen is of course very famous now as the cop in the TV-show C.S.I., but his character here is almost an action blueprint for that, evidenced by the scene where he visits the crime scene and tapes his thoughts. The movie keeps coming up with original scenes (the infra-red imaging of the note, the stakeout in the backyard, the tiger at the dentist). It also explores its twisted killer as something more than just a psychopath which makes it much more tragic and compelling, and is something its many imitators have failed to recreate. This is of course the original Hannibal Lecter flick (the film misspells his name from the book as Lecktor), followed by Jonathan Demme's Silence Of The Lambs, Ridley Scott's Hannibal, and the odd French prequel Hannibal Rising, and unnecessarily remade (as Red Dragon) in 2002 with Anthony Hopkins playing Lecter. The others are all good movies, but none are as good, or as unconventional as this one. A point to note - occasionally movies make minor continuity gaffes, but surprisingly in this - a film which is designed perfection - there is a real howler in one scene which takes place in a supermarket. It's nice to know even geniuses are human. "},{"Title":"They Don't Make em' Like This Anymore!","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am one of those people who typically leans towards the original version of a movie. To put it nicely, I hate remakes. Well, the same applies to this great movie. Red Dragon isn't even close to being as good as Manhunter. To me, Manhunter is a contemporary classic in the truest sense. Michael Mann can do no wrong, and certainly hits the nail on the head with this flick.Now, this movie is 20+ years old, but ages perfectly. I will even go as far as to say I like this movie more than SOTL. That doesn't mean it's a better movie, just more favorable to me. Manhunter really is creepy, more than SOTL.The music is perfectly scary, the way Mann directed the cameras to cue when Graham flicks on the light of the bedroom of the first murder scene we see is so shocking. And really, this movie is probably the first of it's kind in regards to showing forensics, criminal profiling, and in-depth FBI usage.Another cool thing Mann does is when he uses the quick camera movements. I can't describe it really, but for example when Graham is slaying the dragon so to speak at the end, you see several of these quick camera movements. It's really interesting style and works great.This movie also gives us the introduction to one of the most diabolical villains in the history of cinema, Dr. Hannibal Lector. Not played this time by Anthony Hopkins, but brilliantly by Brian Cox. Cox does a wonderful job. Maybe not as good as Hopkins in SOTL, but better than Hopkins in Hannibal or Red Dragon.Most people are disappointed to know that Lector is already in jail in this one, but that makes his character even more mysterious. All you know is that Special Agent Will Graham caught him and sort of how he caught him. That formula worked well with Manhunter and SOTL. But when he escaped and was on the lose, the movies sunk tremendously (Hannibal and Red Dragon).I highly recommend this movie. If you liked the SOTL series or Miami Vice or Thief or any other Michael Mann stuff, you will absolutely love Manhunter. It will not disappoint. It really is a brilliant movie. "},{"Title":"'It's just me and you now, Sport.'","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" *Manhunter SPOILERS* FBI Agent Will Graham (William Petersen) has retired after having caught the psychotic serial killer Hannibal Lecktor (Brian Cox), which took a toll on him, but his boss and friend Jack Crawford (Dennis Farina) arrives to his home to ask for his help; a serial killer, the 'Tooth Fairy', has already killed two entire families, but there seem to be no reasons either in his murders or in choosing his victims; only in his timing, which follows lunar phases.Now Will must find out who the Tooth Fairy is - Francis Dolarhyde (Tom Noonan), and save his latest victim, Reba (Joan Allen), before it's too late; in the meanwhile Lecktor places Will's wife Molly (Kim Greist) in danger...I don't care if this movie came out in the '80s and some of the technology used here is outdated; it's still scary now as it was then.The highlights are many, including the actors (Petersen and Noonan in particular), the directing, the use of music (I never thought 'In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida' could be so scary) and the photography, with its colours which are as bright as they are lurid (especially the green in Dolarhyde's house.Of course, this has been remade too, in unsuspicious times (2002); but I don't think they could top this one (and their idea to add more Lecter is screaming DANGER to me).Manhunter is inimitable, and a must for thriller lovers.Manhunter 9/10. "}{"Title":"Good But Dated","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" First and foremost, this is movie that has dated very quickly (although not that quickly I suppose......it is 20 years old.) The synthesiser music, pastel walls and general Miami Vice/Magnum PI feel are by 2007 starting to look less dated and more period which is fine.William L Petersen gives a fine, understated performance as Will Graham, and Brian Cox is merely OK as Hannibal Lektor. I think the problem is he's just not scary enough. It's as if Cox is pretending to be a psychopath rather than acting one for a movie. In real life I'm sure serial killers behave the way he does in prison, i.e. mostly they appear to be normal ordinary people. However, a movie is meant to entertain and sometimes caricatures are necessary, which is why Anthony Hopkins is so effective is Silence of the Lambs. The upshot of this is that when Will Graham runs from the facility after speaking to Lektor, the audience can't really appreciate why, especially since Lektor is locked up very securely.Tom Noonan is extremely effective as the Tooth Fairy, producing just the right level of menace, looking suitably weird.One particularly striking part of the movie for me was when Graham is on the plane and falls asleep and the photos of the murder scenes spill. A little girl sees them and is frightened half to death.Soemething similar happened to me when I was young, looking through a book on murders that I wasn't old enough to be looking through.This is a good film which you should watch if you get the chance. "},{"Title":"dated but XLNT!!","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ya gotta love this movie it is superb, acting great, cinematic vision great (Dante Spinotti), tight plausible screenplay !! I saw this movie back in '87 and was completely enamored by it...... Then it disappear for ages here in AU, it finally turned up about April '03 on a fairly decent DVD R4 release from The AV Channel and although it has a variety of special features, I am tempted to order the 2-disc R1 version from the US of CA Two little whinges, while the soundtrack by Red7 and other music is great, does anyone else feel the final Red7 song Heartbeart is a little incongruous in the final scene ????? I find it is introduced in very to jarring and sudden manner during the scene it scores. Thoughts??? Oh the other is it is a bit dated fashion and music VERY 80's but I figure if you look at it as a period piece lol it's all good. cheers geoff "},{"Title":"2 of the same?","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A work associate told me that the movie Manhunter pulled together the missing pieces from S O T L and Red Dragon. After watching RD and Manhunter, I realized that they are the same film. DUH!!!! for me. However, RD and MH were both disappointing. Although Brian Cox is a great actor, in this film he didn't pull off Lecktor's character like Anthony Hopkins did in S O T L. But William Peterson was magnificent as the tortured FBI agent. Overall, Manhunter was a little better than RD but not much. In RD, Anthony Hopkins was too mechanical and Edward Norton was not right for the part he played. Manhunter was more dramatic and scary than RD, and for that I gave it a 6-just above mediocre. In my book, not worthy of having in my DVD collection. Of course, that's just my opinion-I may be wrong. (Dennis Miller quote.) "},{"Title":"This was the prequel to Silence of the Lambs...","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" and set the stage for Lecter's return. The Dragon is played by Tom Noonan, who is very believable and ominous in this role.The set is based initially in the Florida Keys and we have atmospheric music from Michael Mann. William L. Petersen is the profiler, and needs to work with Dr. Hannibal Lecter to discover the motivations of the more recent culprit; the Red Dragon. He watches his prey, somehow, and fantasizes about the methods of murder he may use. His identity is a question mark, until we get further into the film, which adds suspense.Joan Allen is very good in an early role, as a friend to Francis Dolarhyde, who was born with a cleft palate and several other handicaps. As she is blind, she does not discriminate against Dolarhyde as most others would. In the book, Thomas Harris delineated Dolarhyde's childhood a bit more, and perhaps a few of these flashbacks could have been inserted for added interest.Steven Lang as Freddie Lounds (a despicable magazine gossip reporter) is appropriately detestable, and is also ill-fated when he crosses the infamous Red Dragon.With a few missing details, this film was rather close to the book, but you must read the book to get the full effect. You will definitely enjoy it. Thomas Harris has a brilliant way of keying into characters, and manifesting their pathology in strange and unique story-lines. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Underrated 80's action film.","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter is the movie that introduced Hannibal Lecter into Hollywood, not The Silence of the Lambs. In this movie, a deranged serial killer is killing entire families every month on the night of the full moon. Jack Crawford of the FBI calls in retired agent Will Graham to help catch the killer. Graham left the FBI after being critically wounded while capturing the cannibalistic Hannibal Lecter. Now, Graham must interview Hannibal, to see if he can shed any knowledge on the case. Meanwhile, the killer struggles with himself when he begins to fall in love with a fellow employee. This movie is very underrated and deserves to be included in the series of Hannibal Lecter films.I learned of this movie's existence right after Hannibal came out in 2001 when my mother told me of another movie she once saw with Hannibal Lecter in it. At first I didn't like it at all because I was used to Anthony Hopkins, so Brian Cox's performance bothered me slightly. However, after a second viewing, I realized how good this movie really is. For a B movie that is widely overlooked and flopped, it is very good. Wheras the remake of this movie, Red Dragon, was a psychological thriller, which I also liked, this movie is another 80's cat and mouse action movie, which I also enjoy a lot. The ending is very different from the book, however I really enjoyed the ending of this movie in an action aspect. The ending is much cooler when it comes to action, whereas the ending to Red Dragon is meant more for suspense.The acting in this movie is pretty good. I like Cox's performance much more now because I realized that he had nothing to go off of, and he made the character his own. Anthony Hopkins immortalized the character, for sure, but Cox laid the groundwork. William Petersen is really good as Will Graham, and Tom Noonan is chilling as the Tooth Fairy.Overall, I suggest anyone who liked the three other movies view this movie. After all, The Silence of the Lambs is a sequel to this movie. Give it a chance, and you might enjoy it. I certainly did.8/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty good thriller","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Former FBI profiler Will Graham has retired after almost going crazy by thinking like psycho Hannibal Lecktor in an attempt to catch him. Now, his former, boss Jack Crawford, wants Will back to profile the so-called Tooth Fairy (cops can be so cruel) killer.What follows is Will investigating the crime scenes and starting to think like the killer, slowly going crazy and losing touch with his family along the way. This is a truly fascinating and compelling process.This is Will's movie all the way. The killer isn't even introduced until the third act.Director Michael Mann does a fabulous job here. He combines 80s styles and music in such an authentic and non-distracting way, but a way in which you can definitely have a feel of the era. The culmination of this exists in the climatic finale (which I guess I'm the only one who liked).Mann has also assembled some of the best actors. Peterson gives a chillingly realistic performance as Graham, Brian Cox is positively psychotic as Lecktor, and Joan Allen is once again superb, this time playing a sympathetic blind woman.Remade as Red Dragon in 2002, but that lacked style, gave us a hammy Lecktor, and took the focus off of Graham. Manhunter is the superior version. "},{"Title":"Better than Red Dragon for many reasons","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" For every one of you out there who feels like Hollywood all too often gets it wrong in their screen adaptations of very successful books &#150; Manhunter is a movie that refutes that.The cast does an excellent job. Mann's direction is not over done and captures the essence of the spectacular Thomas Harris novel as well as can possibly be done in anything short of a mini-series. Harris' books have that kind of depth and are impossible to really replicate in a 2 hour screen play. But Mann brings out truly stellar performances from Tom Noonan (as an occasionally sympathetic serial killer Francis Dolarhyde), William Petersen (as a very troubled yet very competent FBI agent) and Brian Cox (who does a terrific job as Hannibal Lecktor &#150; he milks ever second of his minimum screen time - about 11 minutes max). Not to take anything away from the gifted Anthony Hopkins, but this is a far different, yet more believable Hannibal than we see in later screen versions of Harris' stories ..and just as frightening.The music is heavy in parts but well done and totally in keeping with the story.This version is far truer to the original novel and most folks who watch this and can put aside it's dated and far more limited budget than the later revision of 'Red Dragon' will appreciate it as the better version.If you haven't seen it, this is 2 hours of thrills and chills with totally believable characters. Go for it. "},{"Title":"Great actors enhance good story","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've been waiting a long time to watch this film, and by God was it worth the wait. This is a film that has many great elements converging together, and there are very few weak parts. The performances are what really elevate the film though, William Petersen is phenomenal, as is Brian Cox and the rest of the supporting cast. Though I still think I prefer Hopkins as Hannibal, Cox did a great job as the first person to breath life into the classic serial killer. I was also very impressed with Tom Noonan as Dollarhyde, made the character very convincing and almost pitiful. Great performance. The plot had some very nice and unexpected twists, especially near the end. Speaking of near the end, the use of Iron Butterfly's In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida was incredible. I will never hear the song the same way again. To some up, I say check this out if you want to see some great acting, hear some great music, and experience a side of the story that Red Dragon neglected.8/10 "},{"Title":"an FBI forensic specialist  hunts down a viscous serial killer","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" although i have not read the novel red dragon i very much enjoyed the film because it does exactly what a thriller is meant to do which is captivate the audience. with sublime performances form william peterson, brian cox, tom noonen and the rest of the cast manhunter uses it visualisation and 80s soundtrack to enthrall the viewers imagination. i would also like to comment on the superb direction of Micheal mann with building up the tension and suspense. another comment i would like to point out is that the hannibal lector character portrayed by brian cox. because he is not in the film a lot his performance makes the viewers want to know more about him. i consider his portrayal of lector better than that of anthony hopkins mainly because i have always considered his performances wooden regardless of his films. overall i would give the film an 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Michael Mann at his best","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Michael Mann is one of the best screenwriter/director-s of all time. Great stories filled with details that make it so real, great characterization that makes all actors do their best, and a firm directors hand that takes as through the plot and keeps us chained to the chair till the end. Red Dragon, a book by Thomas Harris, extraordinary thriller because of it's great characters, especially leading three, two serial-killer's and ex-cop who caught one of them and is in the hunt for the other. Such a plot is nothing new in literature and movies but what makes this book/movie so innovative is two subplots which take this story to a new level. 1.subplot - serial-killer mastermind, Dr.Hannibal Lecter in his first appearance, who makes us stop thinking of serial-killers as mad and wild persons just waiting to get caught. His intelligence is frightening, and his knowing of peoples weaknesses is just chilling. He gives a new meaning to a cop that is good enough to catch him. 2.subplot - serial-killer who butcher's complete families, falls in love with a nice blind girl, making us start to feel sorry for him, almost wishing that his romance succeeds. In this part of the movie cop seems more wild then him. Both of these subplots are enough to make a good movie('Silence of the lambs' is based on first subplot) but here they are just one of diversions that give new meaning to our characters. Great acting of all crew, especially Tom Noonan and William Petersen, and a master of his trade, Michael Mann with his subtle directing, made this great story in one of the best thrillers of all time. "}{"Title":"This strong looking unusual thriller is extremely well made film.","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When a former F.B.I. Profiler by the name of Will Graham (William L. Petersen) is asked by his former boss (Dennis Farina) to go on a hunt of a dangerous killer (Tom Noonan), who preys on families. The only person, who could help Will on the case is no other than convict Dr. Hannibal Lector (Brian Cox).Directed by Michael Mann (Ali, Collateral, Heat) made an strong, stylized thriller. Which the film's style and soundtrack won't appeal to everyone. The film is Based on a Novel titled Red Dragon by Thomas Harris (The Silence of the Lambs, Hannibal).The now out of print Limited Edition Two Disc Set from Anchor Bay Entertainment. Disc One has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an fine digitally remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD extras have Interviews with the Cast & Crew, Bios and the original theatrical trailer. Disc Two is a Director's Cut with an alternative ending doesn't have the same transfer and sound of the first disc. The latest DVD from Anchor Bay (Which it is now also Out of Print) is the new personal Director's Cut with new DVD extras. Also alivable in Pan & Scan from MGM.This film has been rediscover years after The Silence of the Lambs hits theaters back in 1991, which is the second film of the series. Manhunter has been remade with the original title of the novel Red Dragon has been re-imagined with Oscar-WinnerAnthony Hopkins playing his now famous roleHannibal Lector. Which in the original film Manhunter, it was spelled Dr. Lecktor (For some bizarre unexplained reasons). DirectorMann wrote the adaptation of this film. The film also starsKim Griest, Stephen Lang and Joan Allen. Frankie Faison appears in a Cameo, which he appears in the two sequels and the remake as Barney. This film has become an Cult Classic. Watch for comedianChris Elliot in a scene. Fine Cinematography by Dante Spinotti (Bandits, Blink, Wonder Boys), which Spinotti also shot the remake. Super 35. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I remember picking up a book called 'Red Dragon' at random in a second-hand store and thinking it might be good one to take on holiday. It took me 7 hours to read it the first time and a bit longer the second (because I speed read the first time round. Sometimes I cheat and read the last 4 or 5 pages first). Each of the 3 subsequent readings took a bit longer as I found more details. A few years later, a film called 'Silence Of The Lambs' was released amid much hype, but it wasn't a film I was attracted to. Neither was the book ( I couldn't get past the Burke and Hare names without thinking of the famous English grave robbers). Then came 'Hannibal' with the same effect. However, there suddenly appeared a sequel (prequel) called 'Red Dragon' and I couldn't resist watching in case it was a film of the book I'd read. I was disappointed. Two nights ago, my Hubby recorded 'Manhunter' and said it was something to do with Hannibal Lecter. Mmmmm? The only one I had heard of was 'Red Dragon'. However, I watched it and, although it left quite a lot to be desired in the acting department, there was more I recognised in comparison to film/book in 'Manhunter' than in 'Red Dragon'. My only defence? My first experience of TV was programmes like 'The Professionals', 'Jason King' etc, etc, so I must admit I read 'Red Dragon' in a '70's setting'. "},{"Title":"grissom!","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Manhunter is the original 1986 old school ghetto adaptation of Harris' novel Red Dragon. This was before Silence of the Lambs and long before the Edward Norton/Anthony Hopkins remake. The screenplay was done by an underrated Michael Mann and the cast was surprisingly star studded. Will Graham was played by Will Peterson, who we all know and love as GRISSOM! from CSI! This role as a Forensic Psychologist gave him excellent credentials and paved the way for his more prominent role as Grissom. In the film, Grissom was backed up by the always comical, yet cynical Dennis Farina. Better yet, much to my surprise, the role of Dr. Hannibal Lector was played by, none other than, Brian Cox, who we all know as the crazy Cpt. O'Hagen from Super Troopers and the eerie Mr. Morgan from the Ring. He was a great combination of silly and insane, but obviously no where near Hopkins' status. Phillip Seymour Hoffman was greatly missed as the hilariously apathetic photographer, but I have to admit, the new insane killer guy was waaaay more insane and killerish than when Fiennes played the part in 2002.The editing on the gun fight scenes were shotty at best (huuuuge pun intended), and the soundtrack was like a drugged up Scarface score (that's extremely redundant if you've seen the movie). Other than that, it did give me chills, and i was impressed in the end. but i must say, it was no Village ;)... but that is a whole other post.Anyways, the underlying theme of the movie was clearlyIf you are clinically blind, for the love of god, do not have wild sex with a criminally insane mastermind, then cheat on himIn the end, I am pleased to award it a 6/10 on the calorimeter  "},{"Title":"Forced to comment after reading some reviews today...","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILERS* (Although you all have probably watched this film now anyway) Where to begin? I decided to re-watch this film today, and had an engrossing 2 hours. With what is beginning to become a habit, I then checked through some of the views recorded on this site, and felt compelled to add my own.A user called Ostomedo quite rightly says he doesn't mind the 80#s feel to this film, the same as he doesn't mind the 60's feel to some Hitchcock movies.Another user commented that the newer version, Red Dragon, had couples talking to camera, whereas we felt like voyeurs watching a silent movie in Manhunter whilst watching the footage of the victims. This film was made in 86, before cam corders were everywhere. Before mobile phones were everywhere. Time and place. Just like the synth music.I agree that Cox isn't on screen long enough to truly shine, yet still has some stand-out moments  Operator? Hi. I don't have the use of my arms, could you dial a number for me... being just one.I am surprised at how little is said of some of the more visually stunning moments in this film. I remember the first time I saw this movie, I was much younger than I should have been, perhaps, but anyway, I can still remember the curiosity I felt upon hearing the whump noise followed by the squeeking of creaky wheels as the wheelchair trundles down the ramp ablaze, then having that curiosity horribly sated with the site of Freddy rolling to his eventual death.Also, the scene with Graham imagining a female victim with mirrors for eyes and mouth. Lights. All about the sense of sight. Stunning to see.Dennis Farina does OK in this movie. He looks superbly smug as Graham is proven to be far ahead of the game in front of doubting Atlanta officers.Tom Noonan comes over as horribly chilling. I guess it is just easier to be 6foot6 than act it, eh Ralph Fiennes? )The movie has its faults, like most things do, but overall I rate this movie highly. It had no public consciousness to play to like Red Dragon, it could carve its own mould, and did so.Although much of its current marketing would appear to play on it being the first in the Hannibal canon, I would suggest just watching it for its own merits.For all those who berate the lack of fidelity to, or omissions from, the book, please bear this in mind. The book is quite lengthy(as is the nature of some books), and so can cover an immense amount of material. A screen play on the other hand isn't (perhaps with Das Boot and David Lunch's Dune as exceptions -) ), so you should expect some differences. The director's brief (normally) is to finish up with a cohesive story, which is what we have here. If you take the time to read the book, you well may pick up on some extra levels of subtlety on screen (for example, Mr D's reluctance to actually slice up Reba), but the omission of these explicit references by no means detract from movie in isolation.As always, I apologise for the unstructured nature of these comments (I guess that's why I write here rather than submit to paper publications!) Lazy me!  "},{"Title":"This one nailed it","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The 2002 're-make' of Thomas Harris' 'Red Dragon' was a cynical attempt to capitalize on the public's fascination with the character of Hannibal Lecter as played by Anthony Hopkins. The irony, of course, is that Brian Cox, an equally gifted but much less successful actor than Hopkins, gave a far more subtle and memorable performance as Lecter in this Michael Mann production, his first feature-film after the phenomenal success of his TV series, Miami Vice.Mann exploits his MV aesthetic in this film to full effect, using color and stylish soundtracking--from the spooky ambient music to the Iron Butterfly classic 'Inna Gadda Da Vida'--to create a vanguard thriller that cost me more than a few nights' sleep.Lecter is a secondary character here, though Cox's few scenes as the mad genius cast a long shadow over the film, which centers on former FBI profiler Will Graham (William Petersen), called out of retirement to hunt 'the Tooth Fairy' (Tom Noonan), an elusive serial killer who murders whole families in randomly disparate locales. Graham, it turns out, has an uncanny knack for being able to put himself in the mind of a killer by studying his crimes and imagining his motives, a process which has proven both effective and costly to his own mental health.Petersen gives a remarkable performance, one that should have made him a big star. It's ironic that he has found such success in late middle-age as the pudgy, eccentric Grissom on TV's 'CSI', years after he gave two of the most shamefully overlooked leading man performances of the eighties in this film and in William Friedkin's sorely unappreciated 'To Live and Die in LA.'Petersen's Graham is Steve McQueen for the eighties--sensitive and psychologically complex, bitter but driven, terrified both of what he hunts and of what the hunt brings out in himself.The cast here is fabulous, from top to bottom Tom Noonan is superbly creepy as Francis 'the Tooth Fairy' Dollarhyde, who, unbelievably enough, arouses sympathy, despite the fact that his backstory--much dwelled upon in the remake--is mostly alluded to rather than explicated in 'Manhunter.' Cox, as has been said by many, gives a much more subtle, convincing, and, in turn, frightening performance as Lecter--he all but steals the film, despite being on screen for only about eight minutes. Dennis Farina--who was a real cop before he started playing one on TV and in the movies--lends realism to the role of Jack Crawford, and the superb Joan Allen gives the best supporting performance in the film as Reba, the blind woman who unwittingly befriends the killer. Stephen Lang is excellent as a smarmy tabloid reporter who noses his way into the crime.But the real star of the film is Michael Mann, whose cool, hip visual aesthetic gives the film its nourish edge. I can't imagine anyone comparing this film unfavorably with the 2002 remake.Aside from enlarging the role of Lecter and providing a less-abridged account of the source novel (the first film omits a crucial plot twist toward the film's conclusion and omits most of the serial killer's back-story, which takes up considerable space in the novel), the second film does nothing to improve on the first. Every performance in the first film is superior, which is saying something, given that so many of the second film's stars are much more highly regarded as dramatic actors than the previous film's ensemble. Brian Cox's superiority to Anthony Hopkins as Lecter is now frequently professed, but who'd have ever thought Harvey Keitel would be outdone by Dennis Farina? Emily Watson by the hugely underrated Joan Allen? Ralph Fiennes, one of the most highly regarded stage and film actors living, by bit-part character actor Tom Noonan? Celebrated character actor Phillip Seymour Hoffman by relative unknown Stephen Lang? Edward Norton, so promising in 'Primal Fear,' utterly outshined by William Petersen, in what turned out to be his last role as a big screen leading man?Most of the credit goes to Michael Mann, though some blame for the failure should be shouldered by Dino DiLaurentis, who could only have been motivated to produce 'Red Dragon' by a desire to cash in on Lecter-mania.Trivia note Frankie Faison, who appears in the subsequent Lecter films as Barney, the psychiatric orderly who oversees Lecter's care, appears in 'Manhunter' as a police captain, making him the only actor to appear in all four films featuring the infamous villain.  "},{"Title":"Pretentious, yet highly watchable Thriller!","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  * Terrible * * Below Par * * * Not Bad * * * * Good * * * * * BrilliantI saw Michael Manns take on the Thomas Harris novel afew years ago when my parents had satelite t.v. and I was very surprised. Not at wether the film was good or bad, but how two direcors could have so much of a different approach to a series of books. I had at the time only seen 'The Silence of the Lambs' directed by Jonathan Demme a few years after this film. so I was expecting a high calibre film, and to say I was not dissapointed at all was no understatement.The movie is the story of police officer Will Graham's (the under rated William Petersen) near obseesive hunt for the serial killer, the 'Tooth Fairy' who already has murdered several family's before the film has begun. Now retired, Will is Enlisted by friend and FBI secretary Jack Crawford (Dennis Farina), Who coaxes his buddy to try and catch the killer. What we don't know before hand is that Wil has an unorthodox method of catching his target. He tries to put thoughts into his head like the murderer so he then knows how the man or woman thinks. This enable him to stay one step ahead of them. However While on a previous Job, the troubled former cop was attacked and left for dead by a killer he helped capture. This left more emotionally and mentally scarred by the ordeal than physically. It is this same killer, the psychiatrist Hannbal Lectre (Scots actor, Brian Cox) that he must consult to attempt and find his man and stop the killings.Michael does such a good job adapting the film to the screen (he also wrote the screenplay) that it's little wonder the film never became a box office hit. The cast lead by Petersen is first rate. Petersen is everyhing that a tortured film hero should be. Manly, but sensetive. Brave yet scared which Mann wisely convinces Petersen to do and bring out a great performance.Farina is good value too as is Kim Griest as Petersens devoted wife Molly. She is a complex woman who not only understands what her husband is trying to do but chides him for it. She wants him to stay with her and their son and not get involved in something that may seriously hurt him.Brian Cox in the more minor roll of Lecter has less to do as what Anthony Hopkins did in '...Silence'. Never the less his performance I think is classier than Hopkins more. It reeks of subtlety that was lacking in Hopkins performance in 1990. He was good but not as much as Cox.All in all Manhunter I thought was a must see film. Maybe it's slightly dated but what film to some degee does not. If you get a chance please try and watch it. It's one of the better film's of the late eighties.Robs Rating * * * * *       "},{"Title":"Great, Stylish Thriller!","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A very well done, stylish, Thriller delivered by Michael Mann, seems a bit under rated to me, I think that it should have deserved a bit more than 7.2/10. Not as good as The Silence of the Lambs, but head and shoulders above Hannibal. A psychopathic killer who calls himself The Tooth Fairy is killing his victims at very random times and the police and FBI have no suspects. So the FBI asks Agent Will Graham, the Manhunter who captured Dr. Hannibal Lecter, to help out with the case. So Graham visits Dr. Lecter for main leads for The Dragon, while Graham's wife and son, are also in danger.Starring William Petersen, Kim Griest, Brian Cox, Dennis Farina, Joan Allen, Stephen Lang, David Seaman, Benjamin Hendrickson, and Tom Noonan as Francis Dolarhyde. ***1/2 out of 4. My IMDB Rating 8.3/10. "},{"Title":"Director? Sure.  Writer, no.","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I would enjoy Mann's films if he didn't insist on writing them.  I did not accept him as a writer on Miami Vice; I didn't accept him as a writer on Ali.  All of films suffer the same fate--wonderful visual style, interesting on screen composition, editing, and movement from one scene to the next.  Just a shame that the narrative within those scenes don't live up to the rest of Mann's ability.  He can show a story--can he ever show a story in a way only Burton and the Scott brothers can surpass--but he can't narrate one worth anything.Mann is obsessed with subtly, development, which wins the critics adoration immediately since it is a drastic and welcomed change from your typicaly too-fast-to-tell-a-story special effects displays that pass as films these days.  The problem is I view as Mann (narratively speaking) as the exact opposite as those all-show & no content films.  The end result is, ironically, the exact same.  Just watch a Mann film and ignore the underlying narrative; it'll put you to sleep, but the look of the film will keep you awake.  He goes overboard with subtle nature, the development, and as a result makes it incredibly boring and uninviting.  He drowns us in content that if only it was half as interesting as -how- he films it, then it would rock.  All of his films, even when sporting great actors like Pacino and Deniro, I can't sympathize or say I even care about the characters.  He works too hard at the development in the writing, and that reflects in everything else.  I find it extremely tragic; I would love his films if he'd let someone else write them.  Coppola's the Godfather, as long and slow paced a film as that is, I could easily get into the family's microcosm.  The film works on a narrative level and visual level to draw in its viewers and embrace each of the characters--either love or hate them.  In Manhunter, like all Mann films, I don't care.  They're not characters--they always come across as actors trying to pull off an overdeveloped character that's no longer believable.  It's a waste of talent, and a tragedy.  Manhunter, Insider, Heat, Mohicans, I'm so close and yet so far from enjoying these films. "},{"Title":"Everything I want.","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When Michael Mann made this film, Hannibal Lecter was a supporting character--as he should have been.  Hannibal has one major scene in the film, which is about how much he is featured in the novel.  Thanks to Silence of the Lambs and, more importantly, Hopkins portrayal of Lecter, there was a scramble to dig up everything Thomas Harris wrote (suddenly, copies of Black Sunday were re-issued everywhere).  Initially, I was disappointed when the cannibal remained on the margins (albeit menacingly). But Manhunter made me appreciate the story that was there all the more. If anything, I wanted to know more about Will Graham and I had hoped he would have made a comeback in Hannibal.  I'll admit it, that sequel made me very cynical of any attempt to cash-in on the Lecter name, so I'm already skeptical of the new Red Dragon release.  I'm sure it will be another Hopkins vehicle which can't resist giving the crowd what it wants. What do I want?  A flaming wheelchair and Inna-Gadda-Da-Vida!  I know I'll get one in Red Dragon, but only Manhunter gives me both! "},{"Title":"More believable ending.","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I will go to see 'Red Dragon' when it comes out to see how it compares to 'Manhunter,' although it will need to go some to better Michael Mann's 80s classic.  My only comments are about the ending.  I had seen 'Manhunter' several times before reading 'Red Dragon' (and 'Silence Of The Lambs' in one weekend) and really didn't like the ending in the book at all.  It was far too contrived and unbelievable to hold up well on screen and it reminded me of Lecter's escape in 'Silence,' which required a total suspension of disbelief from me to accept.  I prefer the ending in 'Manhunter' because it is believable, but still very tense and the use of Iron Butterfly's 'In A Gadda Da Vida' was inspired.  PS I also love that bit of music where Dolarhyde is ripping up the dash in his van and finally got it a few months back. "}{"Title":"Loving Every MINUTE!!!!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, first things first, admittedly, i havent finished this movie yet, but thats becasue i'm watching it in school. but what I have seen has taken my breath away.Brian Cox is here doing what is probably the definitve performance of Hannibal Lecter. whereas Anthony Hopkins plays Lecter's sinister aspects all up front, Cox is more scary purely for the fact that those aspects are subdued. Lecter actually seems like a normal guy, which makes the fact that he kills and eats people all the more frightening. theres also the way that Will Graham can get inside Serial Killer's heads. the worst thing is, he cant prevent Lecter getting into HIS. "},{"Title":"Good, but not great","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film having read Red Dragon, and I'm afraid that may have meant I couldn't enjoy it as much as I would've done coming to it with no prior knowledge of the story. However, this is a generally effective film, with a very interesting atmosphere and solid performances from all the main cast members. Tom Noonan is excellent as Dolarhyde, but unfortunately his character is vastly cut down from the book, meaning the viewer doesn't understand much of his background or motivation. I understand that Dolarhyde's a very difficult character to adapt due to the fact that he generally keeps his thoughts to himself and spends a lot of time alone, but the film fails to even explain some of the more basic facts about him. The film is quite true to the book apart from the underdevelopment of Dolarhyde, and is generally well done. Unfortunately, the ending in Manhunter is vastly changed from the book, and certainly not for the better. I know a lot of people didn't like the ending of the book and it's not worth arguing about how good it was here, but at least it was quite interesting, unexpected and clever. However, Manhunter just goes with a boring, standard action movie kind of ending.Overall, it's quite a good film, and people who haven't read the book will probably especially enjoy it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"NOT as good as 'Lambs' ... but ...","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ... still a great film.I was disappionted that it was so far removed from the book. One of 'Lambs' best qualities was that it followed the book's plot almost to the letter. Manhunter misses out and completely changes countless aspects of The Red Dragon. However, once you stop comparing this film to Lambs, it is easier to see how good it actually is. A great thriller with quite a bit of time given to the killer's pschological motives. I can't say I found this movie disturbing or scary, but I was certainly pulled into it and swept along as the plot twisted and turned.NOW - the 2 Lecters. I must agree with the majority ... Hopkins still scares the crap out of me every time and I've seen the movie so many times I lost count. Cox is a great actor, but the character in Manhunter isn't put across as 'scary'. He doesn't seem any threat in his cage ... whereas in Lambs, he is built up and MADE disturbing by showing us the power he has over others' minds. So, yes. The Lecter in Manhunter is inferior to the Lector in Lambs. But this has nothing to do with the acting, really. The 2 parts, for the characters are definitely poles apart, were written into their respective movies to serve different purposes. "},{"Title":"Best of the three Lector movies","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There are three Hannibal Lector movies Manhunter, Silence of the Lambs and Hannibal. Hannibal was one of the worst movies I have ever seen. It was completely ridiculous. Silence of the Lambs was okay, but it was too slow. Jonathan Demme has made better movies than that. Then we come to Manhunter, a fabulous movie with some very good acting from William Peterson and especially Joan Allen. It has got the best plot of the three. Michael Mann also made some other good movies, such as The Insider.It's really a shame that they are going to do a remake of this film. It's not so out-dated. This will just be made to get as much money as they can get from this stupid Lector hype. Don't touch this! "},{"Title":"The Battle of the Hannibals...","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ah yes, Manhunter, one of the most talked-about and debated movies in history.  Well, it is not really the movie itself that is debated, but the comparison to its predecessor, The Silence of the Lambs.  It is this debate that I wish to discuss.When it comes to serial killer movies, there is a small percentage of them that are any good and a vast majority that aren't worth a dime.  When it comes to the minority, there are three films that stick out Se7en, The Silence of the Lambs, and Manhunter.  Basically, there are three types of people people who think Manhunter is God and far more brilliant than any other film in existence especially that piece of trash Lambs movie, people who have never heard of Manhunter and love The Silence of the Lambs, And finally the people who have seen both films and love Se7en the most.  Where do I fit?  I'm off in a fourth group of people who see each of these films as equally brilliant and try not to compare them.  But, to put your minds at ease, I will do so now.Manhunter is an artistic and logical film that aims to frighten its audience in the brain.  It features brilliant acting and even more brilliant characters.  I love the whole idea of a man hunting a killing and becoming that killer in his head because that is terrifyingly realistic.  Like all of Michael Mann's films, Manhunter tries to be as realistic as possible in every sense of the word.  That is why I love Mann.  He has a unique grasp of reality.  Guns sound like guns in his films.  Characters act like real people.  And serial killers act like serial killers.  His attention to detail is absolutely amazing, and Manhunter is proof of that.  Manhunter is also incredibly artistic, using out there lighting and angles.The Silence of the Lambs takes a very different approach.  Instead of freighting the audience with reality, it chooses to do so by another means.  It aims for the heart and emotions.  Silence is much more personal than Manhunter and tries to scare the audience psychologically, irking the most remote and primal centers of the brain as well as the heart.  Also, Silence is much more mainstream, using normal camera angels and basic lighting.As for Se7en, well, it's a combination of both of those films.  It attacks on a psychological, emotion, logical, and, well, every other level.  Personally, I think Se7en is a stronger film, because where Manhunter and Silence both have their flaws, Se7en is perfection at one of its highest levels.  But that's just my opinion.  We're talking about the Hannibal films right now, so forget that.As for Ridley Scott's Hannibal, I'm not going to discuss that because I don't consider it on the same field as the others.  It is less of a serial killer movie than it is a gross-out contest.  While the other films try to attack you personally and mentally, Hannibal just attacks your stomach, and because of that I feel it is a weak film.  It isn't a bad movie, but it isn't great.Now, both Silence and Manhunter have their faults.  Silence has good characters, but none of them are as realistic or as good as Manhunter.  When put under this spotlight, Silence fails.  This is Manhunter's strongest point.  Also, Silence has practically no artistic value while Manhunter is consumed by it.  But Manhunter is not without fault.  It has aged something awful over the years.  The fancy lighting reeks of the 80's and the music is horrible enough to make your ears bleed.  There are many shots in the film that I like, but they overuse the color green and there are too many horrible examples of over-lighting to bother counting.Then there is the ultimate battle.  The battle of the Hannibals.  Lektor or Lecter?  Brian Cox or Anthony Hopkins?  The answer is both of them.  Each actor portrays a version of Hannibal that fits the movie each is in.  Brian Cox's performance is much more realistic.  He is cunning, deceptive, and everything Lektor should be.  Hopkins is evil.  No doubt about it.  This is Silence's strongest point.  I have never seen a movie in my life where I felt pure evil like I do every time I see Silence.  I don't know what it is about Hopkins's performance as Lecter, but it is pure evil.  While Cox is brilliantly realistic, Hopkins is brilliantly evil.  But, here's the trick if the roles were reversed in those movies it would have sucked awful.  Hannibal needed to be one way in Silence as well as another way in Manhunter.  They are two different films with two different Hannibals.  So you people who keep saying one is better than the other need to jump off a cliff and do us all a favor.So which is the superior films?  In my mind they are equal.  But because I'm more of a mainstream person, I will go back to Silence more than I will Manhunter.  That doesn't mean Manhunter is less of a film.  Actually, Manhunter may in fact be better than Silence.  But to me the films are as different as Star Wars and The Bridge on the River Kwai.  They both may have a single similarity (in that case, Alec Guinness), but they are two entirely different movies.  If someone tried to compare those two they would be shot, and rightly so.  So, in conclusion, both films are good, great even, and now I'm going back to my room to watch Judge Dredd.  "},{"Title":"One original note","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After over 130 comments, very little remains to be said about this film. Like many, I liked it better than SOTL because Will Graham is a more interesting detective than Clarice Starling (although she certainly is a fascinating character) and the Tooth Fairy is a FAR more interesting quarry than Buffalo Bill!So what can I say that hasn't been said by one or more of the film's other admirers?  One thing  No other commentator has actually praised the film's bright 80's look.Most people who liked the film have simply excused its bright pastels and pale lighting by saying something like  `Hey, man!  It was made in the 80's! What do you want?'  But I feel that the bright shades actually add to the film's dark mood.How???Here's how  In SOTL, we are treated to a dark, dank, murky world in which disgusting fiends like Buffalo Bill and Hannibal Lecter are expected to lurk.  But in the bright, happy pastels of the 1980's, the serial killers feel more like intruders.  We are treated to a cheerful world and this THING has violated it.  This strikes me as far more effective.The whole film can be visually summed up by the strange, first appearance of Hannibal Lecter.  He seems a dark, filthy bug, splotched in the middle of a clean, white background.It really works!  "},{"Title":"Cinematography.....","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One of my fave movies ever.Cox is excellent as Lecter. A different, less desperate, Lecter than the Hopkins portrayal but still, here is the sly, cunning, manipulating Lecter writ in the pages of the Harris book. Cox brings him to life and I believe him when he does so. He is scary. He is Lecter. I am also a fan of Hopkins and his interpretation of the character but I do not fall into the 'which Lecter is the real one' trap. These are different movies, styles, actors and that is a good thing. Cox is comfortably insane.Tom Noonan is a memorable and deeply unsettling villain as Dolarhyde. He manages to get a sense of the sympathy the author gave the character in the book, even though the scope to do this is limited given the amount of condensation the book had to go through to end up at at movie length. Noonan is worryingly insane.Joan Allen is believable and works well in the movie. Credit to her and her realistic grasp of a normal woman who just happens to be blind.The cinematography, however, is the thing this picture scores with for me. A combination of the obsessive Michael Mann and the genius of Dante Spinotti, every scene is a visual masterpiece. The use of colours, lighting and even the objects on a table are all major players in this movie. Look at the use of the bars in the Graham/Lecter scenes. Who is behind those bars? The camera position and lighting are critical. Look at the use of the colour purple as we pan across Lecter's cell.When, in a movie, has the use of green light through glass bricks ever had such an impact.The opening scene pans down from a blue sky to Graham and Crawford sitting on a branch on the sand. Freeze frame that. It is a perfect composition. A Vettriano image. This respect for composition is echoed through the movie. There are so many opportunities here to see the visual, the lighting, the camera all coming together. Yes, it is a 1980's pic. It was made in the 1980's and is a tribute to the look and feel of the time.See this again please.BoC. "},{"Title":"Quick Opinion","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you've read the book or seen any of the other movies in this trilogy, you'll be annoyed with the ill-fitting Brian Cox as Hannibal.  Anthony Hopkins IS Hannibal Lecter.  Anything based on a Thomas Harris novel can't be bad, and Manhunter is delightfully 80's.  For a movie of its time, it does accomplish a great deal, but don't expect it to be nearly as enticing as Silence or Hannibal. "},{"Title":"Not a bad interpretation of the book","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Red Dragon is about twice as long of a book than Silence of the Lambs, and squashing it into a two hour movie would have been nearly impossible.  The characters are portrayed pretty well by the actors, and I feel Brian Cox fills the role of Lecter perfectly as it was described in Red Dragon.  Lecter is a little different in this story.  The main flaw of this movie is that it left out the background information and motivation for Dolarhyde's actions.  The whole significance of the Red Dragon has been removed, which also may be a reason for changing the title.  Also, for some unknown reason, the makers of this movie decided to change the spellings of many of the charater's names.  As for the new ending; I feel it was an improvement.  The ending to Red Dragon was a total letdown, and Michael Mann rightly decided to make it end the way it should have.  This was also a good decision for Hannibal.  Overall, I dig this movie... "},{"Title":"A great film..thumbs up all round!!","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film was not only far ahead of its time but also a fantastic bit film making (Michael Mann once again hits the spot) in every sense of the word.All the actors are brilliant especially Tom Noonan, Brian Cox and William Peterson. I personally rate this film higher than silence of the lambs mainly because of the atmosphere of the movie. Its a very psychological film with bright colours and a music score that would make any director proud. I won't mention the plot but you can guess...(serial killers,,,detective,,,lector.....need I say more)On the whole, the film is brilliant and if you haven't watched it...WATCH IT!!! "}{"Title":"Michael Mann pulls out all the stops on this one!","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  MILD SPOILERS! I really like this movie!  I'm proud to own it (as well as Silence of the Lambs) and find in it much to enjoy.  That having been clarified, I'll say this  I definitely think it needs to be redone.  I'm really looking forward to a new treatment.  There is so much that was left out of the novel that another version (more true to the feel of the other two) could be terribly interesting.  I want to see more about Dollarhyde's past.  I want to see more about his evolution into the Red Dragon.  And I really want to see the scene where he goes to New York and eats the classic Blake painting!  Manhunter (as its name surreptitiously implies) is so Michael Mann-ed out that the same movie by another director would be radically different.  Furthermore, while I actually like it better than I like Silence of the Lambs, I wouldn't go so far as to say that it's far superior (as some declare).  In some ways it is and it's always fun to root for the underdog but, as a whole, Demme's Silence of the Lambs is probably a better work.Unlike Mann's Last of the Mohicans, Manhunter is pure Michael Mann.  In Mohicans, Mann deliberately strips himself of ALL that makes him the distinctive director that he is and shows us that, even without his usual bag of tricks, he's still pretty good.  In sharp contrast, however, he pulls out all the stops in Manhunter and I love him for it!Somehow he uses a story that would've naturally looked like the other two Lector movies and takes it in a radically different direction and...it works!  Silence and Hannibal have cops in them but they are horror/psycho killer movies.  Manhunter, on the other hand, has psychotic murderers, but is definitely a cop movie.  Consequently, it is tied to the other two about as much as Leo and Claire's R+J is tied to the usual Shakespearean treatments.  It has everything that Mann used to make Miami Vice such a work of brilliance.  It's got quirky, driving 80's rock combined with a moody, ambient score.  It's got a quirky, moody cop on the edge (complete with five o'clock shadow).  It's even got a cameo by MV's Michael Talbot (Agent Switek) and Dennis Farina (who made an appearance in a few MV episodes).  As in Miami Vice, we see the shaky juxtaposition of domestic life and the cop world and the nearly impossible struggle to hold onto both.  Moments of domestic bliss (bathed in unrealistic but beautifully blue moonlight) are contrasted with wonderfully mundane scenes. One of these that really works well is when Agent Graham and his step-son shop for groceries and discuss his first encounter with Lector.  And, of course, the whole movie is full of Mann's shockingly beautiful colours  deep greens, reds, pinks, blues, and whites). Hell, just for good measure, Mann even throws in some white sand and green turtles beach scenes for those of us whose lives still bear that Miami Vice shaped vacuum.    I also like Mann's treatment of Lector.  He has chosen to give him an important but far-from-central role in the film.  The choice to veer from this is what kills Hannibal.  Personally I like Brian Cox's (Rob Roy) leering, creepy Lector.  No arguing that Hopkin's is excellent but everything that was wrong with Hannibal was right with Manhunter.  In it, Lector may be remarkably perceptive and resourceful but he's still a disgusting, slimy, depraved old man.  He may be intriguing to us but he's clearly not worthy of adulation.  Cox's Lector is, in this respect, radically more believable than the cultured, enlightened creation of Anthony Hopkins.Tom Noonan, as Francis Toothfairy Dollarhyde, is pretty good too.  I definitely like him more than the antagonist, Jame Buffalo Bill Gumb, of Silence.  In his own eerie, pitiable way he was able to provide the adequate amount of antagonistic focus that Gumb could not.  Gumb is good for gross-outs and over-all creepiness but he is never quite scary.  I think Dollarhyde is.  He may not be as formidable a foe as Lector but he still presents a clear antagonist.  (Be sure to note the wings of blood under his arms after he has been shot and killed.  This is, apparently, as close as he will get to becoming the Red Dragon he believed he was metamorphasizing into.)       Sure, Manhunter has weaknesses.  Graham's acting is sporadic.  The scenes where he is getting riled up at the as-yet-unknown killer are a bit weak.  (You son of a b****!  You wanted them to watch, didn't you?)  Also, as much as I enjoy Mann, it's probably too stylized for its own good.  It will not be as timeless as Silence. The year it was made (1986) is just as much a part of its identity as the original work by Harris was.  But for those of us who really liked 1986, I guess Manhunter will always be a favorite. "},{"Title":"IT TAKES ONE TO CATCH ONE -- so let's REMAKE this turkey !","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Mann's 'pro-law enforcement' mania by side, we really, really NEED a 2002(?) 're-make' of this very flawed film. It's good, I gave it a 7. Just for the infectious corrupting 'mirror-image' relationship between the FBI profiler and everyone's favorite gentleman, genius, cannibal ! But there are so many serious problems one wonders if Mann even read the fascinating novel, Red Dragon. Cheesy title being a relatively minor flaw ! Contrary to all prevalent reasoning that only Anthony Hopkins CAN successfully play Lecter, it is NOT Brian Cox's very fine performance of that very intelligent 'monster' with completely no moral sense whatsoever (See Cox's commentary on DVD) which is so appalling !First, who is Dollarhyde (Dollar ???) -- it's Dolarhyde. A telling 'Freudian slip' perhaps -- as to De Laurentis's initial motivations in this first of the Thomas Harris Hannibal trilogy ! That is, before his much more aesthetic decisions concerning HANNIBAL (2001), after missing out on SILENCE OF THE LAMBS (1991) ?  Second, who is this Dr. Sydney Bloom, of the University of Chicago ??? A serious flaw for those with a deeper insight into the name of Dr. Alan ! Bloom of the University of Chicago, as is used throughout the trilogy of three novels (= 3 movies, to date). Here, I need not even go into the directorial decisions concerning endings, of which only Demme's Silence pretty much adheres to the sense of the fantastic literature which inspires this series. But one may seriously question why, after going to all the trouble of getting that high-color tattoo onto Tom Noonan's back, this visual element (from the non-visual media of the novel !) would NOT be used after all, in the essentially audio-visual media of cinema !?! Apart from how this reinforces the very important  less-literate/less intellectual (than a Hannibal Lecter, MD !!!) in the psychosis of the Tooth-Fairy, inasmuch as concerns the late watercolor illustration(s) of Revelations (12 1-4) by the English poet William Blake, Noonan's 'good' performance might have been 'great' ! (See the imagined scene in Sean Penn's THE PLEDGE for a later example of this actor's abilities as homicidal maniac !)Lastly, the amusing serendipitous situation of the Shakespearean actor, Brian Cox, giving us our first (bone-chilling) glimpse of the embodiment of the Nietzschean Superman taken to one of its logical extremes (Film Critic, Todd R. Ramlow, for PopMatters Hannibal Lecter, C'est Moi) in 1986, while the Shakespearean actor, Anthony Hopkins, was doing King Lear in London -- and Cox's doing Lear in London while Hopkin's was so masterfully 'creating' HIS Lecter in SILENCE OF THE LAMBS (1991) -- IS very funny !Oh well ! Let's all hope Ted Tally (Silence) shows the kind of respect for the Harris novel it deserves, in the remake RED DRAGON ! And that Anthony Hopkins can manage this 'prequel' ! -- He assuredly can, see HANNIBAL ! "},{"Title":"Signature Michael Mann","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Michael Mann's style in Manhunter is unmistakable  Lots of wide two-shots of people conversing while staring out over an expanse, simple electronic music resonating over entire sequences, and a general feeling of emptiness that hovers over every frame.  If The Insider, Heat, and Miami Vice are your cup of tea, you'll thoroughly enjoy this film.I've always had a problem with Mann's pacing.  His films feel like epics, but none are especially memorable.  Even The Last of the Mohicans managed to make an interesting story monotonous.  In Manhunter, Mann had some of the best material you can get.  I rifled through Thomas Harris' Red Dragon faster than any book I've read and it was riveting from beginning to end.  The film lingers on character beats for so long that sometimes you lose interest in the story.  I was also disappointed with the end of the film (don't worry, no spoilers).  It left out the book's clever and surprising final act and resorted to a been-there-done-that action-movie close.  Some other major elements of the book were left out, one that revolves specifically around the Red Dragon painting.  Did they need it in the film?  I'm not sure, but having read it, I really missed it.  I guess that's why they named the film something else.William Petersen did a fine job 90% of the time.  He did capture Will Graham's distant lack of hope for humanity.  His similarity with Lecter, the Tooth Fairy, or presumably any criminal he's persuing clearly disturbs him almost as much as evil's general presence in the world.  However, Petersen becomes unconvincing when he walks through the crime scene and becomes flat-out angry when he stumbles upon a realization.  Ya looked at 'em through the window, didn't ya, ya son of a b----, he snarls.  I didn't buy it.Manhunter is a decent film, but it is far less superior to Silence of the Lambs to which it is often compared.  Far less tense, infinitely less frightening, though there are some scenes that I'd classify as creepy.  It also should be noted that having seen Anthony Hopkins play Lecter first, Brian Cox left a huge void in the Lecter experience.  It's not really a fair comparison, especially since Cox did it first, but imagine seeing Lecter portrayed by someone besides Hopkins and you'll know what I mean immediately.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"just amazing","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really think this is a stunningly excellent film. I could just sit there and drink it in. And the final scene is out of this world. The jumpiness, the pacing, and the flow of it - I'm incapable of articulating why it's so good, but that's in part precisely because it is so good.Maybe there are imperfections, but I haven't noticed them. Perhaps William Petersen's bowed legs. About some of the other user comments here I haven't read the book Red Dragon, but from some general experience of people's views on books, I can say for certain that the movie is a million times better than the book. "},{"Title":"Use your rent one get one free coupon.","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Overall not a horrible movie, but the acting was sophomoric in spots and the plot was totally predictable.  Took a lot for me to get over the Miami Vice look to everything.  The best part (and actor) was Tom Noonan, he played a believable psycho killer.  The cinematography was really the star of the show.  Great shots and look to the movie. "},{"Title":"If it's bad, then I'm Hannibal Lecter!","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie. Because, it's a good movie. I have seen many bad movies in my short life. And I can't see how this can be one of those. There is an interesting plot, good acting and a great direction. William L. Petersen was unknown at the time and was until C.S.I. came. And it's nice to see him again. Many people are comparing it to the book and to the other sequels. I think it's okay to compare it to the book, which's natural. But, why compare it to The Silence of the Lambs and Hannibal (haven't seen them)? They don't connect together except having Lektor/Lecter in it. And why complain about the 80's theme in the movie? It was done at that time. In my opinion it doesn't suffer from that. The music score fits the movie all along, maybe except the end credits song which is a bit too 80's but still kinda fits the scene. I agree Maltin. *** out of ****. P.S There are rumors of doing a remake of this movie and having more of Lecter.  "},{"Title":"Great DVD despite bad transfer of Director's Cut.","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've always liked Manhunter and I was stoked to finally see it not only on DVD, but also in its orginal widescreen.  The released version (On disc 1) is pristine with gorgeous cinematography by Dante Sponnotti, but something is just plain hinky with the director's cut (disc 2).It looks like second a generation VHS copy.  It lacks the crispness of Disc 1 and it can be distracting.  If you're a big fan of reading the end credits then you'd be better served looking at them on Disc 1, because they're un-readable in the Director's cut.Other than that, great DVD to add to anybody's collection. "},{"Title":"Slightly better than Silence, far better than Hannibal","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After recently watching all three movies, it is very clear that Manhunter, although the smallest in scale and lacking the 'big name stars' of the sequels is best. Yes, it is done by the same guy who did Miami Vice, but he just so happens to be a great and stylish director, Michael Mann. I love how he incorporates images and music into one cohesive force that is SO much more effective than the full frontal images and unimaginatively graphic scenes that the movie Hannibal resorts to. What a disappointment that film is. There is not one scene where I was scared in Hannibal, although there were plenty where I was disgusted. The same can be said of the Friday the 13th movies, too.  Anyways, in my humble opinion, the best performance of any of the actors in the trilogy is William Petersen, as Will Graham. I believe that firmly. Understated at times, almost claustrophobic, he unveils a powerful character by the end. Brian Cox, who plays Lector, deserves special mention, too. In the few scenes he is in, he is remarkable. Again, he goes the understated route rather than the over the top style(though still very enjoyable) of Anthony Hopkins.  The film has amazing scenes, all the more powerful when seen in widescreen. I loved the finale especially. It is pure perfection. As much as I admire Silence of the Lambs, I like Manhunter just a bit better. "},{"Title":"coughcoughcoughNotHorriblecoughcoughcough","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While I won't say this is superior to Silence of the Lambs, I still enjoyed it.  People who say it's horrible, bad etc. obviously haven't seen many movies.  It did feel a bit Miami Viceish at times, but the performances are great, especially by Tom Noonan as the Tooth Fairy.  Some of the music is a bit wonky (please remember this movie was made in 1986), but some of the music is quite effective.  The scene where Noonan takes Joan Allen to tiger is incredible and effective.I try not to compare this to SOTL, simply because it can't compete with the star power or the larger scale storyline of it.  Also, people like Hopkins more as Hannibal than Brian Cox, and Hannibal's screen time in this film is limited.As a movie on it's own, it's an moody thriller with some effective music and photography, and some great performances, especially from Tom Noonan.   "},{"Title":"Much more effectively subtle and creepy than Silence of the Lambs.","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As with most other people, I didn't get around to seeing Michael Mann's Manhunter until after I had seen Silence of the Lambs.After Anthony Hopkins' scenery chewing interpretation of the brilliant but insane Hannibal Lecktor, it was a odd seeing a different actor playing the role. But in a strange way, I actually thought that Brian Cox's Lecktor was just as effective, if not better, but in a different way.In fact that goes for the whole film. Manhunter is somewhat more effective in that you never actually see the killer performing his deeds. The viewer finds out what he does by explanations from the characters. The film also avoids the extreme close-up visual style of Silence of the Lambs (which was effective in it's own right) for wide angel shots and long tracking shots that really help add to the atmosphere.A forgotten gem that may seem slightly dated upon first look, but is still as gripping and genuinely creepy as when it originally came out.Worth a look.Rating9   "}{"Title":"Silence of the Miami Heat","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Looking back now at this 1986 release, it breaks down like a cocktail. one part Miami Vice (bad 80s hairstyles, lots of hot pink and cool blues), one part Silence of the Lambs (there are elements that carry over in Harris' sequel, most notably, the FBI investigator employing the help of Hannibal Lecter to catch another seriel killer) and one part Heat (Michael Mann was obviously honing his masterful skill with this movie, but it does not come to fruition until 1995's magnificent Heat; the helicopter night shots, a frozen cold house on the beach, etc.)Maybe its just me but I felt the lead character, FBI dude, was weak. He just didnt get my attention, seemed kind of out of sorts in certain shots, I cant put my finger on it but overall the acting and writing seemed weak. Taken in its context it was probably a much more satisfying movie for 1986, I can't think of another movie like it that came before. But it's been done a few times since, and much better. The fact that there have been movies to utilize elements of Manhunter must mean this is a great film. "},{"Title":"Better than Silence of the Lambs part Ninety-Three","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I guess I can't say anything additional that's positive about Manhunter that's not been repeated endlessly here.  However..I must say...1) I think Manhunter is INFINATELY better directed and acted that it's much more popular Hopkins/Foster vehicle. As graphic as it occationaly is, Michael Mann directs with more understatement that works on the subconscious, as opposed to Jonathan Demme's literally In-your-face blatantness. (80% of Silence was shot in such extreme close-ups I kept wondering if Demme was the most near-sighted director in history)  Brian Cox was a MUCH more believable Hannibal.( I'll bet he was properly PO'D when Hopkins won that Oscar )2) With the exception of the end credit song, MANHUNTER's music is spellbinding! Whoever isn't hypnotized by the three Shreikback pieces...well, I won't get petty.3) Lastly, I wish people who read books a movie is based on would just not bother seeing the movie. 99% of the time the book is better, that's universally accepted.Okay. I feel better now. Thank you for listening. "},{"Title":"I thought it was ok.","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw SOTL before I saw Manhunter so maybe I am a little biased. But I definitely prefer Anthony Hopkins to Brian Cox.Lector's scenes were filmed in very dreary settings in SOTL. THey showed his artwork and made me feel like he was a condemned man.Lector's scenes in Manhunter, however made it look like he was just sitting in a hospital room with bars.I guess they were trying to portray Hannibal as an 'Average Joe' in Manhunter. . someone that doesn't seem scary but really is. I think Cox did a good job but Hopkins was just more evil as Lector.I loved the Fava bean line. That sound he makes with his teeth and tongue. I could tell he enjoyed his meal.I love the way he got into Clarice's head in all their scenes. He knew her without ever even talking to her previously.I can't wait to see Hannibal. I was totally blown away by the ending of the book and I have read that the ending of the movie will be totally different than the book. I can't wait to see if this is true and how they end it.I do think Manhunter is a great movie. . .but I just preferred Hopkins as Lector.I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"A very good movie, well worth watching","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well, let me respond to some of the bashers before I add my own opinions.As far as the movie looking like it was made in the 80's, and too much like Miami Vice..  hey, that is when it was made!  You might as well complain about how Yellow Submarine, The Osmonds cartoon, The Jackson Five cartoon, and the Brady Bunch cartoons all looked too Peter Maxx.  Movie directors step out of what is normal at the time only with great caution.  You can do it right and get SOTL and Titanic, or you might end up with Ishtar or Heaven's Gate.As far as who is the better Lecter, I think Brian Cox was better.  He was strong, frightening, and did not overpower the part.  After all, the movie was called Manhunter and the book Red Dragon... It was about trying to find Tooth Fairy/Red Dragon.  It was not called Insane Rambelings From Jail.  Mr. Hopkins did a FANTASTIC job, but I found the more sedate character from this movie far better.  But unlike SOTL, Lector did not steal the show.Curiously, I read the book Red Dragon at about the time this movie came out, and loved it.  But I never saw the movie until recently because of the change of the title.  I do not know who or why it was changed, I am sure it has hurt the viewership of those that wanted to find it.One thing that I have seen nobody else mention was the use of colour in Dr. Lector's cell.  From the moment Will Graham walks in, all you see is white.  Then the camera pans around.  As you look at the items in the cell, you start to see bright red, blue, yellow, green...  then once again nothing but white.  If this was tried today, people would accuse them of trying to make it look IMac coloured.I great movie, I wish I had discovered it 15 years ago, until having to wait until now.  If you are a Lector fan, this is another movie you just have to see. "},{"Title":"Take it on its own terms","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As an adaptation of Thomas Harris' Red Dragon, Manhunter seems at first to be radically abridged in order to fit the film's running time. However, all of Harris' themes are here, conveyed in cold, stark visuals and William Petersen's introspective acting.  Hannibal Lecter is introduced here, and although Brian Cox gives an effective performance, it's a cameo role compared to Silence of the Lambs and Hannibal.  As far as I can tell, this was the first film to use an (ex)FBI profiler as its hero.  Compared to much of what it has influenced, (TV's Millennium, Profiler, too many movies to count) Manhunter economically shows us the dangers of gazing deeply into a psychotic mind in order to understand it.  Plus, the final confrontation sequence is a masterpiece of film editing.  Michael Mann's directorial eye is razor sharp, and this is an influential modern film noir worth seeing, or seeing again.  "},{"Title":"Didn't do justice to The Silence of the Lambs.","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    Being an obsessive person, I rented this film after I heard the release date for Hannibal.  I actually read the book that this movie was based on but hadn't yet gotten around to seeing the movie.  The Red Dragon, the prequel to The Silence of the Lambs, was a good novel.  Despite it's length, which actually wasn't so long, it provided great suspense as well as a great plot.  I must admit that I am a Lecter-holic (Don't worry, I don't admire his killings or evil; I just think that he's a great character) and once I rented SOTL as a warm-up to seeing Hannibal, I had to see this movie.  I just had a taste for Hannibal (pun intended).   The problem with this film is that it hardly amounts to SOTL or the novel, The Red Dragon.  It had too bright and happy of a setting alot of the backgrounds were white or had sunshine, which is quite contrary to The Silence of the Lambs' darker and depressing, autumn settings.  Also, the film was poorly casted.  I thnk that this Brian Cox, the actor who played Hannibal Lecter a.k.a. Lektor (spelled differently for some reason in the film), was a bad person to play a criminal mastermind; he didn't have the right look (facially, he seemed to look like more of an average criminal and not a refined genius) or the right voice in that is was more hoarse and less, as I said, refined than Anthony Hopkins' voice.  He also had a strong UK accent, not a soft, suspicious voice.  And all the scenes with this dark character were filmed in a bare walled, completely white prison cell, which didn't showcase Hannibals intelligence and taste.    My final beef with Manhunter is that the movie had substantial differences between the book, as in most book-movies.  The most noticeable is the ending which was not a good one.  In the book, the ending was complicated and surprising, but in the film it was short and just average action.    But beyond my petty criticisms, the movie was pretty good.  I only say this because I like the plot so much.  If you want a quick warm-up to seeing The Silence of the Lambs and/or Hannibal, you can watch this movie just to get situated with the whole detective/serial killer point of view.  But if you want a real good way to experience the first chapter about Hannibal Lecter and the F.B.I., then read the novel, The Red Dragon.  You'll like this almost as much as The Silence of the Lambs, (movie or book) because both, that film, in my opinion, truly is a work of art.                                             Rating 7/10, low seven       "},{"Title":"Only an opinion, but a GREAT film","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First things first if a comedy makes one person laugh and another person not, who's right?  They both are.  So all of you who don't like Manhunter for reasons OTHER than A) it's 1980's look or B) it's differences from the book, I respect you and leave you to your opinion.But #1 it is common knowledge that just about every book--and note I said just about--is better than it's filmed counterpart.  A person's imagination is always superior to one filmmaker's vision, so quit comparing the two; we know that books are better.#2 After reading these comments, even the most rabid of Harris fans agree that the ending of Red Dragon was a bit much, and the film was better.#3 I love Anthony Hopkins, and he deserved the Oscar.  But face it he chewed on the scenery as much as Lecter did his victims.  The toying tone of voice, the stare, the extremely detailed dissections of a person, and the fava beans line; it's definitely on the dramatic side.  But Brian Cox is creepier, because he acts like a normal Joe, even though we know he is a monster. (SPOILER) When he calmly manipulates the phone company into getting a restricted address to have someone killed, he acts like he's ordering a pizza.  No theatrics, he lets the act speak for itself.#4 William Petersen's mind-set acting puts that TV show Profiler to shame.  He doesn't submit to the 90's cliche of the cop becoming possessed to the point of madness.  His job took it's toll once before, and he shows in every scene that he is aware it could happen again.  And his wardrobe? Too many pastels, you say?  The guy lives in FLORIDA for the love o' god, they dress that way!!#5 I love the film Silence of the Lambs, I do.  I own the Criterion DVD, but Manhunter is better.  It goes more into detail on the tracking down of a killer.  It delves more into the nitty gritty of the forensic investigation. It shows what drives the killer, while in Lambs, we learn nothing of the killer's motivation.  And the police FIND the killer, unlike Lambs, where Jodie Foster quite literally stumbles upon him.Alright, enough ranting. I obviously love the film.  If you don't, you don't.  I just can't stand people who think it is a worthless movie because they like the book better, don't like 80's style, and seem to want to hate something so much they can't even get an actor's name right when berating them (to whomever it's BRIAN Cox, not BEN Cox, give the man his due).Nut shell A grossly overlooked crime movie that I believe went against the grain of most crime films, both then AND now.  If you like Silence of the Lambs in any way, shape or form, rent Manhunter for sheer comparison, then judge for yourself.  Me?  It's a classic and can't wait for the DVD double-disc release.P.S. I worked behind the counter of a video store for around 7 years, and Manhunter was the unseen gem that got nary a bad response when I recommended it to renters who wanted something they hadn't seen. "},{"Title":"One of my Top Ten of all time.","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Atmospheric, moody, a protagonist with his own motivations and not all of them good, a driven antagonist who isn't that John-Lithgow-phoning-it-in-from-drama-school cutout villain. Workable music yes, Heartbeat was annoying, but three scenes make this movie/music combination one of the best, up there with The Matrix and The Natural (I won't describe the scenes, because if you've seen the movie you know what I mean and if you haven't they would be spoilers)1. In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida  2. Strong as I Am 3. Shriekback's Coaleocanth (sp)If you think the clothes and music are dated, well the clothes and music are dated in Titantic, too. This is a period movie that I think is ripe for an update in the right hands.Some changes were made from the novel, but in general I liked them. The book's ending seemed a little too Friday the 13th to me. Besides, in the film Graham put four Glaser Safety Slugs into Dolarhyde, and let's just say you're not going to walk that off.Brian Cox is playing the same character than Anthony Hopkins played later in Silence of the Lambs and in my mind does a much better job of it, because he plays without the mugging and sucking-air-through-his-teeth histronics that Hopkins used (though I think AH is a fine actor, this was more because of Ted Demme needing to REALLY SHOW how evil Lecter is).The Lecter in this film strikes me as genuinely dangerous - he has that sizing-up look that a big cat in the zoo will often give visitors. He's off-hand, amiable, restrained, and leaves no doubt that he would cut your throat and drink blood from the wound if you gave him the chance and the idea amused him. To me, Cox's portrayal seems more like what a real Hannibal Lecter would be like than Hopkins' smarmy English teacher.William Petersen is perfect as Graham; I have never been able to picture another actor doing that role as well. Dennis Farina is a great Jack Crawford, though Scott Glenn's more analytic portrayal in SoTL seemed more genuine to me. Farina's driven Chicago-cop persona was a good choice in this one because the other two leads were so restrained.Anyway, one of my all-time favorites because it combines a solid plot, plausible storytelling, good acting, sets and atmosphere, and a complete vision behind and in front of the camera.Check it out. "},{"Title":"Bad soundtrack, but. . .","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've read the other comments that have been made about this film and I agree with the general impression - that it's a great film, superior to Silence of the Lambs, and all-in-all a fairly faithful adaptation of the book. Sure, not everything is included - the horror-movie ending jarred me when I first read it, and while the movie happy ending isn't much better, it at least gives us the sense that maybe the central character will find peace and redemption, something he surely deserves.As for Dolarhyde's motivations, I think I was able to follow them pretty well - although that might be because I read the book first. His desire to be part of a family, to be seen in their eyes as loved, ties perfectly with his burgeoning relationship with a blind woman who can NEVER see him. And as for the incredible sequence with the tiger. . .But the music still sucks. Sure, one or two tracks work in context with the scene they're accompanying, but for the most part it's awful. Dated, and no-one listened to this c*** even in 1986. The climactic gunfight to In A Gadda Da Vida isn't too bad, but these days one hears it and can only think of the 'In The Garden of Eden by I. Ron Butterfly' hymn sequence from the Simpsons. And if I never hear the Heartbeat song from the end titles ever again, it'll be too soon! "},{"Title":"A classic thriller that more than equals its famous counterpart","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When this gem came out in the summer of '86, it was gone and forgotten in the time it took to clean the neighboring theatres still showing Top Gun...too bad, because then and now, it stood high above the competition as one of the best crime thrillers in years.William Petersen had just distinguished himself less than a year before with his starring debut in To Live and Die in L.A. playing another lawman with different shadings.  His work here is notably intense without the hand-wringing histrionics that might have appealed to some of this great movie's detractors.Speaking of this great movie's detractors some of the previous comments have complained about the nerve that it took to change Thomas Harris' great novel ending.  Long before this movie was ever thought of, I read and enjoyed Harris' work, but the ending of the book kind of struck me as a cheap horror movie ending.  And after that, with the onslaught of slasher pics that had been on the screens for nearly a decade, perhaps Mann and company realized that on film, that ending would even look MORE like a cheap horror movie than it read years before.  Whatever the reason, the ending of the film is well-shot and satisfying in the terms of a crime thriller (which after all is what this movie is...); better a typical crime movie ending than a typical Friday the 13th ending.The atmosphere and production values are all top-grade, despite the predictable beefs that plague movies on here of every decade except NOW the usual comments, stuck in present day, that complain it's too 80's, looks too 80's, terrible soundtrack..sounds too 80's.  Guess what, folks, IT WAS MADE IN THE 80's!  There is always backlash over what went before; maybe great numbers of people are embarrassed over what they were dressing in, listening to, watching, etc. ten or twenty years ago.  But movies naturally exist, bad ones and good ones, as indicators of their era.I'm not defending the experience of that era, truth is, most of the movies released in the '80s were not great, but then, most movies released in any given year see the mediocre to bad far outweigh the good and definitely overshadow the great.  The point is, if you're happier being spoonfed the latest new releases, just because they carry a year-old or less release date, don't even venture back to the masterworks of yesteryear.  Might be some fashions or electronic music that frighten you more than the killer!Not every great movie from the past is going to be remade to capture the look and style of current day.  Good thing, too, because they'd probably blow it.  And even so, if this movie were remade with the equal brilliance and look of The Matrix, American Beauty, Fight Club (not a knock; I love them all) and other internet faves, chances are that in ten years, the same people would sit and write it had a decent plot, but looked and sounded so lame and cheesy...SO 90'S.Manhunter still stands today as a great film, not eclipsed at all by its famous followup The Silence of the Lambs, which was a huge success financially and critically.  It's wonderful to remember that such a dark and un-Gandhi/Last Emperor/Driving Miss Daisy film won the Best Picture Oscar. And it was a fine  film, though not without just a few faults. (Jodie Foster's wardrobe was so '91......just kidding).  The obvious difference was the style in which Lecter was presented and played, but Brian Cox' work here is an admirable portrayal of Lecter at a different point, and it's actually a little more chilling to imagine his depraved crimes as he does not tip his hand at all with any frightening design to his work.  No slight to Hopkins' fantastic work; his more overtly frightening mannerisms depict Lecter in a different set of circumstances.The rest of the cast performs very well, with Noonan a frightening and enigmatic killer, Farina a dependable and sardonic Jack Crawford and Joan Allen in one of her earliest roles.  Only Kim Griest's role seems undernourished, but not much time is spent on the Graham's domestic life. (Further down in the cast, it's quite interesting to see funnyman Chris Elliott in a straight role behind a law enforcement desk.)The production design is a nice mix of dark foreboding and crisp brightness. Michael Mann did create Miami Vice (another thing everyone has to say was cheesy to be properly entrenched in modern thinking) and this film did come out right in the middle of its successful run.  Do they share some common design appearances?  Yes, and the movie's look is all the better for it, just as the show was changing the look of TV crime thrillers from Cannon and Barnaby Jones to something a little more striking.  With Thief, Manhunter and Heat, Michael Mann created three of the very best crime dramas of the last quarter century.  As decent and noble as The Insider was (and Ali will probably be), his fans would certainly agree that it's time for him to take another walk down the dark criminal alley again. "}{"Title":"a visual ecstasy and a gripping tale","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is one of the best in its category i feel because it displays the usual visual wizardry from Mann(dream pictures;dream colors..)combined with excellent music;is it some other musicvideo-like movie?not at all!because on top of this the tale is very strong and gripping(thomas Harris is no lightweight in his category) and Mann succeeds in translating the atmosphere of the book; in shorta MUST-SEE ! "},{"Title":"Comparision to Silence of the Lambs","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I think in someways this movie was better than Silence of the Lambs.  Michael Mann's cinematography gave the movie a very interesting look and made it fun to watch.  Where Silence of the Lambs could be dark, Manhunter was full of color and movement.  Lots of intensity.  I highly recommend anyone who has seen and enjoyed Silence of the Lambs to watch Manhunter.  Also the book Red Dragon is well worth the read.  You won't want to put it down.   "},{"Title":"Dark, and thrilling psychological masterpiece.","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Possible spoiler ahead!Michael Mann in 1986 showed us, what was to come when he made Manhunter. Deeply powerful images,combine to make a top notch thriller. Adapted from Thomas Harris's Red Dragon the mind of a serial killer is revealed in startling detail. Seeing through his eyes, we get the perspective few movies of it's kind have ever revealed before.We also see the struggle, both the killer and the FBI agent sent to catch him, go through. The killer Francis Dollaryde(sp),wants the world to see his Transformation, but can't get past what people think of him.Will Graham, deeply disturbed by past events in his life, trys to keep it between him, and the killer but can't. As it gets personal.As in all Michael Mann movies,a great soundtrack,and score add to the suspense. Overall in my opinion, Manhunter is a unique movie of it's genere. A great psychological thriller. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Superb Film, vastly overlooked!","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say that i find this film much more interesting than its sequel, this film being a lot more psychological, and not aimed at a mainstream audience. The entire cast is superb, epsecially tom noonan. My friends think this is rubbish compared to silence of the lambs but this is more my sort of film, simple as that 9/10 "},{"Title":"So far superior to Silence of the Lambs it isn't even funny.","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I am passionate about movies -- have been for at least five decades.  I also have exquisite taste, which is why I get so exercised when I see inane reviews of great movies by people obviously ill equipped to review them Movies are not books, and books are not movies.  They are two separate art forms.  Got that, readers of Red Dragon?So the 1960s film of Tom Jones starring Albert Finney is not a completely faithful depiction of Thomas Hardy's wonderful novel, which I have read twice.  So what?  They are both wonderful in their own way.  Anyone who denigrates Manhunter because they think the book was just SO much greater shouldn't go to movies, because they don't get any better than Manhunter, regardless of the source material.  And anyone who would argue that Silence of the Lambs is a better movie than Manhunter is a moron.  A moron with bad taste.Manhunter is so gripping, so utterly chilling, so absolutely scary it practically gives me chills to type this.  In fact, I do get chills whenever I think about it.  (A friend of mine who lives in the country in Missouri called me to berate me after I sent her a copy and has steadfastly refused to watch the entire film.)Manhunter's meticulous, cold-blooded, and unrelenting depiction of the mad-but-brilliant methodology of some psychotic killers is unequaled in my experience, and I've see 'em all.  This is nothing short of a masterpiece. A flippin' miracle of a movie.  It at least deserved an Oscar and a much wider audience.  You will never leave a door unlocked or a window uncovered after seeing this movie.  I know I haven't.(As a sidebar, John Hinckley, another mad (would-be) killer, corresponded with one of his idols, the late Ted Bundy, while locked up in a mental institution for shooting President Reagan.  And his family wants his keepers to let him out, unescorted, for family visits!  It truly is a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World...) "},{"Title":"Manhunter - A low-budget 'Silence of the Lambs'","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Of course, Manhunter will draw many comparisons with the film of Silence of the Lambs but the fact is that both films are great in very different ways. The bigger budget sequel has inevitably entered the public conscience more than the previous film, what with Anthony Hopkins giving an over-the-top performance of Hannibal Lecter and the film itself giving outrageously gory special effects for a mainstream film. Yet, Silence of the Lambs is a magnificently put together film, well directed, scripted and edited.However, it is a crime that Manhunter has gone relatively unnoticed. A more restrained Hannibal Lecktor in Brian Cox and an appropriately creepy villain in Tom Noonan give the film an unsettling and disturbing edge. The main difference between the two films is that Manhunter actually gets beneath your skin and stays there for the two hours whereas Silence of the Lambs merely keeps you entertained in the same running time.Manhunter isn't perfect though. Although it is my personal favourite, the soundtrack is diabolical towards the end as are some of the editing effects (you'll know what I mean if you've seen the film).My personal ratings (out of *****) would have to be****1/2  Manhunter****     Silence of the LambsRoll on Hannibal!... "},{"Title":"A brave attempt hampered by a terrible soundtrack","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the film of the excellent book Red Dragon by Thomas Harris. It is by no means a bad film but not as brilliant as Silence of the Lambs. The film although exciting in many parts is let down by long periods of inactivity and a truly awful soundtrack. The acting is reasonably good especially by Tom Noonan who plays Francis Dolarhyde, his character was very similar to how I had imagined him in the book. The emotional torment of Will Graham does not make for exciting viewing and perhaps more time could have been spent examining the life of the Killer. "},{"Title":"Very intelligent script, great camera work, equal to Silence of the Lambs.","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Very intelligent script, great camera work, equal to Silence of the Lambs. Unfortunately this movie was a sleeper and most people missed out.  If you have seen and enjoyed Silence of the Lambs then you should find this as fascinating to watch.  This is the prequel to Silence of the Lambs and will give you insight into the man who put Hannibal Lekter (Also spelled Lecter) in jail and how the brilliance of Will Graham (Played by William L. Peterson) was capable of capturing Lekter.  The brilliance of Will Graham is believable, hence only a very intelligent detective and script played in this fashion could pull this off.  Note, Hannibal Lekter was originally played by Brian Cox III.  This a great movie, don't miss it!This film was made five years prior to Silence of the Lambs in 1986 and when I seen it the first time I knew it was a classic.  Our villain this time was The Tooth Fairy who at monthly full moons liked to kill entire families, Will Graham is called out of retirement to assist in the case. He visits Hannibal Lekter to pick up the scent so to speak and get into the mind of the killer so he can predict his next move.  Hannibal has already been behind bars for three years and Will Graham retired after capturing him, it took Will Graham three years before he felt mentally stable and had received lots of psychological help during this period and has started living a normal life with his wife & son.  It's was only because of Will Graham's willingness and honor in the call of duty that The Tooth Fairy had better learn to cover his tracks, after all he has disadvantages, the same weakness has Hannibal Lekter.  They're both insane.  "},{"Title":"Incredible mix of thinking and Horror.","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Breathtaking plot and splendid photographic achievement. It is the best film ever made within the category of serial killers' stories as it blends the mind-maze resources of XIX century detective novels with the crudity of XX century insane craving for murder and violence. I also think that this is Michael Mann's best achievement. "},{"Title":"Great!!!!!!!","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was the best Michael Mann movie ever made, next to Thief with James Caan.  I thought this movie was well casted, and well directed by Mr. Mann.  This was a better movie then Silence of the Lambs and probably better then the up-coming Hannibal.  Tom Noonan who played Franics Dolarhyde was fantastic.  I give this movie ****.   "}{"Title":"A very good movie, but underrated","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I would recommend this movie because even if you don't know (or care) who Thomas Harris is, or if you haven't seen Silence of the Lambs, it doesn't matter--this movie can stand on its own.  Unfortunately, because it didn't have a big name in the lead role and because it has some of Michael Mann's trademarks in it (as good as they are), it isn't as well-known as it should be.  Don't be distracted by the somewhat dated music and Miami Vice photography--the characters, dialogue, and cast are GREAT! (look for early appearances by Dan Butler of Frasier and Joan Allen of Pleasantville) "},{"Title":"Brian Cox plays a superior Lector","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is very much more scary than scilence of the lambs, and Brian Cox shines as Lector.There are some scenes which make you hold your breath in fear, and some that make you want to cry for the tendorness of the people in them.There are some stunning sets, such as the bedroom that looks out over the sea, and the very white secured building where lector is imprisoned.My favourite ever continuity error is also included in this film - watch the products on the shelves in the supermarket!What is fabuolous about this film in particular is the development of the character of the toothfairy.  Occasions such as the suspense filled kidnapping of the nasty reporter, and the most tear-jerking warmth of his feelings for his colleague when he takes her for the date of a lifetime, but at the same time watches his footage of the families while she is with him.There is frantic suspense when we realise that lector and the toothfairy are collaborating, and the police are trying to find out what that missing section of tissue paper actually said.The musical accompianment is spectacular particularly in the scenes at the end where iron butterfly - in a garra da vida is played - turn up the volume at this point!I have watched this film many times before and will watch it many times again - Fabulous. "},{"Title":"Story as good as Silence of the Lambs, but the film was not as well done.","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has a story that's every bit as good as Silence of the Lambs; but you don't have Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter. Brian Cox does a reasonably good job, but he does not project the aura of pure evilness that Hopkins did. Although William L. Peterson's Detective Graham is more human than Jodi Foster's Starling, he was not as interesting as an actor. And the music felt a little manipulative; as if the story weren't scary enough, you needed eerie and ominous music.But the story was scary enough that you didn't need the ominous music. The characters in this one, with the exception of Lecter, seemed more human than they were in Silence of the Lambs. With SOTL, one could not relate to the bad guy; he was just a really really sick individual. But with Manhunter's Dolarhyde you could see how he had become that way. There but for the grace of God go I is a phrase that comes to mind. You know how you caught me Lecter says to detective Graham Because we're alike, you and I.By the way, the subtitle The Pursuit of Hannibal Lecter is misleading; Lecter is already in jail when the film starts, and he stays there. "},{"Title":"Simply excellent!","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Imagine Silence of the Lambs with a colder Hannibal Lecter, a more chilling villain, and a more determined FBI agent.  If you can imagine that, you are beginning to get the feeling you will have after watching Manhunter. Silence of the Lambs is, in my opinion, the poorer sequel to this film.  It is, simply excellent. "},{"Title":"Why was Silence of the Lambs so bad ? (I don't think I've included any spoilers...)","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film shook me. Whereas in Silence of the Lambs the characters all seemed just too smug for my liking (which gave me an immediate dislike for the film), in Manhunter everyone - cop, killer and ex-killer (Lecter) are all on-edge and much more believable.Certainly the character development during the film is excellent. What personally hit me was the way in which you find yourself drawn towards Graham (the cop) at the same time as he is aligning his thoughts with Dolarhyde...Therefore, the question remains - as this film was _so_ good, why was Silence... so rubbish ? This film demonstrates that the basic plotline was not just sound but excellent. "},{"Title":"often neglected","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those thrillers that is truly absorbing. It really is a better movie than 'Silence of the Lambs'. The terror in Manhunter is brought to life through the superior performance of the two leads, with Brian Cox giving his best screen performance.While Silence won all the awards, Manhunter seems to be one of those forgotten gems. With Harris new novel out 'Hannibal', I'd advise giving this movie another chance (although it deviates quite a bit from the novel it's based on).One of the best thrillers of the 80's.9/10. "},{"Title":"Some curious points","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Just a few observations about this movie. 1) For some reason, Hannibal Lecter's name in the original novel by Thomas Harris (Red Dragon) was called Lecktor, but in Silence Of The Lambs and the film of Manhunter and its sequel, the author or director's changed it to Lecter, as it also appears in the books sequel Hannibal. Does anyone know why this was/is?2) It is a fantastic film, but has a few flaws which reduce my 9/10 rating to 8/10, and these are2a) When rescuing Reba towards the end of the movie, the scene in which Will Graham jumps through the plate-glass window, it appears to either shatter first before he actually breaks the glass with his body, or shatters as he jumps through it, but the sound of the glass breaking appears one second too late, thus ruining the whole effect. Anyone else notice this?2b) At the end, when Dolarhyde has been massacred, in the various TV and video versions, their appears to be editing problems. Whilst he is being shot to death, the editing shows Dolarhyde to be jerking from one position to another. Depending on the print, the jerking can vary from missing just one frame of film, to a quite severe case of missing four or five frames, making the death scene look almost spasmodic. Was this an editing error, or what? Was this rectified for the Director's Cut that was shown at the National Film Theatre in London, about 3 years ago?2c) When Dolarhyde has been slain, watch for the glaring continuity error. The camera shows us an overhead shot of Dolarhyde's bloody body sprawled out on the floor of Reba's kitchen. His body is surrounded by a large pool of blood. When the camera comes back, a few seconds later, we see the same shot, but with the camera at floor level, looking at Dolarhyde's body. Now there's no big pool of blood! Where did it all go?!3) Love the film, fabulous soundtrack (if you can locate it) by Michael Rubini & The Reds, and great direction by one of the century's most awesome crime directors. Will there be a Director's Cut released on VHS video in the UK? We have just had a limited release of the original 1986 version in both pan and scan format, and Widescreen, but not the longer edit I would have preferred. Any news on this? What about the recent Region 1 DVD release? What's on that disc? "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Mann's Manhunter has a few good moments but some moments, you don't know what's going on.  Also, at the end of the film in the killer's house, some of the movements of the people are choppy and make this excellent scene look cheap.  It was a great movie though, but Silence of the Lambs is much better.  The problem I see in this movie, is the serial killer is on the screen too much.  The first time you see the killer, the shot has power and is most disturbing, but then throughout the film there is more of the killer than the detectives.  In Silence of the Lambs, you don't see much of the killer until the end.  You see glimpses of him, short shots but not too much.  I was pleased with what I saw, but I wanted more. It is a very good film, and what I have written above are the problems I saw in this film. "},{"Title":"A superior thriller.","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  'Manhunter' is about real fear, real terror, something that thrillers rarely are able to convince us of.   Anyone who thinks 'Silence of the Lambs' is a better film then 'Manhunter' knows nothing about movies - period. "},{"Title":"Possibly the best detective thriller I've ever seen.","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Mann is an unqualified genius.  Manhunter is an exercise in pace, theme, and scenery.  Anyone who knows Mann's style could notice the slickness of Miami Vice, yet few noticed how well style and image was married to a thoroughly engrossing plot to create one of the best detective thrillers of all time.As one of my colleagues have commented, Manhunter does contain career best performances of Tom Noonan and William Petersen.  Manhunter was truly one of the first films I've seen to depict a serial killer as childlike and certainly pathetic.  Conversely the protagonist, Special Agent Will Graham, is not overflowing with machismo, but rather sensitive, driven, and tortured.  Well supported by Dennis Farina, Brian Cox, Dan Butler, Stephen Lang, Joan Allen, and even Chris Elliot, the film far outstrips her sequel, Silence of the Lambs.Intelligent, thought-provoking, and taut, Manhunter is not to be missed. "}{"Title":"Fantastic combination of usage of music and images","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One of the things that I thought was perfect is the usage of the music in the movie. The soundtrack is great (too bad it isn't on CD). While the story is coming to a climax, the music becomes more intense. Altough the plot is not quite unique, the director has been able to make an excellent thriller.This movie is strongly underrated.  "},{"Title":"Chilling.","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a film which made me think of our society today. In the mind of a psycopath like that anything is possible. In no part of the film did I feel comfortable, on the edge of my seat truly a real chiller, Well written and directed. A film which you can watch more than once and discover a more in-depth horror. "},{"Title":"Best-of-genre film adapted from a best-of-genre book","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"   From the very first moment that this film starts, it's obviously going to be very special. Michael (Heat) Mann's visually stunning offering adapted from Thomas Harris's graphically disturbing book gives us a fascinating insight into the diseased mind of a serial killer.Often over-shadowed by its famous but far inferior sequel, Silence of the Lambs, this gem of a movie features a career best performance by William Petersen as tortured detective Will Graham, a man who is both gifted and cursed with an ability to get into the mind of a serial killer, to gain the scent of his thoughts and deeds. The killer in question, Francis Dollarhyde, is a startlingly deformed monster, who pursues his own dark fantasies at the expense of whole families. Tom Noonan excels in in this role.Thankfully, the role of Hannibal Lecter in this movie is more in keeping with his literary presence. Lecter, formerly a psychiatrist, is portayed with wit and style by Brian Cox, instead of the brilliant alternative version from Hopkins in Silence of the Lambs. This lends Lecter a frighteningly approachable streak to his personality, and enables us to believe that this character could have been an approachable doctor at one time; who would rightly see the foaming Hannibal Lecter in the second picture?!Mere words do not lend justice to the quality of some of the scenes in this picture. It is best left to the viewer to revel in the magnetism of every encounter, the blank neutrality of Dennis Farina as Jack Crawford, and the typical brilliance of Michael Mann. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the best thriller ever made.","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If there is ever going to be a poll on the best thriller ever written and the best movie thriller ever created, then Thomas Harris's Red Dragon is a sure winner in the book category. As for the movie category, Michael Mann's Manhunter, the adaptation of the novel, would quite possibly take the grand prize. Both the book and the movie are far superior to the overfamed Silence of the Lambs. Mann, a long-time specialist in creating atmospheric pictures, managed to make a true classic, and his skill of using the right music to magnify the ambience shows best in this film.  "},{"Title":"directors cut","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  a friend and myself had the great pleasure of seeing the only theatrical showing of the directors cut of Manhunter. Mann's personal video copy shown in 1.661 ratio as it was only ever cut for US cable tv viewing. extra footage made the film even better, especially a scene at the end where Will Graham visits the next family on the list, his desire to see those he has saved as strong as Francis Dolarhyde's desire to see those he will kill. there are a couple of extra reflection sequences too, adding to the idea of two sides to Will, that Dolarhyde is a reflection of himself. perfection bettered. "},{"Title":"Mr Mann's calling card","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Director Michael Mann wouldn't find global recognition until 1992's Last of the Mohicans, but this 1986 detective thriller, based on Thomas Harris's novel Red Dragon, is still well-loved and has now found new life in the form of this Special Edition.William Peterson plays Will Graham, a jaded detective charged with hunting down the Tooth Fairy (Tom Noonan), a killer who preys by the light of the full moon. To track the killer, Graham must recover the mindset, and so he consults his arch nemesis Hannibal Lecktor (renamed 'Lecter' in later adaptations).Peterson's Graham may seem bland and one-dimensional compared to Jodie Foster's Clarice Starling, but it's worth remembering where each character begins. Silent and repressive, Graham is pared-down memory of his former self; the shadow of Lecktor looms so heavily upon him he's no longer sure whose thoughts he's thinking. The scene in the supermarket in which Graham reveals the truth of his past to his son (David Seaman) is played out like a confession in a triumphant surge of music, Graham is purged. Starling, by comparison, is a rookie - she has no previous. She's nervous and talkative. And, crucially, Lecktor/Lecter loves her, and so we get the full pysch report. Is she a more interesting character? Probably.But it matters little. Lecktor is the star of the show. Here, Brian Cox plays the old cannibal with classic restraint. Hopkins' version was a pantomime monster, skulking in his dark, dank dungeon. Cox's villain is shrouded in heavenly white; his menace is achieved through poise and understatement. The simplicity of his ambiance alludes to the purity of his horrifying intent.Manhunter is a far from perfect film. Graham is the product of a bad TV movie the jaded cop with the beautiful wife and the penthouse by the sea, and a the private jet waiting on the runway. And the film has dated badly, there's no two ways about it - the Tangerine Dream-esquire music in particular frequently lurches from atmospheric to incongruous in the space of adjacent scenes. But then, one could argue, Mann has since established himself as a pure pop director. At least Manhunter feels like a product of its time, rather than a product of a diseased mind like Mann's own Miami Vice.Excellent support comes from Joan Allen as the blind lady who breaks the Tooth Fairy's heart, as well as Stephen Lang as the irredeemably repugnant Freddie Lounds. Fast-paced, with an exciting and intricate forensics-based plot to follow, as well as a satisfying, stylish climax, Manhunter is well worth purchasing. "},{"Title":"Remember how you got me!","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a very good movie. The story was very well thought out and came together nicely. Will Graham was wonderfully played by William Petersen (probably best known from CSI). Most of the characters were excellent. There were a few flaws with this movie also however. One was that there were a few major plot holes in the story. Mainly how Hannibal was caught and put in that cell in the first place. Another is Brian Cox...I don't think he really fits the part of Hannibal at all. He wasn't bad, but I don't know...he failed to scare me, or even strike me as sophisticated, creepy, eerie, sneaky, or anything like Hannibal is in Silence of the Lambs. Then again, this movie cannot be judged on a small performance such as that. I mean, hes only in the movie for like 3 scenes, nothing big. Tom Noonan was excellent as the shady, odd Francis Dolarhyde. I recommend this movie to crime movie fans all over. 8/10. "},{"Title":"A Great Thriller!","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter is better than Silence of the Lambs, in my opinion.This is the movie in which I met William Petersen, and when I saw him resurface as Grissom in CSI, I couldn't be happier. I've watched CSI for years - only Petersen's CSI - the Miami and NY folks didn't pass the test for me.I've seen Manhunter at least 3 times and want to see it again. I wanted to show it to my son, now that he's old enough to watch such movies, but it was on long wait in my queue.I won't give away any of the plot. I will only say, this is an excellent suspense movie, a rich psychological thriller. I look forward to seeing it again. "},{"Title":"Not That Good","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Sorry, but I was not overly excited or scared or even impressed with this movie. I saw it the year it came out, well before the Silence of the Lambs hype and I just didn't find it all that interesting. Perhaps because the movie was made by Michael Mann between seasons of Miami Vice, it just looks and feels like another episode of that show, albeit a long episode. The locations don't work for me the way the locations of Silence of the Lambs and the later version of Red Dragon did. That said, the casting is great with Brian Cox presenting a fantastic Hanibal Lector (I was surprised that he was passed over to be Hanibal in Silence of the Lambs). Also William Petersen makes a much more believable Will Graham than Edward Norton did who I thought was far too young to be Graham, and Dennis Farina brings a seen it all wearied look to Jack Crawford that Scott Glenn wasn't able to achieve. But I wasn't at all compelled by Tom Noonan's Francis Dollarhyde.However, the movie did make me seek out the book, which was far better. "},{"Title":"not based off enough to the book.","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Cox performance as Lecktor, is nothing like Hopkins. If you read the book,its nothing like the book. We don't have Dolrahyds schizophrenia of him hearing his grandma abusing him. the asylum has no features like an asylum. Dr. Chilton has more appearance in the book. Will's wife molly kills Dolrahyde in the book in the movie will kills him. In the book, Dolrahydes house burns down the house, with Rebra inside coming out. in body in the house wasn't Dolrahydes it was the missing co-worker. In the movie Will and the FBI kill him at his house. in the book We read that Dolrahyde comes to the house of Will and his family to kill them, a nice ending twist. Redragon the movie, with Hopkins has Hannibal, and the rest of the movie is better based off the book, called Redragon. "}{"Title":"Good Use of Iron Butterfly's In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter is fantastic - it is far superior to its re-make Red Dragon(which raises the question, why re-make a classic in the first place).I think Mann uses music perfectly in this movie. In the final scene Mann uses Iron Butterfly's  In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida. Not only is the song rough and jagged which was perfect for Dolarhyde's preperations for his next victim, Mann sets up the music to climax once Will sees Dolarhyde preparing to murder his victim. The music climaxes as Will runs through the forest and bursts through the large window with sharp piercing electric guitar blaring as shards of glass fly everywhere. Mann achieves a perfect combination of audio and visual effects. The song is perfect for the final showdown between the hero and the villain.As a final aside, Iron Butterfly's album In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida is a good listen for the 17 minute version of the title track - this California band also plays some shorter rock/pop tunes. "},{"Title":"a worthy predecessor","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film really deserves more recognition that it has received; not only does it have some really good acting, but I found the script compact and compelling.This is the role that propelled Petersen into his enormously successful CSI character. Farina delivers his usual good, solid performance as Crawford, Stephen Lang has a great time with the Lounds role, Noonan is (to my mind) mesmerizing as the Dragon and Brian Cox deserves a round of applause as Lector, even though Tony Hopkins trumped him solidly in The Silence of the Lambs. I recommend this film to anyone who has a fascination for the Hannibal Lector series as well as for anyone who has a taste for forensics and criminal investigation. The original novel, Red Dragon, is far more complex than this version manages to convey, but then anyone who has actually read Gone With the Wind should realize the limitations of translating a complex piece of writing into film.All in all, a great, great B movie. The only severe drawback is the soundtrack, which blows chunks. "},{"Title":"Passable 80's spooky corridor thriller - but mostly old hat and haircut.","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Unlike other reviewers I saw this thriller when it came out and therefore before the hype that was the Silence of the Lambs.Thomas Harris never watches the films that are made from his books and this is a good idea given people such as Ian Fleming were ruined by big screen success. The book works better because it is about logic, puzzle and clues. Film prefers action to to thought. You can only focus so long on a furrowed brow.I am puzzled by the spelling of the locked-up psycho as Lecktor - what is that about? Everyone seems to say that this is the same character as in the other three Hannibel Lector films, so I have to join in. But why the new spelling - they revised the original book spelling (Lector) in the re-make. I searched IMDb for an explanation, got none!This features a clean looking high-tech prison which contrasts with the drab, under lit, sordid holes where the crimes of these prisoners usually took place. I think this represents a more likely atmosphere for keeping high risk prisoners. After all the prison would want to check what the prisoners were doing - half light would aid subterfuge.The good thing about this horror/thriller is that thing makes sense. The case is built clue-by-clue until the whole thing is cracked. More perspiration than inspiration. I won't tell you how - because that is a spoiler - but you find yourself nodding and agreeing. The only problem is that it is not that exciting or intriguing. It slips by like lukewarm TV and by the end I had enough of it for life.Mann is a good director, but he has learned too many cheap tricks from television. The camera seems to have been plonked down casually at middle distance or put on a trolley following the hero down that old spooky corridor. The music is cheap too - I have heard better on a PC game.Add the minor name actors (including mulletman lead William Louis Petersen) you get a feel that this wasn't planned as an A grade movie. And you can see why it didn't set the box office on fire.If you are thriller fan then this will pass the time nicely, but it is minor league stuff. It was dug up again after Silence went ape at the box office, but it would still be buried otherwise. "},{"Title":"Doesn't live up to the book, but then again, what movie does?","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Great under-rated thriller about FBI Agent Will Graham, the man who caught Hannibal Lecter, who is now a retired agent. When he finds out about the murder of two families in different locations at random times, he volunteers to help find him. He goes to see Dr. Lecter in his cell, and asks him about what he knows about the killer. After getting help, Graham goes to learn the ways of a killer and what made him mentally unstable after he caught Lecter. He also must try to catch the killer before he goes after Graham's family.Very good and stylish thriller from the 1980's. It's doesn't compare to the book Red Dragon, which is one of the best suspense novels of all time, even better than The Silence of the Lambs. William Petersen is great, as is Allen, Noonan, Farina, and Cox. Lecter is in only a few scenes, however. Michael gives a great direction in this under-rated film that is better than Hannibal, a little better than Red Dragon (the movie) and is almost as good as The Silence of the Lambs. 4.5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Another Michael Mann gem","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While Brian Cox will never be remembered as THE Hannibal Lecter, Manhunter nevertheless remains an excellent crime thriller. I saw Red Dragon first so I was robbed of the freshness of the story when I saw this. Still, while the stars in the other Hannibal Lecter movies are of a higher profile, Manhunter is a nicely polished product. Recommended, 7/10. "},{"Title":"A great thriller","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Before there was Hannibal. Before there was Silence of The Lambs. Before there was Red Dragon. The first, and in my opinion, best entry in the Hannibal universe is Manhunter. The film tells us of the troubled Will Graham (William Peterson). Graham is a former FBI profiler who is enjoying the relaxing, serene life of semiretirement. The FBI needs him back though, because there is a killer called The Tooth Fairy on the loose, and only Graham could find him with his great expertise.Graham has a strange way of finding serial killers. He always gets his man, but it is truly the most dangerous way. He enters the killer's mindset, thinks they're thoughts, sees it from their point of view. It was in this manner that he found Hannibal The Cannibal Lector (spelled here as Lecktor). However, after catching Lector, Graham could not leave his mind. Couldn't leave those hideous thoughts. He had a mental breakdown. What we see is a broken man, who has lost but all of his mind and personality. Graham needs to see Lector to find the Tooth Fairy though, so he still can't escape this mental anxiety. Played perfectly by Peterson in what seems to be the career of his lifetime as well.Directed in a highly stylish manner that seems to be all his own, Micheal Mann (Heat, Ali) uses a tense, dark way to tell his story, and doesn't hold back. From the opening break-in, to the final climatic showdown with the Tooth Fairy (Tom Noonan in a creepy role), Mann gives a sense of style that is hard to come by. However...there's one fault. Mann decided to use this '80s synth pop music in the majority of the film, and it hasn't aged too well (I love '80s music as well). There is an exception to this too. Mann uses almost all of Iron Butterfly's In-A-Godda-Da-Vita in the one scene towards the end of the film (I'm trying really hard not to spoil it just because it's so awesome). Almost the whole 17 minute song. And it sounds awesome.Manhunter, like I said earlier in this review, is my favorite Hannibal movie. It's a really great film, and is extremely underrated. "},{"Title":"Great, up until the ending","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is an outstanding adaptation of the book, The Red Dragon by Thomas Harris.  The mood is great; it's not the lighting, or any one thing, but there's just a sense of doom and foreboding throughout the entire film, something that the recent Red Dragon was sorely missing (although it, too, was good).My biggest problem is with the ending.  It just felt like the director decided he'd spent enough time on the movie, and wanted it over with.  It felt like a cheat, and diminished everything else in the film, which was such a really good setup to a final confrontation between Graham and Dolarhyde (i.e., good vs. evil).  Such is life; so many movies seem great until the ending.  It seems like writers have a harder time closing their movie out than bringing it along.  And I'm probably spoiled, but Anthony Hopkins will ALWAYS be Hannibal Lecter; Brian Cox wasn't even close to being sinister enough. "},{"Title":"Had the potential to be much better","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While I have not seen Hannibal or Red Dragon, I have seen Silence, and I think I can make a good comparison just between those two. Manhunter is by far the weaker movie, in a variety of ways. First off, the protagonist, Graham, is not as complex as Starling. While he supposedly habitually goes too deep into the mindset of a psychopath, at no point did he seem anything other than an apt cop to me, whereas Starling was a cop dealing with her outsider status as a woman, an orphan, and a farm girl, thus resulting in a multi-layered and more believable character. Secondly, the main villain is not as well-defined. The Tooth Fairy has seemingly no past and no well-defined psychosis and is played by Tom Noonan as what might be creepy if we knew what he was thinking behind his ominous silences. In contrast, Ted Levine's Buffalo Bill is truly loathsome, with a well-defined psychosis centering on sexual change and a performance that is convincingly chilling. Finally, the relationship between Graham and Lecter is not very well-defined, as compared to that of Starling and Lecter. I do not demand that Lecter appear more, although Brian Cox's portrayal could have proven better than that of Hopkins if we knew anything about the good doctor, yet those unfamiliar with the character will have no idea why Graham is so afraid of him. My complaint is that Graham's main character trait seems to be his being haunted by his past with Lecter, and yet that past is never clearly defined. The haunting thoughts of the psychosis are never really dramatized, and Lecter's cannibalism is never revealed at any point.However, there are some things to recommend this movie. Petersen, Farina, and especially Cox give great performances, but they are trapped in a film that fails to appropriately flesh out their conflicts. "},{"Title":"Life-changingly good","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Like many film buffs from around the world, I've probably seen thousands of movies in my time. Without question, Manhunter is the finest, most dazzling, shocking, intense and atmospheric of any of them. I think there are four factors that make it the movie it is. The first is the novel, Red Dragon by Thomas Harris, that is based upon. His finest novel to date, it sets the characters and landscape for the movie. Secondly, the direction. Michael Mann (fresh from his success with 'Miami Vice') uses strong primary colours to set an ever-darkening tone around the various locations. Manhunter begins during the day on a bright, Florida beach and ends in the dead of night in a building in the middle of nowhere.Thirdly, is the acting. First-class. William Peterson is incredible. He doesn't just act Will Graham, he LIVES him. Tom Noonan (as Francis Dollarhyde) portrays one of the darkest, most terrifying characters I have ever seen. Joan Allen and the rest of the cast are wonderful. Finally, I think that this movie's music is one of its defining factors. Although now deleted, its soundtrack is something magical (even if slightly 80's and dated) that sets a wonderful, intense atmosphere thoughout the movie. Red Dragon (the remake of Manhunter) is awful. It was made purely to make money and well done, all involved, it has. Ted Tally may claim that the remake is the truest adaptation of the Thomas Harris novel, but it has nothing of the magic, inspiration and genius of Manhunter.  "},{"Title":"much praise for a muchly excellent film","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Mann's powerful visual and aural imagination makes this film...what am i talking about? - also the great and rarely seen William Petersen as Graham, and Brian Cox as Lecktor and Noonan as The Tooth Fairy. It's worth noting that the Lecktor of Manhunter is a different Lecktor (even just in script terms) to the Lector of 'Silence of the Lambs', a much more evidently evil, insane figure. Hopkins's Lector is a cartoon figure - very powerful for that, but not someone you'd ever meet - but Cox's Lecktor is the man sitting next to you on the bus, both evil and real.So many great scenes. Every time i watch it i feel i'm entering a dream, like Will Graham voluntarily entering the madness of the Tooth Fairy to punch his way out the other side, to exorcise his own devils. "}{"Title":"Far better than Red Dragon, nearly as good as Silence","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While Anthony Hopkins will always be the only Hannibal Lecter, the best Hannibal Lecter movie may well have been Michael Mann's Manhunter. In Silence of the Lambs Jodie Foster's character, FBI agent Clarice Starling, is warned by her boss not to let Hannibal Lecter get inside her head. While Lecter is able to bribe Starling into revealing some painful personal truths, he never does get into her head and there's never any feeling that she's ever lost control of herself or her emotions. In Silence Lecter's menace is more from Hopkin's physical presence than the mental games he plays. In Michael Mann's Manhunter the emphasis is on the psychological, in fact, it dominates the movie. Not only does Lecter and the serial killer get inside the head of the FBI agent, played by William Petersen, he lets them inside his head. Lecter in Manhunter, while playing a smaller part is creepier.I should also add, I feel sorry for anyone who sees the recent Red Dragon movie before seeing Manhunter. Manhunter is an original, gripping, unique movie, while Red Dragon, while competent, is cookie-cutter Hollywood.  "},{"Title":"Better than Red Dragon","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This, the original version of Red Dragon is far superior, more subtle, better cast and more interesting. The newer version is at times a shot by shot remake, which is why i question them even making it. Brian Cox does an excellent Job as Hannibal and Will Peterson does a better job as Graham then Norton. Overall a good film. "},{"Title":"Better than Silence of the Lambs","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those movies that made me go buy the book after I watched it several times. Unlike others, I thought Cox played Lecktor perfectly, much more believable than Hopkin's sensationalized fiend in Silence of the Lambs. In Manhunter, Lecktor never got out of his cell and was still creepy. I don't even think the phrase Hannibal the Cannibal was uttered in the movie. William Petersen and Dennis Farina were excellent as was Tom Noonan's portrayal of the Tooth Fairy. I'm spoiled in that I saw this movie years before I watched Silence of the Lambs or the pathetic Hannibal. One of my all-time favorite movies.   "},{"Title":"Effective and thought provoking thriller by one of America's most talented directors","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Mann is easily one of the most talented and interesting American film makers from the early eighties to this day. His filmography includes the legendary TV series Miami Vice (1984) as well as the cult horror film The Keep (1983) with incredible Tangerine Dream soundtrack, The Last of the Mohicans (1992), Heat (1995) with Al Pacino and Robert de Niro and this first film to introduce Hannibal Lecter (or Lecktor as in the film), Manhunter (1986), an extremely stylish and restrained serial killer thriller that has more depth, intelligence and impact than most of the later and previous serial killer thriller attempts.William Petersen from William Friedkin's nihilistic To Live and Die in L.A. (1985) stars in Manhunter as Will Graham, a former FBI agent who is asked to come back for one case by his colleaque (Dennis Farina) as a brutal and totally unknown serial killer has attacked already two times at the time of full moon. The police and FBI are helpless and don't know how to get the murderer and stop the horrible killings. Graham was the one who caught Hannibal Lecter three years ago so the force knows his abilities and decides to ask him for help. He agrees, no matter what he's promised to his understanding wife (Kim Greist) and son (David Seaman), and soon starts to fall deeper and deeper into the mind of the disturbed killer that he is so willing to capture before the next full moon.The film is based on the Thomas Harris book Red Dragon and the subsequent 'Hannibal films', the academy award winning Silence of the Lambs (Jonathan Demme, 1991), Hannibal (Ridley Scott, 2001) and Red Dragon (Brett Ratner, 2002) can be seen as sequels to this earlier Mann film. Manhunter does not concentrate too much on the Hannibal character as he is not among the lead characters here. He is played by the British Brian Cox with great and menacing charisma that went even further in the later films where the psychopath doctor was played by Anthony Hopkins. Manhunter's greatest power lies in its depiction of the killer (Tom Noonan, a very tall and scary looking guy!) himself as he is not just depicted as faceless animal without any other meaning to be in the film than just killing.There are many strong emotional moments in the film and one of the greatest is the one in which the killer, perhaps for the first time ever in his life, falls in love and starts to care about someone. As he lies in the bed with the sleeping girl and looks into the roof and holds her hand it is again so obvious how powerful cinema can be and is without any words or dialogue. Rarely have I seen anything like this what happens when he puts her unconscious hand on his face to cover his mouth. This wordless and silent scene tells very much about the killer character and (thus) about some very important things that should be included in human life in order to live balanced and with one's own feelings. Still the killer character in my opinion desires to be even more detailed and told about his motives and background (no matter how powerful the mentioned scene is) as all we get to learn about him after all is what Graham gets analyzed and revealed about him. In order to get him, Graham starts to think like him and act like him, and that is what scares the others as he had some very severe mental problems using the same technique while chasing Lecktor. He just has to beware of not crossing the line.Also the various dark sides of human nature are touched here especially in the scenes depicting Graham character's journey inside himself and his feelings when he comes closer and closer to insanity and wickedness he finds from the killer and Dr. Lecktor, too. Hannibal's character is again devilishly wise and calculating and he knows what are the weakest sides of Graham and he surely will use his intelligence against them in order to break the man. Some very interesting things are included in the discussions between Hannibal and Graham as for instance the morale and even enjoyment and instinct of killing get discussed in the most difficult way and point but the conclusion still (fortunately) is that Graham just visits the border but never crosses it, and that border is exactly the one that should not be crossed by anyone and it just should be recognized, admitted and kept on the background and away.The visuals and other magic elements of cinema are here as brilliant as can be expected from the director Mann. Cinematography by Italian Dante Spinotti is fantastic, powerful and still very restrained and none of the elements and techniques used are in vain or without their purpose. They are there to depict the atmosphere and feelings of the characters', all characters, and the result is genuinely visual, not artificially so. The lighting, the angles, the drives and everything are perfectly balanced with the hypnotic soundtrack by Reds and Michel Rubini. The beginning at the Leeds apartment features some of the creepiest images and moments I've seen in cinema and the photography and camerawork are here as important as the soundtrack. And Manhunter is not the only film by Mann that has soundtrack as wonderful as this the Tangerine Dream music in The Keep is perhaps even more hypnotic and magical.The finale is also worth mentioning as it includes very innovative and heart stoppingly effective and unconventional camerawork and editing as they used various techniques and camera speeds to achieve the effect. The slow motions and edits really show how talented Mann is also as a cameraman and he likes to work very closely in the cinematography department in his own films, too. The lighting and gorgeous neo, green, purple and other colors and lights coming through the windows and camera lenses are something as wonderful as those in the greatest efforts from Hong Kong, like Bride With White Hair (Ronny Yu, 1993) and Dr. Lamb (Danny Lee and Billy Tang, 1992) to name just a few. Michael Mann has the kind of sense of visual style and striking storytelling that he, alongside Sam Peckinpah and Kathryn Bigelow, is perhaps the closest Western equivalent to the Eastern directors especially and also when it comes to kinetic and fierce action. If you are in doubt, watch Mann's Heat and its incredible city war sequence in the middle part of the film.Manhunter is the kind of film that makes me love American cinema and (these few American) directors as when they're talented, they're very talented and it is great thing to have makers like Mann active in the industry. Manhunter is among his best achievements and also among the most powerful and memorable American films of the eighties. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  compelling prequel to Silence of the Lambs","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm told that Manhunter is the same movie as Red Dragon, which I haven't seen. But it's definitely sort of a prequel to Silence of the Lambs, by the same author. Like that other film, it's a gripping story about forensic science and criminal psychology. And unlike most campy crime stories these days, the bad guy is NOT the cop's best friend or even anybody we've seen previously in the film at all. (I don't think that's a spoiler. Like most crimes, the policemen and women of course do not happen to know the criminal, right?)The movie is spooky, the acting is good, and the protagonist is actually interesting, not just a generic guy. I've seen it recently and (unlike many movies of the 1980s) it's still quite good!Who should see this film-- action/thriller types a must-see-- anybody who enjoyed Silence of the LambsI'll give Manhunter an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Go see Red Dragon","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was ok, but it's a rare example of the remake actually being better than the original.  The movie strayed away from the book to the point where it was like they had to rush scenes together to keep it in less than 2 1/2 hours. I suggest seeing Red Dragon (the title it should of have in the first place). It's a much better movie. "},{"Title":"Top film !!","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Having seen SOTLs and Hannibal, both very good films. Manhunter, I think has the edge. I havent bothered with RedDragon and doubt I will. This film, didnt need remaking. I think the films edge is probably down to Mann's direction + a blinding performance by Petersen, who reminds me of a latter day Russell Crowe. The film has some great cinematography/camerawork which provides great atmosphere, helped along by a really good score, reminiscent of Giorgio Moroder's work on Scarface. Its interesting to note Mann's style by comparing the visuals of this film with Heat. Mann certainly likes his, glass walled rooms overlooking beach shorelines and night time city scapes. "},{"Title":"Who needs Ratner, Demme or Scott when you have Mann?","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Having just seen Red Dragon today, I realize that no matter what merits the Hopkins flicks have (namely Hopkins himself), its Michael Mann's 1986 thriller that stands the tallest.Mann is one of my favorite directors (Heat and The Insider are two of the best films of the last decade), and its easy to see why if you watch this version of Thomas Harris' Red Dragon. Theres a number of moments that are totally spell binding, such as William Petersen's night time studying off the crime scene, the flaming wheelchair and the scene in which Joan Allen touches the tiger. Brett Ratner's film includes each of these scenes as well, but they simply don't have the craftsmanship. The visuals and scoring add so much to the impact of the movie, which was years ahead of its time...yet, strangely, still captured the hip approach of Mann's Miami Vice. Brian Cox has only a couple of scenes as Lecktor, yet this superb actor (who was astounding in Nuremberg) makes the character as chilling as Hopkins in a different way. Cox's portrayal is lowkey and breezy...thats what makes it so creepy; he doesn't seem like a monster...we could almost relate to him.Petersen's performance also outdoes Norton's (who is probably the best actor of his generation) because we really get to see and feel the internal haunting hes gone through. Manhunter is a terrific movie, and the best of the Hannibal the cannibal series. Its just a shame too few people have seen it. "},{"Title":"tOUgh stUff***7/10***","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Very controversial 80's thriller in terms of direction and camera work. Some good preformances out of Brain Cox (pre-Hpkins Hannibal Lector) and Tom Noonan (of Robocop 2 fame) as the Toothfairy. Most of the this film is very entertaining, and absorbing, with an electrifying yet slightly disturbing naration, until we get to the later part of the film which has a terrible 'normal' ending of which was typical in the day of this film. You'll throughly enjoy this if you watch the film before the book (Red Dragon), but will be engulfe by a wave of frustraition and anguish if you read the book before watching this. Definately worth a watch though if you enjoyed Hannibal.***7/10*** "},{"Title":"A Film That Shows Its Age But Does It Well","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Manhunter is an excellent film. It is not quite the classic that Silence of the Lambs is but is in some ways more interesting to watch and clearly antecedent to Jonathon Demme's effort. I have not read Red Dragon, though that is really irrelevant to a review of Manhunter, and cannot comment on the changes that Michael Mann made to the story told in the book. What Mann did do was construct a compelling and suspenseful account of a tortured man returning to the tasks that still torture him. Graham is in many ways a much more interesting character than Clarice Starling and one who gets by on his own abilities and not the bread crumbs dropped by a jailed psychopath. Cox is a wonderful Lector, cerebral, relaxed and humorous. The performance is not the same as Hopkins' but this is not the same Lector who we find in Silence. Mann's direction is stylized but successful in sliding you into the contest that is being played out between Graham and Dolarhyde. As with his other films, Michael Mann does a meticulous job of recreating a world in which his characters don't play out plot points but act out their lives.William Peterson and Tom Noonan, two relative unknowns, inhabit the two central characters, bringing to life the pain and the desire that drives these two characters who are more similar than either would like to admit. They also do so without the spoon feeding of flashbacks and explanatory back story that tells you exactly why Graham is so reluctant to come back and why Dolarhyde feels he must become something more than he is. Like Buffalo Bill in Silence, Dolarhyde is given motive but not explanation. He is a serial killer. He has murdered two families. Noonan gives the audience a glimpse of the humanity that lies underneath what Dolarhyde is becoming but does not ever let us feel that this man is not dangerous or that he can stop the killing.SPOILERS AHEAD DO NOT READ IF YOU DO NOT KNOW HOW THE FILM ENDSThe ending seems to be a great point of contention with many other users. I think it suits the film. It may be very different from the book but I gather so is much of the rest of the film so perhaps the book's ending would not have worked. It may be a tad Hollywood but it is also realistic. Serial killers don't often get away with it. Eventually they are usually caught without ever even knowing the detective who will apprehend them, let alone threatening his or her family in any way.I have yet to see Red Dragon mostly because I feel it is pointless. I can go to the theater and watch a composite of Manhunter and Silence that faithfully retells the story of the book or I can stay home and watch to excellent, original films. It is not a tough choice to me. "}{"Title":"Much, much better than 'Red Dragon'","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so the end song 'Heartbeat' is buttock-clenchingly awful, but this is the only real fly-in-the-ointment in an otherwise cracking film. 'Manhunter' is cool Dante Spinotti's cinematography is sumptuous eye-candy; Michael Mann's direction is effortless and the minimalist synth music by Michel Rubini (also responsible for 'The Hunger') and The Reds is so much in keeping with the images flowing from the screen.The acting too is first rate. William Petersen trounces Ed Norton as the tortured Graham and Tom Noonan is truely awesome as the 'Tooth Fairy', Dolarhyde (sorry Mr Fiennes, but it's a simple case of no competition here). It's a pity that Brian Cox didn't decide to break his I don't do sequels rule and revisit his role of Lecter because his understated portrayal of the 'insane' psychiatrist is better in the round than Mr Hopkins's. Joan Allen portrays the blind heroine, Reba, with greater flair (and less ham-fistedness) than Emily Watson and Stephen Lang endowed the role of Tattler reporter Lounds with far more skin-crawling sleaziness than the mumbling Philip Seymour Hoffman.So if, like me, you saw 'Red Dragon' and were thoroughly disappointed, just remember that there's 'Manhunter' and breathe a sigh of relief.9/10 (1 deducted for 'Heartbeat') "},{"Title":"Better than remake Red Dragon (2002)","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Release of Red Dragon with Anthony Hopkins finally made me sit down and watch this original adaptation of Harrison's novel Red Dragon - prequel to Silence of the Lambs. I watched Red Dragon straight after, which made comparison even more interesting.Although Hopkins is undisputed Hannibal Lecter and Lambs still keeps the title of the best Hannibal movie, Manhunter comes very close and manages to stay on top of Ridley's Hannibal and latest Red Dragon. Later being the worst in the series, but still watchable, thanks to always amazing performance from Hopkins.Mann shows great talent and sense for directing (we see a lot of his trade mark close-up shots we got used to in his later movies - Heat, Insider and Ali) along with good feeling of adapting the script (for example his later script adaptation of Last of the Mohicans). William L. Petersen is excellent in the role of FBI agent, which in some ways reminds me on his role of the head of C.S.I. TV series. I haven't read the book so I'm judging from what I've read, that Red Dragon follows the book more closely than Manhunter and in general Red Dragon makes things clearer for the audience. On the other hand Manhunter keeps the tension and has better character development. Especially the main role of agent Graham and relationship with his wife, which in Red Dragon is significantly less developed.In Manhunter Hannibal has important, but not as emphasized role as in Red Dragon for obvious reasons. The focus is on agent Graham and his struggle with himself and the killer, whose motivations are never as clear as in Red Dragon. In fact, Red Dragon itself is mentioned only once in the movie. I guess Mann though digging deeper into Red Dragon mythology would turn off the focus from the agent Graham.The title itself - Manhunter - indicates focus of the story, much like Red Dragon title indicates greater importance of the killer's motives in the remake and obviously in the book itself.Manhunter is excellent detective story with great psychological tension, tight plot and memorable performance, especially from the main character.  "},{"Title":"A great thriller, a great 80's movie. Why remake it?","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I never Red Red Dragon so I can comment on this movie as it stands on its own. It is one of the best movies of the 80s. Petersen has never been better, Noonan one of the most underrated actors is excellent as the killer, and Joan Allen (you will have to do a double take to recognize her, is perfect as the blind girl, the killer's love interest. There is a 2 minute scene in this movie of Allen, Noonan, and a huge Bengal Tiger, all played to the sound of Shriek Back's The Big Hush, that is worth renting the movie for. Yes the movie looks 80's, so what, you'll love it. If you havent read the book, rent it.  "},{"Title":"The Best of The Lector Films and Does Not need A Remake","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Manhunter is simply one of the best thrillers ever made. One of the big complaints seem to be that it is too 80's and that is a silly reason not to look at the whole picture. From the first rate direction and script by Michael Mann, the beautiful photography by Dante Spinotti and the wonderful performances by William Petersen as Will Graham, Brian Cox as Lector, Tom Noonan as Dollarhyde, Joan Allen as Reba, Dennis Farina as Jack Crawford and Steven Lang as Lounds. They bring real depth and dimension to their characters that helps set this film apart from other thrillers. The film does not revel in gore but instead takes the viewer on a psychological trip not to be forgotten. Another big complaint is the ending and that it was changed from the book. It was changed and for the better, the ending of the book was not very good and almost ruined a great novel. Anyone who has not seen this great film should and yes the 80's soundtrack is dated but so what just because a film is a few years old does not mean it's bad I think there are quite a few classic film fans who would argue that and people who think that are missing out on a lot of great films including this one. See Manhunter You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Uneven serial killer adventure","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"   An FBI profiler is called out of retirement  to find a serial killer.  And like agent Starling in Silence of the Lambs, he enlists the help of one Hannibal the Cannibal Lechter (Cox).  One would immediately expect the movie to revolve around their uneasy arrangement.  However, the focus of this movie is on his efforts to find the killer.  We see Lechter only a few times and the inevitable comparisons to the Hopkins' Lechter are really unnecessary. But here we go anyway...... He's not quite as creepy and in this movie he is stored in a clinical atmosphere rather than in the grimy dungeon featured in the Silence of the Lambs.  The serial killer is your typical predator type but is not nearly as weird as the guy in Lambs..... no bizarro-naked dancing this time. The plot is a notch above your standard detective fare and we get some interesting lighting and camera work.  However, this gives the movie a dated TV movie look (as does the 80s clothes and hairstyle).  Although,I must admit, the 80s styles look better than the 70s if you're keeping score.  Manhunter is worth looking for if you are interested in the Hannibal serial.  Otherwise you are not missing much. "},{"Title":"My thoughts on 'Manhunter'","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Contains SpoilerI've read most of the reviews and comments left by other users and for those that throw around terms like 'greatest 80's movie' or 'psychological masterpiece', I've concluded that we must have been watching totally different movies. I have read the book 'Red Dragon' a few times, and I consider it to be a piece of literary genius, unfortunately, in the case of 'Manhunter', it was not brought to the screen particularly well. I was pleasantly surprised, to the film's credit, to see that a great deal of the book was incorporated, however, that's all I can offer as a plus point. Most of the scenes seemed to be grabbed from the book and just thrown into a screenplay, many details were left out e.g. Dolarhyde's history, planning and execution of killings, it's supposed to be a psychological horror and we don't even know why he's in this frame of mind. (This could easily have been created as short flashbacks of his childhood).   The pace of the investigation, subsequent killings, realisations, moves far to quickly to really get into the story, and before you know it Dolarhyde is dead.To be fair, because the film was comparatively close to the book I stayed with it, but what the hell happened to the ending? It was just ridiculously nothing like the book, can't recall anywhere in the text that said Graham dives through a window and fights Dolarhyde to the death... Last point, a number of people have said that Brian Cox's Lector (lekter) was excellent and better than Hopkins'. No offence but were you all on something. Lector was written to be a psychological genius, an animal to be feared...Cox played it like a used car salesman and wouldn't look out of place in a 'Carry On' movie..  "},{"Title":"Perhaps the best movie of the Harris novels.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was a really terrific film. So dark and so creepy, yet so cool and hip at the same time. Michael Mann is without a doubt, one of the finest directors ever. This would be the first of the three Thomas Harris stories dealing with Hannibal Lechter, although in this film, Lechter is more of a minor player. By the way, in this film Hannibal is played by Brian Cox and his performance is incredible. Cox is creepy and disturbing, the way he should be, instead of the over the top way he was played by Hopkins. The movie deals with FBI agent Will Graham, a retired FBI agent that in his prime, had the ability to get into the minds of serial killers and interpret why they did certain things. This helped him to catch the monsters and put them away. Sadly, living in the minds of monsters can have a very negative effect on your own life. Graham has trouble getting the images out of his head and he is forced into retirement.  However, there is a serial killer called the Tooth Fairy that is murdering entire families while they sleep and the FBI is stumped. Once again Graham is pressured into coming out of retirement and prompted to get back into the mind of this maniac destroying families. This film was made in the mid-1980's, while Mann was still very much involved in his TV show Miami Vice and you can see some (many) similarities. The music, dress and sets are very Art Deco. Sonny Crockett never makes an appearance, but you might expect to see him. I have always felt that this was arguably the best movie of the three books (it was the best book for sure). Silence.. was excellent as well (also a great book). However, Hannibal was one of the worst movies ever made (the book was rotten as well). Sadly, the studio decided to re-name the movie Manhunter instead of Red Dragon at the last minute, which commercially killed the film. Many Harris readers did not know that this movie was based on the book. However, Mann makes the most of it by directing a great film. I see now, that the studios are re-making this film with a big budget and cast. I don't think it necessary. They ought to re-make Hannibal. **** out of **** for Red Dragon, I mean Manhunter. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Movies Ever Made","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had to read through the comment index twice to make sure that I had never commented on this film.  Before there was Silence or the Lambs or Hannibal, before CSI, William Petersen starred in an amazingly similar role (of his now famous, number one hit television series) in the movie Manhunter, which I consider one of the best movies ever made.  I can understand some of the criticisms written about this movie, but it really depends on what you look for in a movie.  For me, this movie had realism, a stylish seriousness that didn't try to make fancy, polished statements.  The dialogue was real, hard-hitting something you could listen and hear in real life, but in a dramatic - slice of life way, hitting the key points in a murder investigation.Yes, there were many, many slow moments, but real moments - a father and his son in a grocery store - that scene was polished, wasn't acted to perfection.  This scene was one real kid talking about his fears, he wasn't even looking at the camera or his father, just off into space like a real kid.  The investigation process was smooth, methodical, scientific and luck.  There was the early scene in the meeting room which played out as in real life - and the Tooth Angel - comment was portrayed as a serious event even though people laughed.  The serial killer was real, even sympathetic at times.  And Hannibal was even more scary because he was so cool, somebody without a soul but who could be charming as a good salesman on the phone.There really isn't a bad scene that I can find in this movie and I've scene the movie perhaps ten times.  The music blended well into the fear and excitement, drama and tension without being overwhelming.  The deaths were not for shock value for themselves but as stated factual reality - sometimes death is bloody, but not for cheap thrills for moviegoers.The seen where police come to protect some innocent people was a great scene of (what I would think) were real police officers talking as they would normally, I think you better go into the house ma'am.  It was anything like in the mothers.  That scene by the police wasn't acted it was a re-enactment of what would really happen, and it was compelling, dramatic.  Yet, the movie at the same time amazingly never came across like real TV.  There were production values, there were lines performed, but they were performed with serious intention, to communicate more dramatically what occurs in real life.  The movie was like a photograph that was touched up to make the edges appear sharper, the colors more brilliant.  There were dramatic ocean scenes, stark blood-bathed bedroom scenes.The characters were memorable, their relations with other characters moving, the plot riveting in its steering away from typical Hollywood productions, playing over the top, shooting, mayhem, action just for special effects sake.  Nothing was done in this movie but to really let the audience soak in the experience - the building tempo, building urgency of crime investigation, the humanity of the people killed and those targeted for death.  The only flaw was the reporter who really was the only character who for whatever reason was a stereotype of tabloid journalism.I would recommend this movie to any one who cares about murder mystery in a slow, methodical way that builds into a more heart-pounding climax.  It is definitely not all action, blood and guts, it is an intellectually stimulating thinking, feeling movie that even those emotional women and men might be able to appreciate.  This is a must see if you like to soak in the colors, the hard edges of step by step forensics and a no-holds barred snap shots of style and substance combined into one sleeper of a movie that Anthony Hopkins will have a real challenge in starring in a remake.  10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A waste of time.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film has nothing going for it. The scenes are tediously boring and long. Thirty minutes into the movie you'll be begging for something to happen. Let me tell you, you have to fast forward to the end, and even then it's not that good. The story is about a man from the FBI trying to catch a killer. You get to see him investigate. And investigate. And investigate. And the investigation is uninteresting at that. This film has a dark mood hanging over it which adds to its slow pace, bogging it down. The acting is okay, except when the FBI man starts raving out loud to himself about the killer and calling him profane names. It's laughable. There is no drive to this movie at all. The killer doesn't even kill anyone on screen (in serial killer fashion I mean). Don't invite a bunch of friends over and watch this. You'll be staring at the screen ready to rip your hair out just waiting for the ending. This is not a party movie. At best, watch it alone so you won't be embarrassed for making other people sit through it because they might not ever let you pick out another movie. You might fall asleep. The dark atmosphere is supposed to aid the movie, I know. But all it does is make it moody. And not in a good way. You might wanna have a happy movie ready for when this is over, possibly a comedy. You'll need to lift your spirits. Plus, I know I shouldn't judge the time in which it was made, but this film reeks of the '80s. The music, the clothes, the look. Who wants to watch an uninteresting, dark, depressing, uneventful movie with that annoying '80s style? Trust me, ignore the good reviews and avoid this. Nothing happens until the end and it goes all too fast. This is not a fun film. "},{"Title":"Excellent, A First Rate Thriller","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie seems to generate mixed reviews but I thought it was outstanding.  William Peterson gives a great performance as an FBI agent lured out of retirement to help the cops find a truly creepy serial killer.  Peterson just has that All American Hero mug, this is the classic 80's slightly disturbed but intelligent good guy role.The acting throughout is solid while the tension and suspense build.  Director Michael Mann (Heat, The Insider, Last of The Mohicans) rarely misses the mark in my opinion, and this film is no exception.  Watching the extras on the DVD, you really get a sense of how it was such a labor of love for the director, cast and crew.I think knowing very little about this movie going into it (like the fact that it was based on Thomas Harris' book and had the original characters that would make up the monster hit Silence of The Lambs) made me enjoy it even more.  For future generations this will be a challenge since they are remaking it.  For the life of me I can't figure out why they are doing it, but even if the remake falls short of expectations (as Hannibal did) it will no doubt be the first Manhunter that many see, and when they go back to view this little gem, it might lose its power.Either way, Manhunter has found enough of an audience over the years to keep it out there, almost in a cult-like status.  Many that I know still say its better than Silence... although I stop short of that.  The truth is, its hard to compare the two, they are both riveting in their own ways.Don't cheat yourself out of a fine film, be sure and check this one out if you haven't. "}{"Title":"A far too literal book adaption at times.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Some spoilers. Often times, fans of a book-turned-movie complain of how the story vastly differs from the book on which it is based.  This can certainly ruin a film just as much as it can make a film, since certain plot lines in books are too long to fit in a movie or unfit to the rest of a screenplay.  Manhunter is the type of film that was just the opposite, an almost literal, verbatim copy of the book.  In this case, it was not as effective as changing some storylines/quotes to better fit a film. There are just small things--like Graham looking over the pictures of the dead families on an airplane and thinking of his wife carrying a six-pack of longneck Mexican beer aboard a boat--that are in the book and just did not need to be in the film.  There's a lot of small things that were directly taken from the book and could have been modified, lengthened or deleted entirely.  Also bad was how Graham would say lines in the movie that he THOUGHT in the book, making him seem like a loon (You touched her with your bare hands, didn't ya?!). The meeting with Hannibal Lector (while one of the highlights of the film) is one of those types of things that could have used some help.  Their conversations in the book and film are almost identical.  However, there just seems to be something missing in the film that is in the book backstory.  Yes, we know the basics of what happens between Graham and Lector several years prior, but it needed more than just a brief summary.  A flashback or opening in that scene and then fast forwarding some 4 or 5 years would have done wonders to add some tension.  When Lector tells Graham to smell yourself and then Graham runs for about 15 seconds through the building, there is no apparent tension.  I certainly didn't feel any.  Graham  just does not seem to be haunted by his ability to think like the killer.  Some mental hauntings by the children he can picture being murdered in his head would have been much more dramatic. Overall, this is a very bad adaption for Mann.  The script is weak and the direction is mediocre.  I can only assume he was doing this while he was busy working on Miami Vice among other things as well and took some shortcuts.  With the book-titled remake of this film being penned by Silence of the Lambs scriptor Ted Tally, I think that it will be a superior film to this.  How--as the DVD case says--people consider Manhunter to be superior to Silence is beyond me.  4/10 "},{"Title":"Snore","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the most boring, inane, pointless movies I have viewed in a long time.If you are thinking of watching this movie because it has a vague link to Silence of the Lambs or Hannibal, forget it.The plot is disjointed and pointless.  You get no insight into the killer or the lead characters methods used to get inside the mind of the killer.The music is very dated, sounds like Michael Mann decided to cheap out on music by hiring one dude with a cheap Radio Shack Keyboard.The scenes drag on... and on... and on... with incredible lags in conversation which are meant to build mood but do nothing more than build boredom.If you are thinking of renting this DVD, do NOT bother! "},{"Title":"Fascinating, mesmerizing movie","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Based on Thomas Harris' novel Red Dragon, the first of Harris' books featuring Hannibal Lecter, this is a highly accomplished movie of the eighties from Michael Mann, director of Miami Vice (L.A. Takedown, The Keep).Starring William Petersen (CSI Crime Scene Investigations, Fear) as Will Graham, a highly empathetic, burnt out detective (well, more than burnt out - Lecter practically disemboweled him during his arrest), this movie is unique, fast paced, tense and highly styleful. Graham is put on the trail of a serial killer, referred to as The Tooth Fairie, as he has an unusual bite and sodomises his male victims after slaying entire families. He arranges the woman for some purpose that's left unexplained, but which has to do with the William Blake painting The Great Red Dragon And The Woman Clothed In The Sun (read the book for that one). This is all in the first ten minutes, by the way.The movie slows down when halfway when it turns into a character study of the serial killer. Some people will like that, some won't. It does take away from the pace of the movie as a whole, but it also adds depth to the motivations and creates an empathy with his next victims; it doesn't change the fact that the first and last thirds of the movie, which focus on the investigation, are highly engaging. I guess the director was trying to inject some of the deeper material of the book (an impossibility).As a serial killer who seems to be totally led by his intuitions, The Tooth Fairy is _very_ scary, because you're truly never sure what he will do next. He also seems to possess near super-natural strength when he's in his psychotic mode. Unpredictability is something director Mann seems to have mastered working on Miami Vice, and the movie has a lot of the feel of that series.Watch the movie, then read the book, then watch the movie again. A classic of the genre, and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"If It Ain't Broke, Don't Fix It","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is better than Silence Of The Lambs.They are supposed to be re-making this as Red Dragon - why???Much has been said about Brian Cox's role as Dr Lecktor, but he has little on-screen time. The revelation of this film is William Petersen, who is terrific as Will Graham.Michael Mann has made a handful of brilliant films (The Last Of The Mohicans, Heat, The Insider), but this one is his crowning glory.  "},{"Title":"Must see!!!","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One of my all time favorites, this movie keeps you going from start to finish.  While the ending was drastically changed from the book and hence not nearly as fulfilling, the action and cast keep this thriller moving anyway.  Bill Petersen is very good as a reluctant and almost burned out investigator assigned to some particularly vicious murders.  Even better, Tom Noonan's performance as the creepy Francis Dollarhyde was first rate and two small but very chilling scenes with Brian Cox as the original Dr. Lector make Anthony Hopkins look more like Mary Poppins.  If you find this anywhere buy it, you will not be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Quite suspenseful","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Finally -- thanks to the recent DVD-release in Sweden -- I have been able to watch this Michael Mann movie. It seems that for every year that passes Manhunter gets more hype. So, I think it is impossible to watch this movie now, for the first time, without having high expectations. I certainly did!Even though Manhunter does not live up to the relative hype of recent years it is still a very good film. It's quite suspenseful -- though not nearly as scary as I thought Silence of the Lambs was when I saw that movie for the first time in '91. The acting is also great (especially by William Petersen, Joan Allen and Tom Noonan). (7/10) "},{"Title":"Curious but worth watching","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Whatever you think about this movie, you have to feel sorry for it.  Its creators had no way of knowing that the subsequent Thomas Harris movies would completely recreate these characters and the world in which they live; certainly they had no idea Hannibal Lecter would become the Darth Vader-level icon he is now.  What's worse, the movie's DVD packaging boldly calls it far better than The Silence of the Lambs, thus ensuring that legions of new viewers will unfairly compare Manhunter to its better funded, more recent pseudosequels.  Watch this movie by itself, not as part of a trilogy.With that out of the way, Manhunter is a pretty decent film.  Some scenes build suspense very effectively, leaving the audience with no idea of what to expect.  The first on-screen appearance of the killer is quite a shocker, and the subplot in which he romances a blind woman brings a striking degree of pathos to his character.  While William Petersen occasionally overplays his part (especially when he's collecting evidence by himself and starts randomly yelling at the killer), his delivery in the grocery store scene where he explains himself to his son is both touching and chilling at the same time.Now the bad.  The mid-'80s soundtrack is tremendously annoying and dates the film terribly.  With the exception of the Iron Butterfly songs the killer plays in his van and his house, all of the music in this movie should have been replaced by a dark and insinuating orchestral score.  Also, why would they keep people like Hannibal Lecter in white clothes in a completely white asylum?  You couldn't even see him if he tried to escape!  But in general the movie succeeds, and it's essential viewing for fans of Thomas Harris and Hannibal Lecter.And no matter what anybody says, Hopkins is better. "},{"Title":"Silence of the Lambs, only really bad.","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is basically the cliched 80s precursor to Silence of the Lambs. The direction and acting is frustratingly bad, and especially painful for Hopkins fans is Brian Cox's cockney-accented, normal guy portrayal of Hannibal Lecter. The whole appeal of Lecter is lost when Cox rubs his eyes, rolls them, and generally looks around slack-jawed in a most un-Lecter like fashion. Perhaps I wouldn't have been so disappointed if I hadn't seen Silence of the Lambs, but there is a reason why Manhunter remains known only as its obscure precursor. "},{"Title":"Dead As A Corpse Boring","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not only is this NOT as good as Silence of the Lambs, It pales in comparison to the Texas Chainsaw Massacre!   It just is so slow moving. Petersen plays a relunctant profiler who's haunted by previous killings. Haven't you heard that before.  Brian Cox never quite scares you as Hannibal Leckter. His performance could've been played by Soupy Sales with more nuances.  This film is one that was made, and should have stayed, in the mid '80's. BTW, I didn't like Silence either. "},{"Title":"Not impressed","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After reading the high reviews of this film on the imdb, i rented it last night and watched. I realize that it probably did not have the production qualities of either silence or hannibal, but i found it to be a forgettable bad 80's film. Lector was not creepy or evil, all in all he was to willing to help, even if he wasnt helping. The plot was nothing amazing, decent though, but the movie lacked suspense and i found it dull and almost cheesy. "}{"Title":"Dig That Funky Synth Score","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This chiller is well made, shadowing Petersen's work in CSI as he tracks down a family killing murderer.  Hannibal Lector has a secondary role, but the real flaw here is the complete shifting of gears half way through as we see the killer and his new love relationship.  This goes on too long, kills suspense, and leads to a cliched conclusion.  I give this a 6. "},{"Title":"First declared bad, then underrated, now way overrated.","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  * out of ****Michael Mann's Manhunter creates zero suspense from start to finish and features uinspired acting from the likes of William petersen and Tom Noonan.  Rather, what we have here is a movie that feels more like an episode of Petersen's own series CSI than a prequel to the masterpiece The Silence of the Lambs, and even then it's not even half as interesting as any episode of that series.The film is about the search of a serial killer dubbed The Tooth Fairy.  Former FBI agent Will Graham (William Petersen) is brought into the case to find the killer and decides to enlist the help of another killer named Hannibal Lecter (spelled Lecktor in this movie).  The clock starts to winding down as Graham must find the killer before he gets  his next victim.Wow, is this movie downright awful  With terrible direction, an extremely outdated musical score, bland performances, and a complete lack of suspense Manhunter can be put into the how-not-to-make-a-film category.  The only small thing it has going for it is a good performance from Brian Cox as Hannibal Lector, and while he's nowhere near as memorable or spectacular as Hopkins, he's still better than anything else in this concoction.How did it all go wrong?  Maybe it's Mann's lack of effort into infusing tension into the story.  Don't get me wrong, Mann is a fine director, but he's got everything all wrong here.  Any time tension can possibly appear, it's unwound the next scene with some sort of overly sentimental meeting between Graham and his wife.  Then there's the Tooth Fariy himself, played by Tom Noonan, who is such an unintereting character, I just kept on wishing Lecter would make more appearances, but alas to no avail seeing how it is Brian Cox appears virtually only in the beginning.William Petersen is no better as Will Graham.  He is equally as bland and features no charisma of any sort.  This film came not long after his equally terrible To Live and Die in L.A. and his thespian talents have not improved any since.There are some who will say Manhunter is better than The Silence of the Lambs, but it seems more like a case of certain people who just don't like classic and very well-known films and would rather go with the little-seen prequel.  Trust me, The Silence of the Lambs is a brilliant psychological thriller and is far infinitely superior to this misbegotten production. "},{"Title":"Light Years better than Silence of the lambs","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, its 80s because it was made in the 80s.Get over it !!This movie is pure genius  the opening sequence is one of the most creepiest piece of cinema i have ever seen......Brian Cox plays Hannibal with due restraint and does not over act ( like AHopkins did in Silence). The rest of the cast is near perfect, i personally love the soundtrack/score, all in all a perfect 10/10 from me.Over and out. "},{"Title":"read the book","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While Manhunter is not an awful movie it is no comparison to the book Red Dragon, which it is based on.  Brian Cox does a good job as the good doctor but these movie is not driven by its acting.  The most interesting parts of the book have been taken out in order to keep the movie short.  You feel no attachment to either the hero, Will Graham, or the villain, who is much more interesting than Buffalo Bill from The Silence of the Lambs. My recommendation is to read Red Dragon and don't bother with Manhunter. "},{"Title":"Could well be one of the most unfaithful adaptations ever made.","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Having recently finished the novel and having seen the other adaptations, I was eagerly looking forward to seeing the first Lecter film ever made. This turned out, however, as a huge anticlimax.As a book, the story worked; but as seen in 'Manhunter', the evidence suggests that it wasn't material that was good enough to transfer to the silver screen although Brett Ratner did do a fine job in his version so that proves that it is possible. Here, in the 1986 version, the adaptation is just an absolute mess.First of all, the film has aged terribly. I would go as far to say it has aged in the same vein as 'Top Gun' as it's clearly the 1980's with music, costume and hair playing a big part in convincing us this film is very questionable as to take seriously or not. These things that have not aged not only make Manhunter more of a comic viewing but also take away any psychological feeling of uneasiness that might have been there (and was in Ratner's version) if the film had been done properly. The music is very inappropriate given the film's theme and content. A serial killer in a psychological/detective thriller is killing these families and generally causing havoc so what kind music do we hear? Cheesy 80's pop music; that's what and it's not even done intentionally as it was with 'Stuck in the Middle With You' from 'Reservoir Dogs'. This makes it more comic than disturbing. The film also feels like it's in a rush. Characters act and talk far too quickly to know what's going on and it's only because I had read the book and seen Ratner's version that I could fathom any kind of clues as to how they were getting nearer to the killer. This would suggest that people who haven't read the book will be in absolute disarray when watching it, which isn't good. In fact, those who have read the book will probably feel like I felt when viewing it a little insulted.Numerous things are missing from the novel which made it so effective and which made the killer so effectively disturbing. For one, the killer is hardly in this film; we only see him eliminate a certain character and more towards the end when he starts his relationship with Reba. Secondly, there is no hint of his past whatsoever and nor does it mention his grandmother whom is, basically, the reason for his killings. Thirdly, the fact he lives in a modern looking apartment as opposed to the large, creepy old house that he did in the book completely infuriated me as it served the basis for his evilness. It's mentioned that the killer lived and grew up in that house, suffered his abuse in that house and wasn't used to going to other people's more modern houses (like Reba's in the book and Ratner's version) building up a dangerous profile of him that he is severally alienated from most up-to-date people. In this film, it's all wrong.Another thing is Hannibal Lecter himself. The filmmakers couldn't even spell his name correctly in this film; let alone get his persona right. Brian Cox portrays Lecter in a way in which he is more akin to a locked up east-end, London gangster than a mass murderer/cannibal. He talks too quickly and too colloquially, destroying any sophistication which should have been present in the film. In the book, special attention is paid to the ways in which Lecter moves; his tiny instances of body language are described but here, everything you thought you knew about Lecter is annihilated in an instance. Here, Lecter talks in an everyday way, sits with his feet up on the wall and talks down the phone like a laid back guy, lying on a sofa. There're also no references to his cultural knowledge. No pictures or no paintings on the wall; nothing. Just a few books.What also drives Manhunter towards the tag of 'Hollywood nonsense' is the way it builds its final third. The killer's relationship with Reba is dealt with far too quickly in a filmic sense and the touching scenes involving him making his way to the museum to eat the painting were left out; destroying the fact that he was undergoing a change due to his love for Reba (who is blind, by the way!). The way in which the police storm the house towards the end, crashing through windows like in a 'Lethal Weapon' film was just insulting and the way in which he was finally dealt with was equally bad.Unfortunately, Manhunter is a real disappointment and those that say they like it; well, I really can't see why. If this is your first taste of the Harris/Lecter series then so-be-it but expect much better things when you watch the others. "},{"Title":"as thrilling as a 7-11 surveillance video","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you've heard of this movie, you've probably heard the critical praise (some of which even appears on the package) talking about how Manhunter is so much more tense and exciting than Silence of the Lambs. If you haven't already fallen for that crap and watched the movie, then hopefully I can convince you to keep it that way. Manhunter is far, far less exciting than Silence. In fact, I think it would be fair to say that Manhunter is less exciting than the latest Pokemon movie.Problem number 1 is their portrayal of Hannibal Lechter. As played by Anthony Hopkins, Lechter is one of the coolest movie villains ever, a chilling, frightening, and yet highly charismatic criminal. As portrayed by Brian Cox, he is a dull genius in a white cage. It wouldn't be entirely accurate to say he has no personality, but the one he does have (in the rare moments when he gets to show it) is far from captivating. Yes, there is just enough conniving to keep the plot moving, but there's hardly any motivation for it. Lechter's relationship to Will Graham is explained in no more than a sentence, thus removing all the dramatic impact of their on-screen interactions. Basically, everything that makes Hannibal Lechter an interesting character is absent in this film.There are other problems with the movie as well. I don't remember all of them at this point, but one that sticks out in my mind is a murder scene where the camera, watching only the two characters' feet as one of them lifted the other off the ground, was tilted to such a degree as to make the action extremely confusing. This sort of failed use of potentially interesting cinematic techniques is sadly par for the course in Manhunter.So basically, my point is do not waste your time on this movie. It adds nothing to the story presented in Red Dragon (or the other parts of the trilogy), and it lacks quite a lot. "},{"Title":"Absorbing film that oozes with gloss!","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Will Graham (William Petersen) an gifted FBI agent in the field of forensics has the ability to think like a killer and this is the reason why he's persuaded out of retirement to help in a nationwide manhunt of a crazed serial murderer called the Tooth Fairy (Tom Noonan) that the FBI can't seem to get any clues on. The pieces start to fit in Will's profile of the killer who is murdering families on a lunar cycle, so now it's a race against time to stop him slaughtering another family in the next full moon. One thing that hits you about it straightaway is the strong 80's awe, so it feels really dated, but honestly it didn't disappoint me, as what we get is an intelligent and polished effort by Michael Mann. Don't be expecting whole lot of energy and action, as it's an incredibly slow and realistic set-up, with moody performances and a plot that is a thought provoking mystery piece, which has its grisly moments mixed into many subtle and haunting situations. Gladly it doesn't overplay any of their characters or gimmicks, especially its killer. Anyhow, this prequel is basically overshadowed by Silence of the Lambs which is a good film, but I just don't get the hype that surrounds it. I guess I'm of a small minority when I say I would actually watch this over Silence of the Lambs any day. And there's Hannibal; lets not go there. Also throw in Red Dragon, but I haven't come across it. But, it would be interesting to compare that version to Manhunter. Definitely depressing in tone, with a certain amount of emotional drive that compounds this slick thriller. The plot closely builds on Petersen's characters' torment and how he becomes so close to the killer that he studies; it affects his life and the way he thinks. And no, it isn't a Lecktor film. But when Lecktor and Graham shared the screen, the burning conversation they had was uneasy. Basically the plot concentrates more on Petersen's FBI agent, rather than the serial killer. And, I just found the attention to Graham's determination and effort to capturing the killer rather gripping and incredibly well driven. It's a smart screenplay that closely draws on the victims more than anything. Tension and horror is built up in a slow manner to reach its thumping conclusion. The performances were top-notch, especially that of William Petersen who nails the part of the scarred FBI agent Will Graham with conviction. I thought he was somewhat of an underrated actor. Brian Cox as Hannibal Lecktor was subtly eerie and hardly over-the-top (like Hopkins) in the small amount of scenes he got. Tom Noonan striking features and quiet tone suited the role perfectly as the serial killer called the Tooth fairy. There's also some good supporting roles from the likes of Dennis Farina, Joan Allen and Kim Greist. Mann's direction is remarkably stylish and well executed, he creates some brilliant sequences and that especially goes for smacking and high-octane climax. Cinematography by Dante Spinotti is beautifully set-up with the many angles and well-constructed shots that truly catch your eye and really make you pay notice. The lush visuals and rich colour patterns are incredibly vibrant. With good use of lighting. The Reds groovy electronic score might feel out of place at times, but still it had an enchanting nature and powerful punch. Overall, it's an intelligent and slow grinding film that is directed with flair by Michael Mann. "},{"Title":"About on par with Silence of the Lambs in my opinion","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter was the first actual Hannibal Lector movie, although his name is Lecktor in this version. It was based off of the Thomas Harris novel Red Dragon, which writer-director Michael Mann adapted himself and transformed into a very different kind of film.It was remade in 2002 as Red Dragon starring Edward Norton, Harvey Keitel, and of course Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal. (It was, in my opinion, the best movie of the series so far - though many disagree.) Manhunter is almost as good, and about on par with Silence of the Lambs in my opinion. William Peterson (To Live and Die in L.A., TV's CSI) plays the role of Will Graham, an ex-detective drawn out of retirement by a cop named Jack (Dennis Farina, who you might have also seen on TV a few times before, har-har) to hunt down a serial killer who seems to be choosing his victims at random.Will enlists the help of imprisoned serial killer Hannibal Lecktor (Brian Cox, Adaptation) to track down the serial killer.First things first this movie is NOT a Hannibal Lecktor film. It's a Will Graham film. Lecktor is in it a bit, but his presence is not as strong. It's not as intellectual and subtle as Silence of the Lambs, which is ironic because Mann is actually quite a subtle director. It's more of a bloody, gory thriller rather than a quiet serial killer film.Then again, I think Red Dragon always was more of a horror-thriller than the others. (Hannibal had yet to be truly developed in the novel.) Mann does a good job of creating a solid thriller that's scary, suspenseful and surprising.The acting isn't as strong as Red Dragon or Lambs (I won't mention Ridley Scott's Hannibal) and Cox isn't as impressive as Anthony Hopkins. But overall I liked the film better.I really enjoyed Mann's direction (as always) and found it more entertaining than Silence of the Lambs, which I think is overrated (good, but nevertheless overrated).If you liked Silence of the Lambs, you may not like this, because it's a big change. And if you saw Red Dragon, you might prefer Brett Ratner's vision for the series. However, I personally think Manhunter is a well-made, underrated suspense film - the forgotten entry in the Hannibal Lecktor/Lecter series, and a movie that should be seen regardless of your blind love for all things Hopkins. "},{"Title":"WHY did they remake this film!!!???","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" They had no REASON to!!! Oh don't give me that baloney about how Anthony Hopkins is the ONLY Lector!!! Please!!! Hopkins was terrific in SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, but the senseless gratuitous gore of HANNIBAL turned me off...and then they just HAD to go and remake MANHUNTER (giving IT the name of RED DRAGON, which this original should have been christened!!!) and by this time, Hopkins was 10 years or so older...does Lector age in REVERSE or something???!!! Not only this, but the newer film, with Edward Norton and Ralph Fiennes is so WIMPY in comparison...not just wimpy, BORING. I wasn't even scared during the new movie!!! Norton, normally an above average actor, was dull and stilted compared with the intense, crackling William Petersen of the 1986 movie. Fiennes acted like a whimpery dork compared with the incredibly evil, bone chilling performance of one Tom Noonan!!! Noonan IS the red dragon, the devil personified. His scenes with that reporter guy were just AWESOME!!! And props to Brian Cox for being the ORIGINAL Lector...this is the guy that Hopkins studied. The original film was intense and disturbing, and Petersen portrays Graham's mental injuries very believably, whereas Norton in the new movie just didn't seem touched by anything.This movie brings to mind one of my favorite mottos If it ain't broke, don't fix it!!! "},{"Title":"what a film! underrated and slept-on. How thrillers should be made.","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Micheal Mann's 1986 film 'Manhunter' is a truly majestic film. the first film to feature the now infamous Hannibal Lecter, it focuses on FBI manhunter Will Graham (Petersen) as he tries to catch the killer Francis Dollarhyde aka the 'tooth fairy' (Noonan). I won't describe the story and its ins and outs but what i would like to comment on are some of the aspects of the picture that make it my favourite film. The score is simply amazing. The use of the powerful 'Graham's theme' is simply perfect and carries forth the emotional intensity of the scenes in a great way. The song at the end of the film is perfect and leaves you feeling exhilarated,drained, emotional and liberated. The direction on Mann combined with the cinematography of Dante Spinotti is wonderful. The use of colour to portray mood and feeling in the film is second to none. The acting of Peterson in the role of Will Graham is brilliant. He is not over the top but shows the feelings of a troubled man in a very demanding job perfectly. Brian Cox, a brilliant stage actor anyway, is so chilling as Lecktor (how they spell it) it is unreal. His brooding menace eclipses the camp Lecter portrayed by Hopkins in later films. Manhunter is one of those films that is truly underrated and slept-on. It can be viewed over and over again and its style is incredible on each repeat viewing. I must recommend this film to all people who claim to love film and particularly Mann, director of such masterpieces as Heat and Thief. WATCH IT!!!!!!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Great Psychological Thriller","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was unaware of the existence of this film for sometime which is why i found it such and intriguing watch. Red Dragon despite being a credible prequel to Silence of the lambs is inferior in a number of ways. Manns direction creates an uneasy sinister overtone that is maintained throughout which is enhanced by the tacky 80's soundtrack and set design. The film concentrates on the character of Agent Graham and his inner demons before introducing his nemesis Dollarhyde late in the film cleverly constructing tension between them. Noonen is much more convincing as Dollarhyde and looks and acts far more out of place in social terms than Fienes did. William Peterson is strangely excellent as Will Graham too.He manages to brilliantly portray a flawed hero, his neurotic tendencies making him a first class agent but drawing closer and closer to the personality of the killer. I have never been overly impressed with his performances in CSI but maybe in younger days he just tried harder. Dennis Farina is also good in support. But lastly what really gives the film its edge is the relatively brief performance of Brian Cox. Although most will agree Hopkins played the part better in Silence of the Lambs the other films which he reprised the role in where almost parody's of the original character. Cox play it as an evil, superbly intelligent character who you are genuinely afraid off. The tension during his scenes is notable. "},{"Title":"underrated,haunting and disturbing","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" i think that MANHUNTER is really one of the best Thrillers of the 80's. The screenplay is neat,complex and disturbing and Mann's use of Cinemascope,locations,colors and music is great as usual. Dante Spinotti's camera-work is inspired and beautiful and all the performances here are great William Petersen,troubled,strong and ambiguous is the PERFECT actor for Graham's character and Tom Noonan's performance is also very impressive,Noonan is at the same time chilling and moving,almost likable. The supporting actors are good too,Joan Allen is a wonderful and beautiful Reba and Brian Cox is quite good and more subtle here than Anthony Hopkins in HANNIBAL and RED DRAGON! The dreamy and surreal mood of MANHUNTER is really haunting,greatly enhanced by Mann's clever use of songs all the scenes between Tom Noonan and Joan Allen,underlined by the Shriekback's score,are really amazing! MANHUNTER is a too underrated film,another great work from Michael Mann and a much better film than HANNIBAL and RED DRAGON,and it's even a better film than the famous THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS...see this film! "},{"Title":"GREAT HORROR FILM!","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"                  This film kept my interest from beginning to end.  The great film direction and fantastic talents of the music composer, Michael Rubini, gave great mysterious musical sounds, like organ music.  Mr. Rubini composed great music for the Tales from The Crypt,'89 TV Series and Hitchhiker,'03.  William L. Petersen(FBI Agent Will Graham),The Skulls2000, appeared slim and trim in this picture and was starting out his career as a profiler and CSI expert long before the TV show ever was conceived in the minds of TV Producers. Dennis Farina Jack Crawford),Stealing Harvard,'02, gave a great supporting role to Will Graham with his mid-west Chicago accent. Tom Noonan,(Francis Collarhyde),Madness & Genius,'03, played the very sick Monster who had to put in a pair of Dental Plates in order to put a few BITES into his victims! Kim Greist,(Molly Graham),ZOE,'01, was the supportive wife to Will Graham, she had a hard time trying to get him to retire and find time to talk to his son, which was down the isles of a food store.  In one of the scenes Will Graham is standing on a dock over looking a sunset over a lake with the mournful sound of a passing train which gave a very creepy feeling up and down my spine. This is a great film to sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"The best of the Hannibal Lecktor films.","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'll throw in my lot with those who found this film appealing.  While we classify it as one of the Lecktor films, the character of Dr, Lecktor actually has relatively little screen time.  Still, his is one of the pivotal roles, and provides tantalizing, incomplete glimpses as to what is really going on.I found William Petersen as FBI manhunter Will Graham much more appealing than Jodie Foster's Clarice Starling.  Maybe its because of Foster's affected hillbilly accent and moist-sounding lisp that for some reason she adapted for her character.  Petersen's portrayal of Graham as the haunted, introspective, reluctant hero is more complex and believable.  You get the sense that he is driven by inner demons to solve the crime he is faced with, but doesn't really want to be there and would much rather spend the remainder of his days in the bosom of his family on the beaches of Captiva Island.But, the centerpiece of the film is the terrifying portrayal of psychotic killer Francis Dollarhyde by the underrated but talented actor Tom Noonan. Noonan's hulking build seems a stark contrast to his character's quiet, introverted, soft-spoken persona, which hides the inner embodiment of pure, psychotic evil.  Here is a guy who runs a photo lab by day but returns every night to a spooky, surreal lair which obviously reflects his inner psychosis, which he has learned to hide from view.  The symbolism of his relationship with the blind Reba (Joan Allen) is obvious.  His character is able to present a normal appearance to everyone around him yet goes out on the night of a full moon and slaughters whole families whose pictures he has processed, simply to fulfill his fantasies.I thought the only annoying character was the sleazy reporter Freddy Loundes (Stephen Lang).  Lang does a good job of portraying him, however, and I understand the place of this character in the story.  He just wasn't very likeable or believable.Brian Cox as Hannibal Lecktor was quite appealing, I'd say on a par with Anthony Hopkins, which is rather remarkable.  His character has much less real violence about him than the Lecktor of Silence of the Lambs, but skillful screenwriting and acting gives you just the hint of the malevolence lurking within Lecktor's persona.While some have criticized the lack of detail and filling out of the film's characters, I think that this was done deliberately.  You get glimpses and intimations, subtle clues and incomplete inferences, just enough to provide a tantalizing peek at the darker pattern beyond that the viewer must try to complete himself.  Kind of like the clues the Manhunter must piece together to solve the mystery.So give this film a viewing if you can manage the tension and the buildup to the shattering climax.  Then give the family a hug afterwards, and make sure your doors and windows are locked at night, and especially remember to lock the deadbolt if you have a plate glass patio door... "},{"Title":"The First, the Best","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I never appreciated the brilliance of this film until I saw the Silence sequel and Red Dragon remake.  Apart from William Peterson's intense performance, the highlight of the film is unquestionably the mood and atmosphere created by Michael Mann.  Compare Lector's jail cell (wonderfully underplayed by the talented Brian Cox) to the cell of Hannibal in Silence.  No rugged stone walls, no theatrical dim bulbs, just a brilliantly lit scene that you might expect from a hospital room/cell, and much scarier because of its ordinariness.William Peterson starred in two of my favorite movies of all time, the other being To Live and Die in LA.  As the headliner for CSI his slight paunch and extra gray have not dulled his intensity. "},{"Title":"Enough of this madness!!!","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have sat idly by, having watched every single film in this series. SOTL, Hannibal, Manhunter and I just saw Red Dragon. How can anyone see this filth as brilliant and artistic? I watched every single person in this tripe ensemble FAIL at acting. I saw a screenplay that FAILED at creating any kind of suspence. I heard a score that sounded like it came from a toys R us casio keyboard. Yet I see everyone praising it for things that aren't there! The underlying suggestive insanity that Brian Cox only hints at as Lecter, which makes it more scary? No, sorry, that's called bad acting. They call this film superior to Red Dragon! People call Dragon THE NEW REMAKE OF MANHUNTER? WHAT? NO! THE PROPER TELLING OF THE NOVEL! That's what Dragon is! Manhunter is fluff and it's terrible in every aspect, not worth the DVD it came on.    "},{"Title":"The first of the series is still the best.","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this film for the first time about a year ago, shortly after watching Hannibal.  While this film was far less violent and gory than its two sequels, I felt more terrified after watching it than Silence of the Lambs and Hannibal.The greatest plus for this film is the fact that for the most part, it uses actors who were not big names in 1986.  William Petersen, who played FBI investigator Will Graham, is best known today for his role as Gil Grissom on TV's CSI.  But his humane approach to investigating the savage murders by the Tooth Fairy totally sold me that I was watching Will Graham, not William Petersen.  I felt the same for Dennis Farina, Tom Noonan, Joan Allen and Brian Cox, the first actor to portray Dr. Hannibal Lector.The scenes of Graham working the case to himself are among the best in the film.  When he begins piecing the profile of Dolarhyde together, it all comes together with the audience as well, making us a part of the FBI team as well.Dolarhyde, who unfortunately doesn't get a lot of screen time, is seen only as a psychopathic monster; a tragedy which fortunately is corrected in the 2002 film Red Dragon.  The demise of Dolarhyde in this film, I feel, more appropriately justifies the feel of the film; in his small home, isolated in the forest, with Iron Butterfly playing the psychadelic 'in-a-godda-da-vidda,' which is a total contrast to Red Dragon, where he doesn't die in his own home, but Grahams.Forensic work is taken far more seriously in this film than any other in the series, enhancing the suspense and heightening the fear that this guy probably won't be caught because he's too smart.No movie will ever faithfully mimic the artistic qualities of a novel; but close renditions, mixed with creative tangents, may make it just as enjoyable.I gave this film a rating of 9 for its near perfect execution of acting, not only verbal, but emotional. "},{"Title":"MARVELOUS and STYLISH - Simply Great","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  So, Ridley Scott, fresh from the gratuitous and sickening gore of that travesty Hannibal, is for some reason remaking Manhunter. Perhaps we can expect more gross-out violence more suitable for an Itchy and Scratchy cartoon on The Simpsons. But there is no reason to remake a near-masterpiece, other than to CASH in on the Hannibal Lecter cachet.Michael Mann, of Miami Vice fame, wrote the screenplay, and directed it in a very stylish and effective manner. The plot and characters were well developed throughout. The acting was superlative, with a luminous Joan Allen standing out as the blind romantic interest - and almost victim - of the crazed serial killer who is an avid fan of Hannibal.Tom Noonan was equally good as the killer; he was fabulously menacing, spooky, and yet affecting in a sad sort of way. The climactic scene shows him finding his humanity with the Allen character - just before William F. Peterson jumps into the scene. Peterson is reprising his role as a crime scene profiler on TV's CSI. Brian Cox is OK as Dr Lecter, and Dennis Farina fine as the FBI chief.This movie works on so many levels, and even the music is perfectly suited Ina Gadda Da Vida by Iron Butterfly was ideal for that climax.Simply a wonderful movie - in NO need of a remake.       "},{"Title":"Potentially good","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This could have been a good film, really. It had great potential and a couple of really good actors, such as Dennis Farina and William Peterson, who did a great job. But the disadvantages were just too big. First of all, the villain sucked, no he SUCKED. He was so badly played, that words cannot actually describe it. Then there were some points in the story that were really stupid and the ending was dumb too. I mean, an intelligent killer like the Red Dragon, could never be that stupid right, plus what was that attempted last killing all about? I mean not that it was unbelievable that he could freak like that, but let him do it otherwise you know. Not just blow the guy away with nobody hearing it (even the blind person, who are supposed to have great hearing) and why drag the woman back to his place? Really stupid stuff. If Anthony Hopkins and Co. should ever consider making a third in the Lector series, be sure to check Red Dragon by Thomas Harris. It has a couple of great ideas, but you sure as hell would need a much better screenwriter than in this film. Great potential that is ruined by bad screenwriting at times and a bad, preposterous and not scary villain. Oh one more thing, be sure to call the film Red Dragon and not Manhunter.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Curious but worth watching","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Whatever you think about this movie, you have to feel sorry for it.  Its creators had no way of knowing that the subsequent Thomas Harris movies would completely recreate these characters and the world in which they live; certainly they had no idea Hannibal Lecter would become the Darth Vader-level icon he is now.  What's worse, the movie's DVD packaging boldly calls it far better than The Silence of the Lambs, thus ensuring that legions of new viewers will unfairly compare Manhunter to its better funded, more recent pseudosequels.  Watch this movie by itself, not as part of a trilogy.With that out of the way, Manhunter is a pretty decent film.  Some scenes build suspense very effectively, leaving the audience with no idea of what to expect.  The first on-screen appearance of the killer is quite a shocker, and the subplot in which he romances a blind woman brings a striking degree of pathos to his character.  And while William Petersen occasionally overplays his part (especially when he's collecting evidence and starts yelling at the killer), his delivery in the grocery store scene where he explains himself to his son is touching and chilling at the same time.Now the bad.  The mid-'80s soundtrack is tremendously annoying and dates the film terribly; with the exception of the Iron Butterfly songs the killer plays in his van and his house, all of the music in this movie should have been replaced by a dark and insinuating orchestral score.  And why would they keep people like Hannibal Lecter in white clothes in a completely white asylum?  You couldn't even see him if he tried to escape!  But in general the movie succeeds, and it's essential viewing for fans of Thomas Harris and Hannibal Lecter.Hopkins vs. Cox  Hopkins is way better. "}{"Title":"A TV movie.","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Manhunter was pretty bad.  I had to fast forward through the painful love scenes, what maudlin crap.  The movie was pretty faithful to the book until the end which degenerated into a ridiculous TV show type end.  Tom Noonan was good as the killer and I think he  would have been very good if the movie investigated his motives and background more and allow more of the troubled, painful side of the character to emerge.  As it was he was just a cliche and a plot device.  Dennis Farina was as good as the script allowed and Joan Allen, as always, was good but she had a very limited role and a poor script to work with.  William L. Petersen was self absorbed and was pretty bad.  The rest of the cast were forgettable.  Don't bother with it. "},{"Title":"coughcoughcoughhorriblecoughcough","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Alright...now I was really really really open to seeing this movie without worrying too much whether or not it was going to be bad.  But I'm watching this the day before Hannibal comes out and I love SOTL.  So I'm sitting here wondering what kind of film I get considering the book is the best thing to ever be printed.  Well, to make things short, this movie was bad.  I can't even say decent.  I'm reading all the other reviews and they say the acting and camerawork was phenominal.  It made me want to throw up.  Don't give me this 80's jargon because living in the 80's doesn't mean you can't be creative or talented.  It was a bad movie that butchered a good story and made me want to blow chunks.  However, the worst part was the soundtrack.Can we say inappropriate?  The person in charge of the thing wanted to hear his favorite songs hit the movie so that everyone could agree with him. No suspenseful music (or lack thereof...which would have been a cool effect) Nothing!  It was all horrible.  I give this (maybe) 1 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"very bad","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing Silence of the Lambs and reading Red Dragon, I had pretty high expectations for this movie. Boy, was I disappointed. Looking back, there is nothing good about this movie. I refuse to give it credit for having a good premise and basic plot, because that comes from Thomas Harris, not Michael Mann. Mann's direction reeks of Miami Vice, the TV series he created Graham wearing pastel colors no cop has business wearing, Petersen's default cool-guy attitude that shows through despite his feeble attempts at actually acting. The acting for the most part is pretty bad, but a few parts are played dead wrong. Ben Cox (or whatever his name is) does Hannibal Lecter about as badly as he could have been done, making one of the most intriguing film characters ever into a one-dimensional caricature. I think Anthony Hopkins should have the legal right to slap that guy in the face.There's also a lot of story elements from the book that are disregarded in the movie, to the obvious detriment of the film. The rockiness of Graham's relationship with Molly is ignored completely, neglecting a central reason why Graham's job is so hard on him. Also, in the novel, Harris explores the deep-seated childhood emotional issues that turn into grotesque homicidal tendencies as Dolarhyde becomes an adult. Understanding what made Dolarhyde tick, and even pitying him for what he had to go through, makes the story that much more impacting, but it is an element left out of the film. Also, the book has a terrific double-climax ending that is dumbed down into a stupid, mindless shootout in the movie. One more element that suffered in the book-to-movie transition was Graham's thought processes and inner monologue. In the book, we know exactly what Graham is thinking and why. In the movie, he has to speak out loud to explain all his inner reasoning, which makes things quite awkward and out of place. The continuity of the movie's plot is also hurt by the loss of Graham's inner monologue; we can't see the incredible intuitive leaps he makes.Lastly, this movie just didn't have the feel you want from this genre -- tension, creepiness, suspense. It's distinctively eighties, and the very dated sense of it (even after only 15 years!!) detracts from our ability to suspend disbelief. The score is cruddy generic-horror-movie garbage and the rest of the soundtrack is ill-fitting, and again, way too eighties. And, of course, there's Petersen's nauseating Miami Vice look. Maybe my view of Manhunter is biased because I read the novel  first, but I think that for a movie like this, knowing the ending beforehand shouldn't matter. What's most important is the tension and suspense, and they're just not there. A great example of a movie with lots of suspense and tension is Blood Simple.4/10I should note (after bashing him thoroughly) that Michael Mann has greatly matured as a filmmaker since he made Manhunter. Ten years after it, he made Heat, a decent crime flick, and last year he made The Insider, a terrific movie that got a bunch of well-deserved Oscar nominations.Everyone who has strong opinions about Manhunter should definitely read Red Dragon. Everyone in the entire world should see Silence of the Lambs. (And probably Hannibal when it comes out next year.)  "},{"Title":"For the love of Red Dragon","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  O.K.  I saw this movie for the very first time last evening and after reading the book and reading a few of the imdb reviews beforehand, I was expecting a good if somewhat dated movie. I was sorely disappointed.  This movie was a sleeper alright, I got the best z's of my life during this movie.  Not only does it not even begin to compare to Silence of the Lambs but I doubt if it's even based on Thomas Harris' book, despite the evidence to the contrary. How Michael Mann could make a movie like this based on a book so vivid and detailed is beyond me. We don't even get a peek inside the mind of Francis Dolarhyde much less an explanation as to why he's called the Tooth Fairy or why he is even killing people. He's portrayed as an afterthought to Will Graham's inner struggle.  Oh, and the kicker I have to say is when Dolarhyde comes crashing through the mural on the wall, slo-mo kung fu style to the tune of inna gadda da vida. If there has ever been a scene in a movie more ludicrous, I have yet to see it. So, my opinion is.. this movie pales in comparison to the book and the movie version of Silence of the Lambs. Please, save yourself the 2 mind numbing hours and read a good book! "},{"Title":"I nearly died of... ... ... boredom","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Where to start? When you watch a thriller, you expect a certain amount of suspense, mystery and action. Unfortunately, Manhunter has none of these.William Petersen as Will Graham literally carries the movie in the few inspired moments of monologues with his nemesis. Brian Cox plays a fair Hannibal Lecter. None of the other actors or characters stand out and seem to be there as part of the furniture.Which brings me to the subject of the movie's photography. Weird angles used excessively and unimaginatively, gazillions of dreadful static camera shots, and extremely badly directed action scenes.I laughed, I cried, it was that terrible. The most frightening part of the movie was probably that it lasts two hours. I cannot understand what all the fuss is about. I've neither read the novel nor am a fan of Silence of the Lambs, so this simply comes from someone who enjoys good, interesting thrillers (with a plot). "},{"Title":"Solid serial killer thriller.","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter starts with FBI agent Jack Crawford (Dennis Farina) trying to persuade friend & former psychological profiler Will Graham (William Petersen) to come out of retirement & help him catch a brutal serial killer known as 'The Tooth Fairy' (Tom Noonan) who has slaughtered two entire families already. After a few psychological tricks & emotional blackmail Graham agrees, leaving his wife Molly (Kim Greist) & young son Kevin (David Seaman) behind Graham travels to Atlanta & the scene of the Leeds family murders. As Graham walks around the Leeds house he begins to get a feel for the killer & his motives but he still has little to go on except that both killings were committed on a full moon & the next one is fast approaching. He still needs help so Graham decides to visit notorious serial killer Dr. Hannibal Lecktor (Brian Cox) & ask for his help but doesn't get anything out of him. Then Lecktor's prison Doctor, Frederick Chilton (Benjamin Hendrickson) discovers a note in Lecktor's cell from the 'Tooth Fairy'. Graham quickly figures out that Lecktor & the 'Tooth fairy' have been communicating with each other by use of a secret code placed in a newspaper advert. Once the FBI have broke the code they find it tells the 'Tooth Fairy' the location of Graham's wife & son, he becomes even more drawn into the case as he desperately tries to unmask the identity of the 'Tooth Fairy' & save both his family & sanity...Written & directed by Michael Mann I thought Manhunter was a good film but not a brilliant one. The script by Mann based on the novel 'Red Dragon' by Thomas Harris is slow burning & concentrates on characters rather than action. The bulk of Manhunter is made up of Graham's attempts to capture the 'Tooth Fairy' rather than showing lots of killings, in fact only two people are actually killed on screen & you can guess who one of those are. Forget about seeing Hannibal Lecktor either, he gets a cameo which amounts to less than five minutes & that's it. Not much background is given to any character as Manhunter likes to deal with the here & now rather than the past, having said that the characters are well fleshed out & you care for them which is essential for a film such as this. Manhunter is a good film that has a gripping storyline, is basically well made & is quite absorbing but was a bit too slow for my tastes & thinking back to it now (I just finished watching it an hour or so ago) nothing sticks in my mind & not that much really happened when all said & done. Forget about any gore or violence as there isn't any, a few gunshot wounds is your lot I'm afraid. The acting is one of Manhunter's strongest points with great performances all over the place from Cox as Lecktor to Petersen as Graham. Technically Manhunter felt bland & unremarkable except for a cool shot when the sun was setting producing a visually great looking backdrop for one scene. I'm not sure about the use of music & songs either, a couple of the songs in Manhunter seemed really out of place & actually annoyed me. So that's it I suppose, there's nothing really wrong with Manhunter as it tells a good solid story but at the same time didn't do anything spectacular or impress me that much. Definitely worth a watch but I much prefer The Silence of the Lambs (1991) to Manhunter in every regard. "},{"Title":"A terrible disappointment","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After hearing for years that this version was superior to Silence of the Lambs, I have to say I wholeheartedly disagree. This movie wasn't the least bit exciting or interesting to me. I can't imagine anyone saying it's better than the movies that came after it. Save your time and energy and watch something else. I was disappointed. "},{"Title":"Bad movie with some good points to it.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  (I do mention some plot points from the movie, so if you don't want too much revealed, don't read on)Good Points The cinematography was pretty good at times, good usage of shadows, shooting from behind a person rather than in front, and using the whole screen with 1/2 of it in darkness. I also liked the music, contrary to many people's comments, because it just somehow fit the overall lameness of the movie. I was pleasantly surprised that all the violence was imagined and not shown on the screen. The viewer's imagination can take that and run with it - thus making it as scary as one wants it to be without ever seeing the perp actually kill anyone (except the one guy in the yard but not even really then).But, here's what's wrong with the movie, in no particular order*    The stunning ending I heard about for the director's cut - where was it? Did I miss it? It was a lame shootout, and the guy took 5 hits in the chest before lamely dying and then there was no more to it. *    Why did Graham visit the family at the end? To 'feel' what it's like to be a serial killer? Lame. If he had converted himself and killed them - that would have been interesting. But don't show the family, and then the Grahams all happy-end on the beach. *    Hannibal was in no way freaky, and while the code thing was smart it could have been played slicker. *    All the ludicrous I love you scenes with the wife - whatever. Leave that stuff out. The one scene where she thought she was in danger - fine. But other than that, she could have been cut from the whole movie. Clarice Sterling didn't need a mate to make her movies work, why does Graham need props? *    Jack Crawford was totally underdeveloped and seemed like he was half hindrance instead of leading an FBI investigation. *    It was clear from the beginning that the videos of the families were important and that the killer either shot them (like a hired photo-guy for a b-day party) or processed them afterwards. Ooooh. Suspenseful. *    The killer had no decent motive. While they tried to explore his obsession with needing to be accepted, it was done in a lame way. Jame Gum in SOTL was a transvestite freak wanting a body suit. Good serial killer stuff. Hannibal likes to eat people. Excellent. But Frances just waited for a full moon and made dead people stare at him. Pathetic. "},{"Title":"More Miami Vice than a real thriller.","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Other than The very good performance of William L Petersen, and Michael Mann's slick direction, this film is more of a TV movie of the week than a real thriller. The movie was nothing more than a vague attempt to please sad 80's nerds who needed to look cool. Does not have the sheer thrill of the Other Hannibal movies, and does not have the class of the recent Movie Red Dragon. It's worth a look for Petersen's performance but other than that, don't bother.  "},{"Title":"Good killer thriller, but no Silence of the Lambs","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Mann's earlier stab at a Hannibal Lector picture is a very moody, atmospheric serial killer thriller with all the traditional elements - cop drawn unwillingly out of retirement, deadline for the next gruesome murder drawing ever closer, bizarre motivations and actions from the killer - building to a gripping and exciting finale. However, taken as a companion piece to the later Silence of the Lambs it suffers badly by comparison. Brian Cox has a go at Hannibal but doesn't really get much chance to shine; he has a much smaller part than Hopkins gets in the later film and doesn't really do much with it, other than looking vaguely menacing. His back story is only mentioned briefly and in passing and as an actor, though very fine, Cox doesn't exude the ruthless intelligence and intensity Hopkins manages to display with every tiny glance and motion. That aside however this is an excellent film with many interesting angles on the genre, which was pretty scarcely represented at the time but is now churning them out like there's no tomorrow, mostly due to Harris' more successfully filmed sequel to the book on which this is based. The baddy gives a genuinely chilling and moving portrayal of a really messed up individual, and the main star William Petersen (where'd he go?) is great as the quietly intense, dedicated fed of the title who just wants to pack it in and get away from all the sickness of serial crime. Good stuff, but shown up a little by its greater successor. "}{"Title":"*MUCH* better than SOTL (Aka Hollywood Psycho)","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Manhunter about eight years ago and was very impressed. I saw SOTL five years ago and was unintentionally amused.Manhunter has a far more believable Lector, intelligent, insightful, charming and lethal. Someone who embodies all that I've seen in interviews with the more cerebral of real-life serial killers. This is someone who quite patently could pass for normal in society and who in all probability got caught either completely by chance (as in this case) or because of a subconcious desire to do so.SOTL has a 160lb ham with cartoon-style wide eyes, horrific overacting, incredibly pretentious complete with a dungeon-style setting in a badly lighted cell just in case the audience forgets how nasty he is. They even put a hockey mask on him and strap him to a stretcher - Friday the 13th anyone?In Manhunter we learn something about Dolarhyde, his outlook, his fears, his mannerisms and even the things he sees that never happen.In SOTL we get to see someone who would be completely at home on an episode of Jerry Springer.In Manhunter we meet Peterson, driven and haunted. In SOTL we meet Starling who seems lost and unbalanced.Now let's move on to some of the criticisms about the departures of Manhunter from Red Dragon. Some I miss, but some I prefer, for example1) Dolarhyde in the book was someone who was tortured by the voice of the Dragon in the William Blake painting. (although it's obviously himself) He tries to mend his ways and even breaks into the museum housing the original painting and EATS it in an attempt to stop the voices. I miss that in the film.2) Dolarhyde in the book is someone who was actually severely bullied at the orphanage where he was brought up because of the hairlip he  was born with, something that was to lead to him becoming psychotic. This is, at least covered a little in the film by the occasional reflex of covering his mouth and trying to hide the hairlip and his use of ummm-hmmmm instead of risking a mispronounciation of yes3) Dolarhyde was forced by the Dragon to lift heavier and heavier weights with the result that he was immensely strong. In the film instead of limiting themselves to an actor with a pronounced  psysique they go for someone who is relatively very tall, almost  looming in presence. Tom does this well so I don't mind this.4) In the book, there is an ending involving a beach by daylight and a fishing rod. In the film, they actually manage to improve on this with the final, powerful image of Dolarhyde on the floor, wings    spread having finally become the Red Dragon.Superb and chilling.  "},{"Title":"You've got to be kidding","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was horrible!  Did anyone that voted on this film actually read the book because the book makes the movie look like crap.  Manhunter is more like watching a bad episode of Miami Vice except with an FBI profiler. Sorry, I hate to be the rain on the parade, but I'm totally perplexed that people give this film so much slack.  My advice is to skip this one entirely - trust me, you're not missing anything. "},{"Title":"Mann's atmospheric flawed gem","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Michael Mann's Manhunter (based on Thomas Harris' Red Dragon) is sadly a victim of it's time, Mann's 'Miami Vice' look aside, lack of socks, blue lighting and intrusive score etc. Manhunter oozes atmosphere. Will Graham is played by William Petersen who is a FBI specialist that must track down a serial killer, assisted by incarcerated Dr. Hannibal Lecktor.Brian Cox's Dr. Hannibal Lecktor is incomparable to Hopkins Award winning interpretation of Lecter/Lecktor as Cox plays the killer nonchalant and smart, his normality is what makes him menacing in this version.William Petersen gives a fine telling performance, for example in the scene where he flees from the killers cell, it's his reaction that shows the intensity and power of Lecktor. Dennis Farina is on usual top form as Jack Crawford who'd later be portrayed by Scott Glenn and Harvey Keitel. Stephen Lang (of recent Avatar fame) is memorable as the hypocritical reporter and Tom Noonan's rendition of Francis Dollarhyde is quite chilling with his voice, demeanour and stator.The majority of Manhunter is filmed on location, adding a distinctive atmospheric and realistic feel. Regardless of the film suffering from some poor sound and editing Mann's sleek direction is first-rate and although dated, a product of it's time, it is still an attention-grabbing and an entertaining thriller. New comers ought to watch this gem if only to draw comparisons to Red Dragon (2002). "},{"Title":"aims highly and fails honorably","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A stylistic exercise on clinical aestheticism, being initially interesting but ultimately failing to fully engage with the viewer simply because there is a grave lack of psychological background for the principals involved. Michael Mann's sole ambition -and critical miscalculation- was to create primarily a piece of eerie atmosphere and morbid mood, something which the movie succeeds in transmitting and which is justifiable by the gritty narrative. But it would be fair to say that Thomas Harris's literary material called for a conventional crime thriller equipped with all the trademark eccentricities, and what we get here is an abstractive study of evil envisaged by an auteur who doesn't always make sense. In all, the movie aims highly and fails honorably. "},{"Title":"Unconvincing","Date":"7 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I only saw this film because i love The Silenc of the Lambs and other Hannibal Lecter films. I thought i would see the other attempt to compare them. I wish i hadn't. I found Manhunter to be boring and totally unconvincing. I think that none of the actors suit their roles, especially Brian Cox. He doesn't look or sound right for the part of a charming yet crazy serial killer. Also Will Graham isn't played as well, neither is the Red Dragon himself. Thank God they re-made the film with Anthony Hopkins. I think that Anthony Hopkins is a far better actor and Lecter. He sends shivers down your spine before we even see him. The story isn't as good as in Red Dragon either, mainly the ending which is totally different to the book and lacks the excitement and danger that we want. I would recommend that instead you watch the modern version Red Dragon. "},{"Title":"Bested by its remake","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The first chapter in the Hannibal Lecter saga, it's also an early indication of Michael Mann's impressive skill as a director. The film is expertly crafted and very stylish, which makes up for the story and acting flaws. And there are quite a few. While I think this is definitely better directed than Red Dragon - not surprising, given the two directors involved - it is not nearly as well-written or as well-acted. William Petersen is the lone bright spot, as he's the only one from the cast better than their Dragon counterpart; he delivers an effective and sympathetic performance. Brian Cox is solid as Lecter (spelled Lecktor in this one) but he's nowhere near Hopkins' iconic character, and Tom Noonan is creepy but underused as Dolarhyde. This one deviates more from the book to take creative license, and that lowers it, in my eyes, though the climax - with In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida - is excellent. A solid addition to the franchise, but it's bested by Red Dragon. "},{"Title":"Impressive if mixed psycho-noir thriller","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Frightening psychological horror from Mann although there is less of the 'psychological' than the tagline or later Harris adaptations (i.e. + Anthony Hopkins) would have us believe. Increasingly thought of as a seminal film from Mann, Manhunter has genre trappings and innovations in equal measure. The lighting, shooting and production design can still be seen in pictures as late as Heat (10 years on) although songs-as-soundtrack and dodgy editing have evaporated. There's also the curious sight of the lead, William Petersen, giving a monologue up a tree, no doubt a new twist on the voice-over of classic noir, but the classic example of a fad.Petersen isn't at all bad, but I felt he completely ignored the depth offered by a role that talks quite a bit about psychological scars (unlike the Mel Gibson of the Lethal Weapon series). His take on the character is simply to look grudging and be an action man; something he'd perfected the year before in William Friedkin's brilliant, violent To Live and Die in LA. The real acting happens around him. Tom Noonan's freakish Dollarhyde is a much edgier and more credible proposition than Ralph Fiennes' turn (in Red Dragon, the recent remake). Joan Allen's blind love interest - her disability is never formally announced and only casually introduced, another Mann trait - is quite brilliant, given that she has comparatively little screen-time. She is also the principal in the movie's one true original set piece, giving me a weeks' worth of dreams of which Salvador Dali would have been proud.Jonathan Demme's Silence of the Lambs makes the best use of what Harris put in his books (I've no idea if either director was faithful to the text). However, in the manipulating of the genre and the setting-up of credible noirish twists one can see the impression of the former film on Demme. For all its impressiveness though, Manhunter can also be a loose film, full of beautiful, texturally appropriate but narratively irrelevant set pieces. Another Mann trait, alas. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Mann shows how the stuff is done!","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Fantastic example of Michael Mann's 'heritage' to the 80s. Michael Mann of course did the coolest TV series of all time, Miami Vice.This movie is a masterpiece for several reasons. It has the stylish way of filming and use of light and music that made Miami Vice so great. The killer in this movie is perfectly picked out. Somehow everything works out so much better than the Hopkins version of Red Dragon. This movie is well set up, good music, good tempo, good story, very good acting, and the climax with the killer 'dismantled' while the almost full 17 minute version of Iron butterfly's is playing, should have made this movie much more world famous than it is! "},{"Title":"Very creepy, not quite as good as Silence of the Lambs though","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Manhunter was the first movie that involved the now extremely famous Hannibal Lecter. That's probably what this film will always be remembered for, having a different Hannibal Lecter. Brian Cox plays him in this movie, the scene he's in has plenty of psychological suspense, but he isn't as convincing as Anthony Hopkins was. In this movie Hannibal is a minimal character. The movie is about retired F.B.I. agent Will Graham(played by CSI's William Peterson). He decides to help out with one last case, the case of the terrifying serial killer known as the tooth fairy.The tooth fairy is a serial killer who seems to have a random method for selecting his victims, and the aftermath of his killings is very disturbing. In order to solve all of this, Will Graham goes to the imprisoned Hannibal Lecter(or Lecktor as spelled in this movie) and tries to figure out his method and track down the killer.Manhunter is based on the novel The RED Dragon and the movie The Red Dragon is a more up to date version of this movie. Despite the excellent qualities of the film, it seems rather dated due to some of the primitive technology that was used in the 1980's. Still a very good movie with some neat 1980's style music. Not quite as good as Silence of the Lambs, but this film is good for what it is. "},{"Title":"Great movie in '86! Great movie now!","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" My roommate and I thought the movie was great when we first saw it back in 1986. We were in college then. I still think it's a terrific movie! The movie was definitely full of suspense, and it had us sitting on the edge of our seats.When I heard the name Hannibal Lector mentioned in the movie Silence of the Lambs, I remembered it from Manhunter. Since Manhunter occurred before Silence ..., I was surprised that FBI agent Will Graham's name wasn't mentioned. After all, William Peterson's character, Will Graham, was the person responsible for putting him in prison.William Peterson did a wonderful job, and I've been a fan of his ever since.My family watches CSI every week. "}{"Title":"Soooo much better than Silence...","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  More of a psychological thriller than Silence of the Lambs. This Hannibal is clever and diabolical -- not some silly posing house-servant playing dress-up! You can FEEL the terror dripping off of him,,, and into the detective playing dangerous games with him. You get the sense that ANY game with this Lecter is dangerous... The villain could be scarier, and the cinematography is definitely dated, but the play between Cox and Petersen couldn't really be better. It sets a standard Silence... failed to meet.  "},{"Title":"Superb telling of Red Dragon","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS!!!! Bypass the inferior 2002 version and watch this one instead. While Mann's soundtrack has not weathered the passage of time well, the overall product holds up as a solid thriller. Petersen is superb as Will Graham, as is the rest of the cast. Dennis Farina conveys poignantly his sorrow at having to (possibly) sacrifice his friend to save lives. Kim Griest shows the grit of a woman who's watched her husband claw his way out of the abyss. Tom Noonan brings a depth to Dollarhyde that is disturbing and surprising. Stephen Lang makes Freddy Lounds seem even more evil than Dollarhyde. And Brian Cox is chilling in his portrayal of Lector.I could go on and on. Just watch it for yourself--but don't watch it alone.  "},{"Title":"Michael Mann Delivers","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Thomas Harris' novel Red Dragon just might be the greatest crime novel ever written. It's not surprising that movies would appear that are based on the book. The first to appear was Manhunter in 1986. The second was Red Dragon in 2002. Having seen both of them in the theaters, neither one comes close to matching the novel. But the lesser of the two evils would have to be Manhunter. It comes off as more realistic and at times powerful. The cast is A-1, the soundtrack dynamite and the photography by Dante Spinotti breathtaking. William L. Petersen is terrific as Will Graham, the strong, silent leading man whose supermarket chat with his stepson is one of the highlights of the film. My favorite scene is when Graham is looking at a house from the back woods while trying to figure out how the killer got inside. Director Michael Mann also had a spin-off episode that same year on Miami VICE that dealt with this same topic. Shadow In The Dark premiered on Halloween night and focused on Don Johnson's obsession on trying to catch a home invader.Score, 7 out of 10 Stars "},{"Title":"The best Lector movie","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Manhunter was released a few years before 'Silence of the lambs'. I've finally got around to watching the movie and found it to be a shade better than the award winner. This film is much more of a suspense and contains many of the same characters and plot lines of lambs.Will Graham (Petersen) is brought back from retirement to help trace a serial killer. Graham originally retired after a far too close encounter with Lector. He goes to see Lector to get assistance with the investigation and also to get him into the mind-set. As with Clarice Starling the Graham character is really the central performance and Petersen is outstanding in the role. Mann turns in an excellent performance from behind the cameras and the supporting cast are also excellent. 8/10   "},{"Title":"Mann at his dark, pessimistic best!","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Prequel to Silence of the Lambs, and the screen debut of Hannibal Lecktor. Michael Mann's crime thriller is dark, gritty, interesting and visually arresting, with highly stylised editing and photography. The excellent performance of William Peterson as Will Graham is intense and powerful, as is Brian Cox in arguably the most memorable and subtle Leckor to grace the screen. His role is small but very memorable and calmly chilling. Tom Noonan is haunting as Francis Dolerhyde and the treatment of the characters tormented personality is very good. The film is a masterful crime thriller, and a critics favourite, the 2002 remake Red Dragon fell short in every department, surprisingly due to the actors involved, all Oscar nominees or winners, with no dis-respect to the excellent cast here who managed to outshine the likes of Ed Norton and Ralph Fiennes, and of course Tony Hopkins. **** "},{"Title":"Easily the best of the Hannibal films","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is easily the best of the Hannibal Lector films. That is not to say it is without flaws, just that it is a better film than the others. Silence of the Lambs was a decent film (I thought it sucked) by most people's estimations but it lacked intensity. And Red Dragon, while it had a high amount of intensity, it was plagued with very poor casting choices.I happen to like Ed Norton. His portrayal of Worm in Rounders was pretty good but his performance in this film blew chunks. That and the casting of Ralph Fiennes as Francis Dollarhyde is laughable. I think Fiennes did as fine a job as he could but is just too small. In Manhunter, Dollarhyde is played by Tom Noonan who stands 6'6 and is quite physically imposing.The plot line is a basic mystery-thriller with a good dose of the heeby-jeeby thrown in. That's a technical term, by the way. Will Graham, the reluctant hero, is recalled to do the nasty once again. You can see the toll his work takes on him as he walks the line between losing it and successfully solving the case.There's a good bit of suspenseful who dunnit style narration that I expected to be cheesy over time but after seeing it recently I still find it enjoyable.The ending is just awesome. The camera tricks are not to my taste but that complaint is wiped away by the audio of In a Godda Da Vida weaving its' way through the last 10 or so minutes.  "},{"Title":"Flawed, occasionally boring, and yet ... excellent.","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Mann took a break from Miami Vice in 1986 to produce this cult classic. Manhunter has been unfairly dismissed as that film with the other Hannibal Lecter, while it is in fact so much more. Adapted from Thomas Harris' first Hannibal Lecter novel, Red Dragon, Manhunter involves Will Graham (played by C.S.I.'s Will Petersen), an FBI agent, who is called out of retirement to help track down a mysterious serial killer nicknamed The Tooth Fairy (Tom Noonan).First, the cast. Will Petersen is a perfect Will Graham. Dennis Farina is also an excellent Jack Crawford. Unfortunately, the rest of the cast is not so good. While Noonan makes The Tooth Fairy pretty creepy, the rest of the cast (including Brian Cox, who plays imprisoned cannibal Hannibal Lecktor) brings out some horrible acting.One of the reasons Manhunter is so cool is its close resemblance to Miami Vice. The production design has a trademark Vice glitter to it, and the soundtrack is outstanding - also a Vice trademark. Mann takes what would normally be a dark crime-thriller and turns it into a shining thriller.Michael Mann's direction is probably the best part of the film. He has the techniques and he knows how to use them, long before making hits like Heat. Without Mann, the film would likely not have been made, and if so, would have much less cult status. Manhunter is flawed. Occasionally, it's boring, and it has a very unsatisfying feel to it. And yet, somehow, unexplainably, and going against everything I've just said - it's excellent. Dated, and very Miami Vice-ish - but we love it.It's just you and me now, sport.  "},{"Title":"Stylish, faithful rendition of a great read","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Michael Mann stylization akin to his TV Miami Vice is evident. Here it is used to set a brooding, haunted, troubling tone, which is very appropriate to the Will Graham character, played wonderfully by CSI lead William Peterson.Graham is an FBI profiler who gets a serial killer's mentality into his head, which uniquely enables him to zero in on a killer better than other profilers. This ability to adopt the feelings of someone so evil is emotionally very hard on Graham, a moral, dedicated family man.Back story is that Graham was severely wounded and almost killed by being stabbed by Hanibal Lecktor. This, combined with the emotional struggle of his profiler role, lead to Graham's brooding, yet thorough and conscientious character. This is played much better in Manhunter than in Red Dragon.Brian Cox plays Hanibal Lecktor. Lecktor is important in this version, but not as important or dominant as in Red Dragon where he is played by Anthony Hopkins. The antagonist is one Francis Dollarhyde, the serial killer. He has murdered every member of two families. The modus operandi of both murders makes it clear the killer is the same in both cases, but the connection between the victims is a mystery. Why and how did he select these two families, one in Atlanta and one in Birmingham? It appears he is on a lunar cycle, so there are a scant three weeks until he murders again. Graham has retired owing to the emotional trauma of past cases and nearly being killed by Lecktor, but his old boss, played wonderfully by Dennis Farina, drags him back into just this once case. Graham's wife is furious with the Farina character for doing so. Graham's wife, Molly, is played well by Kim Griest.The deal is that Graham will just do what he can to identify the killer and the FBI will take it from there. No Graham/killer contact.Well, you just know it won't work out that way.  "},{"Title":"One of the coolest films of the 80's","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so damn cool, i can't believe that anyone can even consider comparing it to the later Lector films. It's superior in every department. Sure it looks a little dated now but that's what gives it such a stylish look. Even the sound track is great. This movie seems to get a fair amount of criticism on this sites reviews but that is because people who see this film after having watched Red dragon and Hannibal are disappointed that this is not filmed in the same style. I would argue that this is a good reason to dislike the more recent movies. They are not a patch on this. My advice to anyone who has not seen Red dragon or Manhunter is to watch Manhunter. It's a perfect example of how good a cop/serial killer film can be when it's done right. One of the best films of the 80's  9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Some good, Some bad","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  An interesting take on Red Dragon.  I read the book then saw this movie and still had a little trouble following it.  The second make of this movie, actually titled Red Dragon is much better.I do really really like William Peterson as Will Graham though.  Edward Norton (who plays it in Red Dragon) is too sunshine, pretty boy surfer although he is nice to look at.  That's not to say that William Peterson isn't chopped liver; he's very sexy in this movie in a dark way.  Plus he has a very beautiful body in this movie, that you don't get to see in CSI where he currently plays Gil Grissom.I do prefer Ralph Fiennes and Anthony Hopkins to Tom Noonan and whom ever they have as Dr. Lector.  Manhunter is a different style and not always that effect, but worth seeing at least once if you like the Lector series. "}{"Title":"The first appearance of Hannibal Lector (as a supporting character).","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  William Peterson as the emotionally damaged but conscientious and clever investigator who is compelled to re-enter the mind of a serial killer. An archetypal film in its way, very well done, crisp and clinical and full of emotional tension. I also liked the background and lesser known elements of the soundtrack. Seeing William Peterson 17 years before CSI is a pleasure. He has great screen presence. The actor playing Hannibal Lector (COX) is believably brilliant, unlike the later versions performed by Hopkins, which while engrossing, are over the top as far as believability go. This is a movie which cuts to the basics, a twisted mind, another mind which is capable of plumbing the depths but not without pain, and lots of personality variations. GREAT STORY. "},{"Title":"Thomas Harris filmed as he should be","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  William Petersen makes the perfect Will Graham.  The visuals are stylised, in an almost comic-book fashion - high key, high contrast, carefully framed - but the plot is faithful to the written original, complete with transcription of major pieces of the finely crafted dialogue.  Harris' later books are clearly written with film translation in mind, and lack something in consequence.  This, on the other hand is clearly the visual rendition seamless book. "},{"Title":"Everyone Seems to Have Missed the Point","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Manhunter was as good if not better than all the glitzy Hopkins' films. William Petersen was excellent as the Ex Psych ward patient come FBI profiler. One of the first profilers I can recall in any movie. Here is where people seem to have missed a major point. The torment Petersen's character has gone through coupled with the torment he must endure once he does take the case. I am surprised that no one mentions this very important plot Detail. I loved this movie. With low budget stars and a budget probably 1/100th that of Hannibal, SOTL or Red Dragon it turned out to be 100 times better. Michael Mann, underrated and stuck with the Miami Vice television Kiss of Death makes the Over-Rated Ridley Scott look like the Hack he is(without Foreign Backdrops and big name screenwriters and Big Money) Scott is a director lost in his own ego(take the Director's cut of Blade Runner)he destroyed a perfect movie for egos sake. Mann makes the character's into the Human Animals they are supposed to be. Scott(in Hannibal) makes schlock; who of you would have had Hannibal chop off his own hand? I have cuffs on and I am cuffed to an FBI agent-Most definitely I am going to cut my hand off. Yeah Right!! Watch Manhunter. Forget the rest. An 8.5 out of 10. I am loathe to give a movie higher ratings. Throw in Mann's great use of music and give it an 8.9/10 "},{"Title":"Good,but not what I expected","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Forget Silence of the Lambs. Manhunter is the first Hannibal film. Hannibal played here by Brain Cox,an actor whom I greatly respect,is played all wrong here. Dr.Chilton is made out to be a good guy,when the guy is an evil monster. The film is based off of Red Dragon. It is a pretty fun movie,but it really only appeals to 80's movie goers. I did enjoy a lot of it. Full of songs. Well it was good,not great. After I saw Silence of the Lambs,I expected this to be as thrilling,but it is mostly a movie for a little bit of fun.3/4 "},{"Title":"Practically a promotion!","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I watched Manhunter I wasn't sure what to expect. It didn't have any well known actors except perhaps Tom Noonan (Robocop 2). I did know however that it was the prequel to Silence Of The Lambs which i greatly enjoyed and this was the reason why I watched it. I found it extremely enjoyable and found that at no point did i get bored with it. Michael Mann has done a wonderfull job on this film with excelent uses of camera work and feeling. To my amazement there wasn't much of Hannibal in this which I had expected, but this didn't make the film any less that of what it is. The main cast do an excelent job, especially Tom Noonan as the villain. It's a film about an FBI agent who has to psychologically become the person he is trying to catch, just like he had done to catch Lector. The problem being however that it turned him mad the previous time. Will he go mad a second time just to catch the killer or can he get through it? You'll just have to watch the film! With an excellent creation crew, this film has everything one could ask for - action, suspense, time to think and a good soundtrack. It's easily in my top ten of films. Thank you for reading. "},{"Title":"good script, interesting but lacking in several aspects","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was expecting better things of this movie.  The plot is great, and certainly the script was lacking nothing.  What I didn't like was seeing the microphone hanging over the actor's heads repeatedly. This takes so much of the realism the film tries to convey away.  Also, I don't know if anyone likes William Petersen, but as far as I am concerned, his acting in this film is quite poor.  The film delivers, if you are concerned about the cinematography and the photography, otherwise check something else. "},{"Title":"Almost as good as Silence of the Lambs","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The only reason I would rate ManHunter second to Silence of the Lambs is because of Anthony Hopkins' outstanding performance as Hannibal Lecter. ManHunter (1986) preceded Silence of the Lambs (1991) by 5 years. I just saw Red Dragon which was a total rip off of ManHunter. If I had never seen ManHunter then I would rate Red Dragon higher than I do. I like Edward Norton as an actor, but preferred William Peterson's role as FBI Agent Will Graham. Brian Cox's role as Hannibal Lecter was adequate, but did not have the depth of persona that Hopkins' did (particularly in Silence). Hopkins does a good job of recreating Hannibal in Red Dragon. Ralph Fiennes' portrayal of Francis Dolarhyde is very good, but elicits absolutely no sympathy as did Tom Noonan's fine portrayal of Dolarhyde in Manhunter. Again, if there would have been more originality in Red Dragon, I would have liked in more. It seems that Red Dragon tries to draw its appeal from a cast of high profile actors and actresses. Manhunter was just plain good film making that cast the characters well. Hats off to Michael Mann's directing. I do recommend Red Dragon. It is worth seeing. I highly recommend ManHunter, however.  "},{"Title":"The best and I'll tell you why...","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First the bad news, the soundtrack dates this film almost as much as the fashions. Then you cut through all that to what is the essence of the film-the characters and how they interract. This is where the latest version is at a loss. William Petersen's scenes with Hannibal Lecter work so much better. Here you don't get Hopkins and his histrionics. The Brian Cox Lecter chills you because he appears so normal-yet we see just how insane he can be. I lack the articulation to do this film justice but trust me, watch both and decide. There's only going to be one adaptation of the book Red Dragon in my DVD collection. "},{"Title":"Probably will be superior to the coming Red Dragon","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Red Dragon, an unnecessary remake of Manhunter made solely to make money by casting Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter, who was made into a good guy in Hannibal. However, in Manhunter/Red Dragon, Lecter was out-and-out evil - and it's doubtful this version has Michael Mann's skillful direction and use of color as subtext. Moreover, Manhunter worked because Lecter was a minor - if important and devilish - character. The villian in Manhunter will probably be reduced to a supporting role... ... and then there is the problem that Red Dragon/Manhunter has pretty much the same ending as Silence of the Lambs - dark room, etc.And Red Dragon won't have Iron Butterfly's In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida as the climax, either ) "},{"Title":"In-a-gadda-da-vida Myra! (inside joke)","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I read the book after I saw the movie and I have to say, they should've tried to stick to the source a little bit closer because the book is fifty times better. Yeah, I know, I know, most movies can't replicate the book faithfully enough but you know what? They could've done it. We'll see what happens with this remake coming out in October. As for Manhunter, I did like the movie. I'm not gonna rip it completely but I did find it unintentionally funny at times. The whole ending sequence for one, was ridiculous. I won't spoil it for you with what happens but why does Michael Mann like to insert songs into scenes that don't fit? Watch Thief, to see what I mean. I mean, In-a-gadda-da-vida? I was laughing all the way through it! And what was up with that weird speed-up, speed-down film cutting? Dolarhyde looks like he's doing the James Brown after taking a shot to the leg! Funny stuff. I thought William Pedersen made a great Will Graham. That much I can say. Brian Cox as Lecter is at least equal to Anthony Hopkins, if not better. I think the Silence of the Lambs would have been just as successful with him instead. They both make the character theirs but let's see if Hopkins commits overkill with the new one. Dennis Farina as Jack Crawford? I would've preferred Scott Glenn but what can I say. Tom Noonan pretty much filled the Dolarhyde role perfectly. Joan Allen played the part of his ladyfriend with skill, so no complaints there. I just wish that the ending had been like the book because the ending was wild. You gotta read the book if you haven't and the same goes for all the books in the series. And this movie is kind of dated. I can't help but think of Miami Vice when I watch this, especially towards the end. I hate that song at the end too. It's a sad reminder as to how cheesy the '80s actually were. But all the negative stuff aside, you'll like the movie cause it is well done. Pedersen makes a great hero in this and keeps you watching. I recommend it because while it manages to kinda betray the book, it's faithful enough to warrant a look. In-a-gadda-da-vida! Rating ***1/2 out of ***** "}{"Title":"Not as good as the book","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you want to see a great movie featuring Hannibal lector not -lektor- see the silence of the lambs.If you want to read a great novel featuring Hannibal lector, read Red Dragon. Don't settle with this mediocre adaptation of Thomas Harris' classic novel. Director and writer Michael Mann mish-mashes the storyline and manipulates it too much that the incredible suspense and human drama from the novel have been lost.I give Manhunter about a 6.5 out of a possible 10 "},{"Title":"Very disturbing very frightening and very sick.","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First of all I was disturbed by the content of families being butchered and sexually molested them after they were dead. Manhunter is a movie which convicts and exposes the true reality and exposes serial killers and their work in which they inflict. The story involves detective Will Graham who suffers an illness which makes him think like a serial killer (thank god hes on the right side of the law). The killer who murders the families is named the tooth fairywho is on the pursuit of Hannibal Lector (who Will is trying to gain his info from). Will finds himself in danger when Hannibal Lector gives out Willsfamily address to the tooth fairy with the quote save yourselves,kill them all which is maybe his most memorable quote through his trilogy.Manhunter isn't over the top violent,but uses it's psychological side in trying to grip and disturb the audience with its detail which works successfully. The death and gore is described in the most disturbing and vulgar detail you can imagine,the kids being murdered in front of the parents thats absurd. I havn't read the novel but I would say the film was watchableproviding you can stomach the content. Tom Noonan is very good as the tooth fairy (who isn't seen till half way through the movie. It lacks the tension and style of Silence of the lambs and Hannibal butis still worth a look. I rate 4 over 5,you were warned. "},{"Title":"Must buy.  Regular or 2 disc version.","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I commented on this movie last month, and make a boo boo.  I meant they shouldn't redo a movie just cause Anthony did it better.Otherwise, I just bought the limited double dvd set (only 100,000 made), while Manhunter fans may like the directors cut addition.  I'm not sure if it's good for everyone to buy it.  As it's $28 at best buy and amazon has it for $37.  It only adds perhaps 6 minutes to the movie.  The ending's a tad confused now.  But again, this movie is supposed to be a mystery and that's why this movie lives on.  Every time I watch it now, I find something new.  A person I just read claims this is one of the most boring movies they've ever watched.  I'm thinking how?  I've seen boring movies and this has tons of action in it.  Surely the person musta mistaken this movie for Hannibal.  One of the worst sequels ever made.  I'm concerned that as poor as Hannibal was, the remake of Manhunter will also be horrible.(since this is an addition to my other commentary, I'm not adding another rating here.) "},{"Title":"Better than Hannibal.  This movie shouldn't be remade.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers??William Petersen at his best.  Totally likeable guy.  A younger blind Joan Allen.  And Brian Cox? as Hannibal.  While not the best Hannibal, they should redo the movie just because Anthony Hopkins did it better.  While he did well in Hannibal, the storyline did not.  I can't imagine how they'd crucify the storyline to fit the upcoming Red Dragon.Great music too.  Although the big fight scene, while fun to watch, is rather short.9/10Quality 7/10 Entertainment 10/10 Replayable 9/10 "},{"Title":"!!Watch It Twice!!","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"      The Reason I Say Watch It Twice, Is Because I Had To, In Order To Enjoy It. The First Time I Saw It, I Could have Swore I Saw a B-Rated Movie, With Little Special Effects and A Stupid Tagline. I Could Have Swore That Hannibal Lector Should Not Have Even Been In The Movie, Because It Ruined The Whole Frightening Hannibal Lector Series.    The Second Time A Saw A Movie With A Touching, if not Powerfully Romantic, Storyline. From Beggining To End,Without Ever Blinking My Eye's were Stuck on The View of the Television. It Almost Made Me Cry  When The Tooth Fairy Punched The Mirror.It Was Also Shocking As He Kiddnapped and Set The Guy on Fire. Would I Reccommend This Film? Yes. To Who? Everyone. There's Plenty Enough Horror, Suspence, Love, And Psycho Feelings To Go Around. If You Rent it, Watch It A Good 2-3 Times Before You Think About Saying To Much.Also Reccommended Hannibal, Silence Of The Lambs, Psycho, American Psycho, Halloween, and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. Grade A-      "},{"Title":"Not a bad thriller","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's grossly unfair to compare a 1986 film to its later counterparts.  As a film, this has an amazing darkness that is tension-fraught from beginning to end.  No, Brian Cox is not Sir Tony, nor does he pretend to be.  But, that doesn't detract the film in the least.  William Peterson's acting in this film is very uneven, going from a twitching stare to a jerky expression of adolescent nerdiness.  But, Kim Griest's presentation gives truth to every blond joke we've ever heard with her god-awful performance.  Denny Farina makes a more convincing bad guy and mafioso than a cop but is solid in his performance and Tom Noonan is absolutely eerie.  All in all, this is not a bad film and the comparisons made in these reviews too often miss the point  it's easy to make something done previously better with more money and talent.  When you add the likes of Tony Hopkins, Scott Glen and Jodie Foster, you gotta come up with something fine.  There's nothing wrong with this film and Michael Mann's effort is not lost in bringing this dark story to the screen. "},{"Title":"stuck in the 80's","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  Re-visited this one and was disappointed that the film making does not hold up well.  Michael Mann had a real 'reel' feel for the 80's with Thief, Miami Vice and Manhunter.  Problem is, none of these have held up well over the past 15-20 years.  The thumping, pulsating music now overpowers the film and the story and the performances.  However, try to block out the soundtrack, because this story is excellent, and Petersen and Cox shine in their roles.  For those who say this is better than Silence of the Lambs, I say you are living in the past.  Tom Noonan is very creepy as the bad guy ... a much more subtle role than the Lambs villain, but too many scenes appear to have been rushed to meet a deadline.  For another creepy Noonan role, check out 2000's The Pledge with Jack Nicholson and the wonderful Robin Wright.  I do wish Petersen would do more movie acting, and I trust Michael Mann finally escaped the 80's with The Insider.  I have high hopes for his upcoming Ali with Will Smith in the title role.  Manhunter is a good rental, but Anthony Hopkins IS Dr. Lechter. "},{"Title":"Lector's first appperance","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  To understand the true terror of Hannibal Lector one must go back to this very underrated 1986 film from Micheal Mann. Brain Cox plays Hannibal this time and he's at times scarier than Hopkins. William Peterson is great in the lead. Check this out and you'll truly understand Hannibal. "},{"Title":"(Too) Great Expectations","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I realize how cliche it is to say that a movie did not live up to the book. Maybe it was Michael Mann's intention to, as one other commenter said, make it his own. However, the hype for Manhunter says Based on Thomas Harris' book THE RED DRAGON. The only similarities to the book I found were the character names and a very loose and incomplete version of the story line. The claim that it takes you inside the mind of the killer is exactly what this movie lacked yet was so masterfully done in the Red Dragon book. I first saw Manhunter when it was first released to video, about '87. I saw it in the video store and couldn't wait to get it home. I had read Red Dragon a few years earlier and remembered thinking what a fantastic movie it would make. Now, here it was in my hot little hands! I was pumped! I began watching with eager anticipation and slowly sank into the deepest disappointment of my movie watching history. Everything that had made the book so enthralling was left out. Even the ending was changed! Had I expected too much? Probably. That's why, when I saw it recently in a bargain bin for $4.00, I bought it. Just to see if I had judged it too harshly the first time. Being several years removed from the book experience, and judging the movie strictly on it's own merits, I can understand why those who haven't read Red Dragon would think this movie is ok. I no longer HATE it, still, it's a disappointment. For those who only saw Manhunter, and have not read Red Dragon, do so. You WILL be glad you did. It will give you a far deeper understanding of this fantastic story and a greater appreciation for movies of this genre. As for Manhunter, oh well.      "},{"Title":"Yes It is better!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I first watched this film on t.v a couple of months ago I found it bloody scary,and trust me it is.One of Micheal Manns best films to date along side Heat!The film that first unleashed Hannibal LecKter (spelt with a K ).Alright so hes only in it about 15 mins but it shows he is one pyscopathic guy! The plot is simple one crazy killer is on the lose known as the Tooth fairy.And only one special cop can stop him.The cast is a bit unknown but thats not a problem William Peterson is the the cop with a gift he can think exactly like a criminal.He plays the doubtful and does it well.He comes out of retirement to stop him.Tom Noonan plays the killer well a vicious man but somewhat harmful in ways.Joan Allen is a kind of a nurse in all of this and she plays it well aswell.Brian Cox is brilliant as Lecter Shifty verrrry shifty he holds the key to the murderer.he does it villianous and creepy.alright not as good as anthony hopkins but close enough.The screenplay is excellent brilliant cinematography and yes superb direction from Mann.Silence of the lambs is no where near good as this film.A true gem It really is suspenseful! so the big question is is it better than silence Oh yes!!! "}{"Title":"Far better than Lambs","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Michael Mann's film puts Silence of the Lambs to shame. His film does such a better job of explaining the villain's motives, the detective's trials and tribulations, and the process of solving a crime. Plus the plot/action is so much more believable. I even prefer Brian Cox's Hannibal Lechter. If you've never seen this, rent it now!After ten years of refusing to watch the remake, starring Anthony Hopkins and Edward Norton, I finally succumbed. I should have kept the embargo intact. Everything about Red Dragon lacked the nuance, pathos, and mood of Mann's classic. Only a perverse curiosity to see how badly they butchered the original kept me watching Red Dragon. There are a number of reasons why Manhunter has a cult following and years after its release served as the inspiration for the acclaimed CSI television series and successful spin-offs. William Peterson opened the door for public appreciation of forensic science and Michael Mann made a cerebral and emotive movie. The other two related movies lack the subtlety, the multi-textured fabric, and the pacing of the original. Unfortunately, that's probably why so few people ever went to see Manhunter in either of its cinematic releases (remember, it was reissued as the prequel to Silence of the Lambs).The general public needs to be bludgeoned over the head and this amazing movie does anything but. It's not simple. It's not direct. It's just darn special. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece!","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I never bothered to see this movie, because it was not that famous. I was only willing to watch it because I'm a Joan Allen fan and she's in it, but I still kept thinking that nothing could be better than 'Silence of The Lambs'.  I was wrong. Although 'Silence...' is one of the best psychological thrillers ever, 'Manhunter' just excels in every way (except that it hasn't Jodie Foster).  I never, never saw a movie so intense, so constantly exciting... Brilliant photography, the most thrilling music ever and great performances.  There were plenty of moments that made me feel really uncomfortable, just like the main characters.  This is a real masterpiece and it makes a mediocre movie like 'Hannibal' even worse.  Ridley Scott, watch this and quit the job! "},{"Title":"Fantastic film","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've been a long-time admirer of Michael Mann, and Manhunter is probably the reason why. The film is pure Mann, the film is loosely based on the novel, Red Dragon, but the director makes it his own.The films plot is nicely done, if a little cliche today.This is my favourite Hannibal film, Brian Cox's version is much more interesting because he plays it straight, not comical like Hopkins. Saying that, Hopkins' version is nice to watch, but Cox was much more threatening, and makes you wonder how many killers are out, maybe your store clerk is one. As you know, Hannibal only as a small part in the film, there's another killer on the loose.The performances in the film are excellent, William Petersen is excellent, as is Tom Noonan, who plays his villainous role with some humanity.The film is backed by a nice 80s score, I love the end credit song.The photography is stunning, real quality!Overall, the best of the Hannibal series, Manhunter is a more human film than Silence of the Lambs.Watch it in Wide-screen. "},{"Title":"Splendid","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Nothing more than reiteration of what has already been said.  Michael Mann's 1986 masterpiece is the greatest serial-killer film ever made. It is the perfect combination of art and craftsmanship.  SOTL is competent enough.  Demme is a fine craftsman.  He sets up shots well.  His employing of the extreme close-up, SOTL's trademark, was effective.  But he is no Michael Mann. Although clearly no hack, Demme isn't nearly the artist that Mann is.   Hopkins was fine, though Brian Cox (who, by the way, was considered for Silence) is truly Oscar worthy.  Foster was effective in her Oscar-winning performance, but she is much better in The Accused, Nell, and Taxi Driver. William L. Peterson was stellar, creating a man in Will Graham who is toeing the line of psychosis just like everyone else.  Tom Noonan's Tooth Fairy is a brilliant, multi-layered characeter, far outstripping the one-dimensional Jame Gumb of Silence. Joan Allen, Dennis Farina, and Kim Greist were also superb.Manhunter is four stars. Silence is two and a half stars. "},{"Title":"The best of the Hannibal trilogy","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far the best of the three films featuring Dr. Hannibal The Cannibal Lecter. It is a shame that this movie didn't get nearly the attention it deserved and was overshadowed by the sequel (The Silence of the Lambs) 4 years later. I have to say that I was impressed by Brian Cox's portrayal of Dr. Lecter, even though it does not compare to the legendary role that Sir Anthony Hopkins plays in The Silence of the Lambs and Hannibal.  However, since Dr. Lecter is not the key character he is in the two latter films of the trilogy, it was not necessary to make the him as captivating. "},{"Title":"Recommended","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Before I start, I should state that I have seen Manhunter (Red Dragon) on video and dubbed, so it obviously wasn't a great cinematic experience.I think one's opinion of this movie depends on whether one has read the book and seen the sequels Silence Of The Lambs and Hannibal;  I saw SOTL first and then many times again, then H, then MH;  I have not read any of Thomas Harris' books.MH is a very accomplished and entertaining movie.  It has no gory scenes, no great special effects but great suspense.  Unlike SOTL it is less of a rollercoaster ride and more realistic (a dubious compliment for a fiction movie), especially in the portrayal of Hannibal Lecter (Lecktor).SOTL, IMHO, is even better, more of a classic, whereas H is utter tripe.  I will watch MH again, hopefully on the big screen and in original English.  "},{"Title":"one of the most effective movies","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Manhunter is one of the most effective serialkiller movies of all time. Why? Because like in reality, the serailkillers in the movie (dr Lecktor and the Tooth Fairy) are not Darth Vader-like evil superantagonists for heroes to destroy, but disturbed members of the same society both you and I inhabit. The Tom Noonan-character (the Tooth Fairy) is described like a somewhat nerdy but inteligent oddball, whit a selfchosen distance from regular social life (e.g. he cant find mates in clubs and pubs). There is an abundance of that kind of characters in real life, many of you who read this is like that for sure. If you can relate to a villain, it ceases to be a villain, instead it becomes someone who just as easely could be you or I.The Lector-character (Brian Cox) is mean and manipulative, but in a childish and attention-demanding way. He is not a someone you would easely enjoy as a friend (not as Hopkins larger-than-life potrayal of the same character in Lambs and Hannibal), a person you would ostracize in the school- or workplace, and therefore a person you can understand why he is as he is (a self projected prophecy, if you like). Also he is someone you are or know, and not at all an alien pariah on all things good. As the antagonists are natural is the hero natural. Will Graham (William Petersen) is not your run-o´-the-mill hero or antihero, he is to competent to be a antihero and to unstable to be a hero. He is driven in his field of work, something that Mann has potrayed over and over in his films (e.g. de Niro and Pacino in Heat, Crowe and Pacino in Insider). His work is his life, but at the same time his greatest adversery, his greatest problem and ultimately it will be his death (but not in this film). Also this is something that isn´t unheard of in life, the pathology of the workaholic makes a great nuanced leading character. All this combined with the visual and audial (wich resembles Dario Argentos use of the two, cp. Suspiria and Terror at the Opera) makes Manhunter one of the most effective serialkiller movies, if not the most effective. "},{"Title":"Scarier and better than Silence.","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"       I just recently saw Michael Mann's MANHUNTER for the first time.  When it originally came out back in 1986, I remember seeing ads for it all over Los Angeles.  I knew what it was, but I really had no desire to see it.  It wasn't until after seeing the blockbuster SILENCE OF THE LAMBS that I did gain intrest in seeing this film.  But after seeing and falling in love with both HEAT (1995) and THE INSIDER by director Michael Mann, then this film was on my must-see list.      MANHUNTER is based on the best selling Thomas Harris novel, Red Dragon which is also known as the prequal to SILENCE OF THE LAMBS.  There are some of the same characters in both stories, Jack Crawford, Dr. Chilton, and of course the popular Dr. Hannibal Lecter(spelled Lektor in this film).  Will Graham (William L. Petersen) is a retired federal investigator who gave up his job due to the trauma he suffered when he captured Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Brian Cox).  Graham is then approached by Jack Crawford (Dennis Farina) to come back to the the FBI when two families are slaughter grotesquely by the Tooth Fairy Killer (Tom Noonan).  Graham hesitates, but goes ahead and tracks down the killer by going to the scene of the crime, and thinking like the killer.  When Graham is at the houses of the two murdered families, he thinks about how if he was the killer, what would he do.  But things get rough for Graham, first there's the annoying tabloid journalist Freddie Lounds (Stephen Lang) who constantly gets in Graham's way.  Then there is Hannibal Lecter, who communicates with the killer and informs him on Graham's investigation.  And Graham has little time left before the next full moon (when the killer usually stirkes) before the next victim, Reba (Joan Allen) a blind photographer is killed.      I found MANHUNTER to be a better film than it's award winning sequal.  Here's why  1.) the film isn't cliched by now, where SILENCE has character's from different movie and t.v. shows imitating Hannibal Lecter, MANHUNTER has a taste of originality.  2.) Anthony Hopkins was flamboyant as Lecter in SILENCE, he took a scary character and was performing him as if it was Shakespeare.  Where underrated Brian Cox, gives Lecter more of a realistic and creepy feel.  3.) The style of SILENCE is at the same degree of a t.v. movie.  Where MANHUNTER has the style of a cinematic artist.  Michael Mann, along with his confidant, cinematographer Dante Spinotti, gives MANHUNTER the same look and feel as they did in both HEAT and THE INSIDER.  The more modern style of music, and the blue coloring of the scenes.      I found MANHUNTER to be a piece of work by a brilliant director, who just went on to make classic films of modern cinema.  I loved the style that Mann makes the film appear, the electroinc score, the blue coloring, the witty and intelligent characters, and the intriguing and fast pacing plot.  I thought the acting was also well done, where SILENCE director Johnathan Demme had Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins give all they got to make their character's award winning.  Mann doesn't have any of the actors upstage one another, making the film more real.     And besides, Michael Mann spent time on the Chicago police force, he's had his experiences with crime and criminals.  Where Johathan Demme just gathered information from technical consultants.  Just like how so many people praise a artist's later work more than the eariler work, it's the true critics and fans who can point out the least popular is the better work.  And with MANHUNTER and SILENCE, I found both MANHUNTER and SILENCE to be great suspenseful films, but I would give MANHUNTER more of the better edge.  ***** (out of five) "},{"Title":"For my money Manhunter is much better than Silence of the Lambs","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe it is because Michael Mann was associated with a flash and trash show like Miami Vice or maybe it was because of Anthony Hopkins portrayal of Hannibal Lecter but Manhunter is not given the credit it is due. While entertaining Anthony Hopkins portrayal of Hannibal is not as pure evil as Brian Cox. But the real key to Manhunter is its portrayal of its reluctant hero Will Graham done masterfully by William Peterson.  There is a tension lacking in SOTL that permeates Manhunter.  Will Graham is vulnerable in a way that the ambitious Clarice Starling is not (other than the fact that she is a woman).  Tom Noonan's Francis Dollarhyde is developed throughout (crucial to the spirit of a Thomas Harris novel).  The bad guy in SOTL is just a boogey man, evil but just a monster.  In Manhunter we have a relationship with Dollarhyde, he is present throughout.  Manhunter has been re-released to DVD, if you liked SOTL then you owe it to yourself to check out its predecessor Manhunter. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Film","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, it has flaws but a la Boogie Nights and Sling Blade Michael Manne has taken a novel and created it on film in such a memorable way that it is difficult, if not impossible, to forget it.  I think it if far superior to Silence of the Lambs.  I am right now reading Hannibal and I keep thinking I would like Michael Manne to direct it because it has potential to be great.  I thought the acting in Manhunter was superior as well, particularly Tom Noonan as Frances Dollaryde sp.  "}{"Title":"Underrated maybe, but still not superb","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Many fans of this movie feel as if it is overshadowed by its sequel, The Silence of the Lambs. That is probably true, but that hardly means that it is better or even as good. I, for one, was disappointed. I read the book first, which was better as it is in most cases. But it doesn't compare with Silence, which I found was a better film than the novel itself, a rare phenomenon. Though surely no match for Anthony Hopkins, Brian Cox played a fairly decent Lecter, even though I found him terribly annoying with his full-blown accent and he struck me as someone I'd rather slap in the face than be scared off. All in all, it's a decent film, there is suspense, though sometimes it's a little too slow, it really looks dated (it looks totally 80's), a harrowing introduction which breaks off at the right moment before you pee in your pants, and the silent moments are eerie. But about the favourable comparisons to Silence of the Lambs, that's humbug. This is a good suspense film. The sequel is a classic. "},{"Title":"Dennis Farina screwed this up...","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dennis Farina is a great actor. He has a certain charm and wit, that comes across in any movie that he is in. Except this one...Farina in the role of Jack Crawford was a miscast. Plain and simple. The fact that this movie is twenty two years old doesn't mean anything. There were other movies from that era that had better casting.Farina just doesn't come across as being Crawford. Especially not after we've scene Scott Glenn in Silence of the Lambs just five years later.This movie embraces the bad production of the 80s. The synthesizers and bad sets.You're not missing anything. "},{"Title":"Overrated, but good","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's just you and me now, sport. And I'm gonna find you dammit! As I am in love with 80's movies I can't help but like this, but I must admit that it is Will Petersen who saves the film from being a fiasco. The other actors and the dialog are not very good. And I realize that the synthesizer was a great achievement in the 80's, but to have a scary synthesizer noise in the background at almost every scene the first 30 minutes was not really a good move...There are some good scenes, like when Will runs of the white prison. But unfortunately the ending scene is a letdown. After 2 hours of very slow action and no suspense scenes at all you could expect more.I find the ending very neat; Will has a pair of extremely short and 80's style pink shorts on, and a turquoise shirt. Instead of enjoying what is supposed to be a touching end scene, you giggle in awe of the abysmal taste in clothing everyone must have had 20 years ago.Still worth a watch though, but don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"Soooo much better than Silence...","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  More of a pyschological thriller than Silence of the Lambs. This Hannibal is clever and diabolical -- not some silly posing house-servant playing dress-up! You can FEEL the terror dripping off of him,,, and into the detective playing dangerous games with him. You get the sense that ANY game with this Lecter is dangerous... The villain could be scarier, and the cinematography is definitely dated, but the play between Cox and Petersen couldn't really be better. It sets a standard Silence... failed to meet.  "},{"Title":"THE ORIGINAL RED DRAGON","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  How many times did I have read that this is the movie you should watch instead of Silence Of The Lambs? Bollocks, even totally bollocks as in no way this can even reach the shadow of Jonathan Demme's masterpiece. The man responsible for it all of course is Anthony Hopkins whose performance is perhaps the bhest I have ever seen and that counts for the two sequels as well. But good fair is fair this movie directed by Michael Mann (famous from Miami Vice) was the first one to come up with the story of Hannibal Lector (here played by Brian Cox, and all by all good for a total of five minutes). And as some of you might know it's actually the third Hannibal-movie Red Dragon and the whole script (nothing but logic) is like a xeroxcopy. But mind you it's not because of Hopkins superiority I didn't like Manhunter that much, it's just that I absolutely don't like Mann's directing way. You see he made Miami Vice-episodes as almost all actionscenes are heavily disturbed by awful American FMrockmusic and the acting is beneath everything... You never feel any affinity with the actors, not even when they're brutally murdered. Just watch this as interesting, nothing more..... "},{"Title":"Is possibly the best TV movie adaptation of Harris' novel","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I grew up with a horror fanatic Dad who loved suspense thrillers as well as chillers.  I remember us rushing to the video store once Manhunter came out and watching it together.  We both agreed at the time that William Patterson was engaging and got us into the film.  He was very evenly matched by Cox as his personal bane.  But even then, back in the '80's we were very satisfied... that we rented it.Back then we didn't know who Michael Mann was.  We didn't care.  But we both knew what Manhunter was... a really good TV Movie... or a pilot for a spin-off of Miami Vice (rather prolific of us considering CSI & CSI Miami). As far as the films Merits, there are many.  Good acting, directing, cutting, and shooting are abound, but they come in isolated (yet memorable) moments and unfortunately don't add up in the end.  But that's okay, because they're really engaging and, well for the most part very evenly spaced, (every 12-15 minutes) just in time to give a TV aud. a little cliffhanger to hold them through a commercial break.About ten years ago I came across Manhunter (then re-titled Red Dragon) on television and I was surprised at how well the film's structure translated into a two hour TV slot.  It is quick and flashy enough to keep us looking at this small screen, and the over the top acting, seems very proportionally sized when looking at the action on a 27 screen.Overall, I am still rather glad that I never saw this in a theater.  There I would be forced to notice (and be annoyed by) the various technical glitches (Boom Shots, out-of-focus shots, camp acting, and Lector's prison which looks like it should be a modern art museum-annoying, not scary).  If I saw this in that environment, I am sure that I would not be keeping a moderately good opinion of the film.  But now, I can turn on cable, flip through the channels until I hit the USA network and watch with relish Miami Vice or Manhunter... it doesn't really make a difference to me.AD  "},{"Title":"what were all of you watching?","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  oh dear where shall i begin... first i must admit that i have not read any of harris' novels. i rented this because i wanted to compare it to the upcoming red dragon. this movie is unbearably slow. the acting is terrible. the script is silly. why is graham constantly yelling at the camera? apparently this is supposed to convey a descent into madness and schizophrenia, but it doesn't. to those of you praising cox's lecter in this film over hopkins' (in silence of the lambs of course, hannibal was completely ridiculous), let me just say i am more afraid of my dentist than i was of cox. he isn't menacing, he's just sort of there. maybe it was the socks. noonan is skilled as the toothfairy and joan allen is also good as reba. i enjoyed the scenes with the tiger and later at reba's house. as a piece of 80s nostalgia it is EXCELLENT. check out the totally cool lucite bannister at stately leeds manor. the soundtrack is fantastic, there were moments where i grew confused and thought i was watching bladerunner. where can i find that heartbeats song??! i think this would be an excellent movie to watch high, especially the trippy end sequence. also to all of you claiming that there is no way red dragon will ever measure up and is obviously a shameless attempt to cash in on the hannibal character, why don't you actually SEE it before you condemn it? this is very childish.  "},{"Title":"brilliant and chilling","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Most people don't realize that Silence of the Lambs was not the first movie to feature Hannibal Lector.  I consider this very unfair because Manunter is by far the best of the Lector trilogy. Michael Mann is an awesome director (he directed a brilliant film noir classic called Thief with Jimmy Caan). He is aided by a brilliant cast of William Peterson (as the tormented FBI agent) and Brian Cox (in a way his performance as Lector is just as chilling as Anthony Hopkins). Everything about this film from its spooky music to its dark cinamaphotography is outstanding.  People has complained about the ending, but I feel that was the best part of the film as Graham races against time to find the killer. Peterson gives a wonderful performance as a dedicated but tormented man. Dennis Farina also gives a fine perfomance as his superior. Farina had actually been a detective with the Chicago police department and it makes his performance more realistic. He is one of our finest character actors. "},{"Title":"Really bad","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Having read the book and then watched the film I have to say Manhunter is a masterclass on how to cock up a good script.The acting is plastic and unbelievable, the 80s soundtrack ruins any potential emotional effect, the over-lighting refuses the imagination any opportunity to be scared, the experiences and motivations of Mr D are not portrayed (why he is who he is), the end of the film differs badly from the book (and the re-make Red Dragon, which is far closer to the book's roots) and essentially the film lacks any point.While i could write a thesis on why i think this film is bad, ill just go over two really annoying points.1) The main character, Will Graham, is poorly acted. There is no empathy. You never fear for him. You never care for him and he does not appear vulnerable - something essential to understanding the internal fear he feels around Lektor and Mr D. And the scene where he bodyslams Lounds onto a car is pure cheese-ball film making. Laughable.2) And this is the nail in this films coffin No time is spent examining Mr D, the serial killer. In the book he had a hair-lip (not represented much better in Red Dragon the film), in the film he has a mild shaving blemish. The hair-lip was central to his character and life experiences and essentially made him what he was.He feels disfigured. This is central to the emotions the audience needs to feel when he meets Reba and finally feels 'normal' after experiencing love making.His subsequent fear of speaking publicly and isolation and descent into what is broadly termed as 'schizophrenia' is essential in evoking pathos for his character. He is 'becoming' a monster but he was not born a monster. Red Dragon the film at least tries to address this (without huge success). The lack of examination into his psychology makes his crimes almost motiveless, and his death meaningless as we see him only as a destructive animal with no internal conflicts.Basically, i would only recommend watching this film as a study. Read the book, watch this film and then watch Red Dragon. If you're like me you'll love the book, be disheartened by a poorly representative Manhunter and pleasantly surprised by Red Dragon. "},{"Title":"If you have seen red dragon avoid this","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was looking forward to this film. I loved Red Dragon and Silence of the Lambs (hated Hannibal). Wanted to see how it was done in the 1980s.Well to describe manhunter, I need to draw on a line in Coming to America Good and terrible. I was surprised at the interpretation of Lecter in this version. He was particularly chilling and realistic. Hopkins was more of an over-cooked Hollywood-esq version of Lecter. But I think Hopkins wins out in the wash up.The problem with this film is that it is very dated and the chill-factor isn't quite there. Further, Peterson does a serviceable job as Wil Graham, but certainly ain't Ed Norton. The other supporting cast and the script were a mixture of a dated 1980s with a taste of the corny late-1970s. All in all.... not bad for a 1980s flick. Is fairly gripping on its own and a pretty good casual watch. The directing was under done to some degree (I assume Mann was less experienced at that point of his career) and the editing was slightly off.But Red Dragon is a remake of this film and Red Dragon is far more superior. When I say remake, you'll notice a number of scenes that were almost redone word for word in Red Dragon - but with far more genuine intensity and credibility from the fantastic cast.So for those who saw this first, I'm happy if you feel that it was fantastic for its time. But if you've seen Red Dragon and you're thinking that you'll have a look at this, just to see what the original was like, save your money - cos it really ain't that great these days. "}{"Title":"Inferior to Red Dragon","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After reading numerous reviews for Red Dragon ranting and raving about this film and how great it is, I felt like I really should see what all the fuss is about -- so I rented this film.Manhunter is very dated, and not in a good way. The score sounds to me like Vangelis having a bad hair day (and I'm a big fan of synthesizers). There is far too much exposition, which is always a sign that the screenwriter failed in properly translating the literary medium to the visual medium of film.Acting here is rather mediocre... not poor, but nothing remarkable. And perhaps worst of all -- this film lacks Anthony Hopkins. As ridiculous as that may sound, he *is* Hannibal Lecter. Nobody can do Lecter like he can. Any Hannibal Lecter movie without Hopkins is automatically missing something. This is just my opinion of course, and I recognize that some people may not care too much who plays Lecter.I found myself getting bored and a bit drowsy while watching this, and the feeling never left. I barely managed to sit through this film. In case you want to peg me as a kid unable to appreciate pre-90's films, I'm 40 years old and some of my all time favorite movies were made in the late 70's through mid 80's. This one just lacks the taut script, production values, acting, cinematography, musical score and visual storytelling ability of Red Dragon. Contrary to what many have said while reviewing the aforementioned movie, this one *was* ripe for a remake. It would have been a shame to leave perhaps the best of Thom Harris's Hannibal books with this lousy adaptation.Not having read the book, I'm not sure how much Red Dragon stole from Manhunter, and how much came from the book. All I can say is that Red Dragon does it better in every conceivable respect. Skip this turkey, and rent Red Dragon instead. Or if you like, rent this one first so you can see for yourself just how much better Red Dragon is. 4/10. "},{"Title":"Retarded movie of a good story","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a really bad filming of a good story. The story in the movie is good, and was the only thing that kept me watching. The music in the movie is very inappropriate (80ies style and baddest music I heard in any film), the characterbuilding is cliche and the dialogues are just plain bad.I have no idea how Michael Mann can make such a retarded movie around such a good story. "},{"Title":"Way too hyped for a dated movie","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sure that the movie we know today as Manhuter was an incredible find in the 80's when it was released, but the acting and the soundtrack really detract from the story in this version of Red Dragon.  In fact, everything about the movie screams 80's, the bland acting, the boring story, that just drags along until the end, all set to a soundtrack that sounds like Tangerine Dream composed it.  The movie puts you to sleep for about 2 hours and wakes you up at the end. There are also many details that, though in the book, are left out of the movie, yet the movie takes you to these places without really explaining them.  The remake, or perhaps better called, the real version of the book Red Dragon, is the new movie Red Dragon.  Like the books, the movies fit together nicely, and what we really need now is the beginning of Hannabal Lector.  Thomas Harris did a nice job filling that in the novels, but the movies omit a great deal of it. "},{"Title":"Good effort, poor results.","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Based on Thomas Harris' Red Dragon novel this film had a lot of potential. Sadly if failed badly to achieve this. Several liberties were taken with the plot and the characters background. Most notably Hannibal Lecter is made out to be a paedophile as they combined the story of Lecters capture with the story of the incident that made Will Graham first quit his work for the FBI. Presumably they did this to save time explaining the two separate incidents but it worked to reduce Lecters impact significantly even despite the impressive performance from Brian Cox.The worst problem however is the end of this film. The story is cut off suddenly a long way from its finishing point in the novel. By finishing it early the various elements of the story never really come together and you can't help but feel disappointed. It seems there were serious budget problems, which possibly led to them having to conclude filming earlier then intended and it is very obvious in the last few scenes of the film as they keep re-showing the same footage of someone being shot multiple times presumably to save their special effects budget.Despite all this however the film is worth a look, because the strength of the story that Harris wrote still manages to shine through. The Novel Red Dragon is without doubt the best work Harris has done to date, even better then Silence of the Lambs and it's weaker sequel Hannibal. Sadly though this film doesn't live up to the standard of the book. It remains to be seen whether the new Red Dragon film will do any better, as it seems production on that may have been rushed also. However if they stick to the story and don't change too much they can't really go far wrong. That may leave this film seeming redundant, however it is still worthy of note due to it being the earliest film to be based on one of Harris' Hannibal Lecter books.It is also worth noting that one of the reasons this film was virtually unknown when Lambs came out was because of incredibly poor distribution. It seemed whatever the intentions of the director and producer there were so many obstacles in the way of this film it was doomed to failure from day one.  "},{"Title":"What a disappointment","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I finally got around to see this movie, mainly because of it's connection to Silence of the Lambs and Hannibal. But this movie is not playing in the same league at all. The cinematography is very much like a movie from the 60ies  Just as you had some inkling of excitement and some focus to the story, there's a diversion. The diversions don't have a music score suitable for a film, but rather hit music complete with lyrics. These songs even drown the dialogue in the movie - what were they thinking? "},{"Title":"Better than The Silence of the Lambs? You all must be joking...","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have read all 3 of Thomas Harris' books including Hannibal Lecter...the trilogy if you may. I read all of them before I saw the movies that based themselves on the books with the exception of Hannibal for obvious reasons. And I will immediately say this.  I love Silence of the Lambs both the book and the movie.  Take away the incredible performances in the film, and it would still have a great plot and be a decent or even good adaptation. But the performances were excellent and it was a GREAT movie.  I tell you this to prove that reading the book first does not create bias.  If the adaptation on film is good, I will like it.  Manhunter is perhaps the worst adaptation of a book I have ever seen.  It takes the story in the Red Dragon which is a psychological rollercoaster both in Will Graham's mind and the Killers mind and destroys it.  What we have with Manhunter, is a quite obviously Miami Vice influenced action movie that we would see late night on Cinemax.  Will Graham flipping Freddy Lounds onto the hood of a car breaking the windshield...i rest my case..I need not point to the boring generic shootout ending where the killer imitates Rambo before his unexciting demise.  Why do I say this movie is bad?  Not because the book was better, which it was...but because it totally left out everything that made the book great.  The book was named the Red Dragon...and now I know why they didnt just name the Movie that....maybe because the killer's obsession with the Red Dragon, one of the most interesting and important parts of the book (his immediate motive even) was no where to be found in this week Cop drama. Also, there was no backround on why he became such an insane, confused, troubled person...the book clearly explains his insane grandmother who threatened him with castration, and most importantly how uncomfortable he was with himself...his appearence, his speech...he wanted to belong...he wanted to be accepted...it was through this character of the Red Dragon that he got strenght to commit these crimes...to show everyone that he was someone...the killer in this movie hardly existed...he was totally unimportant...Also..the novel showed how Will Graham also had troubles in his life...his wife's trouble with him going back to work on the case...his step son from Molly's past husband who died(which doesnt exist in this movie...its his son) and their relationship, and most importantly the thoughts of these mad men becoming an obsession to him, filling his head to make him seem even psychotic at times....  The ending of the movie was so horrible I nearly got nautious....the book had an exciting twist filled ending...the movie had a horrible shoot em up action movie ending...suprised i didn't mention Lector yet? that's because the story hardly involves him...that is also the case in the novel...however, Lecter's involvment is so much more valuable, psychological, and disturbing in the book..and totally unecessary in this movie...I give this movie a 2 out of 10...and I am being generous The only reason it scored that high is because it kept my interest the whole time because i felt i was about to be pleasantly suprised with a great sequence or two, maybe a great ending.  Boy was i wrong... this was a huge disappointment and I would love to see it redone with good actors, a good screen play, and at least a clue about the dynamics of the great novel.  I did not dislike the movie because no film can live up to the book. Thats not true (Green Mile, Shawshank redemption, Silence of the Lambs, all equal to their written couterparts in my opinion)I simply did not like this because it was a horrible movie. As far as I am concerned...this could have been a half hour or hour long episode of Miami Vice. "},{"Title":"A big letdown","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Having heard that this is better than Silence of the Lambs I am very disappointed.The script is dire, and the acting is terrible.  The plot is about as thin as it can get and there are no surprises at all.I only watched to the end because I had paid to but the DVD, which is limited edition.  It will never get played again.  This is the only film I have ever bought that will just collect dust.I can't stress more that this is one of the worst films I have ever seen and I just can not understand how anyone rates it at all. "},{"Title":"Red Dragon was way way better.","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As the much-touted initial installment of the Hannbal Lecter series, this movie really did not impress me. Again, I stand against the flow of the mighty river that is public opinion, but I felt the portrayal by Cox as Leckter was shallow, superficial, and otherwise lacked the intensity generated by Anthony Hopkins.The part of Graham was also better portrayed in the Red Dragon remake. While it was well played here, it was much better done in Red Dragon, as it created an electrifying feeling, and generated that wonderful suspense I had come to expect from these movies, and did not get...with this one.Also, there is present, one of the most horribly distracting musical scores in the history of theater, aside from 2001 A Spade Odyssey. The worst case for music and its affects on an audience, play out well here. This was horrid, and succeeded in killing whatever mood the scene had managed to achieve.For this movie to be so highly praised by horror fans, I was sorely disappointed. While the scenes and dialog play out pretty much exactly as they did in Red Dragon, this production was by far, inferior to the remake. The sets were poorly and cheaply designed, the performances were sub-par to what I experienced with the remake, and the story (while compelling) moved along far too slowly for my taste. There are times when a slow-moving story can generate that wonderful level of suspense, create an air of mystery and tension which is so needed in these movies of the psychological sub-genre. This attempt failed to create much of anything with its slow build-up for me, besides boredom with the whole first half of the movie, and frankly, by the time I muddled through the first uneventful portion, I really did not care wither or not they caught the Tooth Fairy, killed Graham and his family, or succeeded.If you are a horror fan, see this movie. It is, after all, the movie which spawned Silence of the Lambs, Hannibal, and the prequel remake Red Dragon. But that is, honestly, the only reason to see it. It is dated, slow and rather a B production all around.This rates a 5.4/10 on the B scale.That's a 3.1/10 on the A scale, from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Pure Crap.","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Better than Silence Of the Lambs? Better than Red Dragon? Are some of you out of you're freaking minds? It's average at best, and I'm being nice. Michael Mann is a good director, but this not his best work, and while Brian Cox does make a good Hannibal Lector, he's no where near the league of Anthony Hopkins. It's not even a good thriller, and that's pretty sad considering the fact that the book it's based on is probably one of the best thrillers in modern literature.  I do give credit to William L Petersen for giving a great performance, but not even he can save this piece of crap from itself.I don't know what is worse. The movie itself or the sad people who would go as far as to bash The other Hannibal Lector movies (The real Hannibal Lector movies, With Anthony Hopkins and a host of better actors who can act.) in order to defend this piece of trash.  "},{"Title":"Quite boring...","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was lured in by the Hannibal Lecktor (yes, it is spelled that way in this 1986 movie) and wasn't familiar with this movie prior to finding it by sheer random luck in the local secondhand DVD store for $2. So I bought it and gave it a go......and I wasn't particularly entertained or thrilled.It was the story that failed to impress or captivate me. And not even the impressive cast could manage to salvage the sinking storyline. And it should be pointed out that the cast was fantastic with talents such as William Petersen, Brian Cox, Dennis Farina, Tom Noonan and Stephen Lang. As good an actor as Brian Cox is, he just didn't cut it as Hannibal.I quickly lost interest in the movie as the story never caught my interest and it was only half-hearted that I made it through the two hours that the movie dragged on for.I am sure that this movie will appeal greatly to the hardcore fans of the Hannibal legacy. But for a casual viewer this was a less than mediocre movie experience. "}{"Title":"Not a thriller movie","Date":"11 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Sad to say that i am deeply disappointed by the other reviews for this film. I wouldn't want to focus on characters but besides Lecter, none of the other characters persuaded me, especially the cop. The feeling the movie left me after 2 hours watching boring - non thriller movie. I haven't read the book and i had no previous knowledge about it, i just wanted to see a movie that would make me feel the suspense.I felt no anxiety,at all,I kept myself from falling asleep. Probably this movie refers to previous generations, as i'm only 26 (but have watched dozens of mystery/thriller movies from 90's and 00's.) My only advice is do not watch this if you are into movies like Seven/8mm/Insidious/Shutter Island/Devils advocate etc. It will bore you to death. "},{"Title":"The Better Dragon of the Two Red Ones","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Despite the very unfortunate and clichéd title such as 'Manhunter,' it's sad this little tight suspense film didn't get more notoriety when it hit theatres in 1986. There are a lot of huge positives in reference to the book it's based on, 'Red Dragon' (why they changed the movie title escapes me.) For, they got the Will, Freddy, Reba and Francis characters down to the tee, especially and mainly Will (William Peterson). Tell me, this wasn't Peterson's audition tape for 'CSI.' They were all but one in the same people. Another thing they got right (and later, the remake 'Red Dragon' got horribly wrong) was the just snippets of Dr. Hannibal Lecter (along with the title change, they somehow managed to spell his name wrong. It's a wonder if they read the source material.) This isn't a 'Hannibal' film, though it introduces him and thankfully, author Harris saw something in Lecter as he's an enormously interesting character and spawned more books/movies specifically centered around him. The bad in this film is the deletion of some key plot points/characters, such as Francis's Grandmother and his trip to the museum. Sure, the movie can't go on forever, but like most of Mann's films, he wastes a lot of time with very SLOW moving, I suspect tension building scenes but in reality, it's just slow. The movie's horribly dated in action and music &#x96; and at times overbearing to the action on screen. And the ending was downright hilariously bad, terribly edited and psychedelic. So, that kinds of ruins any tension Mann slowed down shots might have raised. The plot revolves around retired FBI Will hunting a serial-family killer before the next full moon and the affects it has on him and his own family. Watchable, but just about average.Side note I don't generally read/watch videos a lot about the movie prior to my review, such as quotes, trailers, other people's comments, trivia or goofs, so in order not to ruin my opinion. I'm sure the goof I will mention has been noted before. It was hilarious in the grocery store as the products behind Will & son continued to change as they stood still. Unfortunately that broke the tension it was attempting to build.Overall, I liked the movie &#x96; oodles better than the Edward Norton/Anthony Hopkins 'Red Dragon' version. I've read the book and loved how Peterson portrayed Will Graham. He was quiet, thoughtful, and powerful even in his silence whereas Norton was loud, dumb and spoke way too much. He also looked years younger than the character he was supposed to be. Joan Allen was perfect, and it was creepy as she had to sit there and not watch the home videos. Finally, Noonan was one hundred times scarier than Fiennes. Seriously, who wouldn't be scared of 6'7 man vs. someone, what, 5'11 on heels? "},{"Title":"Manhunter","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As an avid Thomas Harris fan...I was completely consumed by Silence of the Lambs and then the movies' authenticity (for the most part) to the book...spine chilling! Hannibal (the movie) was appalling...how dare they stray so far from the book. I have not seen the Red Dragon and longed to see Manhunter to put together some of the Lecter puzzle pieces. I finally got my chance thanks to American Movie Classics.Michael Mann did an outstanding job with this film...edgy and beyond suspenseful. The Tooth Fairy falls well into place as one of the all time evil villains. William Petersen...superb! I loved him in To Live and Die in LA...and nightly on CSI. I sincerely believe that his character, Will Graham, plays an integral part of Gil Grissom. I was disappointed that the version I watched was riddled with commercials, because I believe that took away from some of the suspense...but overall Manhunter is outstanding. "},{"Title":"So much potential","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's always astounding when a film full of excellent acting still manages to disappoint.  Not a bad thriller overall, but the impressive performances of Petersen, and Cox, along with good ones by Farina and Allen, are interrupted by and even forgotten to the horrible score, distractingly miscast Noonan, and messy ending.Too bad.  There was a lot going for the movie at the start, especially the short meeting between Graham (Petersen) and Lecktor (Cox).  Interesting and sometimes gorgeous shots make this more than the average thriller, but if you want a good example of how music can seriously hurt a movie, Manhunter is a prime one. "},{"Title":"A serial killer is asked to help find another.","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the first in the Dr. Hannibal Lecter trilogy. William Peterson is a Special Agent with the FBI and is called on to help track and find a serial killer before he strikes again. The manhunter pays a visit to another killer, Hannibal Lecter(Brian Cox), whom he helped put in prison. Talking to Dr. Lecter just might give some insight in tracking down the current stalker/killer on the loose.Awesome camera work and chilling use of soundtrack featuring Iron Butterfly and Red 7. Frightening, thrilling and tension filled film. Director Michael Mann teams well with Thomas Harris, who based the screenplay on his novel Red Dragon.Peterson's character is fearless, yet laid back. Cox is creepy in his short scene as Lecter. Tom Noonan plays the lumbering, but volatile villain. Dennis Farina and Joan Allen also appear. "},{"Title":"If you're looking for a really scary and intense movie.. look elsewere","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Well this movie just doens't cut the cake at all. I'm really curious why so many people gave this a movie a high grade. Some of my thoughts on this movie1) First of all, it may be from the 80's but damn, that synth music is really really horrible. It doesn't add to the atmosphere and gives the entire music score a cheap B-movie feeling.2) The acting wasn't great nor convincing, it lacks feeling and mr. Badguy in this movie only looks scary because he's really ugly!3) Lame plot, I mean, If I wanted to see a movie with a serial killer, I don't want to find out he's one jealous mofo.4) Ridiculous ending! 5) All in all this movie didn'tgave me any scary feelings or moved me in some way. Silence of the lambs was so much better and scarier! Hopkins as Lecter does a 10000% better job at being scary and the right dude, this guy was just some semi-intellectual bum in a white cell. Not very recommended, don't fall for all the high ratings here, its not worth your time. "},{"Title":"Disappointing, but not awful","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Having heard great things about this film, and being a big fan of Thomas Harris, this title promised much more than it delivered.The film has an overly 1980s feel to it - too much seems to be played on the fashions of the period, both musically and in terms of the acting. In parts, it resembles a generic US cop show more than an innovative piece of film making. The soundtrack is deeply unsuited to the atmosphere, with bizarre bouts of synth-pop cropping up and ruining some of the better moments.William Peterson plays a fair Will Graham, though his performance is blighted by the '80s show hero' role his character is presented as. Dennis Farina is forgettable as Jack Crawford and Stephen Lang's representation of Freddy Lounds as a shrieking, gullible car salesman stereotype is painful to watch, given the more calculating Lounds you'd imagine. Tom Noonan is a twitchy, nervous, wholly unsuitable Francis Dolarhyde, lacking the menace I had expected and looking for all the world like a favourite grandparent.Brian Cox's Hannibal Lecter is one of the few convincing displays, rescuing small portions of the film and making them watchable.Throughout the film, the dialogue is rushed and the storyline jumps from drawn-out to jumped-through. The scene in which Dolarhyde meets Reba was absurd - it seemed as though he had a sleeping tiger on a retainer at the zoo. The capture of Lounds does nothing to add to the suspense, with Noonan rushing through his lines without menace and failing to capture the atmosphere you would imagine the 'Great Red Dragon' might convey whilst in character. He seems to aspire to be Blake's painting rather than the Red Dragon itself.I struggled to watch this one through to the end. It departs enormously from the original, exciting storyline and becomes a weak, fragile and unconvincing waste of time. "},{"Title":"Poor adaptation of a truly terrifying novel","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Poor stylized adaptation of a truly terrifying novel.I really wish I could see the terror in this film that Cox brings to Lecktor, because to me it doesn't exist. He acts more like a 40's gangster imprisoned then he does a sophisticated psychiatrist turned serial killer.William Petersen's acting was dull, and the horrible music track plays so loud you could bearly hear the characters at times.Unlike it's sequel Lambs, this movie tends to be stuck in an 80's time warp, making it become out-dated.Good movie to rent for a Saturday night, but don't buy it. It's a waste of money. "},{"Title":"Silence generation can NOT appreciate this flick.","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I completely agree with the interpretation of Brian Cox's performance compared to Hopkins. I believe they ruined this movie by putting Hopkins in the Silence role. This generation does not know what fear Cox's put into viewers who did NOT have a prefabricated notion of the new and lack luster Hannibal played by Hopkins. Highlights that are NOT duplicated!!!... The cell, the awe scene with the guy on fire, the only movie to show you the investigators finding a note from a serial murderer! Where else?! no where!, the eerie music and the images the tooth fairy creates. The day to day life. "},{"Title":"Horrible, really Horrible","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I happen to see it at the library and decided, I've seen the modern adaptation, and i read the book, so just for comparison and to complete it all let's get the original. Quite frankly I'm disappointed i even picked up the box. First off when they say based on the work 'Red Dragon' by Harris, they use it in the loosest way possible. Half the time I didn't even feel like i was watching the same story. All the primary actors where way over the top, I guess they missed the subtlety day in acting school. on top of the the musical scoring in this movie almost made me want to turn it off, i'm not sure what the composer was thinking but my personal take on it, is that the music and the mood dont often match and some of the incedental music is just laughable. Lector wasnt creepy, or menacing. I dont belive for a second that he was capible of anything worse than jaywalking. When you see Hopkins in the role, you feel afraid, and with good reason, his personality and manerisms, drip with the corruption and maddness locked away inside his head. The 'Tooth Fairy'/'Red Dragon' also unconvincing, his character was underdeveloped and it seemed more like he was just a ragin lunatic rather than the methodical madman he is in the book and modern adaptaion. The modern adaptation didnt potray it well, and this movie just skips it all together, about the conflict between Francis and the Red Dragon, the dicotomy and resistance that Francis trys to put up against the will of the Dragon. Which brings me to the ending, while i wonlt go into detail, the ending of the book and the ending of the movie are so different that i was quite dissapointed. It's like the director got bored, decided this was enough, and  just said hey, we'll just wrap up the story right here. even though there is more to the book and some imporant parts.They also left out some of what i would consider important subplots and plot points, not enough emphasis was placed on key details from the book, I found the whole package a big let down. Read the Book, Watch the modern adaptation, but you can safely skip over this waste of film. "}{"Title":"A real stinker","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can't stand a lot of these reviews for Manhunter.  The people who praise Manhunter as being a great film and even BETTER than Silence of the Lambs of Red Dragon are the same people that say that CCR's version of Proud Mary is better than Ike and Tina Turner's.  Please!  Manhunter was a terrible movie.  If I wouldn't have seen Red Dragon, I wouldn't have been able to follow it.  Lector was hardly in the movie at all, and was not captivating at all.  He seemed like just an average schlub in a cell.  Hopkins' Lector draws you in and engages you in his sick genius.  Nothing like that here.  Dolarhyde's character wasn't developed at all either, not like in Red Dragon anyway.  Whoever sings the praises of this movie has not seen good film, and they certainly haven't seen Red Dragon.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Cheese please...","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't watched Red Dragon yet so I don't consider myself biased one way or the other. This movie was a complete disappointment. I've been reading all this commentary on how Red Dragon is a bad remake of this good film, all I can say is Red Dragon must be complete tosh so.I can only agree with the comment already posted that it's a case of Miami Vice meeting a thriller. The dialogue is completely cheesy and the music had me all but reaching for the mute button. I can't believe people praising the acting, it's generally atrocious!! And as for the over the top ridiculous lighting. Terrible.The movies one redeeming factor comes in the towering form of Francis 'Tooth Fairy' Dolarhyde. He is genuinely creepy and acts the part very well. Otherwise it's one to miss.  "},{"Title":"Weak","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is terrible.I love Bryan Cox but his Lektor is not interesting at all. If you are looking for a good Bryan Cox movie, watch L.I.E.The music and acting are extremely cheesy. Some scenes made me laugh out loud--one in particular comes to mind Will is so disturbed by his meeting with Lektor, he goes madly dashing out of the mental hospital, down one stairway, and another and another, round and round, running... I thought it would never end. So weak.If you really like the back of people's heads, you will love this movie. The director must have a fetish. Half the time people are talking, you're looking at the back of their heads.My advice is to watch this so you can see how much better Ratner's Red Dragon really is. Instead of Manhunter, it should have been called Why Everything in the 80's Was So Lame. "},{"Title":"Not a classic...unless you're comparing it to a pile of brown smelly stuff","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I don't know where to begin with this piece of unadulterated schlock. I didn't watch this movie entirely but I did watch most of it. There is too much to complain about in this movie to care about it. I only liked this movie because I saw my favorite CSI character playing a similar sort of role and that is only one of three reasons I like this movie. William Petersen is a decent actor on the small screen, I don't know about the big screen though. He tried way too hard in this unintentional joke of a movie. I like the scene where the killer had the one FBI agent tied to the wheelchair. I didn't expect the agent to become a fireball while traveling back to his car. Michael Mann can write a good-intentioned torture scene, that is if you want to intentionally torture yourself. In my mind, I don't why anybody likes Michael Mann or any of the stuff he creates. He squandered one too many opportunities for some stars to shine and it drove me bonkers. Dennis Farina wasn't able to pull off any of his trademark irony and Brian Cox couldn't muster any creepiness to save his performance. As somebody astutely pointed out, Michael Mann was trying to make Miami Vice on the big screen. I believe he blew half the flipping budget on the set decor. It was heart-wrenching to watch this film. If you liked this movie, you should be ashamed with yourself. As for this movie, it gets a score of 3.Here ends my rant! "},{"Title":"Melodramatic","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not so good. The acting was never convincing for me, the soundtrack was irritatingly invasive and the way the F.B.I agent's home life and the killer's love interest was handled seemed contrived and overly melodramatic. I would recommend seven if you're looking for something similar. "},{"Title":"An atrocious, boring piece of tripe...","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For the life of me I cannot comprehend what people see in this movie and why anyone sane could think it was better than Silence of the Lambs!! I first saw this in 1986 and I hated it. After Silence and Hannibal, they put this on DVD and I actually bought the 2 disc set (its now on eBay). I still hate it. The movie is slow, boring, and drawn out. The dialogue is cheesy and the acting is terrible, just terrible. William Petersen couldn't be more melodramatic and overacting if he tried. Brian Cox is unimpressive as Hannibal Lecter (Lecktor? as they call him in this one). Joan Allen, usually always perfect in her roles is unimpressive and insignificant character-wise. In all, this tripe plays like a bad made-for-TV film meets Miami Vice. But then again, Michael Mann directed Miami Vice, so there you go. The ABSOLUTE worst thing is the awful music score and the GODAWFUL songs!!The score does not fit the tone of the film, using InAGaddaDaVida to torture Joan Allen tortures the viewer more and that Heartbeat song at the end by Red7 is puke-inducing. As for the DVD release...BAD editing, the dialog misses the mouths of the actor worse than in Godzilla movies, the grainy picture quality is worse than VHS,etc, etc. There is no salvaging this in any form. I love films of every genre and movies are my life and I've seen thousands of films in my 31 years and this was and still is one of the worst pieces of cinematic garbage I have ever wasted 2 hours on (4 since I've seen it twice). Yecch. "},{"Title":"Better than Silence of the Lambs!","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the neglected first movie about Dr. Hannibal Lecter, the cannibal from Silence.... Although he isn´t given much screentime here, his appearance (actor Brian Cox) is more menacing than Hopkins´ portrayal. Manns visually fascinating style gives the brilliant script the edge it deserves. In this haunting movie a police-officer has the ability to think like the serial-killers he hunts. This leads him into schizophrenia - isn´t he as mad and dangerous as the killers? This is the question of this movie - and Mann´s answer is a razor-sharp analysis on identity. The movie starts off really quiet and calm - those who look for action and gore are definitely in the wrong movie - but those who like psychological, intelligent thrillers will be glued to the screen until the closing credits. If you´ve the choice, watch the director´s cut, it´s final scene will make you freeze. Mann´s Manhunter is maybe the best serial-killer movie ever made and - I promise - you won´t forget it!   "},{"Title":"A solid low cal and nutritious journeyman whodunnit","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Manhunter tells of the brooding ex-FBI agent (Petersen) who nabbed Hannibal Lecter and gets called back into action to catch another serial killer/cannibal/wingnut. This the original Lecter flick focuses on the manhunt while delving into the disturbing think-like-a-cannibal mindset which Agent Graham must achieve with the help of his old adversary in order to catch the killer. More of a traditional whodunnit-style drama, Manhunter trades sensationalism for realism by emphasizing the hero over the villain. A solid journeyman flick with no huge stars, Manhunter makes for an intriguing watch which requires less dumbing-down by the viewer than either Silence... or Hannibal. "},{"Title":"Best bad film I've seen","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Wow, some interesting reviews here...wish I had the time to read them all, maybe one day. I've never seen so many spellings of Lecktor - we're reviewing Manhunter here. Not another movie, not the book. On the screen in the movie it's spelt Lecktor - get it right people.I've never had so many mixed feelings about a film. I said I'd never watch another Michael Mann film after the disappointment of Public Enemies and truly awful Miami Vice movie from 2006 - but I'd always wanted to see Manhunter so I put it on.Firstly the music is dated, awfully so. At times it feels so inappropriate we actually laughed out loud. Some of the acting, particularly from the main character's wife, is terrible and I swear she was reading from a cue card behind the camera at one point it sounded so wooden. Additionally, the music was sometimes louder than the dialogue, making it hard to hear what people were saying on screen - even on a quality 5.1 setup.The editing is truly awful. At times it just jumps and a character's head moves from one place to another with no transition. The continuity in the supermarket scene is awful, they move position next to the shelving mid sentence.The end of the film was rubbish and I simply don't believe a straight minded character would take the action he did on seeing the bad guy through the window. I've never read the book to compare.So, some bad bits, some awful bits and some stuff missing I would like to have seen. But I still give it a (very high for me) 6/10 - the story was really good and I wanted to watch to the end to see what happened.Definitely a classic and worth a look. "},{"Title":"Acting, Pacing, Editing, Music!","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" That would be in order -- from lame to outrageously bad... I am still feeling ill from all the wasted opportunity here. It just isn't possible to spoil what is already rotten. That's why every positive review here floors me. Gag!I haven't read the book. I've seen Red Dragon and was mildly impressed. This is why I could stick with Manhunter for over an hour before I became truly exasperated. The music was the first thing to grate upon me. But each scene sounded worse than the one before. I can't stress enough how misplaced and cheap the music was.The cast was fine, but they must have been misdirected very skillfully. I couldn't believe how silly they started to seem -- only compounding what is normally called character-development. I felt as if many of the protagonist's chats with himself were delivered in vaguely different ways but with no other motivation than 'sound urgent.'Many of the edits just looked like flat out mistakes! Pacing? Forget it. etc. "}{"Title":"Horrible - just horrible....","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Good god - what a HORRIBLE movie and adaptation. I never really liked Miami Vice and I think I now know why. He somehow removed ALL emotion and feeling from the book and actors. Since he never went into the characters back ground, you care NOTHING about them, what happens to them, nor do you understand why the murders are even happening.This should have been such a better movie. All through the movie I kept thinking how I could have made the screenplay so much better...I rarely get worked up about a adaptation but man - when you read the book and think what a cool movie it could be then get the tripe Michael Mann produced.... It HURTS... "},{"Title":"Manhunter","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw Brett Ratner's remake based on the novel of the same name, Red Dragon, and with most remakes, this original version is much better, from director Michael Mann (Collateral). 5 years before Sir Anthony Hopkin's Oscar winning turn in The Silence of the Lambs, plus 2001's sequel Hannibal and the prequel remake I mentioned (both also starring Hopkins) came Brian Cox, best known The Bourne Trilogy, and even though he doesn't have the same great delivery of lines or pure evil look, he's still more memorable than most other characters. Anyway, basically a sophisticated serial killer is on the loose, and ex-detective Will Graham (William Petersen) is brought out of retirement to help hunt him down. The only person who may have some idea of how he thinks and where he might go is the man Graham caught and caused his retirement, Dr. Hannibal Lecktor (Cox), who without anyone's knowledge manages to use his phone time, fiddle with the wires and tell this serial killer anything that helps. This killer by the way we do eventually see is Francis Dollarhyde (Tom Noonan), a sadistic man most of the time wearing a balaclava on his head, quoting from the bible, and (briefly seen) hanging out with a blind girl. Also starring Kim Greist as Molly Graham, Dennis Farina as Jack Crawford, Stephen Lang as Freddie Lounds, The Bourne Trilogy's Joan Allen as Reba McClane, David Seaman as Kevin Graham and Benjamin Hendrickson as Dr. Frederick Chilton. Like Cox, Noonan is also not as convincing as Ralph Fiennes (with Hopkins, the only good reason to see the remake), but like I said, there is enough mystery and suspense scattered, and good performances to keep you interested. It was number 41 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die. Very good! "},{"Title":"i wish i seen this movie before red dragon...","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  so i could be lost in this half-hearted attempt at film making.  I bet if i didn't see red dragon, i'd be confused.  though it pales in comparison to red dragon, lets not focus on that; instead focus on it like an independent project.I was surprised at the fact that Michael Mann directed this movie.  He's made some good films (Heat, Ali, Insider), but this must of been made when he had an addiction to 80's culture.  I'm not going to rag on the style of the movie because it was made in the 80's, but man, i feel bad for the 80's generation.  Also, Mann's inappropiate use of music is also distracting. The love scene between Reba and the Toothfairy has the most gruesome music possible.  The slow-mo also is another horrifying choice.  The pace was just horrible.  The pace was rather fast; thus, not allowing proper character development.  Though at times it did slow down at the worst times.  The pace just lacks consistency.  And the title (not sure if it was Mann's idea), but only a gay porn could be successful with a title like manhunter.The acting was sufficient.  They moved the movie along, and that's about what was expected from them.  They didn't have anything to work with other than moving the story along.  Character motivation is no where to be found. Characters just did things that I had no idea why they were did it. Brain Cox as Lecter, did an adequate job, not much was expected from him. Though he had this terrible English accent with a hopefully unintentional slur.All in all, this is story driven movie that lacks any redeeming qualities. Just watch Red Dragon. "},{"Title":"This is no Red Dragon","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Caught this movie on the Biography Channel today, and only stopped to watch because I heard someone say Hannibal. (I own and love all three 'Hopkins' movies...) At first I thought this was a sickeningly bad ripoff of Red Dragon, but investigation has led me here... and, for some reason, some people seem to like it... I just thought the casting was incredibly poor (not even compared to Red Dragon; just in general), the character portrayals were agonizing, and there was one scene that was so amazingly bad that it bears repeating The Will Grahm actor ran in long, silly circles to get down a long silly ramp, in a place that obviously isn't a psychiatric hospital, AND THE DIRECTOR SHOWED ALMOST THE ENTIRE THING. Just running, turning, running, turning, running (yawn), turning, running, running some more, and then some more running, just in case we didn't already get the idea. I think he was supposed to be portraying some kind of distress, but it was just plain annoying. In short Watch Red Dragon, and try to forget that this movie exists. Just my thoughts. I'm going to turn it off now... "},{"Title":"What happens when people over analyze","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who says this movie is better than Silence of the Lambs is just hopelessly trying to be different in that nonconformity way that was so popular with the Breakfast Club crowd.  This movie was AWFUL.  It was AWFUL before Silence of the Lambs, and it's still AWFUL.It must be noted, however, that Hopkins' interpretation of Lecter is fantastic, and comparison with Cox's is not appropriate.  The whole immersion in the 80's Miami Vice like atmosphere is distasteful to all but those who still watch Nash Bridges.For those who feel that the story behind Manhunter is better than Silence, you're probably right.  Red Dragon is a much more straightforward book than The Silence of the Lambs.  The books have undeniable similarities, but the addition of a FEMALE officer in Silence complicates issues, and creates more complex situations within the story.  The movie Silence exploits this well, but oftentimes to the dismay of the serial killer genre fan.  I see it as the kind of difference between Seven Samurai and Die Hard.  Seven Samurai is a great film...Die Hard is a good action genre film...but not a great film. Unfortunately, Manhunter isn't even a good serial killer film, it's just...ok...and the 80's motif swings it into the awful territory.But that's just my opinion...I could be wrong.  "},{"Title":"pure garbage.","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am truly surprised that people found this movie good. After seeing it I was speechless. I had seen the new Red Dragon with Edward Norton before, which may have been the reason for my resentment. But we should all really just face the facts here it had a terrible script, this Hannibal Lecter sucked, when it got to a suspenseful moment it just cut away, and it appeared to be on an incredibly short budget. I'm not really a fan of Norton, but I must say he did a much better role than the guy in this movie. All of the actors seemed like they just picked them off the street and bribed them with enough McDonald coupons to play the part. It had a good plot though, but it was based entirely on the book, so all I can say is kudos to the author! "},{"Title":"If you rent one movie this year. . .","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you rent one movie this year. . .by god, don't rent this horrible piece of crap.  Not only does it run about an hour too long, but it's uninteresting, badly acted, and not scary.  Let's hope Ed Norton can do a better job as lead in the remake.  But seriously. . .Horrible. "},{"Title":"Michael Mann should stick to television!","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not much good can be said about this film.  I realize the actors did the best they could given the direction and the script.As usual, Michael Mann goes for style over substance.  Manhunter is nothing more than an extended version of Miami Vice.  While Miami Vice was okay for what it was; this movie is just pretension.It is a pretender to the throne of Red Dragon and SOTL.  A pretender ten times removed!!!The characters are sketchy at best and not well developed.  For instance, it was never really clear what Francis Dollarhyde was becoming or why. Yes, there was a reference to Blake's Red Dragon, but it was just in passing, casual conversation.  Either that or I missed it while yawning.Tom Noonan did the best he could with Dollarhyde.  He was kinda creepy but not nearly creepy enough!!  The lack of character development here is where the story takes a nose dive.  We don't have any idea what he's about.  We just know he wears panty hose on his head as a disguise.Brian Cox's perfomance as Hannibal Lecktor (misspelled, by the way) was laughable!!  He was stilted, mechanical and obviously over rehearsed. There was nothing frightening about the character.  Lecktor is supposed to make your skin crawl just looking at him.  Not so here.  I continue to be dumbfounded that this character was so badly done.All I can say is, Michael Mann, stick to television.  That way people won't feel ripped off if they're dumb enough to go to a theater and pay to see one of your misguided works. "},{"Title":"One of the worst pieces of garbage i've ever seen","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is without a doubt one of the worst movies I've ever seen. William Petersen's performance is horrible unconvincing; the dialog is laughable; and Brian Cox as Hannibal Lecktor seems neither threatening nor particularly intelligent. Michael Mann's decision to put pop music in the background was bad; not only are all the songs irritating, they make the movie seem dated and aren't particularly appropriate to the scenes they accompany. Without revealing too much, the clue that the hero uses to figure out the killer's identity is blatantly obvious. None of the movie is that realistic, but that's mostly standard Hollywood stuff (the villain manages to still stand and be menacing after being shot 5 times in the chest; the hero gets slashed on the face, yet the cuts don't bleed more than a few drops and miraculously he isn't hit in the eyes; the hero decides to throw all caution to the wind and not wait for back-up, and decides to go after the killer alone armed only with a revolver instead of waiting for the SWAT team; things like that) Over all people should just try and forget that this movie existds and just watch Silence of the Lambs instead  "},{"Title":"Unless you're a Michael Mann fanboy, don't bother...","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was recommended this film by a friend who went on to tell me how brilliant and fantastic it was. Yeah, right.The film I seen seemed to be some poorly made and acted TV movie complete with cheesy synth music (like a monkey had been let loose on a keyboard, or something), and the plot plodded along like a pensioner on a Zimmer frame. In fact I nearly lapsed into a coma several times during the viewing (not kidding).I know people think Michael Mann is some sort of cinematic genius, but I just don't get it.  Maybe I'm stupid, maybe I like my films not to be boring.  Who knows?  But I know what I like and this wasn't it.However, it wasn't all bad...  The bit with the bloke rolling down the slope in a wheelchair, on fire, was hilarious. "}{"Title":"Not really terrible or terribly innovative...","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As much acclaim that have been given to Manhunter and SOTL I find that the films just owe too much to a genre filled with mediocrities. Although both the films are very interesting when looking at the process of bringing a novel on the screen the main interest in my opinion lies with the novels. As the Red Dragon was interesting as an introduction into the world of Lektor/Lecter, SOTL started to repeat the form, making the book and the film both predictable and not so much new and innovative. Manhunter may look a bit cheap in comparison with SOTL that was made in the 90's with a large budget as it was intended as a mainstream film. But my criticism of the Manhunter does not lie in the lack of a grand budget but rather in the handling of the story. As Mann follows the novel fairly extensively, the film could still use more material from the book. The look of the film might also be better, with the Miami Vice images just making me head for the exit or for another channel. The story could elaborate more about the character of Dolarhyde but even the novel doesn't really go that far in the philosophical dimensions that are there in my opinion. In my mind the book builds on crime fiction tradition very much like the film does and even if that isn't necessarily bad they both still fall short of a place as any kinds of classics. Still occasionally effective Manhunter stands as an evidence to the fact that even Michael Mann can do something worthwhile when he stays away from TV-series and epics. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably appalling","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"11 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I fail to see how people can like this film.  I honestly cannot think of one redeeming feature of this abomination (except maybe to make Silence of the Lambs and Red Dragon seem even more perfect).  I will now list my greivances.1. LecKtOr was crud.  And they spelt it wrong.  I have no doubt that Brian Cox is a perfectly fine actor, but he played LecKtOr as if he was drunk. He kept rubbing his face in his hands and lounging around in a distinctly un-Lecter way. Give me Hopkins any day - the cold stare, half smile and expressionless but mocking voice as opposed this semi-inebriated crap.2. Dollarhyde was crud.  And they spelt it wrong.  I belive the point where I lost my temper with this film was when we get our first supposedly shocking look at the monster who has killed these families - and we get a 60 year old walnut wearing a pair of tights on his head.  I actually laughed out loud at this point.  It was not in the least bit frightening.  Give me Ralph Fiennes any day - the evil look, muscular body and cold voice as oppose to this septegenarian wally.3.  The score was just unspeakable.  In my original review of SOTL I had the temerity to say that Shore's score was not particularly memorable, but compared to the eighties dross that blurbles on in the backround to this film it is veritable Mozart.4.  Graham seemed insane.  He kept breaking out into impassioned monologues (usually directed at trees or other inanimate objects) about how he was going to catch the killer.  I didn't think it was possible to make this monstrosity even worse, but portraying the investigator as an escaped mental patient managed to do so.This film is not so bad that it is good - no-o-o, it is so bad that it has gone past the so-bad-it's-good stage and come back to being awful again. I honestly find it impossible to believe that some people think that this poor excuse for a thriller is better than the cinematic masterpieces of SOTL and Red Dragon. In case you have not noticed - I thought this film was one of the most appalling things ever to take up precious celluloid in the history of mankind.  PERIOD. "},{"Title":"Oh, Mann!","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" An FBI agent who specializes in catching serial killers comes out of retirement to track a psycho who idolizes Hannibal Lecktor. Peterson is laughably bad as the cop who is so passionate about his job by golly that he endangers his family and breaks into impromptu monologues directed at the killer. Initially, the film gets so bogged down in the minutiae of police work that it's simply boring, then suddenly the focus shifts to the killer's romance with a blind woman. Huh? Mann's overly flashy style is better suited to music videos or toothpaste ads than a feature film. The director's tendency to randomly use weird camera angles and slow motion is quite distracting. The cheesy soundtrack adds to the misery. "},{"Title":"Gross What Happened To Anthony Hopkins!","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This Movie Was Absolutely Horribal Anthony Hopkins Played The Notorious Hannibal In Three Movies Why Use Brain Cox To Play Hannibal Gross.... Sir Anthony Hopkins Is A Amazing Brilliant Talented Man Whos Great Character As Hannibal Was Poorly Followed Up.. By Brain Cox....I Do Not Recommend This Movie The Other Hannibal Movies Starring Anthony Hopkins Red Dragon,Hannibal,Silence Of The Lambs...... I Do Recommend.... even the newest Hannibal movie starring Gaspard ulliel was brilliant..... this Movie Though Don't Waste Your Time i cant point out a certain reason about why this movies was a bummer The whole thing was a icky bore .......... ......................... ..................... "}]