[{"Title":"And you have to deal with me, Doug Masters","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" I'm sorry, but I just can't help it, I love watching Iron Eagle. Now, do not misunderstand me, I am not saying that this is a great movie. No, rather, I would put it that this is an endlessly entertaining movie. For people who cut this movie to pieces for not being realistic are kinda missing the point. Of course Iron Eagle's plot was ridiculous. But I believe its target audience was kids, and I sure remember finding this cool when I was little. Now I just find it amusing as a guilty pleasure, kinda like Road House. This movie is part of the great pantheon of 80's, kids-taking-on-the-stodgy-adult-power-structure movies. You must remember D.A.R.Y.L, Real Genius, E.T., etc. If you ask me, just watching Doug and Knotcher Ride the Snake in the beginning is worth the cost of the DVD. That whole sequence was so STUPID! But, at the same time, it was hilarious, funny, totally 80's, all that good stuff. So bottom line, Iron Eagle is a great 80's guilty pleasure. The hairstyles, the dancing, the music, the dialogue, its all funny as hell. I have Iron Eagle on DVD and to me it was totally worth $9.99 at Best Buy. If you love laughing at dated, unrealistic action movies, this one is a must-see. Oh yeah, and I think its plot was only marginally stupider than 1986's other fighter pilot action pic, Top Gun. "},{"Title":"Spoilers. But you can't spoil this movie!","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  Okay, here's the deal. There's this American pilot who's flying along, minding his own business, when suddenly he's outnumbered by evil, cowardly non-American fighter planes (they're Middle Eastern types, but suffice to say they don't like apple pie or Elvis Presley), who proceed to shoot him down. Now this American pilot was doing nothing wrong, but those evil non-Americans didn't care and before you know it he's banged up in a foreign jail and sentenced to death!!Now, what would normally happen here is that the US Military would carpet bomb a couple of nearby towns until the pilot was released, but not this time. Those evil peace lovin' types probably got involved and managed to stop any kind of retaliatory massacre. As you can imagine, this doesn't please the pilot's family and the evil foreign dictator has this smug, contented look about him. He'll make those Americans pay, oh yes indeed!But He didn't reckon on Doug Masters, the captured pilots 16-year-old son. You see Doug has been able to fly a plane longer than he can drive a car, (which can't be that long) and decides to fly into that evil, foreign country and get his Dad back. So with the help of his friends, Doug and his wingman, retired pilot &#145;Chappy' Sinclair, Doug launches a two man air raid on the foreigners. Now you'd think that this plan would be bound to fail, but you'd be wrong. Sure, those Middle Eastern types might be all veteran pilots, but Doug's got an ace up his sleeve, he listens to rock music when he flies! After shooting down a dozen or so enemy planes and blowing up an oil refinery, Doug lands at an airport and gets his now wounded dad onboard the plane. Understandably, the evil, not quite so smug anymore, dictator gets quite annoyed at these antics and takes to the skies himself, in bid to shoot down Doug. But the young lad listens to some more rock music and blows the villain out of the sky. HURRAH!After Doug and Chappy have shot down 90% of their air force, the foreigners send up their last few planes in a rather poor attempt to shoot Doug down, but in the nick of time, a flight of US F16s turn up and scare them away.I cannot recommend this film enough. It was the first ever videocassette movie that I brought, and until I was twenty, I kept hoping that my dad would get shot down over a foreign country so that I could rescue him. But he's doesn't like flying, so it didn't happen.  "},{"Title":"1986 The year of the jet fighter movie!","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" Most of us remember Top Gun as being the biggest hit of 1986. Iron Eagle, despite the numerous sequels it produced, has been all but forgotten. However it also made its mark in the same year, just not as big of a mark. Iron Eagle is the story of a teenager (Jason Gedrick) who with the help of an experienced jet pilot (Louis Gossett Jr.) borrows a couple F16 fighters to rescue his father who is being held prisoner in a hostile Arabic country. The film is absolutely ludicrous, but definitely a sign of the times back then.I do not recall if the hostile nation in this film is ever named, but it is obviously based on Lybia who was public enemy #1 for the USA back then. At least as far as non-communist bloc nations were concerned. The main bad guy who seems to be running the show is obviously based on Muammar Gadaffi, too. After a kangaroo court trial, Gedrick's father is sentenced to be hanged for simply being shot down in disputed air space near the enemy coast. (recall Gadaffi's line of death) The US government seems to be planning no action to rescue the dad. It appears Gedrick and Gossett Jr. are his only hope!!!! In a series of ridiculous scenes perhaps even less probable than the actual air combat scenes, Gedrick and his teenage friends are able to steal all the necessary reconnaissance needed to set up the mission. Gedrick is able to gather enough information to convince Gossett to fly in there with him in his own plane. But can two F16s really penetrate the hostile country's air space and pull off the rescue?????? Sure they can! This was the 1980s!!! Ronald Reagan was president!! Americans could accomplish anything back then!!!! Whether or not this kind of plot seems interesting quickly becomes irrelevant once the film gets going. It is technically inept, full of impossible scenes, and lacking in logic from the get-go. This film was obviously rushed; no doubt to get it released before Top Gun which was a much better film in all areas. There are an embarrassing number of continuity goofs involving the weaponry carried on the wings of the planes. In some shots the planes appear fully loaded for battle. Then, the next shot will show only a couple missiles left. Then, the planes will do some kind of loop da loop and there will be no weapons visible at all. The editing department was either out with the flu or just didn't have time to get things right. The acting isn't bad. Gedrick is likable, and Gossett Jr. is terrific as ever. He basically plays the same kind of hard-ass he played in An Officer and a Gentleman. He likes the kid and his father, but he knows the kid will have to be toughened up drastically if they have any chance of pulling it off. Keep a close lookout for Robbie Rist who played Cousin Oliver on The Brady Bunch.On the plus side, the soundtrack is pretty good. One Vision by Queen is a great rock song. There are also good songs by Twisted Sister, King Kobra, and Dio. And also its a joy to behold someone bombing the heck out of this worthless dictator and his stupid country. Blowing up his oil refinery may have been a bad decision, though. Something like that could theoretically hike up the price of gas world wide!! Just ask our current president or his father. When bombing a Middle Eastern country, the LAST thing you want to hit are its oil resources! Prices are high enough as it is these days! 5 of 10 stars. Mostly for the soundtrack.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Don't watch it again if you have loved it as a child ;)","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"23 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  I loved this movie 10 years ago when I was about 16 years old. My biggest mistake was to watch it again, 10 years later. It's not the worst I-wanna-be-a-pilot movies ever, but it has so many flaws in it that you can hardly overlook them.Queen's One Vision (along with the rest of the soundtrack) makes this film better than the average patriotic nonsense you usually get to see ;)****------ "},{"Title":"Very fun movie with a great soundtrack...","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"      I remember seeing this movie in the theater when it first came out. I think I saw it three or four times. It was the best air combat movie I had seen at the time.     I hear this movie compared to Top Gun a lot. In my opinion there is no contest. Iron Eagle is far better than Top Gun. Here's why. Top Gun had very good aerial combat sequences. Some of the best I've still ever seen. However, the plot of Top Gun was AWOL. All I remember of Top Gun is, they practiced, he got the girl, his pal died and he was the hero at the end. Iron Eagle had a good plot. However the aerial combat scenes are pretty fake and tame. Sure it was unbelievable that they could pull it off but there was a plot and a good one.      Iron Eagle's fun lies in it's youthful angst and comedy. Louis Gossett Jr. shows his veteran acting skill in this movie as the veteran pilot. Jason Gedrick was good as the young upstart pilot with too much testosterone. They chemistry between the actors was good. There is one scene where they young pilot asks for Chappy's help and he turns him down and Louis Gossett's acting skills become quite evident. One of the best scenes in the movie is the race between the motorcycle and the Cessna with a pounding rock song in the background. It is one of the best done flight sequences I've seen in a move and is not fake like the combat scenes. Another scene is when the kids use their dupe their parents and other military personnel into getting them what ever they want from the base, including two F-16s. But more than these scenes, it's really the soundtrack that makes the movie. There are songs by Queen(One Vision), Dio(Hide in the Rainbow) and The Spencer Davis Group(Gimmie Some Lovin), what a combo! Not only does the music sound good to our young pilot, it also makes him fly and fight better! While I can't say that Iron Eagle is a masterpiece, it is one of my favorite movies of all time.     Iron Eagle is out on DVD! Now I finally have and excuse to buy a DVD player!Rayvyn  "},{"Title":"Iron Eagle","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" Back in 1986 I was a sixteen year old boy, when I first saw this film, I thought back then that this movie was one of the coolest I've ever seen. Just the other night at a friends house, my friend said how about a trip down old memory lane, he busted out an old dusty VHS tape and I could see it was the original Iron Eagle movie. He slapped it into his VCR and off we went. Now I am a 36 year old man, not the boy I was many years ago. As I watched the film, I could see flaws in detail, flaws in the special effects and a corny script and plot line. Now don't get me wrong, it's still a good film, if you are like stuck in the 80's! The only true thing I could get into with this film was the pretty good soundtrack. I am a big fan of the rock group Queen, they made parts of this film good enough to at least sit tight and watch. Good film back in the days, good film now, just a whole lot of corny! Thank you for your time Aaron Grace "},{"Title":"If Only I Were Twelve","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" Ahhh, to be twelve years old again. I'm pretty sure if I was still that age, I would have loved this preposterous medley of bad acting, copious amounts of Queen's One Vision and senseless explosions. Sadly (and I do mean that), I've grown up and can recognize IRON EAGLE for what it is... and while it's not god-awful, it's not all that good, either.IRON EAGLE is the story of new high school grad Doug Masters (Jason Gedrick, whom you'd recognize from CROSSING THE BRIDGE and ONE EYED KING had you ever heard of those movies). His fighter pilot dad has been captured by an evil Middle East country for illegally entering its territory (imagine that!). Now papa's gonna be hung and nobody in the US of A is ready to do anything about... 'cept Doug. So our hero steals military intelligence and an F-16 fighter jet (it's quite easy, really... just get your friends to distract army dudes by 'accidentially' spilling juice on their shirts and stuff). With the help of bright spot Louis Gossett Jr., he soars in to save the day.IRON EAGLE actually starts out promising. You might even be willing to forgive its ludicrousness, but it gradually morphs into a meaningless series of fireballs and clichéd dialog. It seems perfectly content to dish out cheap thrills to violence-obsessed boys, and do nothing more. It's also too long and at times borders on the laughable. The film still has a certain charm, but unless your night is slower than molasses, you'll want to skip it. "},{"Title":"Worst...movie...ever (spoiler alert)","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" I wrote spoiler alert, but there's not really much that can be spoiled. It's like spoiling rotten meat. This movie is probably the worst I've ever seen. Not because of the actors or the special effects, but because of the sheer number of mistakes, both factual and physical. First of all, the MIGs aren't actually MIGs at all. They're Mirages, and they're French. And how the heck can Doug's dad withstand the maneuvers his son makes to fight off the MIGs without a g-suit? And why would Chappy try to board his plane without a g-suit? And how could Doug defeat the enemy pilot ace with such ease? Anyway, I did not like this movie. And the worst part is that it has 3 sequels, the latest one from as late as 1995. Now that's scary. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as some people make it seem","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  This movie is not quite as bad as some of the comments want you to believe. It does have some serious reality flaws.  But that's exactly where it excels.  This is not a story about a kid trying to rescue his dad.  This is a story about the flying fantasies of youth.  I grew up playing quite a few flight simulators on computers, and this added to my fantasy of someday flying a fighter jet.  This is exactly what this movie's about, a kid completely enthralled with flight simulations that he becomes a good pilot.They should have left it at that though.  The kid's fantasy of rescuing his dad (also a pilot) from some mysterious middle eastern base should not have been brought to reality.  Reality should not have extended past his races in his single-engine crop-duster with a motorcycle.  Throughout the movie, the kid does not see the world as a dangerous place.  He still sees it as one big simulation.  This is exactly how you should watch the movie, otherwise, it will seem like a ridiculous plot that's out-of-touch with the real world.  "},{"Title":"Fun heroic teen movie - and a word against naysayers","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  I am astounded at the number of people who put down teen movies such as this and THE WRAITH, including Mr. Maltin, while obviously not understanding the genre itself and how it works - they must have grown too old and too intelligent to remember what the world was like when hormones raged, leaving reason in the dust.Films such as IRON EAGLE and THE WRAITH attempt to simplistically instill positive values in teen-age audiences. Courage, creativity, loyalty, banding together to right wrongs and conquer evil with good - these intentions are at the heart of the narratives of both films. Blaming these films for not being adult is like blaming FROM HERE TO ETERNITY because it's not a musical. They are what they are and they achieve their successes by appealing to a teen-age world where they can be and/or become heroes, successes. Of course the plots are fantastic and simplistic - because in reality teens don't run the world or get to fly jets into enemy countries to rescue their dads. However, by feeding values to this audience in a manner that they can understand and subliminate, they may just take root and turn them into adults with some of those same values.Diatribe aside, I thought this was a fun movie. Jason Gedrick, the young lead looks very much like the young Michael Jackson and does quite well with a very demanding role. Louis Gossett, Jr. gives an excellent performance - truly award worthy if it had been in a film that had garnered more critical praise. Watching him deal with conflicting feelings in sorting out his character's actions, I wanted to yell out, Denzel, eat your heart out. The cinematography, sound, editing, score are all quality. A good solid little film and worth one's attention at least once. Gossett alone is worth the price of a rental. Check it out, even if you're not a teen!  "}{"Title":"First episode of the franchise with a magnificent  Louis Gosset Jr as ¨Chappy¨","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" The film focuses a boy about an eighteen years old(Jason Gedrick); when his father(Tim Thomerson) is taken prisoner by a dictator(David Suchet)from Middle East ,he steals a F 16 fighter jet to rescue his daddy.He's helped by the brave Colonel ¨Chappy¨ Sinclair(Louis Gosset Jr.). The movie contains a plethora of action scenes,explosion,blast,aircrafts battles with various jet-planes flying to sound-velocity and blown up.The picture is a blend of typical films from the 80s , as ¨Top Gun¨and ¨Rambo¨ but starred by a teenager.The story provides entertainment and action with no sense but sometimes is a little bit boring and dull.Jason Gedrick is the valiant,he-man,he causes wreck havoc to nasties commanded by the villain David Suchet. Our hero ¨Chappy¨is well personified by Louis Gosset Jr, usual of all the¨¨Iron Eagle¨ saga.Spectacular cinematography by Adam Greenberg with excellent sky-shots.However the score is horrible but is based in disco-music and synthesizer,in spite of being signed by Basil Poledouris(Conan music's author).The motion picture is regularly directed by Sidney J.Furie. It's followed by three sequels,all directed by Furie with exception the second directed by John Glen , thus  Iron Eagle 2(1988)with Mark Humphrey; Aces Iron Eagle III(1992) with Rachel McLish and Horst Buchhold; and Iron Eagle IV with Rachel Blanchard. "},{"Title":"If you know how to fly a Cessna, you know how to fly a Fighter Jet","Date":"7 August 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" This movie is the proverbial 80s flick that shows the viewer that as long as he or she tries at something, they can be better than the pros. The main character, Doug, showed off his skills in flying a Cessna aircraft, which somehow equated to being fully capable of flying a jet aircraft and being able to kill people. We all would like to have a few million dollars to play with... maybe make a good investment, donate, buy a few things, but the directors of this movie decided to make Iron Eagle... not once... not twice... not even three times; yes, four times. The thing to look most forward to are the multitude 'hollywood endings' in this movie. Just when you think the movie is going to end after a cheesy end sequence, there's another cheesy end sequence. Then another. Definitely a movie one must watch to believe... and maybe own just to remind oneself of how awesome the 80s must have been. "},{"Title":"One of our family classics, even if it isn't a very good movie.","Date":"27 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" This movie came out the same year we moved to Houston, and my son was 13. I remember watching it with him back then, and again presently, now that my son is a Commercial Pilot. It is a cheesy movie, everything is pretty much totally improbable, if not impossible, but it is a good story of father-son affection.Jason Gedrick is Doug Masters, young Cessna pilot, high schooler, whose dad is a military fighter pilot. Doug aspires to attend the Air Force Academy and become a fighter pilot also, and has made friends with some on the base who allow him ample fighter simulator time.The drama begins when Doug's dad is flying a routine training mission over the Mediterranian and is shot down. Captured by an unnamed Arab country, he is quickly tried and sentenced to be hung in three days.Naturally Doug wants the USA to rescue his dad but is not happy with their response. So along with his friends, and retired fighter pilot Louis Gossett Jr. as Col. Charles 'Chappy' Sinclair, they hatch a plan to fly two armed fighter planes to rescue dad, re-fueling over the Atlantic. All highly improbable, but fun to watch.SPOILERS Doug was denied admission to the Academy because of an F he got as a result of skipping classes for simulator time. On the unauthorized mission he not only saved dad but shot down a few enemy fighters. Back home all news of the mission was suppressed and his sentence for the crime was admission to the Air Force Academy where he would receive supervision and discipline. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it more than Top Gun, but that really is not saying much.","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" This movie was okay, certainly nothing great, but it was a much more interesting film than Top Gun. Perhaps I think this way, because when it comes down to it, Top Gun has more of a chick flick feel to it while this one is more about action. However, it is very unrealistic action to be sure. The story has a kid's dad taken prisoner so what is the boy going to do you ask? He is going to find a guy named Chappy, get a couple of M.I.Gs and go rescue his dad, because all you need in an 80's movie to rescue someone is a bit of training in a jet and a dude to accompany you to take out an entire military posts jets and ground troops. Like I said it is highly unrealistic, but it has some flair and is rather fun to watch at times, but it also moves slowly at times too. It does not go by as slowly as Top Gun did for me, but it could have stood to lose ten or fifteen minutes from its run time. The only stars of note in this one is Louis Gossett Jr. who at this point was in kind of a steady decline as to what films he would appear in. Also of note was Tim Thomerson who is more of your B star, but I always enjoy him in a flick. Granted he is not in this one all that much. So don't expect much and just enjoy the highly improbable rescue of 1986! "},{"Title":"A teenagers Pilot Father is shot down and taken prisoner in the Middle East, a vigilante rescue mission","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" Hmmm... Depending on how you wish to see it, this film is either going to be a great teen/action/vigilante flick or a really bad war movie.I prefer to see it a great teen/action/vigilante film. Despite their being many flaws (Israeli Aircraft instead of American and Iranian ones, ordnance appearing and then disappearing again and again from under the aircraft, as well as the idea that two Air Force planes can be stolen fully armed so easily and not only flown but landed in hostile territory is I admit - Far Fetched)! OK, so I got the cynical stuff out of the way. So what is so good about this film? It is fun, a teens father is shot down over a Middle Eastern country (Iran?), and will be executed by a given time and date if certain demands are not met. Of course the Government won't play ball and the kid gets frustrated and talks a Senior Officer into helping him organise a 2 plane rescue mission.Great fun if you just go with it all. "},{"Title":"Check your brains at the door and you might enjoy the ride.","Date":"27 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" Oh boy. We are really in the land of implausibility and illogic now. What can I say bad about Iron Eagle? Well, PLENTY!!! To start with, the plot is so ludicrous that I am still at a loss to this day when I try to think about it. I know its just a movie but see if this sounds plausible to you.THE PLOT- Airforce pilot crosses, unintentionally, over the boundary lines of some non discript middle eastern nation and gets shot down and convicted of espionage, he is sentenced to death in 3 days. Due to bureaucratic red tape, which is never fully explained, the U.S Government is unwilling to rescue him. Fortunately, the pilots son, who just so happens to be an pilot himself and has unprecedented access to top Air Force intelligence and equipment, is going to go and rescue dear old dad. Of course not until he recruits a career colonel, who has only met his dad once but now feels obligated to sacrifice his career and possibly his life to get the pilot back. They succeed in ripping off two, fully armored mind you, F-16's and proceed to take on an entire Middle Eastern countries army and rescue the pilot. They get back to the USA and instead of being locked up for life they are let go. On the provision that they don't tell anyone about this and that the Air Force gets all the credit for the rescue.Yeah, right. Sounds so realistic, don't it? All I can say is that God help this country if teenagers can start stealing military equipment and wage war whenever they want to. Worst of all, is when they are flying back with the rescued pilot and thats when the Air Force comes flying in to save the day. Here the movie makes a huge mistake in the plot. Where they going in to rescue the pilot or go after the stolen planes? Its all too convenient and makes absolutely no sense. In conclusion, suspend your disbelief, if you can, and you might.....No, scrap that. Avoid this movie, it is just not worth it. "},{"Title":"Shot Down","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  At times I thought this movie didn't make sense because how could some hot shot , high school kid be able to fly a military plane ? Just because he had so many hours in a simulator he was ready combat ? Get real. And especially after he rescued his father. Since he never had any aerial combat training , how did he do it just like any other pilot ? "},{"Title":"It's pretty bad - but it's one of those movies you watch anyway....","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" Without actually giving away my age, I saw this for the first time over 20 years ago when it first came out on video (maybe it was a beta tape??) and I was old enough to drink (barely) and perhaps I had had a few because I remember thinking how great this movie was! I have since seen it sober and have to admit it is a pretty bad film. As mentioned in other posts the plot is absolutely ridiculous and the poor acting just makes it worse. It's a poor attempt to fantasize that teenagers too, can be Mavericks (although I am surprised to find out it actually was to be released the same time (aprox) as Top Gun, and not actually meant to be a poor imitation.) But for all it's worth - I do find myself watching it if it's on and I have the time. It's one of those movies you watch because it's just so ridiculous and tries so desperately to take itself seriously. Like that other great' film - Moment by Moment with John Travolta and Lily Tomlin....don't get me started on that one! "},{"Title":"possibly the worst movie i have ever seen","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" as a retired USAF MSG (aircraft maint. spec), this has got to be one of the worst movies i have ever seen. the fact that a teenager could ever get on the flight-line, much less get into an f-16 is ludicrous. the military spends millions on each pilot to make them the best in the world and this movie makes the air force and all its members seem stupid at best. yes, i know it is only a movie but it conveys a message to the younger folks that we are all idiots, and believe me, we are not. the logistics involved in setting up any type of mission are highly involved, even in the eighties, military computers were too secure to hack by any teenager, and the other flaws in this movie make peter pan more believable. sorry, to me, this movie has no entertainment value at all. "},{"Title":"Two Air Force Films Were Released in 1986 This Was The Bad One","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" After a young man's father is captured by an unidentified Middle Eastern country, the youth must suit up and save his father from a brutal execution.This film fails in almost every possible way. No decent music, a weak and unbelievable plot, and actors you will never see again (although a young Shawnee Smith -- Amanda from Saw -- appears). Louis Gossett is not a star, regardless of what you think.The unidentified country is an interesting plot device. One would suspect it is Iraq or Iran, but no name is ever given. All we know is that now that the peanut farmer is out of the White House and the Raygun is in power, America won't take any crap from anyone. (This is an assertion I strongly deny. The film's pro-Reagan bias is astounding.) I also enjoyed the first third of the film, but only because it reached that so bad it's good status. We have a very one-dimensional teen villain and an epic race between a plane (Cessna) and a Honda motorcycle. We have black man who is the token black man, playing a 1980s black man with signature dance moves. And we have the commentary on the great music, which was like something I'd expect to hear on a Pat Benetar album that was too poor to release.I could say the flight scenes were interesting. They were alright. But this film was released in 1986, the same year as Top Gun. So, if you want to watch the Air Force shoot down MiGs you're going to want the better soundtrack and the Cruise, Kilmer, Edwards combo. Do you want Louis Gossett as your wingman? I certainly don't.This film would be great to get really stinking drunk to if you want a few laughs at three in the morning. But don't expect a memorable 80s film or anything remotely resembling quality acting. "}{"Title":"This eagle is made out of silly putty","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  A teen-age boy, who is not in the military and has not trained to be a jet pilot, takes off for a foreign country to rescue his dad. If this is not ridiculous enough, he talks a Colonel in the Air Force into helping him get his hands on a jet wow!. To make the picture even more absurd, the Colonel risks his career and life by giving the spunky lad some hands on aid. They not only don't make Colonels like this anymore, but they never did. This sappy, corny film should be tossed into the air and blown away by a MIG. "},{"Title":"The worst Air Force movie ever!!","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  It's hard to believe that a movie this bad wasn't produced once, but four times! Most movies require a certain `suspension of reality' to enjoy, but this one takes it just too far. The basic scenario is an Air Force pilot who is shot down over a `Middle Eastern' country. The US government drags its feet in recovering him, leading the Pilot's son (Doug Masters) to attempt a rescue mission.The problem I have with the movie is that it depicts the US Air Force as one colossal joke. In the movie you'll find that Doug and his friends on the air base manage to secure two F-16's, all the munitions, the fuel, the Intel for the mission, and so on. Security on this base seems to be a joke. Nobody seems to have a problem that a sixteen-year-old kid is fully qualified to pilot an F-16!If that wasn't enough, you would think the producers would at least attempt to get the munitions right, since people like to see things `blow up'. Not so! Several times in the movie, Doug fires off AIM-9 Missiles on ground targets. AIM stands for `Air Intercept Missile', meaning a weapon used to strike targets in the AIR. He also fires off 15-20 missiles, where the maximum an F-16 can hold is 6 AIM-9's.  The movie also lacks continuity. You'll see the aircraft configured with one set of munitions, and in the next scene, it has a totally different munitions package. Also, 20MM doesn't just completely destroy anything it touches! An F-16 will hold 500 rounds of 20MM, and it's mostly used for self-defense.I could go on forever with plot holes, flaws, and outright wrong information from the movie, but I won't bore you. If you're in the mood to see a good Air Force movie, your choices are rather slim. Most military movies deal either with the Army, Navy or Marines. Until Hollywood can come up with an Air Force movie on the lines of `Saving Private Ryan' or `A Few Good Men', we'll be forced to watch movies like the `Iron Eagle' series. "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure, but not much more than that.","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" Air Force brat Doug Masters (Jason Gedrick) finds out that his father has been shot down and captured by a brutal Middle Eastern regime and embarks on a crazy plan to rescue him, which involves stealing multi-million dollar jet fighters.I loved this movie as a kid and I still do. That said, from a technical standpoint (which is where my ratings come from) it's just not good.The writing stretches verisimilitude to its limit, the acting is just barely at par and the flow is, to be polite, non-existent. This movie has too much filler. It could be cut down to 45 minutes so it could air in a one hour time slot on television and the essential elements would remain intact.There are some good elements in the movie. There's some good action and chase sequences and the last 20 minutes were fantastic and make this movie worth watching. The overall cinematography and effects were done well, though not outstandingly so.In all, it's a fun movie to watch if you like jet and/or military movies. "},{"Title":"We're going to bust him out like a bat out of hell.","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" A loud, blatant and courageous 80s action adventure, which sees Louis Gossett Jr. as a veteran combat pilot who helps out a promising, if misguided young gun hatch up a plan to steal a couple of F-16 aircrafts in a daring raid to rescue his father who's held prisoner in the Middle East and it's a race against clock as he has be sentenced to death. Pure fantasy, but this gung-ho piece of propaganda is a simple coming to age story wrapped around its high flying danger. The striking airborne scenes are showy with some moments of suspense and it really goes about kicking out the tunes with it contagious 80s soundtrack. Oh it's cheesy, but definitely contagious. Jason Gedrick brings the right attitude to his young rogue character. The bad guys are stereotypically hissable with a good turn by David Suchet, but it's the presence of an ice-cool Gossett Jr. that keeps you watching. A harden Tim Thomerson would also make an appearance. Director Sidney J. Furie (who would also go on to direct II and IV) keeps it well-oiled, even though it does get outrageous and becomes overlong in its plotting. The story begins with a novel idea, but then it carefully lays it out --- the characters open up with inspirational dialogues and situations involve setting up the master plan. Then it goes out big evolving into an exciting assault. The original was that successful that it would spawn a franchise with a couple more entries --- three sequels with somewhat a similar formula. "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure","Date":"28 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" There is one main reason why this movie was made &#x96; to make money based on the popularity of Top gun . There is one main difference &#x96; Top gun was made for teenagers (adults can watch it too) , while Iron eagle is aimed for kids. If you want to enjoy the movie you have to remember that . It explains why the plot of this movie is so naive, if not unrealistic.Iron eagle is obviously a rather low budget movie. It doesn't have any big names (with the exception of Louis Gossett Jr. , who was quite well known in the 80's after he won an Oscar for  The officer and gentleman ) , the soundtrack doesn't have any big stars ( with the exception of Queen and Twisted Sister) and the action scenes aren't too spectacular ( still they are OK ) . Yet , this movie has some kind of charm that doesn't allow me to hate this movie.Maybe it's nostalgia. I remember watching this movie when I was young and I loved it. A story about a young pilot that saves his father from bad guys and becomes a hero&#x85; A story of father-son relationship between Doug and Chappy &#x85; A story of friendship when Doug's friends help him any way they can &#x85; What's here not to love ? Adventure, friendship and respect. It worked when I was young , it works now . Sure , I look at this movie differently after all those years. That doesn't change the fact that this movie got heart ( or at least feels sincere to me).The acting isn't anything special. Jason Gedrick as main hero is quite wooden .Thankfully Louis Gossett Jr. has so much charisma that he practically carries the movie on his own. It's not strange that in the sequels ( completely unnecessary and bad by the way ) he is the main hero. Let's not forget also about David Suchet as the main villain. He's good.Action scenes can't compare to the ones from Scott movie , but still they are watchable. Sidney J. Furie directs the movie in a decent way. It's the same guy who directed the terrible Superman 4  Quest for peace . Don't be afraid . Here he gives the movie charm that is very needed to make movie likable, when you have a mediocre script and low budget.I like couple of songs from the soundtrack . Queen &#x96; One vision , Twisted Sister &#x96; Were not gonna take it , Adrenalin &#x96; Road of the gypsy , Rainey Haynes &#x96; Old enough to rock and roll and my favourite King Kobra &#x96; Never say die (Iron Eagle) . No Oscar winners , but fun songs to listen during the movie.Don't be scared by the low rating . Overall it's a weaker movie than Top gun , but still fun (with the right attitude from the viewer). I give it 3/10. "},{"Title":"pretty good aviator movie","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" I just saw this movie 24 years after its release,even though i was around when it was released,i had heard its so bad,i never got around to watch it. Actually,its a pretty decent aviator movie,if you like fighter planes movies you will enjoy it.It has extensive use of the F-16 Fighting Falcon airplane and also has an amusing chase scene with a Cessna trainer plane. The plot is a little far-fetched,a kid flying the Falcon to the middle east to save his father,i read its the reason the US Airforce refused to help the producers.But,the action scenes are pretty decent and even the plot is funny and not terribly unrealistic,considering this kid supposedly was trained by his pilot father.What i found incredibly cheesy and annoying is the use of the tape player every time he gets n the plane seat. Anyway,they did something right considering this movie made enough money to deserve four sequels! I enjoyed it and again its another instance where i shouldn't have listened to the buzz about this movie. "},{"Title":"Could of been a little better...","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"    The plot for this movie is good  Doug Masters is a young pilot who's dad has been shot down over a middle eastern country.  He is being held hostage and is scheduled to be hanged in three days.  After the air force tells him that there is not much they can do, Doug decides to take matters into his own hands.  With the help of his friends and a war veteran Chappy Sinclair (excellently played by Lou Gossit Jr.) he borrows two fighter jets and flies over to save his dad.  The plot has a real sense of adventure to it and it is one of those stories about a boy becoming a man.  The soundtrack is good, especially the main theme at the ending credits.  I did like the scenes where Chappy and the gang prepare for the upcoming mission, but this process became too long and drug out.  It took forever for Doug to get in the air.  There are a few annoying characters, and one pathetic dance scene.  The explosions are quick, small and brief.  There is one great explosion though, when Doug launches a Hades bomb that creates a wall of fire.The exciting dogfights are the high point of this movie.  There is also a Saddam Hussein-esque, laugh-inducing main villain who has lines like, The Americans must die!  There are other weak lines, and the movie does move slow in some parts.  But overall, this movie is ok, certainly not the best of the series, though.    "},{"Title":"Like it. Lived it.","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" I have reviewed a number of the negative reviews of this movie and have just watched it again. Of course the story is fantasy. No teen is going to bypass Air Force base security or fly an F-16, but I can tell you from 40 years experience as an Army and Air Force doc and flight surgeon that those of us who have walked the walk, not just talked the talk, love this movie. We got to fly because we qualified for it above others who just as passionately wanted it. We have walked in the Valley of the Shadow of Death so you guys can live free. Every flyer I know loves what they do as passionately as portrayed in this movie and would choose to do what is right rather than leave a fallen comrade. We live Iron Eagle and Top Gun and Platoon and Full Metal Jacket every day of our service to you and our country.One of the three best days of my life was the day I was commissioned an Air Force officer in 1972 and one of the worst was the day I was informed that I had to retire from the reserve. I just confirmed a need for my services again and will be returning as a National Guard officer for another six years just as my youngest gets her commission as an officer in the US Army.Watch this movie not for the realistic story but for the realistic portrayal of the passion of those of us who stand in harm's way to preserve your ability to live free. I don't expect you to emulate me. It will be enough if you merely try to understand me, and to appreciate what this movie is trying to say..WRD "},{"Title":"An unintentional comedy!","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" I have rarely laughed so hard at a movie. Notice that I laughed AT Iron Eagle, not WITH it, because this is probably the stupidest film I have ever seen (with the obvious exception of sci-fi monstrosity CyberTracker). You should also remember that this film is not a comedy!Even overlooking the preposterous plot (the idea that a 16-year-old could walk into a US Air Force base, steal an F-16, fly to the Middle East and kill about a thousand people without anyone noticing is beyond belief), the film is full of ridiculous action scenes that make little or no sense. For example, at various points, Doug Masters uses a machine-gun on his plane to shoot a steel girder, a control tower, and a tent. All of these things explode in a massive fireball. Why? The enemy aircraft also explode in a strange way reminiscent of a paper aeroplane being blown up with a firework.On the plus side, I did actually enjoy this film. Admittedly not in the way the makers probably wanted it to be enjoyed, but all the same I laughed at it and later bought the DVD. It's also improved by the awesome presence of David Suchet as the evil terrorist leader (maybe you'll recall him as mustachioed Belgian detective Poirot?) Overall, then, the film is a laugh and a light-hearted alternative to more serious fighter-plane movies like Top Gun. Even if it is just as subtly homo-erotic (check out the man-hug between Doug and Chappy. Something's going on between 'em!) "},{"Title":"Birds of a feather...","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" Louis Gossett Jr stars as Chappy Sinclair an Air Force pilot who really gives a s--- about American POWs (His words exactly) so he helps a teenager (Who desperately wants to be a pilot and who is also played by Jason Gedrick) save his father (The always great Tim Thomerson) from the evil Arabs while Louis Gossett Jr teaches him how to really kick ass. Among the strangeness is the part where Gossett tells Gedrick to get his butt in his trailer as well as the fact that Gossett and Gedrick's bonding sequences are more homoerotic than anything else. (As pointed out by other sources, Gossett has a conversation with Gedrick while showering!) Still as dumb action flicks go, few are this jingoistic and show off the 80's more than this one. Also for some reason we are asked to believe how a teenager can even hold his own against battle disciplined Arab soldiers. It is all as bad as what you would expect but yet it works so well, it is a guilty pleasure of the highest order when a movie like this could be made for teenage audiences giving them the fantasy that they could be one man armies who would make the world shutter at their heroics. Still Iron Eagle remains consistently watchable due to the presence of Gossett, he plays roughly the same character in the 80's but I for one have always welcomed his screen presence. Iron Eagle may not be for those who are looking for substance but for fans of cheese this is about as good as it gets.* *1/2 out of 4-(Pretty good) "}{"Title":"corny but classic","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" OK, yes its bad, yes its complete fluff, yes it makes dobbin the mule look like an Oscar winner but look at it like i did i was 13, special effects were pretty much non exsistant in 90% of films, back in the good Ole days when films needed a story line.. OK so even the storyline is a bit dodgy.. but wow did i get into this film as a kid in the 80s. cheesy rock, bad special effects, but airplanes an aerial fights and it had queens one vision on the soundtrack.. see even the worst things have a silver lining.. all in all if you want a bad film to show a 12 year old who hates computer effects (if there is such a film) this is the ideal choice "},{"Title":"one of the most exciting fighter jet action movies i've seen..","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" not too much top's the classic top gun or independence day when it comes to fighter jet excitement. Yes, the movie top to bottom is based on a truly fictional example of how anyone can pull off a rescue but it is cool because it breaks all traditional rules. The kid doing what he wants to do in a jet the way he wants to do it.I can't really put my finger on just what I love about this movie but others I know that saw the movie feel the same way about it I do. I think its just basically a lot of fun but maybe a little too unrealistic for some to buy into.Again, regardless, I loved it, people who I know saw it, loved it so its definitely worth seeing to make your own decisions about it. Put it this way, I thought that Top Gun was one of the best fighter pilot movies ever and I like this movie just as much if not more than Top Gun. Don't miss out, do see it, a truly inspirational movie. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  This was a pretty good movie. I love fighter jet movies, and this was the best one I've seen lately. It was made using real planes, so that made it an even better movie. If you like watching U.S. F-16s blow the living daylights out of their enemies, this is a great movie for you. "},{"Title":"Rambo Top Gun!","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  When Rambo meet Top Gun, maybe Like This! I Don't know Why This movie has that much sequel! Some of Killers are maybe can like this movie. Or Who want to proof the United States is best butcher hero in universe, can like this movie. Whatever,This was Very Originality 80th Action Movie Style! "},{"Title":"Inane rubbish","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  What a hokey, unrealistic, laughable piece of tripe! Once you've seen the Israeli F-16's and Kfirs do a few loops and rolls for the cameras, you've seen about all that's worthwhile in this film. Admittedly, it IS only a movie, but as a retired USAF enlisted person, I'm wondering if any military advisors ever set foot on the set. Heck, if all you need to do to get into the Munitions Storage Area is set the SP up with your sister, you shouldn't have any problems getting bombs, missiles, 20MM ammo, etc.  "},{"Title":"Not For Military Aircrews","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  The best indictment of the believability of this movie came while I was an instructor in the USAF Fighter Lead-in Program at Holloman AFB, NM.  We had a USN student in one class, and I was ragging on him pretty good about all the Hollywood BS that was in Top Gun.  After I mentioned that the Soviet tactic for defeating the F-14 was to get in front and catch it in your jetwash, he shut me up real good when he replied, Sir, you keep this up and I'll bring up Iron Eagle! He sure had me there.Good flick if you know nothing about military flying or you're about 10 years old and dream of being 16 and flying jets.  Otherwise forget it. "},{"Title":"I Liked this move when I was a kid, but now I can see how absurd it is.","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  I Liked this move when I was a kid, but now that I'm older I can see how absurd the plot really is. In case you didn't read the earlier reviews it's about a teenager and an Air Force Colonel who steal two fully loaded F-16s to rescue said teenager's dad.It does have some nice aerial stunts, even if the dialog accompanying then is basically teckno babel.Some unintentional humor in the edited for TV version. When the hero's dad is being held by Iran, err I mean an unnamed country, and his captors ask him for a confession (relating to why he's being held, don't worry about exactly why, or what they want him to confuse to.) he says Tell him he can take my confession and shove it down his throat.. However his lips and, more importunely, his gesture make it clear what motion, and part of the anatomy, he was really thinking of. "},{"Title":"Terrible Film but laughable","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" ** spoiler alert **This is a truly terrible film. It is the worst kind of saccharine, positive can-do, self-congratulatory, USA, USA improbable nonsense. The basic story is that a kid's father, who is a fighter pilot in the US air force, gets trapped in some generic Middle- Eastern country. His son and few other munch kins join forces with another colonel to steal two F-16 jets to save him. The adults are all trusting imbeciles, the Arab villains are stereotyped caricatures while the child actors are annoying, precocious dorks. I said spoiler alert at the beginning but really, you know that there is only one way this is going to end up. Explosions, villains running around like the Keystone Kops trying to stop them with rockets made from toilet roll tubes, Father's saved = 1 all with no American casualties. Every target is made of planks of balsa wood but explodes in a napalm like fireball all to cheesy rock guitar music.You would probably enjoy this film if you were about five-year's old but for everyone else it is a hopeless cause. Time to eject. "},{"Title":"Iron Eagle II Doug and Chappy Go To Prison","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  You know, for stealing billion-dollar planes, illegally attacking another nation...so I guess the US government and an international war crimes tribunal would have to fight it out for the chance to prosecute.Although, I must say, the scene in which Doug and his high school buddies steal all that intel from the base was hilarious.  But I don't think it was intended to be funny in the way it ended up being. Man, I remember when this came out, in my younger days, and I thought it was so...You thought I was going to say cool, right?  Nah, I thought it was crap then, and I think it's crap now. "},{"Title":"One of the first video game movies","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" I still can't belive Louis Gossett Jr. agreed to appear in this film. Everything about this move feels artificial, forced, and contrived. The air sequences are flat. The enemy characters seem like puppets. This is just a poor excuse of a movie. At least Top Gun had air sequences that looked good (the external shots anyway). The songs by Queen are cool, though. Rent Midway instead. "}{"Title":"Total garbage","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" OK, the very idea is ludicrous.1. Kids don't own planes 2. Kids don't race planes with dirtbikes 3. It made the Air Force look like total idiots 4. The kids father would not jeopardize his entire career to allow his boy to joyride with him 5. Neither would a reserve colonelThe sequels, I am sure were worse than this tripe. The soundtrack is about the only redeeming quality of this waste of celluloid. I am sorry but I just don't understand why in the world anyone would write direct and produce such unbelevable junk. The Iranian Air Force is lucky to filtch a couple parts for an ageing F-14, and this kid wrangles not 1 but 2 fully loaded and fueled F-16s? Gimme a break. "},{"Title":"One Vision","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  I love Iron Eagle. It's heavily slated as a Top Gun rip-off but in truth it certainly is not that. Sure, Iron Eagle doesn't have the babes or the budget that Top Gun had, but who cares? It's still a fantastic fun movie to watch, no matter how unrealistic it is. Lou Goussett Jr, Jason Gredick and David Suchet all put on blinding performances. The chemistry between Lou and Jason is great, believeable at times.Iron Eagle in my honest opinion is better than Top Gun, many say it isn't but I think it is...it certainly has the better action scenes and a cool thumping soundtrack. More of a lads movie, probably the pinnacle of an 80's nostalgic film.Legendary, if underrated. Move over Top Gun.8/10 "},{"Title":"Rescue Mission","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" Sidney J. Furie directed this action-adventure that stars Jason Gedrick as Doug Masters, a willful young man whose father Col. Ted Masters(played by Tim Thomerson) is shot down by MIGs over a hostile Middle Eastern country, where he is taken hostage by the belligerent and ambitious leader(played by David Suchet) who loves sticking it the the U.S. Enraged at government inaction, Doug enlists the help of Air Force Col. 'Chappy' Sinclair(played by Louis Gossett Jr.) to train him to improve his piloting skills, then helps him borrow two fighter jets from the military to go into the country, battle the enemy in the air, rescue Ted, and make their escape. Granted that this film has a most unlikely premise, it is put across in such an entertaining, patriotic manner that it remains a guilty pleasure. Great fun, though I haven't seen the sequels... "},{"Title":"An 80's classic some help with tunes?","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  While the movie is cheesy in some regards, it's still definitely one of my favorites of all time.  But I'm not here to comment on the flick, I've been looking for a couple of music tracks that are not featured on the soundtrack but are in the movie.  One of em, I know the name and artist- Rainey Haynes - Old Enough to Rock & Roll.  But the other, is one that's playing during the training sequence with Chappy, right after this quote- Dammit Chappy, I'm doing it my way  Anyone know? "},{"Title":"Good fantasy, but impossible to happen in real life.","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  Good fantasy, but impossible to happen in real life. The number of US. Air Force Regulations that are broken are hard to count. They didn't pronounce Ramstein correctly--it's Ram-STINE, not Ram-STEEN. Other than breaking every regulation in the book it's a good, fun fantasy. "},{"Title":"","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  The flying scenes are the best ACM in any recent film*, much better than Topgun. Also, the F-16 is prettier than the F-14. One unintentionally hilarious moment comes exactly 45 minutes into the film, as (father) Ted and (son) Doug are arguing. Doug says,But Dad!, and Ted replies, Don't give me any of that 'But stuff', Dad! Where was the dialogue editor?  Also, I wish they would release the rousing instrumental music on a CD. *Sabre Jet from the 50s had fine ACM also. When will they release that ? "},{"Title":"The 80's! What else can you say?","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" In the 1980's patriotism, and in some cases flat out Jingoism, was pretty high. Do we get to win this time a line famous from Rambo First Blood part II, could almost sum up how many people felt at that time. A longing for the style of films they grew up with, flat out balls to the wall we're good, your bad...now let's blow something up, and go home While Rambo, Rocky, and for the most part Top Gun seemed more geared towards attracting an older crowd Iron Eagle went straight for the kids. Canadian writer and director Sidney J. Furie brings out everything that you love and hate about that time period. The kick in the pants rock out 80's anthems (never say die, Road of the Gypsy, etc) to the over the top, and sometimes almost unbelievable action adventure. Iron Eagle succeeded for one reason...it was F.U.N - Fun. It's the type of movie you can turn on and sit back and enjoy every ridiculous totally 80's moment. You don't have to think about if it could really happen, or if the acting is truly believable, it's just fun...and that's all you can really ask for in this type of movie... "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Films Ever Made!!!","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" ...But it definitely still only deserves 4/10 stars and no more. A moronic dumb kid's father is a fighter pilot who gets shot down by some Arab country. They never name the country in the movie, its really ridiculous, they just vaguely refer to some Arab nation, this movie is really ignorant like that. But Lamar from Revenge of the Nerds is in here, he is friends with the main character Doug Masters. Well, Doug Masters, who lives on an Air Force base, his father is an air force pilot, yet he fails to get into the air force academy, conceives of a plot (with help from his retarded friends) to steal two jets and go rescue his father. Yea, exactly - this is One of the Greatest Films Ever Made!!! Louis Gossett Jr is fantastic in his role. You can tell he basically wanted to smack the hell out of Doug Masters the whole movie. Well anyway, you can probably guess how the plot ends, I can't believe they made 3 sequels to this movie. "},{"Title":"No Wings.","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  1986 was unquestionably the year of the fighter pilot as Top Gun was a smashing success and to a lesser-extent so was this mild film. The film is typical 1980s junk as young Jason Gedrick wants to go to a radical Middle Eastern country and rescue his father who has been captured. He enlists the help of one of his father's best friends (Louis Gossett, Jr.) to teach him how to be a top-notch fighter pilot as the two have plans to rescue the boy's father. Not in the same universe as Top Gun (which was no masterpiece itself), but still a film that generated enough interest for several sequels. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"A classic! spoilers included","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  Though many would probably disagree with me here, I think that IRON EAGLE is a classic. It's about a sixteen-year-old named Doug Masters Jason Gedrick that decides to take matters into his own hands after his father a Air Force colonel  is shot down and captured one day while on a reconnaissance mission. Doug gets some help from his friends from a group called the Junior Eagles. A tough retired officer teaches Doug about discipline before Doug goes off on an unauthorized mission where he gets to fly a set of stolen F16s. Though the dialogue and music is cheesy, there are plenty of excellent flight sequences that make up for it. Some people may consider this a TOP GUN rip-off, but I actually like this better than I liked TOP GUN. If you ask me, TOP GUN is a rip-off of this. "}{"Title":"Old Enough To Rock & Roll","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  Maybe Iron Eagle isn't a masterpiece. But it still is a lot of fun. What I especially liked was the soundtrack. I do own it on CD but a number of songs were missing. I'm still looking for Rainey Haynes - Old Enough To Rock & Roll. One of the best songs from the movie. Do you have any info an Haynes, got his song on CD or do have any other info? Please let me know! "},{"Title":"Iron Eagle","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" Iron Eagle may not be the most believable film plot-wise, but the characters are well written and very well acted. If you cannot believe the characters, the film is a flop.I believe the photography, especially the aerial photography is superb. I believe it is far superior to Top Gun to which it is endlessly compared. It is one of the best pieces of aerial photography I have seen. The soundtrack by Basil Paledouros (forgive the spelling)is great, and juxtaposes well with the rock tunes. I wish that portion of the soundtrack were available.Jason Gedrick does well as the teenager who suddenly has to grow up in a rush and and the realities of life, death, and responsibilities. Lou Gossett is fab as Chappy, both hard-bitten and yet human as he recalls pilot deaths.There are lots of movies out there that you watch once and don't care to watch again. Then there are those movies that get you for one aspect or another and you can watch it again and again! Iron Eagle is that kind of movie! "},{"Title":"this movie was horrible","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  i saw this movie yesterday and was appalled by how crappy it was.  just one of the things that irked me was the legendary Hades bomb which was dropped on the base only produced a couple of feet of fire which guys in motorcycles could drive through.  i was so pumped for that bomb to go off, but it didnt even land on anyone.  bad movie all around "},{"Title":"Great Fighter Pilot experiences though FX ain't that good","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  I think that this movie is actually entertaining, although it lacks some features essential for this kinda' films. First of all, when Doug and Chappy start their mission, they take off with F-16B, and during the combat scenes, they are piloting F-16A. The second thing I dislike of this film is the ever-repeating F-16 rolling to its right to escape from missiles...why chaff and flares haven't been shown in any movie yet? Third of all, once you see the F-16 almost empty of ammo, it appears again plenty of missiles... the models used to simulate the destroyed aircraft ain't good either. However, I think that using IAI Kfir as opponent planes was really good, far better than the F-5 shown in Top Gun (but this movie isn't as good as that masterpiece).A funny movie, I love planes and I've seen it more than 3 times. "},{"Title":"A classic? More like an insult to the military...","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  Some have suggested this film is a classic of the dogfighting war genre, if there is such a genre.  I must have been viewing a different film because I can't think of one single reason to categorize this poop on film as a classic!  I recently purchased the Godfather collection on DVD.  This is classic storytelling in every cinematic way...photography, acting, screenwriting, directing.  I'll admit I loved Iron Eagle when I was 14 back in the 80s and I have not bothered to waste my time seeing it since.  I guess its because I've grown up a little and realize how moronic it is for a 16 year old to engage in a dogfight with Middle Easterners while jamming on his Sony Walkman...to Queen.  Then topping it off with the top-notched diplomacy of destroying oil refineries as an object lesson.  Let's just hope that Al Quaeda doesn't discover this one at some nomad bizaar.  It may give them some demented hope of finding nukes with the ease and simplicity that young Doug had of rescuing his father right under the noses of the USAF.  If it were set in outer space I could suspend disbelief and have a little fun with this one, otherwise this movie lacks any intelligent credibility. "},{"Title":"Almost better than 'Top Gun'","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  Now this is a movie you should have (seen). It is almost better than the classic made in the same year, but is known as 'Top Gun'. The eighties sure were years of good ol' combat movies about a boy with a talent for F-16's and God-knows-how-many-fighter-jets, who goes on a hell of dangerous mission to save his father's life and survives - of course he does. And all of this can keep you seated until the last second of the movie. If that's what you think while reading this review, you know what I'm talking about. If this is not what you think, you have been frozen in for at least fifty years...My congratulations to the men and women who worked hard to provide us with such a masterpiece. Thanks, I really mean it!!! **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Cool soundtrack.  Excellent Movie.","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  I really hate seeing people rip on this movie.  They rip on the realism. How realistic are half of Arnold Swarzenegger's movies?...or any movie like them.  Iron Eagle has a great soundtrack, cool dog fighting sequences, and a good story line (whether it's realistic or not).  It's a story every young person who likes military fighter jets would love to live.  It draws on the fact that you wish it was you going in to knock the s... out of them.. (As Chappy put it).  You people who rip on the realistic plot.....hey.....go watch a documentary.  Or go glam like Hollywood and watch Top Gun. How many times have US and Russian planes flown inverted and given the other the bird from a few feet away.  Iron Eagle is a great movie.....check it out. "},{"Title":"Adios logic, but great dogfighting","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  Don't bother to check for logic. There is none. But on the other hand, there are MANY really great movies that totally lack logic, so why bother?I both like and dislike this film. I like it because the action sequences in the air are really great, you get to see a lot of dogfighting. I also like the F-16, which is a very cool plane.But there are just too many goofs to make me really enjoy it. I guess it's not fair to wish for SOME sort of continuity, as it is hard to make a really good fighter film - but I also think there should be some sense of reason.And I have a question do they fly from California to the Middle East in F-16s without air refueling? I'd like to see that happening. "},{"Title":"The Jokes on You","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  I remember watching this for the first time in the 80's as a teen. Man, I've read the reviews on this trash and I find myself astonished by the voting. This movie does not deserve four stars!!! This movie is NOT better than Topgun. Topgun has its own problems; don't get me wrong. This movie should be banned just for its own stupidity. So many stereotypes, so many loop holes, so MUCH poor dialog. I cannot think of one redeeming quality of this vomit. This is not action/adventure. This is a bad joke on film. Kinda like watching Plan 9 with stock F-16 footage. This movie not only defies logic and common sense within the context of a military setting, it sends a disturbing message. The military is not going to save your dad from the imminent evil of the middle east b*****ds. So go out there and hijack a multi-million dollar weapon and blast him out of the sinister clutches of the backwards, Anti-American Arabs. Cuz you can't reason with those animals. This is a Bruckheimer flick without a budget. Bland direction, weak acting, lame music, idiotic plot, equals...Iron Eagle. "},{"Title":"I thought I was watching something new. . .","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  When it Iron Eagle first came out in 1986, but what I saw was Rambo with a jet!  Don't get me wrong, I loved Rambo and some of the shoot 'em up and one-man army films that were inspired by the Stallone movies, but I was looking for something totally new when I heard of this movie.The movie was passable for its audiences.  It could've been better (otherwise, MAYBE our OWN U. S. Air Force would've provided the jets for the film instead of the Israeli Air Force, no offense to the latter).  "}{"Title":"Iron Eagle Is Fair, cheesy lines, but exciting dog fights.","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  I think my review (albeit bias) would be a more accurate review of Iron Eagle.I am an avid military movie, and even more so Fighter Jet movie buff. That being said, and as much as I like Louis Gossett Jr. I think this movie was done in stereotypical cheesy 80's style.  However I still liked it.  The action scenes are exciting, and worth watching.  But are not EVEN close to the level of quality done in Top Gun a lot of the fighter scenes are really jerky, and not an accurate depiction of the level of professionalism and skill of our U.S. Pilots today or even back then.  As it goes, there are not that many Aerial Combat Military movies out there, so you have to take what you can get.  The only one's I can think of off of the top of my head are Iron Eagle, Top Gun, The Final Count Down ,Fire Birds and more recently Behind Enemy Lines.  I give Iron Eagle a 5 out of 10 (10 being the best) rating against the other Aerial Combat Military movies out there. "},{"Title":"Help!!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  I've been trying for months to find out who performs that song that plays in the background when Doug is racing the motorcycle - the lyrics suggest the the title may be I'm Old Enough To Rock & Roll - but it's not on the soundtrack and I have been unable to find the song anywhere ......... can ANYONE help me ???  It's driving me CRAZY !!!! "},{"Title":"Better than Top Gun; this is actually Top Gun applied to real life","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" I really like the movie's opening, when Col. Ted Masters realizes on his fighter radar that four enemy aircraft were approaching from about 10 o'clock. The good news is that the movie does not mention at the very beginning that the colonel, along with a wingman fighter who was a lieutenant, was trying to do a freedom of navigation exercise along the eastern Meditteranean Sea, but went a little too past the restricted air space zone reserved for a rogue Middle eastern nation as they accidentially fly past it.I also like all of the intercutting on the colonel's fighter radar readouts and computer displays as the enemy aircraft aggressively picks the two American fighter pilots into an engagement for violating their airspace. That first dogfight immediately reminds me of the famous fighter pilot movie, Top Gun. From the waxing of the enemy bandits to the enemy aircraft's thirty-milimeter rounds that struck the colonel's jet engines and forcing the plane down, forcing him to eject, all of this reminds us of one thing...dogfight fighter techniques can keep you alive...but one false move can cause you to be shot down.The only problem in the movie was the snake sequence scene. It was a little bit too long. Yes, the movie's opening was great when you see the conflict...which was the dogfight engagement. Only when one boy tells Doug Masters that his father was shot down after the Cessna planes landed in the snake race, forces us back to the time the conflict already started. I guess the snake sequence in the middle should be interrupted a little bit by Col. Masters being dragged in handcuffs in the middle of the Bilyad desert on his way to the detention center...while the music sequence for the snake continues. The film does not do it...if it were, the conflict's details would have been smoother at that point. Still good otherwise.When word found out that Col. Ted Masters trial for high treason (violating territorial air sovereignty) was over and he was condemned to be hung on the gallows in three days, Doug Masters decides to go into action. With the Air Force having futile attempts to save the man, Doug decides to pull his friends and Col. Sinclair (played by Louis Gossett Jr.) for a plan to rescue Masters. Risking a high chance of facing a court martial and spending more than a year in a military stockade, he goes against Air Force policy and makes a plan to rescue Masters without consent of the U.S. government.Doug and his friends sneak into several classified areas of the base to get plenty of stuff on the area where Masters is held for the upcoming hanging, and the surrounding area around Bilyad (which turns out to be a fake Middle Eastern country for the movie). One plan included shooting off firecrackers outside the Air Force darkroom area as a diversion to get classified photos and maintenance stuff on the fighter aircraft, fighter base, intelligence, and all of the other military stuff around Bilyad. When all was said and done, and Sinclair studied all of the intelligence, he almost rebuffed at that plan because Doug was way too cocky. Not until they get the two F-16 planes and tried a dry run across a firing range that I realized what they were going to do overseas. I realized that Doug's fighter shooting and bomb dropping is not good until he hears rock music. I can remember when he dropped one Mach 82 bomb on a horizontal target and the bomb missed by 20 feet....I realized that Doug is unusual. He likes music when he fires the fighter ammunition.The last part of the conflict, the final dogfight action in Iron Eagle was better than Top Gun's climax of the hostile dogfight sequences. I liked the way the final conflict unfolded, especially when Doug Masters faces off with an Middle-Eastern ace fighter pilot who actually ran the trial against Ted Masters. Short but sweet when Doug took the enemy fighter out after a second try by a side-winder missile. Looks like this Bilyad colonel was akin to Darth Vader in Star Wars....in the air, he can be very evil, because if you have seen Star Wars, Darth Vader was actually Anakin Skywalker, who was an ace pilot in space. Unusual connotation for this but still works! "},{"Title":"A good second to Top Gun, with cleaner language","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  Maybe I'm biased because the F-16 is my favorite fighter aircraft - although the F-14 is probably second or third - but I liked this movie. The sequels (Iron Eagle II and III) don't measure up acting and plot wise, but the first one - along with Top Gun - have excellent flying and music, along with reasonable plots and acting. II and III clearly have much less of a flight budget, but their main drawback is plot and acting. I suspect the relative fame and popularity of Iron Eagle compared to Top Gun is almost entirely a reflection of the fame and popularity of Jason Gedrick compared to Tom Cruise. Another plus (for me) is an all too brief appearance by Shawnee Smith. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Not great, but not that bad either","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" The bad news is this movie ain't good. It contains lots of errors (or goofs, in IMDb terminology) and the plot is crap-crap-mega-crap. Totally unbelievable, complete nonsense.But let's be honest, films like these aren't made for good story lines. In fact, many movies aren't.So here's the good news this movie may not be good, but I don't think it's as bad as most people say it is, either. The acting is good, the aerial combat scenes are very nice (although probably not realistic), there's plenty of humor and the soundtrack is great!If you need/want to watch this film as a critic, continuously alert for errors or other weaknesses, DON'T. You'll kill yourself in a fit of utter depression. I suggest that instead you crank up the volume, break out the popcorn/pizza and beer, put your feet on the table, disable your intellect and just let yourself be entertained. Because that's something this movie IS good for. It's a light-hearted, rocking, funny, feel-good movie with fighter jets in it and a great soundtrack to boot.One last word of advice though be wary of the sequels! Part 1 (this movie) may not be good, but part II is bad, part III is worse and part IV is worst. Even die-hard Louis Gosset Jr fans don't like them. "},{"Title":"Entertainment for young I wanna be a fighter pilot types.","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  This movie was clearly made for the younger audience in mind and is not to be taken seriously. At least I hope that's what the makers of this flick had in mind. If not, then who ever put this together didn't do their homework regarding the military and the Air Force. It will pass for entertainment but little else. Yes it's hard not to laugh at most of the goings on in this film. However it must have done something right to spawn all the sequels it had.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":"  Iron Eagle has always been one of my favirote films for a long time now. It looks like Topgun but with a different plot and (a lot of people will disagree with me here) in my view it's better than Topgun.This film has some amazing dogfight scenes when the fighter jets are zooming through the air. It also has the Queen song One Vision thumping in the background, which in my opinion is a fantastic song.To be honest, Iron Eagle was very good but it's sequels were rubbish. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!!!","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller, War","Review":" This was an awesome movie with flight scenes that were incredibly realistic! I have seen it multiple times and it has kept my attention throughout every time. I myself am a big fan of the Air Force and love to watch any movie where I can get a glimpse of an F-16 flying. If you like Top Gun, then I guarantee you will love this movie also. Except for a few mild curse words, this is an excellent movie for the whole family. It has a great plot and does not have a dull moment throughout the entire movie. Every second is action packed and keeps you on the edge of your seat waiting to see what happens next. So once again I HIGHLY recommend this movie!!! "}]