[{"Title":"My Beautiful Daniel Day Lewis!","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"74 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It bugs me that this movie is the gay movie, just like it bugs me when a movie with black people is labeled the black movie. What about Mafia movies? Are those for people who are involved? What about Seven I guess that's a cult classic for serial killers. Come on, a good movie is a good movie. Trust me I identified with Omar - and I'm a straight hispanic girl - probably more than I have with any other character in a movie. This movie is about homosexuality like Charlotte Gray is about hair dye.This movie is definitely one of my favorites. It is a look a young man (a gorgeous Pakistani named Omar) who basically tries to balance being Pakistani and British at the same time. He wants to have a business and be successful, in that Western capitalist way, and yet he wants to be good to his family and his father in that sense of family loyalty that only those of us from other cultures really understand. Omar asks his uncle to tell stories about his family in Pakistan, yet he doesn't understand his people's language - Urdu, I believe it is. This is a little insight for our white friends about what us in-betweens have to go through. Too ethnic for the white people, too white for our own people. It's nice to show the ethnic people looking down on the poor whites, because we do, we look down on low class white people, we have our snobbery too. It may not be right, but it's the truth. It's nice to show the sort of affectionate annoyance Omar found his Papa and Nasser for trying to help him. White people see that as overbearing, something to escape from (like Tania, who was the whitest of them all) Ethnic people have a sense of humor about it, because we know it means love, and like Omar most of us just choose to quietly listen and ignore their advice rather than make a scene. Omar never makes a scene.That's what Johnny represents I think, the part of us we keep to ourselves, our passions and desire and those things that are too special to share, kind of like a spiritual belief. It makes their love seem almost sacred because it's too special for them to bring out and expose to the criticism of less enlightened people. It's worth noting that it's Johnny who kisses Omar semi-openly in the street, and it's Omar who doesn't tell his family why he can't marry Tania. I dont think it's so much homophobia as it a cultural difference as to what should be kept private. I could sort of see Johnny in the future demaning Omar tell his family.Their love scene is gorgeous. When you first see Johnny he seems so rough and coarse and low class, but as he begins to seduce Omar while Omar talks about the past he suddenly seems powerful and sophisticated and . . . and just to see them getting it on on the table. It's very sweet and tender with the frantic kissing and the champange, but my god is it hot.This certainly is a romantic (and more importantly) positive movie where two men are in love yet have a real conflict between them, and obviously gay men are right to love that, but hey, it works for informing white people, making minorities laugh, British people who grew up during that time, showing idiot homophobes that gay people are just the same as everyone else, DDL fans. Don't just slap the gay label on it and dismiss it! "},{"Title":"A perfect slice of Thatcherite Britain.....oh! And a fab gay romance..","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"45 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A classic film in my book, My Beautiful Laundrette is the story of Omar, a young restless Asian man caring for his alcoholic father in Thatcherite London. Escape comes in the form of his uncles many and varied business ventures,...Anyone who experienced anything of life in '80's Britain will recognise the craving for instant financial success. Similarly I am sure Asian viewers will recognise the struggles inherent in finding an identity in a country which is your home but which can never feel quite like your real home.Omar dreams of success so works to achieve it...along the way he meets up with old school-friend Johnny, who has betrayed him by falling in with a group of neo-nazi's. Omar soon has Johnny working for him and his uncle. Turning the tables on him as he is made to rely on the very people he has been taught to hate. The chemistry between Omar and Johnny is palpable and their relationship handled totally matter-of-factly.  About the only part of the film not trying to score any political points is the gay relationship. There is a so-what attitude and no-one comes out at any point. And why should they?Tension in the film is far more the result of socio-economic and racial inequalities. The whole thing is handled with grace, charm and wit. Anyone remotely familier with British film in particular will note the starry casting of supporting roles, though Danial Day Lewis is - now - the biggest star of the show. Here he shows the real substance behind his fame - more so than in any other film of his seen to date. The cast is universally excellent and the unique shooting, pacing and dialogue, quite quite brilliant.Some of the shots in this film could be used as a template for brilliance...An unexpected kiss in a dark alley is easily the most erotic single shot I have seen in a film.Despite a few reviews I have read claiming otherwise, I don't believe you need to be gay or Asian to get something out of this picture. Living in Britain may help, though it's a lot less than essential.......And hey! Wouldn't you love to throw your knickers into the washing machines of a neon-lit music-filled laudrette from heaven run by two insatiably young and energetic lovers?Well I would anyway! Pass the detergent this way please! "},{"Title":"What A Laundrette!","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'My Beautiful Laundrette' takes a look at the 80's local life within the Asian communities in England and between the British Southeast Asians and the British Caucasians. What I loved about this film is that it presents its themes without going overboard to explain or to resolve anything. When we see a relationship develop between Omar and Johnny, one would expect to see them get attacked for it and then expect a preachy message like gays have rights too but there is nothing like that. There are scenes where the British Asians are being humiliated but this too does not lead to a bloodbath of sorts. It is all downplayed and subtle. It's about the characters, rather than a social message (but that's there too).'My Beautiful Laundrette' mainly centres around Omar and his relationship with Johnny. Hanif Kureishi is known for telling tales about unconventional relationships and I thought it was great that both characters were shown to be open about their relationships in spite of their background. I mean they weren't screaming from the roof or anything but these two individuals did not care what others would think concerning their relationships. Frears deserves full marks for telling the story in such a raw, real, humorous and coherent way. The humour too is subtle and dry and flows well through the story.The renovated laundrette too plays a crucial role. It is a place of comfort for Omar and Johnny, kind of like a home they built and decorated. The customers are amused by the beauty of it. A fascinated Nasser dances with his girlfriend while the customers eagerly wait outside. Thus, it becomes a place of comfort for many.The characters are well etched. Both their strength and fragility is well displayed by the actors. Daniel Day-Lewis and Gordon Warnecke are excellent as Johnny and Omar. Day-Lewis brilliantly brings out Johnny's vulnerable and passionate side while on the exterior he appears as a tough and scary guy. Likewise Warnecke too effectively portrays Omar's determination and passion. A charismatic Saeed Jaffrey is phenomenal as the cheerful helpful uncle who goes through his own transformation. Rita Wolf is wonderful as the daughter who's in search of her own identity. Roshan Seth is good as the whiny father. The rest of the cast do well.Pretty much all the characters are in search of something except that Omar and Johnny find what they want and Nasser loses what he had. The film does not end by providing a solution for everyone. And that is one of the many brilliance of it as it reflects that everyone has their own life to deal with and questions will arise but life goes on and it is up to us to choose the answer.Simply great. "},{"Title":"No One Gets Killed","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"32 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It figures this movie was not made in the USA... If it was, then main gay characters would either have to get killed or at least decently commit, or try to commit, suicide, get castigated or openly persecuted or both for their sexuality, and of course there would have to be a gays-are-people-too sermon somewhere in there. In fact, in this movie, while the gays may not have it easy, neither does anyone else; while in fact the non-gays get much more s--t than our two gay heroes, who seem to playing everybody off of each other anyway. You keep expecting someone to burst in upon their smooching or harassing them on the street or some other such low-down thing, but no (and knowing this makes it so much more easy to watch the second time)! To the Hollywood-weaned watcher, the start is slow and you don't quite know which way things are going, but we are very naturally eased into the two guys' relationship. It's very sweet, Romeo and Jules-like stuff. And like other reviewers mention, it is also so natural and well- made (and carried so many other taboos) that gay seems barely to be the issue. It is not a happy ending for many of the main characters in the movie, but life goes on. Just like life actually does. "},{"Title":"Not just a gay love story!","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film works on a number of different levels. Firstly, there is the love affair between the two main characters, Omar and Johnny, brought to life by brilliant performances from both Gordon Warnecke and Daniel Day-Lewis. The audience remains mostly in the dark about the history shared by the lovers... were they lovers before their chance meeting and subsequent re-discovery or were they just friends as children and lovers as adults? Clearly, though, there has always been a close bond between the two which has remained in tact, even after Johnny had abandoned his friend to join a group of Neo-Nazis. This is where the real complexities of the story lie. The fact that Omar and Johnny embark on a gay love affair seems almost incidental. Rather, it is the power relations between the two that is important. Class, ethnicity, kinship and community are central in shaping the way in which each character perceives their role within the world. Thatcherism and the 'entrepreneurial spirit' has fuelled Omar's ambition to make something of himself in 80s Britain. Conversely, Johnny seems to have resigned himself to his downtrodden status since society has done nothing to help him, so why should he do anything for society? Thus, class is very much an issue here. Ethnicity, too, is key, as the roles of the downtrodden and oppressed seem to have been reversed, with the white, working-class Johnny being the 'victim' of the system rather than the Pakistani, middle-class Omar. Despite all of the differences, however, essentially it is their love for each other that keeps them together. There are occasions when Omar questions whether he and Johnny can really be together in the long-term, such as when he contemplates marriage, whilst Johnny seems to be subordinate, almost passive, towards Omar because of his love for him. Despite all of their differences they both seem to have a profound respect for one another, which will hopefully enable them to continue their relationship, although the ending is left rather open. The main thing when watching this is to view it not only as a gay love story. It also provides a snapshot of 80s Britain and an illustration of the fluidity of identity, and of the different life chances that people had, which is clearly still as relevant today as it was back then. "},{"Title":"Magic-realist masterpiece.","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A rare instance of magic-realism that actually works in the cinema.  The realism is a scrupulously observed portrait of 80s London, its people (entrepreneurs, drunks, racists, wide-boys), locales (dingy flats, delapidated laundrettes, murky car lots) and attitudes (strutting capitalism, dessicated liberalism, farcical extremism).The magic comes from Frears' style, tweaking and heightening the real; from stylised scenes such as Omar's reuniting with Johnny; from some magical set-pieces, especially the opening of the laundrette, Omar and Johnny making love cut with Nasser and Rachel's waltz; from the clashing of an exotic, Oriental world in a determinedly materialist context. Kureishi's script is occasionally heavy-handed, but sex is never far from his analyses of power and identity - Omar's crucial tirade against Johnny has a thrilling, Genet-esque frisson. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended, entertaining slice of real London life","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hanif Kureishi's unique world is always fascinating, always challenging a direct rebuttal to a world in which the British are something out of a 1950s time warp (forever white, middle-class, village-dwelling). But he's never been so on-point, so relevant, direct and just plain right as with his script for Stephen Frears' well-made My Beautiful Laundrette.Gordon Warnecke plays Omar, a young Pakistani Londoner needing a direction in life in 1980's Britain time of Thatcher, of aspiration, accumulation. He may be young and good-looking, but he's penniless and without prospects. His failed intellectual father (the great Roshan Seth) delivers him to jaws of the lion, as it were, for the sake of giving him a future. The lion is his uncle (the also great Saeed Jaffrey), rich, successful, an all too literal product of Thatcher's Britain. Omar's world becomes divided between his father, his uncle and his unlikely, erstwhile friend and sometime NF supporter, punk dropout Johnny (an early Daniel Day Lewis).The world of 'Sarf' London in the 80s is brilliantly depicted &#150; from the feel of the streets right down to the fundamental, almost feudal divide between rich and poor. But it's also a very funny film, sharp and romantic. Neither Omar nor Johnny are meant to succeed in this particular world. But both find a way to defy the bounds set by those around them what might I suppose be considered the ultimate Thatcherite success &#150; that is, in defiance of the odds, by hook or crook.Omar and Johnny become lovers - but it's entirely incidental; it can't be allowed to get in the way of business. Certainly it doesn't make them any more outcast than they were already. London has changed a lot. Johnny's kiss stolen from Omar on a dark street corner is one of the all time sexiest moments I can think of in a film, and I can see from other reviewers that I'm not alone. (Hardly necessary to add that you don't have to be gay to enjoy this film &#150; any more than that you have to be a Londoner or British.)Daniel Day Lewis has since made his way to superstardom; Gordon Warnecke inexplicably languishes in occasional British TV appearances today, as far as I can tell. But both actors are really believable in their roles, both playing complicated, real human characters, driven and held back by multiple forces.Kureishi tells the searing, unapologetic truth always. With a great eye for character, he knows how to make what people really say, work dramatically. Check out his TV series The Bhudda of Suburbia, if you can find it. Frears is one of the small handful of great British directors check out his very funny The Snapper.Films like this helped shape my world as a teenager a Brit classic. "},{"Title":"Politics, Sex, and Punk Rock","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Want to see a side of London you won't get from any other director? Then watch My Beautiful Launderette... The film opens with a scene in which squatters are forcibly evicted from a derelict building.  Londoner viewers will recognize this as a sad yet common event... Immediately, we are attuned to the political bent of the movie. Fortunately for that intent, the dialogue in the film is intelligently written (note this will not appeal to the lowest common denominator -- it scores low on commercial appeal).  Unfortunately, the often stiff delivery of that dialogue is a significant impediment.  That said, Daniel Day Lewis lends a powerful presence to his role as the punk squatter, Johnny.The climax of the film aptly integrates the various tensions in the film political, sexual, and social.  We're surprised with a love scene between Johnny and Omar which is well-paced, erotic, and genuine. "},{"Title":"multicultural and multisexual perspectives","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stephen Frears' film of Hanif Kureshi's script about the Pakistani and the NF punk who grew up as friends, and find themselves attracted to each other again.  Gordon Warneke and Daniel Day-Lewis play the lovers in this intelligent movie which has a cheap British tinge but has some superb moments (Saeed Jaffrey as Warneke's uncle, &#145;a professional businessman, not a professional Pakistani') within it.  Perhaps the longest-lasting image is the two boys in the back room of the launderette, splashing each other with water, and putting aside the political differences between them.  Whether it truly makes its points about race and sexuality I'm not sure.    "},{"Title":"He'll go to college","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" He'll (Omar) go to college and study. He must. We all must. So we can see clearly who is doing what to whom. This is the view of Poppa, Omar's father. This bedridden man is an ex-journalist from Pakistan who has lived to see his wife throw herself in front of the trains that rattle incessantly outside his flat and his own students march past with National Front. To top it off, his younger brother, Nasser, who carried his typewriter when they were boys back in Pakistan, has become the Sardou of South London, a big enough cheese to give his own son a failed laundrette to run. Government grant. But, Uncle Nasser has a chink in his armor, too will his relationship with his mistress, Rachel, last as long as that with his wife? Both brothers look to a union between Omar and Tania, yep, Nasser's daughter, as the key to the future of their band of Pakistani immigrants in a land that doesn't want them. Will these energetic offspring comply with their plans? Omar seems closer to the randy and remorseful Johnny than anyone. Smart cookie that she is, Tania packs her belongings in her Princess suitcase and...Everyone has a decision to make in this fascinating sociological study of Thatcherite England. Wonder what everyone is doing now? "}{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" We saw this movie when it was first released on the big screen. It just happen to start when we needed a movie to so we had no idea what to expect. What a pleasant surprise this film was. Daniel Day Lewis (in one of his earliest roles) stars with Gordon Warnecke in this unconventional love story. Warnecke plays young Omar, who is given the opprtunity to run his uncle's laundrette. He enlists the aid of his ex-lover, Johnny (played by Lewis) to get the business back on it's feet. The scene in the laundrette that includes Omar and Johnny in the foreground and Omar's uncle and his mistress in the background, is one of the most sensual celluloid scenes I ever scene.If you are looking for something good and out of the ordinary, I would recommend this one. "},{"Title":"A business deal melds immigrant and punk","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For its time MBL was a break through movie. London is a very complicated place for colonials and for punks.  As the friendship between the boys develops- complications arise. What I liked about this film was its unpretentiousness. You can hear and almost smell the various neighborhoods of London. And Daniel Day Lewis certainly showed his potential for the star he would become.  "},{"Title":"making it in Thatcher's England","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This colorful slice of lowbrow English life has many things working in its favor character, ingenuity, humor, and (the essential asset for such a modest production) unpredictability. What it doesn't have is a budget, making the film look and sound like a cheap made-for-TV movie, hardly surprising since it was, in fact, produced for British television (a remarkably permissive institution, by American network standards at the time). But a well-written script doesn't (fortunately) need to cost an arm and a leg, and the perceptive screenplay by Hanif Kureishi has a lot on its mind, tossing off social, sexual, and political commentary with subtle insight and brazen wit. It may seem as if his story, about an unemployed (and otherwise unmotivated) young Pakistani and his amiable Anglo-Punk boyfriend, who conspire to beat the system by opening a trendy, upscale Laundromat using money stolen from a local crime syndicate, relies at times too heavily on idiosyncratic behavior and eccentric charm (other films should have such problems). But it all ends happily ever after, doubly so for director Stephan Frears and actor Daniel Day-Lewis, who were both catapulted into the international arena by the film's success. "},{"Title":" In this Damned Country, that we hate and love....","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So says Saeed Jaffrey, easily one of the most recognisable Indian actors, at the film's start and sets the tone for this early Film 4 offering from 1985 as the wheeler-dealer uncle, and who typified Thatcherism's era of entrepreneurial immigrants.Radio Times awards a rare five stars for this provocative and ground- breaking film from the now hugely successful director, now, of Stephen Frears and of course, for Daniel Day Lewis, it might have been his last, presumably such a contentious issue inter-racial gay sex would have been seen (and still viewed as), had he not been both brave AND very good.This was just Frear's second feature film and whilst today the production values lag, many of the scenes are (necessarily?) contrived and the acting variable, it still says a lot. Lest we forget, launderettes were actually in wide existence then, romanticised by jeans adverts and featuring regularly in TV soap Eastenders. If that last bit sounds pedantic, Eastenders itself was seen as ground-breaking and immensely popular, with ratings in the 10s of millions.Saeed's hypocritical (he has a white mistress) Nasser only hands over the laundrette to his nephew (Omar) because he's too lazy to run it himself and it's a thorn in his side. Omar, being one of Thatcher's mass army of 3 million unemployed takes to the challenge and equally unemployed white, former National Front member Johnny (Day-Lewis), a schoolfriend of Omar's get drafted in to help refit the run-down laundrette and to turn it into a Palace full of washing machines.As you can imagine, Johnny's past friends find much to dislike about the company he now keeps, especially as he's been to prison for his past activities and now is not only only cohorting with the Front's seen enemy but having unbridled, active sex with one who is the same sex. Issues around the pressure for Omar to get married, by arrangement are very relevant, both as in being Pakistani and homosexual.For my money, there are just too many small characters, doing little things that we never see again; they do not contribute to the film and if anything, dissolve its strengths. I'm also not keen on Gordon Warnecke's (Omar) performance, his monosyllabic recital of his lines show no depth. Omar may actually have spoken like that but it fails to convince.The romance element is boosted by the way that the refurbished laundrette is to be launched as a dreamy magical palace, with a razzle- dazzle showbiz look and can be seen as the aspiration for people who have little to make a life for themselves.I first saw My Beautiful Laundrette about when it was released and knew friends in the gay community - and have watched the DVD a couple of times since. Those friends saw it more of a championing beacon to their cause and lifestyle and less of a political and economic barometer. Almost no such films were made almost thirty years ago and whilst I'm sure many did just see it as a pro-gay drama, that it was (and remains) a good film is a huge bonus. "},{"Title":"Good but not excellent","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My Beautiful Launderette is a mixed bag of touching and powerful moments, somewhat boring lulls in the story, and moral ambiguity. It's mostly about Omar and his life as a Pakistani in Britain; a great deal of it is about families, their bonds, and their conflicts; significant parts of it are about Omar's relationship with Johnny, which means that the film is dealing with a lot of material. For a film with so many aspects, it's too short.Some will argue that, seeing as it's not the main focus of the film, Omar and Johnny's relationship had a fitting amount of time devoted to it, but their relationship raises so many questions that I found myself wishing it was more central. What exactly was their friendship like when they were young? It's implied that they've had a romantic relationship before the film starts, but why did that end up on hiatus? Aside from being at a certain place in a certain time, what other factors contribute to Johnny's acceptance of Omar, later prejudice, and final love and devotion? The ambiguity is distracting as opposed to lending itself to interpretation.The dynamics of Omar's family - his businessman uncle, his sick father who was a journalist in Pakistan but now is poor and unrenowned, his ambitious cousin who wants to develop her own life and sees Omar as a means to that end - are well-acted and realistic. In fact, the acting is good all around, which helps in the moments where it seems the plot is taking its time moving from one development to the other, without much substance in between action.My Beautiful Launderette is definitely worth seeing, at least once if not twice, but, having made the decision to put the protagonist in a tumultuous and intriguing romance, the filmmakers should have spent more time on that aspect. "},{"Title":"An excellent insight into the issues surrounding race, class and politics in Thatcherite London","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a commentary on multiculturalism in the UK, this film is excellent.Everywhere there is friction, The 'second generation' Pakistani/British seem to be in a no-mans-land surrounded by outmoded tradition on one side, and an unemployed white society not yet ready to accept them on the other. I do so hate these in-betweens The National Front want to 'send the immigrants home', they refuse to accept that the 'ethnic minorities' should own their own businesses They were brought here to work for us! and yet, Thatcher's Britain is based on an ideal of enterprise and private ownership, and 'home' for the second generation Asians is London. I am a professional businessman, not a professional PakistaniEverywhere there is irony. We see the pointlessness of violence and prejudice, and the poignancy of a love that dares to bridge these gaps, that dares to breakthrough the social labels.'The UK is being dragged, kicking and screaming, towards multiculturalism' (Stephen Frears) and this film shows how prejudice is damaging all the cultures involved in the process, and also, more tellingly, how it does not need to be like that. "},{"Title":"1980's London, that revolution","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While a revolution was going on in the UK, one that Hanif said was one of turning upside down social values, and making acceptable and normal believes that previously had been seen as 'American', and not a good thing ('money, ambition, money, working in the grey area, more money'). It was happening for real, and while many writers took the usual stance of opposition (which I suppose was once radical and fresh 20 years before), Hanif stepped up with his Polycultural Perspective..And What A Breath of Fresh Air It Was!!! MBL has immigrants in the motherland, in all their flavours. Not to give away the plot, but colonials coming to the any country often had/have a political stance and/or a merchant mentality, both of which are played out in this movie. The first generation then deal and resolve this in their own lives (easing the tension where necessary, with a little help from Daniel), and what better setting than 1980's London, when squatting was a plenty (that is the famous Bonnington Square you see in the movie), Housing Associations, Community Arts, UB40 discounts and other things of the past were just getting axed. Our young boys, go through their days against this backdrop. It should ring with New York folks, because of the issues of immigration, and cultural contrasts. As for the sex scene, so what...It flows so natural, and come on macho men out there, we all know or were one of those very testy,testes type guys who played HARD as some form of homo erotic ritual.  "},{"Title":"Life in 1985","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The 1980s were not a vintage era for film - nor, by the looks of this pioneering gem, a great time for race relations, either. That's what this film is about - that, and the main credo of the time making money. What it's rather not about is (spoiler) the homosexual nature of the relationship between the main protagonist, Omar, and his former school friend, Johnny. The two meet after a while and Omar gives Johnny a job in his new, beautiful launderette. This film bravely featured the two men kissing and enjoying intimacy throughout the film, tenderly portrayed and extraordinarily brave during the AIDS-hysterical homophobic 1980s.And yet this relationship in itself is almost superfluous compared to the film's other main themes. My Beautiful Launderette encapsulates with eerie veracity the South London of 1985, with the immigrants that inhabit it at a crucial moral crossroads that perfectly reflects the early 80s gloom Britain was just leaving behind and the late 80s boom it was beginning to glimpse; Omar's ill father speaks bitterly of the country and of the government, of being shafted by both, and of wanting to return to his homeland, while Omar's all-embracing uncle sees their homeland as `sodomised by religion' and Britain a `beautiful place' where money can be made, the making of money all-important to progressing in British society at the time. `Get the champagne and let's drink to Thatcher!' he announces at one point. And it's not long before his uncle's desire to make money and to make 'it' spread to the increasingly sharp-suited Omar, who parades absurdly around his neon-lit launderette, which has unwittingly become the centre of the community. But Johnny's violent, fascist former friends care not for his new company, and evoke a past which casts a shadow over his relationship with Omar.My Beautiful Launderette is about love, violence, entrepreneurship, hope, and hopelessness, community, race, class and, of course, some extremely bad hairdos. This is a cracking film, not necessarily because of the casting, acting, directing or even the story, although all are good, but because of its value as a document of a moment in time. How long ago it all seems - and thank goodness for that.  "},{"Title":"Fascinating look at different classes","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As terrific as Daniel Day-Lewis is in this film it really belongs to actor Gordon Warnecke as Omar. Watching his character change and also keep secrets at the same time is very complex and he handles it smoothly. This film really isn't about any one thing in particular but it does a great job of showing us how difficult things are in Britain between not only the races but the rich and poor classes as well. And oh yeah, the two characters are gay. Excellent character development on all sides. Rita Wolf as Tania stands out as well. Film ends on an ambiguous note letting the viewer soak in what they had just seen. Film is very powerful even without trying to say anything.  "},{"Title":"Kureishi at his best","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Johnny and Omar live in a world of multiple cogenerating, coexisting, modifying, negating, enforcing and enhancing forms of discrimination -- racism, sexism, groupism, homophobia, cultural elitism, snobbery, reverse colonialism, neocolonialism and fascism -- which they successfully grapple and topple in the form of their launderette with the power of economic enterprise. These squabbling goblins are left to each others excesses as economic success lifts them up and out of these, but many questions remain will they remain; would others succeed; what does luck have to do with it? Kureshi has pissed off all groups who find themselves part of this smashing satire, prime among them the identity conscious confused second/third generation Subcontinental British kids, the same contingency that staunchly supported the Rushdie fatwa. Brilliant and stupendously enjoyable.  "}{"Title":"'My Beautiful Laundrette' is one film you won't soon forget.","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Stephen Frears is one of those directors with an amazing body of work, although most people wouldn't be able to tell you anything he ever directed. With films like 'The Grifters', and 'Dangerous Liasons', you can already tell he knows what he's doing behind the camera. He is more known for the iconic John Cusack film 'High Fidelity', the recent award winning film 'Philomena', or even 'Dirty Pretty Things'. Needless to say, this is a quite the impressive list of films, all having very different qualities and tones.But one thing remains constant here, which is Frear's uncanny ability to film his characters so well, that they stay in our lives forever. Well, that and tell an amazing story, no matter how big or small it is. One of Frear's first films was called 'My Beautiful Laundrette', which came out 30 years ago, and was originally made for television, but later converted to a feature film. Currently, the movie has a rare 100% rating still on Rotten Tomatoes and was even nominated for a sole Oscar for Best Screenplay, but lost out to Woody Allen at the time.In addition to this success, this film marked one of the first films for the multi Oscar winner Daniel Day-Lewis, and no, he didn't win an Oscar here. 'My Beautiful Laundrette' centers around a young Pakistani man named Omar (Gordon Warnecke), living in south London during the height of Margaret Thatcher's reign of England. Omar's father wants him to go to university to get a good education and a great job, rather than working dead end jobs, however Omar takes a shining to his uncle Nasser (Saeed Jaffrey), who runs a few businesses, but isn't the best person to look up to, due to his infidelity. Uncle Nasser offers Omar to run a local laundry mat he owns and restore it to make a decent profit.As Omar is working at the laundry mat, he comes across an old friend he hasn't seen in years named Johnny (Daniel Day-Lewis), a local skinhead now and part of a gang. The two instantly reconnect and hit it off and form a passionate relationship. Omar even has Johnny help with fixing up and running the laundry mat, much to the disrespect of Johnny's fellow gang members and Nasser's business associate, who happens to be a drug runner. It's a simple story really, but it's also a very honest and convincing portrayal of two friends and lovers in a time, where it wasn't really permitted, due to the social and political views of government and the people.This story that tackles homosexuality, racism, and opposing political views is actually told through a light-hearted voice. Even though there is a bit of violence in the movie, it is often comical and heart warming, due to the phenomenal relationship between Johnny and Omar. I also believe that Frears wanted to showcase not only what race, religion, and sexual preference did to one another in the form of treating others with respect or lack thereof, but also the financial situations of people of this time, that allowed them to discriminate against their fellow neighbors.It's an amazing, yet simple story, one that would be hard to replicate in today's world. Daniel Day-Lewis is of course excellent in his role, and his relationship with Warnecke is completely believable. It's a shame those two weren't nominated for acting awards. 'My Beautiful Laundrette' is one film you won't soon forget. "},{"Title":"a wonderful bliss indeed","Date":"17 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Under the iron curtain of Thatcherism in the 1980s, UK veteran Stephen Frears' fourth feature film is an ethnic barrier-breaker in the world queer cinema, much as its fervid confrontations between races and social classes, the central closeted romance between an ex-punk Johnny (Day-Lewis) and a Pakistani Briton Omar (Warnecke) is nurtured with robust intimacy and élan. Enclosed by a synth-pop heavy pulse, the film starts with Johnny and his gang being expelled from their squatting apartment by some heavies, a similar territory Daniel Day-Lewis would retread in IN THE NAME OF THE FATHER (1993), then cutting to introduce another protagonist, Omar, a college dropout sent to work for his uncle Nasser (Jaffrey) by his bed-ridden father (Seth), a disillusioned idealist and leftist), in Nasser's car-washing lot, Omar meets Nasser's business partner Salim (Branche), a menacing and overbearing bully who conducts some seedy business and Nasser's mistress Rachel (Anne Field), who assumes a quite modernized view of being the other woman, but the entire entanglement will end up with some ludicrous witchcraft. Omar is ambitious and fast-learning, soon he gets the permission to run Nasser's dilapidated laundromat, and reunites with Johnny, who has been his best friend since childhood, together they embezzle the dough from Salim's underhand drug smuggling and refurbish the laundrette and make a successful business, their romance is also rekindled. But at the same time, Omar is obliged by Nasser to marry his disobedient daughter Tania (Wolf), and Johnny is reckoned as a betrayer by his ne'er-do-well gang members since he is working for Palestinians (also as an unscrewer for kick out Nasser's impecunious tenants), in addition to the conflict between Omar and Salim, there will be blood in the end. Violence is a requisite in depicting the gulf between well-off immigrants and poverty-stricken native malcontents, xenophobia, racial bias and chauvinism, all can be easily related and incited under the harsh environs, but Frears doesn't attempt to make a point by resorting too much to the excesses, whereas the tender, masculine attraction between two men is rendered with cozy panache and passion, truly, it is an in-the-closet relationship, but it is not about coming-out or AIDs, these routine trappings of the era, their future might be a moot point, however, the virtue of their love strikes as comfortingly authentic and endearing, thanks to the great pair Warnecke and Day-Lewis, one is resolutely sincere and the other is overwhelmingly charismatic, they do make a desirable couple together! Juxtaposed with its peers like MAURICE (1987, 7/10) and ANOTHER COUNTRY (1984, 8/10), MY BEAUTIFUL LAUNDRETTE's grassroots ambiance and buoyant undertones applicably complement the missing piece of the UK queer cinema menagerie, not revolutionary, but a wonderful bliss indeed. "},{"Title":"Not my cup of tea, wife liked though","Date":"4 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie because my wife wanted to see it. I didn't have very high expectations for it and I knew what the plot would be because I had read the IMDb summary. I've happened to watch some movies lately which have been way better than the ratings they've had but this one most definitely does not go into that bunch. The plot did go through following some weird script but the problem was that they probably had cut away a lot events that were not central. Scenes would end abruptly or jump to a totally different scene or atmosphere. It made the characters and events a tad too hard to follow. At many points during the movie I was baffled at why the characters did what they did. However, if the point was to depict the chaotic life of people living on the streets and how they supposedly don't behave rationally, this movie succeeded in that goal.The movie is defined as comedy/drama/romance. There were a few funny things I laughed, I admit, but not nearly enough to warrant a comedy definition. Mostly the movie was drama and romance. The drama was OK, all the characters had problems with life and so on and they tried to cope with the difficult and unfair situations they encountered themselves in. The romance part...well, not my thing here. I guess the movie tried to be provocative and probably was back in 1985 when it was first released but now it was just a bit silly. There was this dangerous love element in it and it just didn't work out. The script was no good and the actors quite stiff.Also, the sounds were horrible. I don't even know how you can fail with 80's music but this movie did just that.If you are looking for a movie with such a love theme as this one I guess the movie will be OK for you as my wife informed me that the movie was OK but for me it was a pain to watch through. "},{"Title":"Britain in the time of Thatcher","Date":"28 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My Beautiful Laundrette, released in 1985, is many things a study of Britain in the '80s, a class story, the story of Pakistanis trying to assimilate, and a gay love story. Somehow it succeeds on all levels.Omar (Gordon Warnecke) is a young Pakistani living in England and caring for his alcoholic, very ill father Hussein (Roshan Seth), once an important journalist whose left leanings haven't gone over very well in Britain. His wife committed suicide by throwing herself onto the train tracks outside of their home. Hussein intends for Omar to go to college, but in the meantime, he wants his brother Nasser (Saeed Jaffrey), who runs many businesses with his right hand man Salim (Derrick Branche), to give Omar a job.Omar is ambitious and eventually asks his uncle to let him run the filthy, graffiti-ridden laundrette and make it profitable. Omar sees an old school friend, Johnny (Daniel Day-Lewis) on the street; Johnny has fallen in with a neo-Nazi group. However, the two reconnect, and Omar convinces Johnny to work with him at the laundrette. They rip off Salim during a drug deal to get money and make the place quite fancy. And Johnny has no compunction about seducing Omar.One of the things that makes this film fascinating is the treatment of the gay theme, which is not really treated as a theme at all but merely as information about these two young men. Omar doesn't come out to his family, no one catches them in the act and is shocked, no one beats them up because they're gay, no one is killed because he's gay, and no one commits suicide because of it. If Omar doesn't tell his family, it's because it's none of their business. He's under pressure to get married, but he doesn't do it. What he will do in the future, obviously, is unknown, but he'll risk losing Johnny so he may never give into the pressure.The story is more about people living in a country that isn't their own and attempting to make it, which was the promise of the '80s under Thatcher, and it's about a class system that looks down on poor whites like Johnny. It's also about racial hatred and the violence it causes.The film is peppered with interesting characters Nasser's glamorous white mistress (Shirley Anne Field), Nasser's daughter Tania (Rita Wolf), and the volatile Salim.The film is beautifully photographed, particularly in the romantic scenes...Johnny kissing Omar in the alley is but one example.The acting --- well, what can be said about acting where Daniel Day-Lewis has a supporting role? It's bound to be good! This film was released on the same day as A Room with a View, and when critics saw Day-Lewis in two such different roles, they were mightily impressed. With his weird hair and low-class accent, Day-Lewis is a likable Johnny, unashamed of his sexuality and trying to get away from a life of violence. The handsome Warnecke is a sympathetic Omar, and Jaffrey and Seth give vivid portraits of two diametrically opposite brothers, one interested in money and flaunting it, the other a beaten-down, sick man of principle. Rita Wolf is a feisty Tania, and Shirley Anne Field is delightful as Rachel.Excellent film that I'm sure resonates even more if you're British or, better yet, an immigrant in Britain. Excellently directed by Stephen Frears. "},{"Title":"Tablets aren't the only thing crumbling","Date":"1 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My beautiful laundrette isn't as cut and dried as the title suggests. Set in an era that's as unforgiving as the gang that hang around the laundrette like a bad flu, the main character Omar, is finding it difficult being stuck in an unemployed rut. His father Hussein Ali, played by Roshan Seth, convinces his business minded brother Nasser to help him out. Omar starts washing cars at first, until he convinces Nasser to let him run the laundrette. After one of his uncle's gatherings he bumps into an old friend of his that he hasn't seen for years, but a old friend his father can't stand called Johnny, played by DD-L. Despite being well respected by his friends who have radical ideas of how the world should be, Johnny's penniless, homeless and desperate for a break, irrelevant of who it comes from. Omar needs a lending hand to help get the laundrette up and running. This partnership and their subsequent success not only changes them, but everyone around them as well.The cast is fantastic, but I think Shirley Anne field as Rachel was the weakest link. Gordon Warnecke as Omar was believable as the competitive kid climbing up the social ladder, trying to socially please his family, so he can get further ahead in his business ventures. Rita wolf Shines as the gorgeous Tania, feisty and headstrong, but willing to use traditional methods to get where she wants to be. Her possible bond with Johnny was a good surprise too. Derrick Branche is fantastic as Salim. the self assured sort of villain, treating people however he wants and gives no apologies, but has a caring side, even though it's hidden throughout most of the film. DD-L was better in this film than he was in There will be blood but that debate is for another review. The character of Johnny is a thousand times more complex than Daniel Plainview. Johnny's carefully volatile, naturally defensive and physically intimidating. He's not the type of lad that suffers fools gladly. Johnny's the rough and ready complex bad boy with a secret soft side. The revelations here are Saeed Jaffrey as Nasser, the married man with Rachel as his mistress. He strict and cautious, friendly but crafty. He selfishly satisfies his own needs with Rachel, but takes care of his family, by offering them work, keeping them in a big house in the country. He even arranges for Omar to marry his daughter, and becomes quite agitated when that plan begins to fade. He's a traditional man at heart, even when he puts every plan into action with his charisma, he's the opposite of his sibling. Roshan Seth who plays Hussein Ali is absolutely fantastic as Omar's mentally bed bound father. It's great when the brothers meet at the end because it seems like their from two totally different worlds. Omar's mother died and Hussein's guilt along with Omar being forced into playing his nurse, has driven him to drink. Not one slurred or vacant word is heard from him though. He's the most eloquent part time alcoholic in film. He's polite, well educated, and tries to remain a strict father to Omar, even though he can't physically keep track of him. He's resentful of the position he's put himself in, and people he feels put him there, which is one of the reasons he bans Omar from bringing Johnny to their home calling him a bum-liabilty The only time the viewer sees him venture outside is to go to the opening. Going at three AM the next morning, instead of the actual time of three PM the previous afternoon. This is a great scene, because even though Hussein is physically frail, his intellect commands respect and Johnny knows it. Johnny changes his accent, posture and mannerisms when he comes into contact with him he does that with Nasser as well. The affect Hussein has on Johnny is almost as forceful as Omar's but in a different way. Hussein remembers Johnny as who he once was and when he's faced with the johnny he meets in the laundrette they have an interesting conversation as Hussein delivers a tension filled verbal knock with one terrific line that forces Johnny to see that the past is always present. All in all, a very good film. "},{"Title":"Deserves a much higher IMDb rating","Date":"27 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Maybe it's the fact that the film's very British and very eighties but how can this possibly score 6.9 whereas tripe like Good Will Hunting gets 8? Sometimes I despair at the reviewers on here.Anyway, back to the film. Omar (Gordon Warnecke) is a young Asian guy who goes to work for his Thatcherite uncle (Saeed Jaffrey). His ambition is to renovate his uncle's run-down laundrette. He gets in his white mate Johnny (Daniel Day Lewis) to give him a hand and the two guys fall in love.My Beautiful Laundrette completely encapsulates the zeitgeist of 1980's Britain, tackling everything from racial tension, immigration, generation differences, class differences, Thatcherism and homosexuality. I say 'tackle'- it's presented but the viewer is allowed to make their own minds up. This is primarily a coming-of-age film and on that level it can appeal to everyone.As for the arguments that you can only like this film if you fit into one of the criteria portrayed here or the period it was set in, they're completely ridiculous. So, we can only like Schindler's List if we're a Nazi or a Jew and were alive in the forties? Come on people. The only criteria I fit in with this film is that I live in Britain- not even London, where the film's set.What a lot of people dislike about the film is that it portrays a lot of the tensions happening in Britain but it does so on a very human level. No character is just a victim of the state. It's a light romantic comedy that lets us see the violence and racism but doesn't linger, making it more powerful when things do happen.As for the relationship between Omar and Johnny, it's portrayed very tenderly (and very sexily, though tasteful). What is rare for a 'gay film'- a label given to any film that has gay characters in- is that the characters aren't tortured over their sexuality or punished. It's just portrayed as a normal loving relationship and the two actors- both straight- are very convincing.Now Daniel Day Lewis has bagged his third Oscar, breaking the record for Best Actor, how does he fare in a very early film in his career? I really enjoyed his performance- you can see there's something about him, even at this age. His facial structure is outstanding- he looks very striking. And there's none of the mannerisms you might expect from an actor destined to do well. He comes across as a fresh talent- which he was. "},{"Title":"One of the Bravest Films Ever Made","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" With its less than thirty seconds of vague, dimly-lit, barely-intelligible same-sex sex (in 1985, no less), My Beautiful Laundrette sets itself above all the bad gay movies that have ever been made not only the insultingly evasive but also the cheap and tawdry. It addresses so many vastly different cultural issues-- including, obviously, homophobia and racism-- with such a smooth and deft hand that I think just about every other movie ever made on the theme of intolerance (dating right back to DW Griffith's aptly named Intolerance) has been rendered obsolete. The focus is on a diverse gay couple (not only racially diverse, either) tough-guy Johnny (Daniel Day Lewis in a career-best performance) and initially naive, star-reaching Omar (Gordon Warnecke, likewise). Through their unity, Omar's vision, and Johnny's hard work, they raise up a South London laundromat from roach trap to ritzy. What really sets the film apart is the generally light, this-too-shall-pass tone it boldly maintains in spite of its rather hefty subject matter. There are many dramatic moments, but it never becomes too heavy-handed or too depressing to continue. The cinematography is so innovative and the actors are so engaging that it's hardly possible to overpraise them. You may not feel comfortable watching message movies, but the message of My Beautiful Laundrette is so universal that it never feels like there is a message. That's how you know they did it correctly. "},{"Title":"Offbeat Channel 4 Classic on Immigrant Issue and Gay Romance","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In this Channel 4 classic, Stephen Frears interweaves several contemporary sociopolitical issues in the UK, such as immigrant/fascist conflict and gay romance, into one compelling story of London lowlifes. Two eccentric protagonists, Johnny and Omar, running such an ordinary business like a launderette, is a major factor to distill the film's offbeat quality.There are several interesting shots. One is inside the launderette, when Omar's face on one side of a glass window functions as a mirror to reflect the Johnny's face on the other side. Another one is a long crane shot outside the launderette, while the fascist group is waiting for one of Omar's family members to avenge their buddy.Light and pop theme tune, inspired by the bubble sound, is appropriate for the film. "},{"Title":"Important and amazing movie","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film at the cinema in 1987 and have to so that even now it is one of the best films ever made. It was very important to me whilst I was coming out also. The view it presents of Thatchers Britain divided along lines of class, ethnicity and sexuality is an inditement of her to this day. "},{"Title":"My first gay-related movie","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time a saw the film, was on swedish television network. At that time, homosexuals were not open as much as we are today.At the first glance I found the movie very open on the subject. And when the two actors actually had sex on the table I was thrilled.The actors were very good. The plot was excellent. And it was extremely well directed. So, now I am looking for a copy of the film.This is a film that should have it's place in my gay video collection.  "}{"Title":"This is a difficult movie to love because all the characters are so difficult to like.","Date":"17 December 2013","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is quintessentially 1980s Britain. The look, the music, the people and the love of money--all stereotypes of the 80s. However, what is NOT the essence of the 80s is that the film is about Pakistanis who live in the UK and are becoming wealthy at the expense of everything else--this is unique to this film. What is also very unique is that later in the film there is a gay subplot--something that came as a bit of a surprise as homosexuality wasn't often talked about in the 80s--at least not compared to today.The film is about a young and very money-hungry man, Omar. And, to help him earn his fortune, he goes to work for his even more money-hungry uncle. The uncle, either to test him or to punish him, gives him the unenviable job of running a crappy laundromat. And, through some very underhanded means, Omar and his friend Johnny (Daniel Day-Lewis) make the place a success. But, this is only at the midway point in the film--what's next? Well, see it is it sounds like your sort of thing.While I appreciated the risks the film took and its unusual plot, I found the movie pretty awful. No one was the least bit likable and I just didn't care about any of these soulless jerks. As social commentary, the film does work--as entertainment, it doesn't. "},{"Title":"Intelligent & aren't Johnny and Omar cute?","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like this movie very much, even if I don't know anything about British politics, the class struggle or how to run a business. I don't even know what the characters are talking about half the time, but its obvious that they know, so it doesn't matter.  And  for once its nice to see a gay relationship as part of the movie rather than the reason for the movie.  "},{"Title":"It ain't exactly integration, is it?","Date":"26 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film has undoubtedly the look and feel from the eighties but its central topic, the integration of immigrants into a new society, is very up-to-date, today maybe even more than in the days when the film was produced. The film covers many aspects in this field without really taking a stand, a fact that makes it especially valuable. Stephen Frears does a good job in showing that good integration is not an easy achievement. The movie shows us that it would be much more so if many immigrants were not so stupidly attached to their own traditions, if underprivileged locals did not feel so threatened by the business success of some immigrants and if locals and immigrants showed a greater respect for groups other than their own one. The Pakistani immigrant family in the center of the movie may look integrated but it is only the money from its successful business ventures that is doing the trick. Culturally they are living in a different world, especially the elder women. Probably the witty and intelligent daughter suffers most from this tense atmosphere. Grown up in a free and liberal Society she is expected to stick to the ancient traditions with little respect for female self-determination. Then there is the nephew and main protagonist who is given the chance by his uncle to run a bedraggled laundrette. This chance does not do his character any good. He becomes greedy and arrogant and has his English unemployed and homeless boyfriend work for him and makes him feel who is the one with the money. The uncle's English girlfriend is another interesting character. At first sight, she seems to be very opportunistic in simply looking for the man with the money. During the movie however, we get to know that she likes the man because he is the only one who ever cared for her. In the end after violent acts from the side of the Paki family, we can see her as a lady who hasn't thrown off all her feelings and is still vulnerable in her pride. Homosexuality and its acceptance by society is the second underlying topic of the movie. It can be seen that in those days gay love still had to be practiced in the dark but already was a strong force for the people in concern that no longer would be ignored. The film is also a historic document in the sense that it is showing the effects of Thatcherism on the lower social class. Social welfare was cut down in those days and the movie shows us a considerable amount of young working class people being homeless and overall on the losing end of society. Apart from all that content it is also a very young Daniel Day Lewis who is adding quality to the movie. His unique and fascinating way of gazing at people does not allow for any shallow feelings. In total, a work of substance. No wonder that this movie is one of the most renowned examples for the 80's label 'New British Cinema'. "},{"Title":"multicultural gay love story","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Johnny Burfoot (Daniel Day-Lewis) is a squatter in rundown abandoned houses. Hussein Papa Ali gets his son Omar a job with his successful uncle Nasser at his car wash. Papa is a drunken disillusioned socialist reporter from Bombay. Omar gets hassled by a group of whites but he is saved by their leader Johnny who is his childhood friend. Nasser lets Omar manage the run down laundrette. Omar hires Johnny to work for him.Director Stephen Frears brings some of the new Pakistani flavor into his London movie. I don't think Gordon Warnecke is particularly nuanced and is not really leading man material. Frears has the great fortune of casting Daniel Day-Lewis. He's wonderful and so is Roshan Seth. The look is more or less TV production level. This has some very compelling scenes dealing with very serious issues. "},{"Title":"Hindu propaganda","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There's an ugly anti-English white man streak in the film that paints foreign Hindus living in London as being industrious, productive and discriminated against. I found it so insidiously stupid and contrived and wondered how anyone with a brain would not take this as simplistic Indian propaganda.It is vile and reprehensible to the maximum.Stick with David Lean films, since they don't ostracize British folks.Recommended1957 The Bridge on the River Kwai 1962 Lawrence of Arabia "},{"Title":"Interesting Film In Historical Sense","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An ambitious Asian Briton and his white lover strive for success and hope, when they open up a glamorous laundromat.My Beautiful Laundrette was Stephen Frears' third feature film for the cinema. Originally shot for television, it was first released in cinemas and eventually became his first international success. Today, of course, he is one of the most successful directors in the world. And the story is an excellent snapshot of race, sexual orientation, class and politics in 1980s England.Most interesting, perhaps, is that this film and Room With a View apparently came out on the same day and therefore launched Daniel Day-Lewis to the world stage. He could have been stuck being an obscure actor, but by this impeccable timing, he was immediately recognized as the great that he was / is. "},{"Title":"Omar loves Johnny loves Omar","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Omar and Johnny make two unlikely soul mates, but they are certainly a pair of beautiful color-coordinated lovers. The love scenes are passionate, but skimpy which is the norm for gay couples in so-called mainstream flicks. I like the way the film really does not make a big deal about two good looking sexy guys in love, but focuses more on racism and class issues that plague the UK...and US! Playing a gay character early in his career certainly did not sabotage Daniel Day-Lewis' success in films. Of course, it doesn't hurt that he is also a great actor. Not many straight Hollywood stars have the courage to play gay characters even though gay rumors have often been flung at box office hitters like Will Smith, Kevin Spacey, and Tom Cruise. I wonder if Daniel Day-Lewis would play a gay role at this point in his fabulous career? Speaking of actors playing gay roles, where is that other guy who starred in Brokeback Mountain? And what ever happened to Gordon Warnecke? The fact is there are no plum roles in the UK or US even for a drop dead gorgeous Pakistani actor of color, gay or straight. "},{"Title":"Hard to follow and digest","Date":"18 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My Beautiful Laundrette features the convergence of artists that would become important in the film industry later, namely director Stephen Frears, producer Tim Bevan, and acting powerhouse Daniel Day-Lewis. The film itself is very unique and tonally strange. I'm sure being British would help in the enjoyment of this film. I also had a hard time following the plot as it was presented in an interesting manner. The music is similarly strange, as it features rather cheesy water effects that sound like a dripping faucet somewhat. Daniel Day-Lewis is incredible as always in a role entirely different from what we see him in today. "},{"Title":"Good drama/comedy--not really a gay movie","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Omar (Gordon Warnecke) is a Pakistani boy living in London caring for his sick father. His father gets his uncle to get him a job. Omar starts by washing cars but ends up buying a falling apart launderette from his uncle. He also meets his ex Johnny (Daniel Day-Lewis) a punk British kid. They refurbish the place and start having sex. But Johnny's friends HATE Pakistanis and the class differences between Omar and Johnny threaten to tear them apart.This is often called a gay movie but I disagree. Yes there are two gay characters in it but their love story is just one of many elements. It deals mostly with the war between the British and Pakistani immigrants. The love story consists only of a few long and incredibly uncomfortable kisses. Both of the actors are str8 and (by all accounts) hated the kissing scenes. It comes through clearly on screen. That aside there lots of drama and comedy about Omar and his family and Johnny and his friends. This takes place in 1985 Britain and was originally shot for British TV so I didn't get all the cultural references and know very little about British life back then. Still I was able to pretty much follow it. The acting is very good by the supporting cast but the two leads don't really work. Warnecke is way too naïve to be believable and when he tries to act like he's tough it's laughable. Day-Lewis is VERY badly miscast as a punk. He was about 27 when he did this and looks older. He's a great actor NOW but back then had a lot to learn. Still this was an interesting comedy/drama about 1985 Britain. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, smart and romantic, a classic with so much to say","Date":"7 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My Beautiful Laundrette is most commonly advertised as a drama and comedy, though the richly symbolic romantic aspect between the main two boys is what quietly takes the show. I have never seen a relationship in film that comes close to the classic, inspiring, well-known pair of Johnny and Omar.Johnny, who seemingly takes the lead in their sexual and romantic relationship, is a white, rough-and-tumble street punk caught up in a small gang and going nowhere. Omar is a bright-eyed, handsome Pakistani boy who takes care of his father, and when a taste of work comes his way, wants nothing more than big money and to prove the country he lives in will not beat him. Johnny's lust and love for Omar is apparent from the start, and in a handsomely unique and unpredictable fashion, their business relationship is reversed on terms of who leads who, providing an interesting dynamic between them.Omar's warm, eager demeanor and Johnny's quiet, sideways glances tell the audience about the previous foundation of their past relationship within the first twenty seconds of their meeting. I couldn't imagine that sort of raw, unspoken integrity ever being so successfully accomplished without these two actors and the fantastic chemistry between their characters.Johnny's absolute loyalty to Omar is heartwarming, promising, and honest. He wants nothing more than to prove his love and partnership with everything he has, and he offers it all - his work, his love, and sex. Omar reciprocates his love with forgiveness and, despite being the boss in their business relationship, his consistent admiration toward Johnny is apparent, deep and romantic. He changes into a more confident and proud man with Johnny by his side.Daniel Day-Lewis(Johnny) and Gordon Warnecke(Omar)'s performances were, I will say once more, just spectacular. I have never seen any bit of film quite as passionate, honest nor as erotic as the scene where Johnny and Omar make love. I've been inspired by seeing the tenderness and moving passion of both their love and general partnership - their compatibility is demonstrated by their determination to stay together, despite what happens in the midst of the insanity the film provides.I will say that it is also very real, however, and therefore it does have its rough moments and ups and downs like any relationship between two people should. I won't say too much aside from that I thought the ending was sweet and it took me by surprise, not bothering with a few loose ties if only to inspire lovely ambiguity.There is much more to My Beautiful Laundrette than Johnny and Omar's romantic relationship, but the symbolism it serves - as representing the hopeful future, their business, how the world sees them - relates to all aspects of the film. Daniel Day-Lewis and Gordon Warnecke's performances alone are enough of a reason to give it a watch.If you'd like to see a smart, witty, beautiful love story rich in symbolism and more substance than a single review could do justice for, I'd recommend you do yourself a favor by watching My Beautiful Laundrette. "}{"Title":"Brilliant British cult classic","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My Beautiful Launderette is an inspired movie and a perfect example of how the British manage to make brilliant, (fairly) low-budget movies. Gorden Warnecke plays Omar Ali, the go-getting son of an alcoholic Pakistani father and Daniel Day-Lewis is 'Johnny', an 'ex-thug' who is Omar's on again/off again lover. Launderette could be interpreted as a film about racism, implied homophobia, and the British class system and does indeed comprise all these themes but without offering answers, without passing judgement, without obvious heroes and/or villains and with a minimal pity quotient for those who get the bad end of the stick.The plot is simple, and almost incidental to the movie, but does provide a good vehicle for the more obvious subjects covered. Omar's Uncle, a seemingly successful businessman, offers Omar a fruitless, failing, shabby, thug-filled launderette to run, maybe as a test of the boy's ambition and drive, and as a favour to Omar's father. Johnny, being on the dole, and having just been kicked out of his lodgings for, one presumes, some nefarious, petty crimes, hooks up once more with Omar and together they get to work beautifying the launderette. There is much irony in Launderette, including the fact that Johnny has only just broken away from the brutish gang of disaffected, unemployed, racist youth and, despite being in love with Omar all along, participated readily in racist attacks and, along with his fellow hooligans, referred to all Asians as 'Pakis'. This classic film paints a very accurate picture of the British recession in the mid 80s which gave rise to an 'underclass' of sorts, who either couldn't find work, or didn't want to work and quite gladly lived 'on the dole' for months or years. The unemployed white youth provide an obvious contrast to the hard working Asians, giving rise to an illogical, but all too real phenomenon of resentment toward the Asians who 'have taken all the jobs'. Another striking contrast is that between Omar and Johnny; Omar's ambitiousness and Johnny's lack of a work ethic, Omar's ethnicity and Johnny's erstwhile racism; Omar's optimism (almost verging on naivety) and Johnny's jaded, indifferent disposition. Launderette also astutely demonstrates the disparity between the older and younger Asian generations; the 'elders' having been raised in almost certain hardship in Pakistan, immigrating to England, finding jobs, working hard and making money, while their children grow up in England, in the midst of a recession and have the same jaded, cynical views on work and society as their white counterparts. Daniel Day-Lewis is phenomenal as the conflicted Johnny who may appear to be a mindless, lazy, none too bright, trouble-making ruffian but doesn't really care about risking the destruction of his 'bad boy' reputation when he shows such sensitivity to Omar and thoroughly immerses himself in the challenge of revamping the launderette. It is at this point that we see what power Omar has over Johnny and they fall into a virtual boss/unpaid employee role. The irony is that Omar's extended family may appear to be successful but much of their power and wealth comes through the dodgy dealings of Omar's cousin Salim, the 'cool' and brutish 'king pin', played excellently by Derrick Branche. Salim is the one with, supposedly, all the 'power'. But his money and 'power' within his Pakistani community mean little in the end. Racism prevails and he is just another 'Paki' at the mercy of vicious louts.My Beautiful Launderette is bleak yet hopeful, brutal yet sensitive, optimistic yet dispiriting. It offers more questions than it proffers answers, illustrates the brutal pointlessness of racism without presenting any solutions or any justice for its victims. It is objective, unsentimental, intelligent and captivating and I believe it deserves to be regarded as a classic of our times. "},{"Title":"Still The Best Laundrette In Town","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Critically acclaimed, My Beautiful Laundrette is a true masterpiece of British cinema, a remarkable film detailing a collide of cultures, minds and values set against a backdrop of Thatcher's troubled and dysfunctional Britain. The incredible images, impressive camera work, superb cinematography combined with an epic screen play with intricately created dialogue of a highly charged and provocative story make this one of the greatest British films, not just of the eighties, but of all time. Directed by Stephen Frears and written by Hanif Kureishi, My Beautiful Laundrette took the world by storm in 1985/86 for its portrayal of gay love, homophobia, racism, capitalism and colliding cultures in such a vibrant and honest way. It was truly a landmark film and for any gay teenager growing up in the 80's a tour de force of hope and possibility. It seemed to come with such authentic honesty that many at the time believed it must have come from the mind of a gay man; however, Hanif Kureishi the writer was a heterosexual male with an incredible vision and remarkable ability.Essentially this is the story of life, love and passion, a love story set during rapidly changing society during a time of great differences between those that have and those that didn't and those trying to moving between the two.Described like this, it is perhaps hard to see why it was such an important and landmark film, yet it managed to encapsulate all the tensions of the economically troubled times with panache and tenacious realistic style. There are numerous aspects of importance at work here, not least the prejudicial racial tensions, demonstrated on both sides of the English / Asian divide, which were oh so common during those days of Thatcher's Britain. Homophobia ran rampant and unchallenged by authority indeed it was practised most by the Tory government and so homosexuality was also a key ingredient to this film along with the rather matter of fact way it was presented, which left little room for argument. There are also issues evolving around the merging of Asian ancestral behavioural and cultural loyalties with the British way of living, which often does not run smoothly. As this was originally a 'made for TV' movie it could quite easily have descended into soap opera and over sentimentality, yet it managed to stay way above that line, thankfully so. Also with comedic touches here and there it is prevented from falling into a possible gloomy pit of self-obsessed depression, again this is a fine testament to the skills of both the writer and director. My Beautiful Laundrette remains to this day a wonderful and remarkable piece of British cinema.Read more and find out where this film made it in the Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time book, search on Amazon for Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time, or visit - http//www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B007FU7HPO "},{"Title":"A drama portraying a romance between two people of very different background","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is about two young men from very different backgrounds falling in love in a rough neighbourhood in London.Though the film production itself is not particularly charming or memorable, I find the underlying messages rather fascinating. Omar is a Pakistani young man with budding success in business. Johnny, on the other hand, is a white punk who spends his time by terrorising others, especially the immigrants. They build a relationship despite their extremely different and mutually exclusive background. This alone is beautiful and touching, as it shows that love has no boundaries. Other subplots such as Johnny being torn between Omar and his punk friends is also interesting.Though the relationship between Omar and Johny is inadequately built up, it is well portrayed and sustained later in the film. The love scenes are restrained but beautiful. The film also shows how hard it is for two people of divergent backgrounds to keep their relationship alive. The only complaint I have is the rather ambiguous ending, which leaves me feeling unsatisfied.My Beautiful Laundrette lacks sugar coating or fluffiness, which makes it ever more real and direct. It breathes positivity into the lives of minorities, even within a turbulent and intolerant society. "},{"Title":"Good film but rough","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to say Daniel Day-Lewis did a great job playing a punk. Although he didn't seem to have a very good fashion sense, I thought the jacket he had on was too bright. Anyways at least that was only one hiccup out of him!This film tells you a lot of British Indian immigrants and the racism involving it. It can be quite scary to have someone wanting to harm you because of the way you were born to be. Also, I found it scary that Omar's cousin hurt him like he was his flesh and blood. How could you do that to someone especially part of your family members?! I tell ya, he always freaked me out whenever he appeared in the movie! Thankfully, he apologised and never did anything horrible to Omar again!I thought everyone involved in this film did a pretty grand job, hats off to you all! "},{"Title":"Dated yet entertaining and touching","Date":"28 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Stephen Frears' My Beautiful Laundrette is very 80s and dated to watch today. The topics touched may seem out-of-context at places but considering the year it was made, 1985, it is a very well made bold attempt to explore multiple social issues in a very entertaining manner.Set in a lower-middle class Pakistani immigrant family, the film explores the sky-high ambitions of the youngest member, Omar. As we take part in his journey, we witness bashing of 'Pakis' by the white 'punks', his relation with an old English friend Johnny, drug trafficking, inter- racial relationships and a lot more. The film touches all of this without taking them too personally of giving one of them primary importance. It shows what is there, with the audience left to interpret them.Hanif Qureshi's screenplay is a hidden gem. Although the film can get slow at times, but the screenplay perfectly travels through the multiple happenings at various places. The characters also develop very well, especially Johnny and Naseer. The only Academy nomination for him is well deserved. The film also benefits a lot from Frears' direction, which keeps the film's low-key atmosphere intact. Supporting him very well is Oliver Stapleton's cinematography which is very average, maybe due to the budget, but gets the mood right. Camera-work is excellent by the way.The actors are left to enhance the rest and they nail it. Saeed Jaffrey, Daniel Day- Lewis, Rita Wolf are in top-forms in their significant supporting roles. Day-Lewis is especially good even when he speaks very little throughout. Gordon Warnecke displays the right amount of wit, ambition, charm and desperation. Roshan Seth is lovable. His interaction with Jaffrey in the end is one of the best moments in the film. It's wonderful to see them together.It's really hard to criticize this film as every aspect is very good. A very well put together independent film from the 80s that launched the careers of Day-Lewis and Frears. "},{"Title":"advice to a viewer use closed caption","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i doubt this comment contains any spoilers but i wanted to err on the side of caution and not risk getting blacklisted. i am not very enthusiastic about posting comments about movies or making any addition to the information overload present on the inter-webs. but i could not stop myself from advising any potential viewer of this movie to please use closed caption when watching this movie. it will enhance your experience and will facilitate you getting it. granted this is spoken from a u.s. citizen, so the accents and the idioms are not as easily deciphered by my ears.i get the distinct feeling that some of the negative commentary on this movie is based, at least in part, on the fact that the meaning and the why is not spoon-fed to the viewer as is so often the case in American (u.s.) movies. it is a tragedy when people are disappointed by a film because they are asked to think for themselves. although there are many reasons i admire this film, the one reason that seems most relevant here it is not dumbed down.please enjoy the film, utilizing your closed caption. "},{"Title":"Moviewonderful,Daniel Day-Lewisgreat","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  like another user who commented on this movie, i'm not familiar with the hardships that these characters had to go through. heck i wasn't even born until a year after it was made! but this movie caught my eye, 1. because in it was Daniel Day-Lewis, who to me is one of the greatest actors and 2. because of its title. i didnt know what the movie was about but i said my beautiful launderette, now i've got to see this movie. but most people will read the summary of the movie and think gay lover movie. no. that's not what this is about at all. this movie doesnt revolve around the fact that the two characters are gay. it shows us that they are but that's not the reason for this movie. its about the pressures these two characters have during this time period (the 80s)and how they deal with it-and how to start a good laundry mat. if you want to see a good movie that will leave you with something to think about, get this one. "},{"Title":"Divided between two worlds...","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gordon Warnecke plays an ambitious Pakistani youth in South London who uses his entrepreneur uncle's shady contacts to help build up the business establishment his uncle put him in charge of a shabby laundromat. Warnecke's partner is his childhood pal (a very green Daniel Day-Lewis), who has since become one of the white street toughs who roam the area, looking for trouble. The whites--fascists who look down on the Pakistanis as subservient--don't see that the Pakis are far more willing to raise their standards of living, which causes turmoil for the partner (employed at something for the very first time) who is torn between his two loyalties. Calling the young men at the heart of the story 'lovers' is a bit of a stretch; director Stephen Frears casually engages the characters in a sexual after-hours relationship, which is frisky if a bit tentative (and self-conscious). The adults are far more interesting anyway, with Saeed Jaffrey giving a beautifully understated performance as the happily rapacious uncle who wants to be treated like a king. Frears, with a good sense of these characters, manages to create a world that is gritty and surreal at the same time; still, he gets the film off to such a slipshod start that many viewers might not have the patience to allow the story to build. It does, but slowly. Originally intended for British television, the film won over film festival audiences and was distributed internationally, eventually receiving an Academy Award nomination for Hanif Kureishi's (quite) original screenplay. ** from **** "},{"Title":"HIDDEN PHOBIES FROM LONDON IN THE EIGHTIES","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It never was supposed to be the cultmovie it is now, but My Beautiful Laundrette was originally a film directed for TV. You know being shown on some Saturdayevening and then to dissapear in the nothing, but it launched the success of both Stephen Frears and Daniel Day-Lewis (whose stardom would be completed in The unbearable lightness of being. For this movie you have to go back into the 80's (just look at Lewis hilarious haircut that will remind you of 80's popicon Limahl from Kajagoogoo) and of course you are forced with Thatcherism. It was a hard time for the social classes back then and apart from poverty there were the two phobias Britain was facing (homosexualism...remember it was in the days AIDS was seen as the punishment for the gays...and the rise of the National Front, the fascist party of Britain). Frears gave a sort of starting shoot for British directors to leave the path of the British comedy or Victorian tales... Just telling the problems like they were and with this Frears directed a very vivid cinema. Even if the problems are big (from heroine to upbeating innocent immigrants) Frears always keep the smile alive and he is just giving his message without preaching. You know where the problem lies but how the viewer react to it is his business only. To tell the story in a short way (impossible though). Daniel Day Lewis who used to wander the streets with his fascist mates meet Omar, a Pakistanian immigrant who is supposed to study at the uni but due to his  uncle (a man who is earning money in his way) but ends up working for him as he is totally blinded by the good lifestyle of his uncle. Lewis who cant find a job decides to team up with Omar and working on their dream...the most modern laundrette in town! Working for immigrants not only distracts him from his fascist friends but it is getting worser when Lewis falls in love with his collegue... The love between gays is never criticised (not even by Omar's family, we never see the family of Johnny) but during the whole movie we see that the love of the two is seen with eyes that don't understand.As said tons of other movies would end up in dramas or preaching movies (with the usually happy end) but Frears directs it in a sober view, just like he is directing some documentary in where all feelings are lost. Later Frears directed some other great movies (The Hit, Prick Up Your Ears, The Snapper) till he was taken by the Hollywoodbrigade at where he ended up as a very mediocre director. A shame as we know, so enjoy the movie that started it all. Good story, good directing, good playing....a big 7! "},{"Title":"what an odd little movie","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   I think I liked it... I kind of had to think about it for a while after I saw it. It was on IFC and I was bored so I decided to just give it a try, plus Daniel Day Luis was in it. I ended up being surprised by the love part of the story, It sort of kicks you in the head and wakes you up a bit. Daniel Day Luis resembles a much nicer looking Vanilla Ice, but manages to stay quite handsome. It was an interesting take on racism and emigration. I would recommend it to anyone who likes odd little movies with a little spark of something magic in them. The only complaint I have would be the ending, I felt like things were a bit unresolved so I was somewhat unsatisfied, but looking back on it I did enjoy it overall. "}{"Title":"Way, way over-hyped","Date":"16 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My Beautiful Laundrette is one of the most over-hyped movies I've ever seen. But then again there's an explanation As one of the first ever real gay-themed movies, it was praised just for the very fact it talked about the Pakistani community and had a gay aspect. Two things that just weren't done before. But does it make it a good movie? No. It's long, boring, difficult to understand because it jumps from scene to scene without ever really settling on anything, and there are two many characters introduced at the same time (most with mind-numbingly boring story lines), too many things that are implied but never really said out loud. It could be subtle but it just ends up being confusing. In the end, it's a movie that wants to be about being gay, but also about being Pakistani in London, but also about being a white thug / homeless young guy in 80s London, but also about being a young closeted guy, and also about a guy turning an old business into a new shiny one, while also being about drug dealers, and about standing up to your community for love (a la Romeo and Juliette). In short, the film never knows what it wants to be about, and all is lost. I think most people who love this movie are the people who saw it when it had just come out and THEY had just come out as well (or were about to, or something) - I'm sure there's a very emotional connection to this movie for a lot of people, that is completely unrelated to the actual film's worth. "},{"Title":"More definite direction needed","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film that launched Stephen Frear's career, My Beautiful Laundrette was originally only released for British TV., yet it was so immensely popular that it was subsequently re-released for the cinema years later.Saeed Jaffrey, Daniel Day Lewis, Roshan Seth and all the supporting cast perform well in this insightful drama of racial tensions, forbidden love and South London culture. The movie is always believable, but it's sadly spoiled by a patchy script, poor editing and the complete lack of resolution.Frears exposes the ugly side of these people well, yet he fails to make any firm statement. A little more definite direction was needed here.Monday, October 25, 1993 - Video "},{"Title":"The Brokeback Gandhi Fountain","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My Beautiful Laundrette is essentially a TV soap opera made as a film. The story, such as it is, is of the favourite nephew of a Pakistani businessman in 1980's South London who turns a rundown launderette into a glamorous launderette by using money he made from stealing heroin from his cousin, or other uncle. I'm not sure which. He also has a gay affair with Daniel Day-Lewis, a gay ex-neo-nazi punk, and decides to marry his second cousin, who is a young, forward-thinking London Asian rebelling against traditional family values. YAWN.In the '80's I suppose the depiction on mainstream TV and cinema of gay interracial kissing and fondling was quite daring. The fact that this is thrown into MBL simply for thrill value is pathetic; it has no relevance to the story, and the issues raised are not explored in any meaningful way, either emotionally or politically.In any case, Gordon Warnecke's performance as Omar, the hero of MBL is so amateurish as to defy belief. Whether it's bad writing or bad direction or just bad technique, he makes me feel I'm watching a third- rate school drama production. Daniel Day-Lewis is good in spite of the aforementioned bad script and direction (and bad editing and bad music and sound and bad costume design and bad hairdressing), but the clincher is the late Saeed Jaffrey, who has a line, 'I'm a professional businessman, not a professional Pakistani!'. Well I'm sorry Saeed, that's all you ever were. As an actor, you were always an absolute ham.I can understand how nostalgia for the 80's emergence of gay rights, and also the fact that the London experience of Pakistanis is little represented on film, might make people think MBL is better than it is, but trust me, it's dreadful. "},{"Title":"My Beautiful Laundrette","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From director Stephen Frears (High Fidelity, Mrs. Henderson Presents, The Queen), I think it is obvious how I heard about this British drama film, yep, the gay material. Basically it is set in the Asian community of London during the era of Thatcherism in the 1980s, mainly in the part where they rely on small businesses to get by, in particular, the local laundrette. Omar Ali (Gordon Warnecke) is to run the laundrette belonging to his Uncle Nasser (BAFTA nominated Saeed Jaffrey), because of the recommendation of his father Hussein 'Papa' Ali (Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom's Roshan Seth). Omar hires his old friend from growing up, outsider Johnny (Daniel Day-Lewis) at first to wash cars in the garage business he also runs, and then to help the running of the laundrette. After the laundrette is refurbished to become Powders Laundrette, Omar and Johnny start to develop feelings for each other to the point when they are kissing and having a passionate love scene. Omar knows that he has an arranged marriage coming up, where he will be coupled with his cousin Tania N. Ali (Rita Wolf), but luckily his Uncle Nasser is none the wiser. I can't remember how it happened, but the end of the film sees the gang that Johnny hangs out with causes chaos in the town, but him and Omar I suppose remain together. Also starring Derrick Branche as Salim N. Ali, Shirley Anne Field as Rachel, Souad Faress as Cherry N. Ali and Richard Graham as Genghis. Day-Lewis makes a good performance, and Warnecke is really good too, the most memorable scene of the film is indeed the moment when they together and Day-Lewis sips champagne passing it mouth to mouth, it is a drama to see. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen, and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Original Screenplay. Daniel Day-Lewis was number 85 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was number 20 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, he was number 9 on Britain's Finest Actors, and he was number 15 on The World's Greatest Actor, and the film was number 62 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments, it was number 95 on The 100 Greatest Films, and it was number 43 on The 50 Greatest British Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"waste of time","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My precious time has just been wasted for My Beautiful Laundrette. I had heard much about this film. I had heard and read positive comments. Many people chose this film for their top-ten every gay must see at least ten times in their lives films list) Alright, the 80's were hard times for some or a lot of people in England and probably in other places as well. There were racial and sexual discriminations and conflicts between some political and/or racial groups and I didn't know much about that and I'm more informed now -hooray!- but this film is not a documentary and it is lost in some unnecessarily-highlighted and some inadequately-clarified details at times. The plot seemed good to me at first but when I saw that it was weakened by the useless and sometimes absurd details in the script, I was disappointed. The music didn't fully reflect the period or the cultural differences and acting was generally fair. Although I didn't like the film in many ways, the connotation between Omar's father and the condition of England during the 80's was satisfactory. "},{"Title":"only noteworthy for the subject matter","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is a poorly directed, written, and edited film. Still, it could have been saved with a strong performance for the role of Omar. Instead, it is impossible to tell whether capitalism has corrupted Omar or if he has battled it. The movie jumps into pivotal crises (like when Omar is reunited with Johnny, whose friends are 'attacking' Omar's car) and glosses over potential powerful interactions (like the closing conversation between Omar's father and Uncle. The whole thing left me with a very disappointed feeling, especially since it did not suffer from trying to tackle too much (such as a film like Higher Learning or Boyz in the Hood, both of which get bogged down by subject matter). Instead, the artists responsible end up making themselves look like doltish film students who just happen to have daniel day lewis at their disposal... "},{"Title":"Awful!!!!","Date":"4 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Saw this last night. Fell asleep within 15 minutes. So boring!!!! Woke up and saw the last 40 minutes and wondered what was this movie about. Soo stupid, chopped up!!! I love Daniel Day Lewis, he is one of my fav actors but this movie did him an injustice Thankfully, it was one of his earliest movies. As for the other main character,it was hard trying to watch him and Tania was a bore. What was her purpose in the movie? What was the purpose of this movie? Will try other Gay-Themed movies like Shelter, Shank, Beautiful Thing, Back Soon, Latter Days and Second Skin (early movie with Javier Bardem). Peace love and soul!!!! Smooches Xoxoxo daffywak "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'd been keen to watch this since seeing Frears' lovely 'Dirty Pretty Things' but this was a big letdown.  The scenario is a fascinating one, and Kureishi is an important playwright, but this text could seriously have done with adapting for the screen.  The dialogue is absurdly unrealistic and stilted, I'm sure it would work on stage but it just doesn't work on film. The leading performances are terrible, even from Daniel Day Lewis.  Saeed Jaffrey and Roshan Seth redeem the performances but at times the deliberate ambiguity of the dialogue leaves you fuming at the lack of congruence.4/10 "},{"Title":"I wouldn't have expected such a disaster!!! Shame on you Stephen Frears!","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really dislike this film. It presents too many minor topics which melt together, although it seems that they have nothing to do with each other. So Stephen Frears produces an unnecessary confusion and the plot seems to be everything but credible. Furthermore, the embarrassing love story between Omar and Johnny, that appears from one to the other second, doesn't make any progress with the plot. So the viewers wonder Why the hell are they falling in love? There wasn't any sign of a gay love story in the film before! Probably the author(Hanif Kureishi)of the book tried to make his work more interesting. Unfortunately, the opposite is the case. My Beautiful Laundrette is one of a few films that doesn't have a rising tension. Actually it doesn't have any tension at all.Besides, Stephen Frears is a master in destroying the atmosphere of a film by putting in stupid and ridiculous music that could be composed by a mentally ill person.Finally, the viewer begins to wonder what the movie is about and there is one simple answer The movie is about nothing. Therefore, watching My Beautiful Laundrette is nothing but a waste of time. "},{"Title":"A par Europic","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My Beautiful Laundrette is a dramady involving a group of Pakastanis in England, some local hoodlums, and a laundromat. The story is about one Pakistani man (Warnecke) and a long time Englishman friend (Day-Lewis) who both live on the wrong side of the tracks as they grope for success in the laundromat business while coping with the usual culture clashing, old school ethnic adult attitudes, their gayness, etc. The film has little to fault but most, especially Americans not into foreign films, will find it a bit tedious and far afield. Recommended for Bollywood film fans and others into foreign flix with a mid-Eastern flavor. (B-) "}{"Title":"Just a lil' bit boring really","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie in my opinion wasn't really all that ( It didn't have a single thing which grabbed my attention, the characters seemed to be deviod of all life and purpose for some reason and if it wasn't for the gay sub plot then i would have lost interest in this movie along time ago.This movie just doesn't have anything worth watching in it, at times i just thought it was plain baffling and at other times i couldn't understand what the hell was happening! Its soo confusing! All in all, my personal opinion is that i've seen much better plain and simple. "},{"Title":"This movie is downright horrible, Avoid at all cost.","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Seriously, I can't believe my eyes. This film has received an average vote of 7 out of 10!?!? I was in the cinema tonight, watching this movie at the Gay & Lesbian film festival with my boyfriend and two friends, and this was WITHOUT EXCEPTION THE WORST MOVIE I'VE EVER SEEN! Why? For the following reasons1. The STORY - or lack of same - is HORRIBLE. Not just bad, but horrible. Someone should have told the author that when you write a story you need to a) Have something on your mind that you want to tell the reader/receiver; b) have a red line in the movie that connects the scenes, persons and events; and c) reach a conclusion in the end of the story. Unfortunately, story has neither. The events are totally rambled up, the focus seems to be moved at least a dozens of times during the (all to long) length of the movie, sudden events come without any purpose, explanation or, worst of all, point.2. The ACTING is INCREDIBLY LOUSY. Nothing really more to be said. Daniell Day Lewis looks nice, but the acting is just so incredibly amateur-like that I couldn't believe it.3. The DIALOGUE is Awful. There was one - ONE - line in the whole movie that actually worked (when the uncle says I'm a professional businessman, not a professional Pakisthani. The rest just screams 'I'm a 11 year old trying to write a screenplay'.4. The CUTTING is - I'm running out of bad words hear, so I'll just stick to horrible, cause that pretty much sums it up. When the cutting is done well you won't really notice it, but in this movie the cutting is done in all the wrong places - either too soon or too late.On the bottom line, you might think There might be some redeeming qualities, there must be something good to say about this movie. But there's not. Sorry. But I have nothing good to say. It just downright horrible.1 out of 10. That's a minimum. Avoid at all cost. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this movie was absolutely horrible - nominated for an Oscar, yo must seriously be joking! I saw this at my school, learning about realism-film and i've watched it twice and I still don't get it. I thought it was weird how all of the sudden the main-character and Johnny just start making out, it had nothing to do with the film, why did it have to be in there - it just doesn't make sense! I will agree that it definitely shows the racial-differences in England, and it shows a change in culture and the class-systems, but if you would have let the guys stay away from each other, the meaning of the movie would have come across so much better! Im not saying if have anything against them kissing - it just confused the whole point of the movie! Sorry - but that's my opinion. "},{"Title":"Just Awful","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film had been sitting in our DVD collection for years before i watched it. now i regret doing so! the most boring hour and half of my life. The story line was pointless, the acting was appalling and some bits of the film were just so unnecessary. The whole film felt like it was written for a school play by students who haven't got a choice but want to be taken as a more mature acting (this is relevant to the context of the storyline) There was no intimacy between any of the characters and i don't understand how they suddenly went from old school friends to taking their clothes off. And the fight scene right at the end just topped it off. almost felt like a playground fight with other children just watching, shouting encouragement to the two fighting.I would avoid purchasing and watching this film because its just so awful. "}]