[{"Title":"Exceptionally good British film-making","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  MONA LISA is a complex, intriguing, multi-faceted combination of black comedy, love story, crime drama and adult thriller that demands repeated viewings in order to successfully peel back the various layers and get to the heart of the matter. What you find there is entirely up to you, but I believe it to be a sad and sensitive portrayal of a small-time crook trying to fit into a world that simultaneously rejects and baffles him following his belated release from prison. Hoskins, once again stunning in a role that could have been written for him, is never too naive and never too streetwise, more of an amiable combination of the two. There are obvious paralells to his unforgettable character in THE LONG GOOD FRIDAY - in that film, his character was a murderous thug who somehow remained worth caring about (largely by virtue of his utter confusion at the collapse of his criminal empire at the hands of forces unknown), whereas here, Hoskins' character is appealing because he displays an inner core of utmost decency - he seems shocked by the depths of depravity the underworld has stooped to in his absence, he is stunned by his ex-wife's refusal to let him see his daughter, and even the sight of his tall, thin, black tart (a brilliantly understated performance by Cathy Tyson) pleasuring an obese businessman with some light bondage leaves him disgusted and furious. In the film's latter stages, he simmers and seethes like a faulty pressure cooker, and having been by his side throughout his singularly upsetting voyage of discovery, we can share his rage and frustration.If I had to pick fault with MONA LISA, then that fault lies in Robbie Coltrane's unconvincing performance as a wheeler-dealer who writes detective stories and sells plastic foodstuffs. It isn't Coltrane's fault that the character seems contrived and tacked on to the story just to make things a little more abstruse (one of director Neil Jordan's most consistent failings), but he seems to be plodding through his role indifferently, rather than living it the way Caine and Hoskins are. Nonetheless, MONA LISA is a very fine film and one that should be seen and digested by anyone with an interest in British crime cinema. "},{"Title":"Complex Mystery for Adults","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"32 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bob Hoskins made two widely popular movies in the 1980s and this was one of them. Having seen the other, The Long Good Friday, I wasn't expecting too much but was pleasantly surprised. Hoskins, just out of the slams, is hired to drive a high-end black hooker, Cathy Tyson, from one wealthy client to another. He grows to care for her and when she asks him for a favor, find a strung-out young girl named Kathy, a former roomie of hers, he agrees. He searches the seedier places of London until he finally digs her up. She very young and very hooked. Robbie Coltrane is Hoskins' friend, and Michael Caine is a sort of procurer. The ending is both distressing and violent -- distressing because some of these characters are fully fleshed and we feel we've come to know them. The film is quite nicely done. The score makes much use of Nat King Cole's ballad, Mona Lisa, evoking mystery, and it's appropriate. The composer has worked what seem to be endless variations of the first four notes of the theme into the score. We hear it in the background often, in minor key, or played exclusively on double bass, or burnished by horns. Those four notes insinuate themselves into the incidental music so often that a listener loses the sense that they are the introduction to a pop song and they come to have an ominous functional autonomy, disembodied from the simple tune that prompted it. They become their own song.The acting is fine. Bob Hoskins is an essentially moral guy, short and unprepossesing, who first shows up on screen wearing an echt-1970s bell-bottomed leisure suit (he's been in for seven years, remember) and carrying a bouqet of flowers that his wife, berserk with anger, tells him what to do with. His gradual attraction to his passenger is nicely laid out, as are the reasons for his occasional displays of violence. He's a sensitive guy, but not too thoughtful. A lot of things get by him. But, to be fair, they get by the viewer too.There's an element of humor running through the film, mostly expressed in the relationship between Hoskins and Coltrane, who plays a writer and a sculptor of things made of plastic spaghetti. (The Japanese have cornered the market.) The dialogue is pretty funny in a low-key way. Hoskins and Coltrane sit watching TV and Hoskins remarks something like, Remember that guy who was murdered? Well, I did it. Coltrane You're not joking? Hoskins (turning and staring grimly) I -- never -- joke. Coltrane You used to tell that one about the randy gorilla. And here is Hoskins describing his passenger, telling Coltrane that she's not out to exploit him, Hoskins, because she's a lady. Coltrane A lady? I thought you said she was a tart. Hoskins Well -- she is, but she's a f****** lady too. And Cathy Tyson almost beggars description, tall, slender, lithe, not staggeringly beautiful or sexy, but her appeal extends far beyond mere appearance. She's gorgeous in the most personal way. She tends to keep her face down and her eyes lowered, almost demurely, and her voice is soft and low, just above a whisper, although you never have to strain to hear what she's saying because her pronunciation is modulated and precise. It's soothing, in control and at the same time reassuring, the voice of an announcer on a late-night FM station playing nothing but classical music. You could listen to her for hours. You could look at her for hours too, for that matter. Michael Caine doesn't have a big or showy part, but he's so reliable that he's always a pleasure to see on screen. I can't think of a single film that has been damaged by his presence, although he's been in a few bummers. The photography is perceptive. We get a good deal of local color not only from the London locations but from the seaside, where everything comes to a head. There isn't a lot of violence. What there is of it is quick and pointed. See it if you get the chance. "},{"Title":"True grit and grime","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is one of the best to have come out of Britain in the 1980's. Produced by Handmade Films, George Harrison's company, the film won several BAFTA awards and deservedly so. The film deals with an ex-con named George, played by Bob Hoskins who gives a fantastic performance, who is given a job by his old boss, Mortwell, as played by Michael Cain (another fantastic performance). George is now the chauffeur for a high-class prostitute and the story revolves around her educating him on the finer cuts of life with the result of him falling in love with her. It's a powerful film, showing the gritty side of the London underworld and it cannot go wrong with two of the best ever performances from the masters - Bob Hoskins and Michael Caine. These two men know how to play these roles. A true lesson for any actor. "},{"Title":"Well, let's say you're a lady.  - George (Bob Hoskins)","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Neil Jordan's 'Mona Lisa' is a great film that was sadly forgotten over time, even though Hoskins got an Oscar nomination for the film. 'Mona Lisa' follows a basically good guy whose made some bad choices George (Bob Hoskins) and his return from prison. Shunned from his wife and some of his old buddies, George feels kind of unwanted but gets a job from his old boss (Michael Caine) chauffeuring a call girl (Cathy Tyson) around at night. The call girl and George form a bond, while the story turns into violence, crime and George and the call girl's search for a young innocent teenage girl forced into prostitution. In my opinion, 'Mona Lisa' is one of Jordan's best films if not his best. Hoskins is absolutely amazing in his role, while Cathy Tyson and Michael Caine provide solid performances as well. Clarke Peters (who you may know as Detective Freeman from HBO's brilliant dramatic series 'The Wire') is also in this as Cathy Tyson's evil and psychotic pimp. For all you indie fans out there, rush to the Blockbuster near you to rent 'Mona Lisa' (make sure it's not 'Mona Lisa Smile', that movie is a tad bit different.) Most likely, you'll find a lot to enjoy and/or admire about this little British indie gem. Grade B+ "},{"Title":"**** (Out of four)","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mona Lisa is one of those weird Neil Jordan dramedies which resound with more ferocity upon afterthought than while actually watching it.  Like The Crying Game, I was left with no immediate impression of the movie, but days after watching it, I became haunted by the film's ingratiating reality.  You can tell you're watching a good movie when you can describe it as atmospheric without the film trying overtly to reach for that effect.Bob Hoskins stars as George, and as we first see him, he is lulling along a dismal London apartment neighborhood with a plastic bag and a fistful of flowers.  As he reaches his destination, the audience soon realizes what a heartbroken journey this man's life has been.  Indeed his good intentions at seeing his wife and daughter are mired by the wife's stubborn, yet understandable reaction of slamming the door in her ex-convict husband's face.Soon George is hired by the callous gangster Mortwell (Michael Caine) as a chauffeur for the high-class call girl Simone (Cathy Tyson).  He is at first repelled by the tall black tart, as she remarks about his slovenly appearance.  In a subplot structured like a revisionist feminine Pygmalion, George is made over by the prostitute into the appearance of a gentleman, a contempestuous appearance which only magnifies his good-hearted nature in comparison with the cold-blooded Mortwell.Soon, however, George and Simone strike a bond seemingly based on a mutual affection for the souls lurking beneath each facade.  Simone details to George an old blonde friend named Cathy still working the streets and implores him to rescue her.  Jordan builds upon the elements of Taxi Driver here and even pays homage to that film in one scene depicting the front end of George's automobile backlit by a seedy district filled with peep shows and pedophiles.Of course George is starting to fall for his elegant charge, but his feelings are more of a fatherly nature than anything. Simone seems to feed off this affection, as she states that she does no more than drink tea at the behest of her clients and even provides snapshots of her doing so.  This is why it comes as even more of a shock to George when he accidentally discovers a porn video featuring Simone at the provocation of things which her innocent demeanor had previously rendered him incapable of imagining.Much of Mona Lisa is built around human desperation, and indeed one can sense that George, like Travis Bickle or Jimmy Stewart in Vertigo, is attempting to erroneously place the puzzled-together image of the perfect woman into the jagged emotional contours of his love interest.  Of course the title implies this, and Jordan reinforces this symbolization with not only the Da Vinci painting and the Nat King Cole ballad, but with the incandescent statues of the Virgin Mary which his friend (Robbie Coltrane) collects.  This is unarguably Hoskins' best performance, in a career entirely overlooked by even the most driven of film fanatics. After roles in The Long Good Friday, Pink Floyd The Wall, this, Who Framed Roger Rabbit, and the upcoming Felicia's Journey, one can deduce the sheer emotional vicissitude which compelled him to aim for, let alone attain, the raw power that comprises his characters. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Done!!!! A Must See!!!","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" MONA LISA (5 outta 5 stars) Every now and then I have to watch one of my favourite 5-star movies just to remember what a truly GREAT movie looks like. This is one of my all-time faves... with incredible, top-of-the-line performances from Bob Hoskins, Michael Caine (playing a scary bad guy) and Cathy Tyson. Hoskins plays George, just released from prison after taking the rap meant for his old boss, Mortwell (Caine). Mortwell knows he owes George something but doesn't really think that much of his criminal talents so he gets George a job driving one of his high-class prostitutes (Tyson) from job to job. Soon, George is smitten with this tough, gutsy lady-of-the-streets. Simone, sensing that George is a kind-hearted soul who will do anything for her, gets him to try and track down another young hooker friend of hers who has gone missing. George finds the young woman, incurring the wrath of Mortwell and setting himself him for an emotional upheaval at the film's climax. Masterfully done with great dialogue. The film manages to be funny, heartrending, violent and romantic... sometimes all in one scene. "},{"Title":"An 80s classic","Date":"28 November 2009","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mona Lisa is a classic 80s low budget thriller that combines raw power with an emotional storyline resulting in an acting masterclass from a virtually faultless cast. Bob Hoskins is mesmerising from the very opening seconds of the film, playing lonely naive chancer George. He has just been released from prison after 7 years for taking the rap for a crime committed by local gangland boss Denny Mortwell (Michael Caine). Caine soon gets George back on the payroll, as an exclusive chauffeur for high class call girl Simone (Cathy Tyson). But George helplessly falls for Simone and gets sucked into her secret agenda for trawling London's seedy underworld - mainly prostitution. The film is a masterpiece from director Neil Jordan - easily his best work to date and has never been bettered - and the cast benefit greatly from an impeccable script. Jordan's ear for dialogue is never more evident than here - especially in Geroge's conversations with his only true friend Thomas (Robbie Coltrane). Anyone who thought Hoskins couldn't better his performance in The Long Good Friday in 1979 should take a look at this. He is simply astonishing and your eyes never leave a single scene he is in. But no review would be complete without paying tribute equally to the unearthed gem that is Cathy Tyson. Bearing in mind she was barely 20 when this movie was shot, she is incredible opposite Hoskins and whilst she has had more of a TV career since, it is surprising (and perhaps a shame) that she has never had perhaps the vehicle or opportunity to scale such heights again. However, Kate Hardie is also deserving of special mention as a fellow hooker, and her great portrayal in this movie has shamefully been totally overlooked over the years. Caine's cameo appearance is also menacingly good, and he plays the seedy villain with chilling ease. Throw in the great location work around London's Soho and Brighton, and a great tune from Genesis, and you get a presentation every bit as high class as Tyson's Simone is meant to be. "},{"Title":"Mona Lisa made me smile more then Mona Lisa Smiles which, ironically made me frown","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  George (Bob Hoskins) newly out after a stint in prison, agrees to  chauffeur Simone (Cathy Tyson) a tall, black, tart. At first they hate each other, but things can change. So when Simone asks George to find a friend of hers that she lost contact with, he dives into the sordid, underbelly of the sex/prostitution underworld. This film was an unexpected treat, knowing next to nothing about it, save for the fact that I admire Bob Hoskins, Micheal Caine, and Robbie Coltrane all. Cathy Tyson was merely ok in the film & sadly Coltrane is pretty much wasted as Thomas. But both Hoskins and Caine are superb. Sadly, in America at least, Bob Hoskins is known to the non-cinema masses as merely Eddie from What ever happened to Roger Rabbit? & That guy from Hook. This is a shame, as he's an amazing actorMy Grade AWhere i saw it Sundance channel "},{"Title":"Melancholic Love Story","Date":"27 January 2015","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" After serving seven years in prison, the smalltime criminal George (Bob Hoskins) is released. He seeks out his daughter but his ex-wife does not allow him to talk to her. His friend Thomas (Robbie Coltrane) meets George and gives his Jaguar that he kept for him. George is impressed with the changing in the neighborhood while Thomas explains the new reality. George is hired by his former boss Mortwell (Michael Caine) to work as the driver and bodyguard of the high-class call girl Simone (Cathy Tyson). In the beginning, George is misfit for the position and does not get along with Simone; but gradually he befriends and falls in unrequited love with her. Simone looks for someone on the streets of the King's Cross district (red light district of London in the 80's) and soon she asks George to help her to find the prostitute Cathy (Kate Hardie). George is involved with the underworld of prostitution and is chased by the dangerous pimp Anderson (Clarke Peters). When he finds Cathy, he discovers the connection of Simone to her.Mona Lisa is a melancholic love story in an environment of low-lives and losers in the underworld of London. The beginning of this movie is a drama entwined with romance and ends a thriller. The good-hearted George is a needy small-time criminal, naive in many moments that falls in love with the prostitute Simone. Bob Hoskins, Cathy Tyson and Michael Caine have magnificent performances. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Mona Lisa "},{"Title":"Almost great modern noir","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mona Lisa is an interesting predecessor to Neil Jordan's later masterpiece 'The Crying Game'. Taking in many of the same themes as the later film, such as the nature of love, affection and doing what's right, Mona Lisa is an update of the classic film noir tradition that also has obvious ties with other genres such as crime, romance and even comedy. One famous film that I would liken this one to is the Martin Scorsese classic 'Taxi Driver', as the two films deal with similar issues and follow a similar structure, but Mona Lisa distances itself from the classic 70's movie because it has a very obvious heart at it's centre. The characterisation in the film is really well done, and it's obvious that writers Neil Jordan and David Leland care a lot about the characters in the movie. The events of the film are almost all a result of character actions, and the plot follows George; an ex-convict who has just been released from prison. He is given a job ferrying a high-priced call girl around her various jobs. What George doesn't count on is that the contempt he feels for her will turn into affection.Like The Crying Game before it, Mona Lisa is a down and dirty, gritty movie and this styling does the film no end of favours when it comes to portraying the plot. The movie's style bodes well with the themes on display, and it also serves in giving it an edge of realism. However, the film's main downfall is that, while the atmosphere is realistic, the acting largely isn't. Neil Jordan doesn't appear to know how to pull a convincing performance from his stars, especially the female ones, as a lot of the dialogue is delivered in a very forced and phoney sounding manner; and it can get uncomfortable to view at times. Bob Hoskins does well at the film's core, and what I said about the acting can't always be applied to his performance; but there are definitely moments when holes begin to appear with him too. Also, like Jordan's masterpiece, the film's soundtrack is sometimes off-cue, and certain songs would have bee better off not being chosen for the soundtrack. However, all of the film's flaws can be forgiven when the film reaches it's explosive conclusion, as it's the perfect end to the film as it allows all of the characters to fully mature, and Bob Hoskins in particular shines at the climax. On the whole, Mona Lisa is a flawed, but still highly admirable piece of work. "}{"Title":"She's a tart. He's an ex-con. The film is a gem.","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mona Lisa is a moving and memorable combination of the British crime film and the character study, produced by George Harrison's company Handmade Films, and serves as a showcase for some very impressive performances. Top billed Bob Hoskins, in particular, in his Best Actor Academy Award nominated performance, is the person we follow through a convincing depiction of the seamy underbelly of London, a land populated by pimps, prostitutes, and mobsters such as the nasty Mortwell, played by Michael Caine. Hoskins's George is a low level mob member getting out of prison after spending seven years there, emerging into a world unfamiliar to him. He's given the initially thankless task of acting as chauffeur for high class prostitute Simone, played by the lovely and amazing Cathy Tyson. But before very long, they start warming up to each other, and the balance of the movie charts their evolving relationship. Ultimately George decides to do Cathy a favour by finding a long lost acquaintance of hers, but this leads to less than ideal circumstances for all involved. Director Neil Jordan, who co-wrote the screenplay with David Leland, has created a compelling if deliberately paced drama that's much more character driven than action oriented, although there are some brief bursts of violence here and there. The film also has quite the sense of humour at times, much of it coming from the engaging Robbie Coltrane as George's good friend Thomas. Thomas likes to create art using plastic spaghetti (!), and there is a nice light touch brought to all scenes with Hoskins and Coltrane, which prevents this story from ever being too much of a downer, although for the most part Mona Lisa is grim and gritty stuff, with fairy tale and film noir elements emphasized. By the end, George realizes how much he's been manipulated by his femme fatale Simone. Jordan completely pulls us into this vivid environment, and gets nice supporting performances from Kate Hardie as Cathy, Zoe Nathenson as Jeannie, and Sammi Davis as May, as well as a sufficiently slimy portrayal by Clarke Peters ('The Wire') as vicious pimp Anderson. (Trivia note look for Kenny Baker, always to be best known as R2-D2 in the Star Wars franchise, as a boardwalk busker.) Fine music by Michael Kamen is a plus, as well as soundtrack selections including Nat King Cole's performances of When I Fall in Love and the title tune. Worth seeing for fans of the crime film and of the cast & crew, Mona Lisa is potent entertainment. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dark and twisted love story, well-written and deeply sad","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" What kicks off MONA LISA is the unlikely relationship between ex-con chauffeur (Bob Hoskins) and high-end call girl (Cathy Tyson). The two couldn't be more at odds, but there's an incremental softening, with Hoskins slowly becoming taken with her sophistication. But the film's terrific noir story finds our small-time crook plunging himself into the murky waters of the London underworld as he tries to unravel a mystery. And in true hard-boiled fashion, he's had enough of being jerked around as events turn ever more downbeat. There's a glimmer of hope in the closing moments of MONA LISA that happens just when you think things can't get any bleaker. It's not at all what one would expect, but for once, there's finally a note that's upbeat.Wonderful movie; engrossing while it plays, and hard to shake when it's done. The story is luridly captivating even when the seedy scenery isn't. And there's a nice break for a music video (Genesis' In Too Deep) that lays on the mood in the grand Miami Vice tradition. And the performances from Hoskins, Tyson and Michael Caine (who commands the screen during his scenes) are remarkable. But it's Hoskins who makes this movie his own as a character who's usually clueless, with an innocence masked by gritty toughness. We share his heartbreak when he's denied that which keeps him going, and the film's emotional center is embodied by him. He really does an amazing job here. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Intriguing, edgy mystery thriller with a lot of heart...","Date":"6 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" After seeing Hoskins in The Long Good Friday, I was eager to catch another one of his highly celebrated performances. Filling in a similar role as an ex-con looking for work in 1980s London, I found his relationship with a call-girl to be highly effective in the character's exploration of a world he is simultaneously out of touch, but all too familiar with. It is a story that moves along leisurely, as he is soon employed by his employer's worker to find a vulnerable young girl on the streets, and it is here that the film offers a disparaging outlook on urban prostitution, through the annals of both high and low society. Hoskin's character becomes embroiled in an emotional investment beyond his control, and like any Noir protagonist, is very soon out of his league and receiving the short end of the stick.The ending revelation is effective, but slightly underwhelming when one realizes that his journey was doomed from the beginning, but this kind of set up is to be expected from these sorts of tales. The character development and progression between lead actor and actress is simple, but highly effective.The cinematography comes across as drab sometimes, but there are many beautiful moments in this film with some detailed choreography and impressive lighting of seedy, smoke filled interiors as Hoskins navigates the Londonian labyrinths. The ending does feel slightly rushed, but there are so many great moments, and the film has a lot of untold backstory that gives its characters a lot of depth and very realistic insight into human longing. This is a great example of effective exposition that is relayed naturally and not a distraction or disservice to the film. A few choppy moments, but overall 'Mona Lisa' is more than the sum of its parts, and is an entertaining and atmospheric indie flick from Neil Jordan. "},{"Title":"Mona Lisa (1986)","Date":"21 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Many consider this the British Taxi Driver. A bit of a simplification as it deals with a man who gets involved with the underworld of underage girls and prostitution. Mona Lisa is much more a romance set against a backdrop of criminal violence. Bob Hoskins stars in his greatest role ever. Just out of prison, he gets a job driving around a high class call girl. They develop a working relationship of trust and soon Hoskins is asked to track down a missing girl. Hoskins is so perfect in this role. You can easily see him as a gruff and mean gangster, but he adds a vulnerability which serves the romantic angle so well. He also has an endearing childlike naivety. Hoskins has great chemistry with everyone from Michael Caines villainous Mortwell, to his conversations about crime novels with Robbie Coltrane. The soundtrack is ace, with the opening and closing lyrics to Mona Lisa being all about interpretation, which this film certainly asks you to find your own. Director Neil Jordan litters scenes with which allude to fantasy stories, a white rabbit here, performing dwarfs there, etc. The dialogue is funny, the relationships emotional, and the themes disturbing. It's the full package and almost unique in its tone. "},{"Title":"Wow... beautiful","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was completely blown away and amazed at how brilliant this film is, and how underrated it's become since it came out. The title is based on the Nat King Cole song Mona Lisa, which he sings about the famous Da Vinci painting and the mystery that surrounds it - and film revokes around that same painful mystery of a what a certain woman wants, and what she has experienced.The film opens with that song, with the male lead character, George walking to his daughter's house after his release from prison. Looking for work as a chauffeur for his gangster boss, he is appointed to a high class, sophisticated black prostitute, Simone, to drive her around. She is annoyed at first by his appearance, but slowly begins to trust him, fitting him into new clothes. But as soon as she has faith in him, she eventually drags him in to a dangerous pursuit and rescue of a young girl, forced into prostitution. Led into the underworld of porn, sleaze, clubs and street mayhem, George, who unfortunately falls for Simone, questions whether his job is worth it or not and will he or Simone could survive it. One of the many themes of this movie is the unrequited love of Simone, a beautiful hooker who cannot be possessed, that George develops, and the difficult subject of underage forced prostitution and sadism. Bob Hoskins shines at the top of his acting game as George, showing both fierceness as well as sensitivity to the role, making it a perfect match and a well deserved Oscar nominated portrayal. Cathy Tyson was also perfect as the Mona Lisa - like Simone, and Michael Caine appears as the ruthless king pin Mortwell.Adding to the mix is the great music, the theme song by Genesis and the dark atmospheric look of London's night spots. All this made me want to see the film again and again, thinking about something different that I saw in it each time. In my opinion, the key to a good movie is wanting to see it again right after it finishes. It's just too bad Hoskins didn't win the Oscar and Cathy Tyson disappeared without a trace over the years. Although it's sometimes bleak, it's a gorgeous piece of art, just like the painting. "},{"Title":"Street Life","Date":"23 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Mona Lisa' is a 14-year old movie that could have been released yesterday. It is a wonderfully vivid and inevitably sordid insight into the sex industry. Although based in London, it could be any major city.Bob Hoskins heads a cast that never put a foot wrong. He's a stooge, a schmoll, a muggins. Fresh out of jail after a 7-year stretch during which time he has done the honourable thing and kept schtum, he is naturally seeking some payback. But his paymaster, played by a wonderfully sleazy Micheal Caine, is giving nothing. Indeed, he has all but forgotten him. In an oleaginous exchange, Hoskins' simple character is talked into settling for no more compensation than a driving job. And even then he has to use his own car. It's a good old-fashioned villains' Jaguar 3.4 saloon. He is driving a high-end whore, played by Cathy Tyson. Hers are a wealthy clientele, to which she has worked her ticket from the street. Hoskins' character is a combination of tough, worldly, working-class, and at the same time untutored, in good taste, or the complex subtleties of human nature. His best mate is a strange character played by Robbie Coltrane. He's a sort of Del-Boy, constantly looking for the latest big thing, but apparently getting nowhere. We meet him living in a trailer. He provides a cushion of levity which I found implausible and out of kilter with the brutal frankness of the other issues. There are plenty of other characters who also earn their cameo pay-cheques. But this is Hoskins' movie. His realisation of a simple east-end crook struggling to grasp the larger issues of the plot is an absolute tour-de-force. He is at once tough and vulnerable, ruthless and humane, smart and simple. And the shifting shades of personality and behaviour are absolutely seamless. He's a confessed murderer, but you love him even so. He wouldn't 'top' anyone who didn't deserve it.There's so much to enjoy and admire in this movie that I could write all night, but enough. It's flawed. Yet the story, the shocks, the camera-work, and the top-notch acting set in the insidious stratum of human vice will stay with you long after.Very highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Sensational Hoskins powers this bleak, brilliant film","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mona Lisa (Neil Jordan, 1986) is a fantastic piece of work a quiet, touching love story framed against a sordid, squalid London underworld full of underage prostitutes, drug addicts and pitiless gangsters. Bob Hoskins is magnificent as a former mob driver and Nat 'King' Cole fan who gets out after seven years in stir and seeks a helping hand from his old bosses. What he gets is a job ferrying around high class call girl Cathy Tyson, with whom he falls in love. So perhaps he's not thinking straight when he agrees to track down a friend the tall black tart promised to look out for years before, taking him deep into the sordid, squalid underbelly of the capital. Jordan establishes many of the concerns he'd conclusively nail in The Crying Game - unlikely friendships, game-playing and moral courage awoken within a lost soul by undaunted love - but his view is bleaker, even nihilistic, as the unconventional, sweet-hearted hero struggles to breathe in an appalling, stifling universe that's impossible for him to comprehend. Then gets royally screwed.The acting is universally superb, though Hoskins is unquestionably the stand-out, trading on his great gift the ability to transmit his very thoughts through that intelligently expressive fizzog. Tyson is also terrific, while Caine is stunningly utilised in what's essentially a glorified cameo as a colourful, rabbit-loving crime lord. Jordan's script, co-written with future Wish You Were Here director David Leland is exceptional poetic, funny, quotable and frequently profane, while his direction is laced with idiosyncratic, left-field touches. The film also casts its net a little wider than you might expect, dealing with the artificiality of the '80s and the rise of consumerism through Robbie Coltrane's comic foil. He peddles fake spaghetti that goes like hot cakes and winds up apologising for his friend's language to a glow-in-the-dark statue of the Virgin Mary that he thinks could be the next big thing. It's a nice, offbeat subplot that offers solace from the grime, though Mona Lisa's calling card remains the unforgettable love story at its centre, which has a nod to film noir and carries a devastating sucker punch. "},{"Title":"Hoskins finest performance","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bob Hoskins most likely should have won the Oscar for Mona Lisa, a crime love story if such a thing exists. One of the three best British crime films, the other two being Get Carter and The Long Good Friday. Hoskins is George, a getaway driver fresh out of prison who agrees to be a driver for a call girl. Michael Caine has a smaller yet noteworthy appearance as the mob boss Mortwell. I personally would have liked to seen Caine have more screen time in this but if he had, he might have upstaged the two leading parts and therefore would have been a bad idea as far as the story goes. The viewer likes George, admires George, and some more than others know in a way, what its like to be George. We identify with his plight having been in similar situations albeit with less danger involved. This film does leave the audience with a few unanswered questions. I believe I know what those answers are. I am not one hundred percent sure that I am correct. But I don't think it's important to know all the answers here. The situations are clearly defined and what happens is no mystery either. I will say that the ending is typical of films made in that decade and the decade previous to it. I can't say I will watch this one regularly but it is remarkable. "},{"Title":"Effective film which gets away with its major flaws","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm very fond of Mona Lisa. It's a story of innocence in a world dripping with sin, and Hoskins is perfection as the ex-con quite capable of dishing out a beating when he's up against it but childlike in his naivety to the horrors of child prostitution.The two performances that really stand out for me though are Michael Caine and Clarke Peters who are both absolutely terrifying, Caine also very funny in places too.The major problem with the film is that the plot is, frankly, rubbish! Why does Anderson spend years trying to find Simone when she's working for his colleague Caine as part of the same business? Why is Caine paying George to drive her around? If he is her pimp why doesn't Anderson know this? It's all rather odd. And also how come George just walks away from the climax scot-free? That, and also why the girl in the room who is from Ireland have a Birmingham accent...But a haunting, touching and frightening film, although it's interesting that the film offers no sympathy to Tyson's character despite the fact that she clearly uses George because she by now only sees men as a means to an end. "},{"Title":"great performances","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" George (Bob Hoskins) gets out of prison but his wife won't let him see his daughter. Thomas (Robbie Coltrane) is his friend from the old days. Times have changed. The only job he can get is to drive high-priced call girl Simone (Cathy Tyson) for local gangster Denny Mortwell (Michael Caine). George and Simone don't get along at first. Simone talks George into looking for young prostitute Cathy but he befriends abused May (Sammi Davis) instead. Meanwhile Denny wants George to find out what Simone is doing with one particular client.Cathy Tyson is electric in her character. Bob Hoskins is great but his character is conveniently written dumb sometimes. At times, he's too naive like crashing in on one of Simone's tricks. I don't know what exactly he expects to see in that room. Sammi Davis is absolutely heart-breaking. The movie is a little uneven at times but the two leads are great. "}{"Title":"Mona Lisa","Date":"26 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" From BAFTA nominated director Neil Jordan (The Crying Game, Interview with the Vampire The Vampire Chronicles, Michael Collins, The Brave One), I knew the leading British actor of this film, but nothing else about it, I hoped it would be good. Basically smalltime criminal George (BAFTA and Golden Globe winning, and Oscar nominated Bob Hoskins) has been released having served a seven-year prison sentence, but his time in prison has lowered reduced his stature in the criminal underworld, and his ex-wife will not allow him to talk to his daughter. Unable to find work his friend Thomas (Robbie Coltrane) explains the realities and changes in the neighbourhood, then his former boss, local kingpin Mortwell (Sir Michael Caine), hires him to work as a driver, and driving his returned Jaguar he drives and is bodyguard to high-class call girl Simone (BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Cathy Tyson). At first George is a misfit for the position driving Simone from customer to customer, he does not get on well with her, but gradually they form a friendship, and slowly he develops an unrequited love and affection for her. Simone looks for prostitute Cathy (Kate Hardie) on the streets of the King's Cross district (red light district of London in the 1980s), she asks George to help find her abused friend from the past. This becomes a quest filled with danger and violence, George is chased by dangerous pimp Anderson (Clarke Peters), and he is a huge amount of trouble with Mortwell, and it gets worse when George finds Cathy and discovers the true nature of the relationship between her and Simone. Also starring Zoë Nathenson as Jeannie, Sammi Davis as May, Rod Bedall as Terry, Joe Brown as Dudley, Pauline Melville as George's Wife, EastEnders' Perry Fenwick as Pimp, Kenny Baker as Brighton Busker and Jack Purvis as Brighton Busker. I can only assume the title is related to the leading female character, because you can never tell her true expression, oh, and there's the song Mona Lisa by Nat King Cole played as well. Hoskins gives a fantastic aggressive performance as well as some more tender moments, Tyson is good as the emotionally damaged hooker, and Caine is good with his time on screen being quite sinister, it is a simple story of a man falling in love with a woman, but there are twists along the way as she and situations becomes much more complicated, there is a fair amount of violence and thuggery, and it is both thrilling and moving in the right places, it's a terrific crime drama. It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film, Best Editing and Best Original Screenplay, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Screenplay. Very good! "},{"Title":"Subverted my expectations","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bob Hoskins' performance in Mona Lisa is usually highly praised and spoken in the same breath as his portrayal of hood boss Harold Shand in The Long Good Friday (1980). But apart from their shady dealings within the British criminal underworld, their characters couldn't be more different. Where Harold was an old-fashioned, respectable gangster who had excelled in his business now looking to go straight, Mona Lisa's George is a petty crook fresh out of a long stretch in prison. They are both fascinating, detailed portrayal's, but I feel George is the more complex performance, serving as a sad reminder of the fact that the world lost one of it's finest actors last year.Thrust back into a world that seems to evolved without him, George manages to land a job driving call girls from client to client. His first customer is Simon (Cathy Tyson), a beautiful, upper-end call girl who clashes with George's bull-headed personality. She gives him money to buy some decent clothes, and he shows up in a Hawaiian shirt and leather jacket. With time, their differences become their bond, and Simone asks George to help her find her old friend, a young girl named Cathy (Kate Hardie), who is still in the hands of a sadistic pimp (played by The Wire's Clarke Peters). Meanwhile, George's old boss Denny Mortwell (Michael Caine) is suspicious of their activities and demands that George provide information on Simone.The movie doesn't go over-the-top with its depiction of the capital's seedy underbelly, but is far more subtle in the way it plays on our expectations. We're all aware of the presence of prostitutes in practically every town in the country, but do we ever really consider what they spend their money on? How they are treated? Where do they sleep at night? We glimpse the true barbarism behind the red lights here, something that George finds difficult to deal with. However, the film is by no means grim, with an excellent script by director Neil Jordan and David Leland providing many amusing moments, particularly in the exchanges between George and his detective story-loving friend Thomas (Robbie Coltrane).The performances are excellent all round. Hoskins is a rather lovable lunk, proving to be almost insistent at drawing unwanted attention to himself and Simone; at complete odds with this new world he stumbles across. He's the type of guy who asks for a cup of tea at a strip club. Tyson too (what happened to her?) projects real vulnerability under her mask of confidence and beauty. When the movie shifts from drama to thriller in the last third, Caine becomes a menacing presence with a unnerving lack of emotion. All the filth we witness is all just business to him. By the end, as what I initially thought was a character-driven relationship drama turned into something else entirely, the film had subverted my expectations so much that I had to just sit back and admire. "},{"Title":"Fools Paradise","Date":"23 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a review of The Miracle, The Brave One and Mona Lisa, three films by director Neil Jordan.Released in 1991, The Miracle stars Niall Byrne as Jimmy, a teenager living in coastal Ireland. Jimmy spends his days wandering about town, inventing fantastical personal histories for the various strangers who catch his eye.Jimmy's fantasies spiral out of control when he meets Renee (Beverly D'Angelo), a stylish older woman. Jimmy stalks Renee, visits her at the theatre houses at which she works, and becomes increasingly infatuated with her; he's in love. These desires quickly become perverse, untenable and then collapse, the film eventually revealing that Renee is in fact Jimmy's mother.The majority of Jordan's films clash fairy tales and fantasies with a reality that is squalid, criminal and perverse. Rather than clear cut demarcations between fantasy and reality, however, Jordan finds the fairy tale conventions lurking within crime narratives, and finds the crime conventions lurking within familiar fairy tale narratives. Elsewhere his characters are often unable to be together thanks to national, sexual or biological differences which make romance impossible. Filled with fantasy objects who are revealed to be different genders, species (vampires, werewolves, mermaids etc), incestuous relatives, homosexuals or transsexuals, Jordan's objects of affection are almost always off limits.For most of its running time, The Miracle is beautifully unhurried. Low-key, atmospheric and filled with interesting sea-side locales, the film unfolds like a noirish dream, complete with stalking sequences evocative of Alfred Hitchcock's Veritgo. Unfortunately the film's relaxed approach eventually gives way to much uninteresting Oedipal melodrama.Similar to The Miracle is Jordan's Mona Lisa. Released in 1986, the film stars Bob Hoskins as George, an ex-convict who is hired to ferry a call girl, Simone (Cathy Tyson), around London. Though they initially feud, George quickly becomes infatuated with Simone, and begins to see himself as her guardian angel, her white knight, her lover. Simone nurses these fantasies, but eventually reveals that she is in fact not attracted to George; she's homosexual.Jordan's use of the fairy tale is not a correction or parody of their supposedly outdated values, writer and professor Carole Zucker once wrote, rather, he investigates what it means to listen to fairy tales, what it means to trust narrative and what it means to follow their paths. His films often show the messy results of fairy tales, the awkward ways in which we interact with our shared store of narratives and the complex interrelation of past and future that make fairy tales such vivid material for impassioned pastiche. We see this in Mona Lisa, as George imposes upon Simone a fairy tale that she shares, allows and secretly wishes to make real. Together the duo warp London &#x96; a perverse hell-hole filled with shadowy spaces, monsters, prostitutes and violence &#x96; turning it into their own magical fantasy-land, complete with modern chariots, damsels, white-knights and noble quests. Simone eventually abandons this charade, leaving George disillusioned.Perhaps because she is bisexual, and fond of Jordan's past explorations of sexuality, actress Jodie Foster approached Jordan with a script in the mid 2000s. This would evolve into The Brave One, a 2007 work-for-hire which Jordan struggled to make his own.Set in New York City, The Brave One stars Foster as Erica. In love with her city, Erica spends her days fawning over New York's past, admiring its spaces, recording the city's sounds and praising it on her live radio show. This idyll is shattered when Erica's lover is violently murdered, a murder which is give racial/political connotations given the victim's ethnicity and given the films nods to the infamous 9/11 terror attacks. Jaded, disillusioned and seeking to resurrect her fantasy, Erica buys a gun and becomes a vigilante; she begins taking the law into her own hands.Vigilatees and angelic defenders are common in Jordan's filmography (see his debut, Angel). In The Bave One, however, Erica is herself defended by the police detective (Terrence Howard) tasked with taking her down. The duo thus rekindle Jordan's obsession with impossible love, the criminal and the cop locked in unholy passion.Fittingly, The Miracle, The Brave One and Mona Lisa all contain major characters who are writers and so tireless fantasists. In Mona Lisa, George's best friend is a crime fiction writer. In The Bave One, Erica herself strings words lovingly together, and in The Miracle, two aspiring writers spend their days constructing wild tales. For Jordan, human beings are rarely more than heart-broken delusion machines.8/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Great, hearty film-making","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" MONA LISA is a classic British film of the 1980s and a film with a great sense of place; one of those movies where you get to see the true London, not the sanitised, Hollywood version. From the high-class dwellings of Kensington to the grubby streets of Soho, here's the capital in all its glory - and there's even time for a road-trip to Brighton (with references to BRIGHTON ROCK) alongside! Locations aside, this is a fine little film, one with a literate script and decent direction by Neil Jordan. Inevitably, the stand-out thing in the movie is the late, lamented Bob Hoskins, delivering a knock-out performance full of vitality and vigour. Hoskins plays a chauffeur who finds himself caught up in a dark and violent world of prostitution and gangsters.MONA LISA is a film which subverts expectations and offers no happy endings. Instead, what we get is a gritty, slice-of-life drama, which at the same time offers up the requisite thrills and spills of the thriller genre (watch out for Clarke Peters as a truly nasty pimp). Alongside Hoskins, we get compelling turns from Cathy Tyson and the reliable Michael Caine in one of his bad guy turns, along with a young Robbie Coltrane, and some brief flashes of violence inspired by TAXI DRIVER. MONA LISA is film-making as it should be a movie that shines a spotlight on human existence and tells a story about real people, warts and all. "},{"Title":"Occasionally dubious but mostly compelling crime drama with a great leading performance","Date":"13 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A crime drama showing the seamy (often very seamy) side of London's underworld,MONA LISA is a sometimes flawed but mainly absorbing mid-80's British pic with an outstanding performance at it's centre from Bob Hoskins.A newly released con,George (Hoskins) has taken the rap for his former boss,Denny Mortwell (Michael Caine) by doing seven years inside.An attempted reunion with his wife fails miserably, though he keeps in contact with his teenage daughter, and Mortwell gets him work as a driver for a high-class prostitute Simone (Cathy Tyson) whom George soon falls in love with.Simone's response is more measured,and she asks him if he can find and trace a younger prostitute whom she befriended,Cathy (Kate Hardie),with the unpleasant intentions of Mortwell and her sadistic pimp (Clarke Peters) always a continuing threat.MONA LISA has some decidedly sordid aspects in it's plot and content, with Mortwell having no scruples in procuring clearly underage girls (usually drug-addicted) to wealthy and perverted elderly clients, requesting George gets photos of Simone's clients in compromising positions (for obvious blackmailing purposes), and hanging around the seediest bars and sleaziest strip joints.This material quite easily could have tipped over the top and into sensationalism,but Neil Jordan's admirably understated and atmospheric direction thankfully prevents it from doing so,with apposite cinematography in murky,desaturated tones effectively lensed by Roger Pratt,capturing the sense of gloom and melancholy perfectly.The film's main flaw are scenes involving George and his mechanic friend Thomas (Robbie Coltrane) who he lodges with.Presumably intended as light relief and further explanations of the plot, they merely come across as irrelevant and superfluous and cause lapses in the skillful mood and atmosphere Jordan creates in the crux of the film around the red light district of King's Cross and Soho,and swankier hotels in contrast.This was the mid-80's era of expanding free market ethics and Yuppiedom,but there's little indication of this in MONA LISA,perhaps emphasising an essential soulessness to the period's outlook, with a predictably miserable image of a dank,chilly English seaside in Brighton.There's a basic unlikability to all the characters on view,yet Hoskins makes his character wholly sympathetic,as we travel with him into a world he is increasingly horrified and repelled by,and seemingly attempts to prise away those caught in such a labyrinth of unending nastiness and seediness.His love for Ms Tyson is genuinely touching,adding complex layers to a character that is on the face of it bullish and intimidating,yet deep down very caring,protective if even compassionate,with a heartbreaking revelation that the love is not requited.Much of the film resembles TAXI DRIVER in this sense,though Hoskins' George is a rather more mentally stable hero than Robert De Niro's anti-heroic Travis,with MONA LISA's violent climax not of his making.There's fine support from Caine as the evil Mortwell,and a often touching portrayal by Cathy Tyson who struggles to keep her senses in the midst of the violence and perversity she is tragically subject to.But this is Hoskins' film all the way,with his memorable performance than even has tinges of humour helping to take the edge of the often questionable material and subject matter at hand,and with the help of Jordan's careful direction (barring the unnecessary scenes with Coltrane),making MONA LISA one of the better British films of the mid-80's.RATING7 1/2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Unique, complex and sensational.","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Going into this, I was expecting an alright film with a strong performance by Bob Hoskins. Boy, was I so very wrong. Hoskins himself more than exceeded my expectations, but the real surprise was how powerful the film itself was. Like a lot of my favorite films, the premise is simple; George (Hoskins) is fresh out of prison and gets a job as a driver for Simone (Cathy Tyson), a high-class call girl. It's an easy setup for a crime thriller, when George inevitably takes a fancy to Simone and will do anything she asks, but it's what they do beyond that which takes the film to another level. As a crime thriller, it works brilliantly. I wish Neil Jordan would operate more in this genre, because with this and the phenomenal Crying Game, which came out six years later, he has proved twice over his massive capability for making crime thrillers that are unique and wickedly intense.As George is driven down this dark path into the new underworld, a place darker and more twisted than it was when he went away, Jordan paces everything with a slow burn that gets downright diabolical in it's final act. Michael Caine shows up as the sinister crime boss and he practically tears through the screen with his malice, along with a solid supporting turn by The Wire's Clarke Peters. There's an elevator scene near the end that just about made me sweat it was so intense and unexpected. Hoskins portrays George as an intimidating man with a rage inside of him, but when he's on screen with Caine he looks like a chubby boy being picked on at the playground.The relationship between George and Simone is built in a refreshingly honest way, played with genuine sincerity by Hoskins and Tyson, and all of this leads to a practically flawless crime thriller. However that's not where the film stops, as there is so much more going on beneath the surface. One could take it all at face value and still manage to be amazed, I know I sure would have been, but I found that the themes resonated far deeper than that. It's unspoken, but I feel that the change of the world is really displayed in focus here by Jordan and in particular by Hoskins' portrayal of George. He came out of prison expecting to get right back into the crime game, but the world has changed and grown far too menacing for someone as simple and good-natured as him. George has a mean streak to him and is capable of great violence when necessary, but at his heart he is a man who believes in the old ways.He went down for another man and when he comes out of prison he buys that man a rabbit to let him know that he's back. It's not done as a message of anything sinister, but as a kind gesture, to buy a fluffy rabbit with long floppy ears. Just take notice at how the tone of the film has shifted by the time the rabbit comes back at the end and we've come full circle, and you can feel how the weight of this theme pours through the picture. Another subtle way they display it all is through how George dresses himself. When he first gets money for a new wardrobe, he buys tacky and unsuitable clothing, making a fool of himself but he finds it hilarious. As he takes his job more seriously, he buys a finer wardrobe and the people that serve these wicked men take notice and respect him more as a result; they treat him as if he's anyone else. It's when George begins to revolt back against this changed world that he once again goes back to his more flamboyant clothing and embraces the good man that he always was.There's so much going on in Hoskins' performance that isn't laid out for the audience, but he makes it impossible not to see. That whole theme of coming out of prison to a much different and more frightening world is heartbreakingly portrayed through his expressions, he carries the whole thing almost on his own. The guy falling for a prostitute routine has been done dozens of times in cinema over the years, but there's an added weight to it here when Hoskins portrays the haunting loneliness of this character and how desperate he is just to have a companion. He's fresh out of prison in a world that doesn't want him anymore and all he wants is someone to treat him like he matters. This all comes through in the remarkably complex and detailed performance from Hoskins, which commands this rich film all the way through. As a crime thriller it's aces, but if you pay enough attention it is so much more. "},{"Title":"Hurray for Hoskins","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" An intricate and cleverly crafted portrayal of the seedier side of 1980s London, this film shines in almost every department. Hoskins is a delight, and effortlessly carries the story and the viewer on a ride as smooth as the Jaguar he wafts around London in.So intriguing is the world Hoskins inhabits, there really doesn't need to be a twist at the end. I'd quite happily watch the awkward but well-meaning little cockney ride around all day, stumbling through one curious encounter after another.So when the rather unimaginative and lack-lustre twist comes, it's not only unnecessary but also rather deflating. This is the only thing that lets this gem of a movie down, but it is near the end and it is rather insignificant, so just enjoy the characters and polished performances. "},{"Title":"Fantastic study of two individuals of binary opposition in an ever changing world.","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mona Lisa is a great film that touches on several subjects and delivers a powerful yet touching tale of a sort of friendship crossed with mutual acceptation twinned with an appreciation for one another in terms of whom each of the protagonists are and what they do. Mona Lisa is a bleak at times noir fuelled by two central characters that never seem to enjoy the world and work they're involved with but try to put on a face for each other, initially out of the fact they don't want to seem the weaker of the two, but later to just survive.The two in question are George (Hoskins) and Simone (Tyson). George is an ex-convict, recently released from a jail sentence and is let loose on Thatcher's streets of Britain &#150; he has been away for too long and we will find that out through minute but clever references. Simone on the other hand is a call girl working for bigger cheeses and meets said character through the fact he will drive for her. As characters, George and Simone are binary opposites of sorts but we never get the feeling the relationship is of a 'buddy' nature. George could be read into as a British male in a British film only in crisis as he struggles to come to terms with the 'new' Britain he has come out of jail to. This includes thoroughly post-modern works of sculpture in the scene involving the plates of spaghetti the George cannot connect with and a similar struggle occurs in a scene when he tries to get a 'beeper' or pager working telling him he is needed &#150; he complains about the technology to friend Thomas (Coltrane).But the film has bigger fish to fry in terms of a struggling to come to terms with what's new and around him. Mona Lisa is a very sly film in the sense we do not get any of George before he went to prison and thus, we cannot be fully aware of his opinion on the world around him or indeed the world around him as a whole before he went inside. I have a feeling this move was done to create a clear difference between pre-Thatcher Britain (when George went inside and everything was 'normal') and Thatcher's Britain circa 1986, the year the film was shot and released (when George is released and everything is 'abnormal').There was an essay written, perhaps many years ago, about the film Taxi Driver and how the politics of the then American President and Presidents just preceding him were so transfixed on a problem thousands of miles away (Vietnam) and dealing with that as a threat that they forgot their own nation and their nation's own problems, ie; New York and the mess and trash that inhabits the city, as told by and seen by Travis Bickle which also adds to his want to kill a politician himself. In Mona Lisa, an already confused George cranks his mindset up to that of disgusted as trips to a red light district further bring out emotions and reactions, wonderfully put across by the actor Bob Hoskins. From here, it is possible to translate the Taxi Driver text into Mona Lisa and state that London (within this film and in the real world) has developed a level of seediness and prostitution in the years since George has been inside since his reaction of disgust is also one of surprise &#150; was it there pre-Thatcher, before he went to prison?Director Neil Jordan is a very accomplished filmmaker and Mona Lisa could be seen as a swipe at the Thatcher government at the time, a government that took control of Britain and updated it with the post-modern and modernity as a whole and yet let society and the actual world around us slip into a decay of prostitution, constructed peep shows and other such content excellently highlighted by George's descent through the district in montage format that does not rely on dialogue but emphasises its point by means of the visual as a Genesis track aptly entitled 'In Too Deep' plays over it.Yet on top of all this content we might be able to read into, Mona Lisa is study of relationships between people. As characters, one is male the other female; one is black the other white; one is used to the surroundings, the other is not a product of recent years because of his seclusion in prison &#150; and yet they will come to accept one another in a brilliantly unfolded manner. George goes from mocking the Arabs and Japanese he encounters, labelling one respective group perhaps unable to perform certain sex acts with Simone through risk of falling asleep, hence why he pays her to drink tea with him. But this level of ethnic insulting changes within George as he comes to know Simone who herself is not of the white Caucasian ethnicity &#150; it is a character being developed and transforming on top of an already brave politically driven film full of metaphors. Mona Lisa more than suffices in most departments. While it feels the need to open up some conflict later on with Mortwell in the sort of role Michael Caine sleepwalks through, the real study is between the two lead characters and the look at what Britain has become under certain leaderships. Essential in the genre and for British film in general, Mona Lisa is a film that should be seen by as many people as possible. "},{"Title":"Touching and poignant masterpiece","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Neil Jordan's Mona Lisa, one of the best films of the 1980's is one of those hidden little gems that once you see it, will change your life forever. Some complain about the slow pace; others about the fake happy ending, but the truth is the powerfulness of the movie lies within these boundaries, not despite.Bob Hoskins gives the performance of his career as George, just released from prison who finds work as a chauffeur for a high class call girl (played by Cathy Tyson). The two start off as enemies with a hate-hate relationship, but soon they find that they are entertained by their arguments, amused by each other. Eventually George gets involved in looking for a girl Simone used to walk the streets with, and is, as she is afraid, the slave of a dangerous pimp.Michael Caine, giving the third major performance of the movie, shines in a brief, but memorable role as a very creepy, very corrupt mob boss.Bob Hoskins deserved the Best Actor Oscar for his performance here, and Cathy Tyson and Michael Caine deserved nominations. A scene set to Genesis' In Too Deep with George exploring the underbelly of London's porn shops and strip clubs is perhaps one of the most well choreographed in film history.A masterpiece of mammoth proportions and full of quiet moments that speak wonders, perhaps the only films that came as close to touching me have been Atom Egoyan's Exotica and Mike Figgis' Leaving Las Vegas.10/10 "},{"Title":"Intense and Vivid Performances, Mixed Overall Result","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mona Lisa is a film which I found difficult to put an objective mark on, as the result is overall mixed. The story is about George (Hoskins), who following his release from jail, goes to Mortwell (Caine), an underworld kingpin, asking for a job. He is offered one as the driver of the beautiful call-girl Simone (Tyson). Things start a bit bumpily in the beginning between the two, but soon George realizes he has an affection for her; hence, when she asks him a favor, he finds it hard to refuse...The performances are vivid and intense, and Hoskins in particular is very convincing as the coarse but well-intentioned petty gangster. Tyson is somehow overplaying the remote and mysterious Simone, in my opinion, whereas Caine is good as Mortwell, given the constraints of his role.The story is interesting, but I found the pace rather slow; I believe that the plot could follow a faster tempo, and still keep all its attractive film-noire characteristics.Finally, the direction was also above the pass mark. Perhaps it also had room for improvement, but it would be unfair to deny that Jordan did a decent job.Overall, one leaves the film with overall mixed, yet quite positive feelings. 6/10. "}{"Title":"in the underbelly of London","Date":"8 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Viewers not conditioned to the rich Cockney slang will miss some of the flavor of this tense and emotional English drama, starring Bob Hoskins as a small time ex-con (with a heart of only slightly tarnished gold) hired to chaperone an elegant call girl through a midnight netherworld of London vice and corruption. The setting recalls some of the nightmare urban landscapes of Martin Scorsese, but the film resists any easy comparison by adding an element of compassion to the unsettling background of violence and pornography. The plot itself, concerning the search by a reluctant Hoskins and his companion for another missing girl, is more mystery than thriller, but not the parlor room whodunit of classic British mystery. This is a more complex mystery of human emotions, set amidst the wreckage of sexual exploitation. The only miscalculation is the sappy ballad (performed by pop rockers Phil Collins and Genesis) included strictly as a cosmetic filler and soundtrack album highlight. "},{"Title":"A cleverer film than most think it is...","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I feel, having read the other comments, that you are all missing the point of this film...Yes, it condemns the perfidious, materialist and shallow society that existed then...And believe me, life in London's West End was a lot worse than it is portrayed (George is charged £40-but he could have had a shag for £4..) but it's more than all of these things...In all our dark, dingy, sweaty, grimy lives, there is always something beautiful, pure, unsullied and wonderful to aspire to, even if this is entwined between the thighs of a 'tall, thin black tart', a fruit, that George suspects (and eventually discovers) cannot ever be eaten...A poisoned chalice...This is truly a wonderful film, and, I think, one of Maurice Micklewhite's best performances. "},{"Title":"Seminal","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Viewed from a distance, Neil Jordan's Mona Lisa seems even more like a seminal British film of the 1980s than it did at the time.  In Bob Hoskins and Michael Caine, the film features two leading British actors playing very much to type Caine playing an older version of his tough in Get Carter, Hoskins in the middle of the evolutionary journey that was to take him from Pennies From Heaven in the 1970s to TwentyFourSeven in 1990s (if we ignore the BT ads and various other dross).  Moreover, the whole feel of the world depicted is firmly anchored in that recent past, with the soundtrack providing a further occasional (and unpleasant!) reminder. A gangster flick of sorts, it is as unquestionably of its era as Get Carter is of its or Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels is of today's.One thing it isn't is slick.  The film has a vaguely amateurish (or at least televisual) feel to its construction, but this brings compensatory rewards the underworld is in no sense glamourised, and the odd moments of violence are genuinely shocking, lurid flashes against the drab squalor of life.This isn't a great film; though the performances are intense, the tale they occupy is rather more meandering. But the texture of its vision is gritty and true.  Watch it in a spirit of honest nostalgia. "},{"Title":"A Good Film With Some Great Moments","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Set in my home town (London) this film shows a side of life that a genteel Londoner like me barely sees.  The up-market prostitution in the big hotels, the down-market equivalent in seedy Kings Cross and the sleazy peep shows of Soho are this film's London.  The film has some great moments - at times you feel some genuine sympathy for Bob Hoskyns' unpredictable nitwit of a character and for Cathy Tyson's stunning up-market whore who has worked her way up from the gutter variety.  Some of their scenes together are truly excellent.Michael Caine plays the stereotype villain - he can do more (Hannah and Her Sisters, A Quiet American) but has little room for manoeuvre in this film. It is in part seminal - the Kings Cross night scenes must have influenced similar scenes in All About My Mother, the grand house kinkiness scenes must have influenced similar scenes in Eyes Wide Shut.  Influencing Almodover and Kubrick takes some doing.  It is in part derivative - the Brighton Pier scene, for instance, could have come straight out of Brighton Rock or The Third Man.  It's pacey, it holds your attention, it's good.  It's not a great movie, but it does have great moments. Worth a look-see. "},{"Title":"Driving Miss Call Girl","Date":"25 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Facing limited employment prospects after a long stint in jail, a British gangster accepts a job as chauffeur to a high class call girl and eventually agrees to help the young woman search for a teen prostitute friend in this human drama from Neil Jordan. The film is best known nowadays as the movie that scored Bob Hoskins his only ever Oscar nomination and his performance is the main reason why the film works. His character is, after all, written as a little bit too much of an innocent naïve for credibility. His complete shock at the perversions of the call girl's clients is unrealistic; same goes for the way he expects his former crime boss to bend over backwards for him simply because he went to jail because he once covered up for him. As mentioned though, Hoskins is excellent in the main role though and manages to give a warm humanity to this hardened yet idealistic and hardly cynical man; his strained relationship with his teenage daughter hits all the right notes too. The film additionally has a surefire interesting twist as Hoskins finds out the real reason why the call girl is so desperate to find her former friend - a twist that comes across extra powerfully since it highlights just how out of touch Hoskins really is with the seedy world around him in which everybody has an ulterior motive almost all the time. Despite his high billing, Michael Caine appears in just a handful of scenes and only makes a limited impression, but in addition to Hoskins, Cathy Tyson (as the call girl) and Robbie Coltrane (as the closest Hoskins has to a real friend) offer fine performances too. "},{"Title":"An innocent in King's Cross..................","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The more I see of the post - modern w#nk dished up by Guy Ritchie and the other trendies jumping on the Britcrim band waggon,the more Mona Lisa seems to me a masterpiece.It isn't - of course - but it is an interesting and personal look at small - time London criminals in their true suffocatingly parochial milieu.The River Thames forms an insurmountable barrier through the middle of the city.Rarely do crooks or cops cross it during the course of their careers.Both the Krays and the Richardsons made tentative efforts in the early sixties but were robustly rebuffed by the indigenous mobs in a few bloody confrontations and gave up the idea of a transpontine empire. It is a very small world and Bob Hoskins is an even smaller cog whose sole virtue is his loyalty to his former boss (Michael Caine) who he steadfastly refused to grass up,choosing instead to do his full load of bird.Spurned by his former wife on his release,he is thrown a bone by Caine in the form of a totally superfluous job driving a prostitute (Cathy Tyson) to meet her Johns. He is an embittered white working class male,none - too - smart,longing for the comfortable certainties of his past,unable to accept that the world has changed in the years he has been in prison.He hates the job and he hates the enigmatic Miss Tyson and he hates her clients. But Miss Tyson holds a strange allure for him - apart from the purely sexual - as many prostitutes do over men,some bizarre voyeuristic guilt thing in many cases. When she has weakened his resolve she asks him to find a former friend of hers who has disappeared from the sex industry radar,and he agrees to do so. A man with no money,no friends,no family and no prospects,he becomes obsessed with Miss Tyson and the Herculean task she has set him. The development of King's Cross station has meant that many of the trysting places beloved of the local whores and their tricks (bricked - in doorways,neglected railway arches etc) have disappeared,but they can still be spotted in the background as Mr Hoskins drives round the St Pancras demi monde,escort/protector to his Guinevere. Several unpleasant Cockneys get their come uppance before he is able to ride off on his white steed looking for another dragon to slay. Knowing full well that she was a prostitute,he had nevertheless attributed to Miss Tyson numerous virtues that,not unreasonably,she failed to live up to.The fault was his - not hers.One can only hope he was able to take something positive from the experience,although offhand I can't think of anything.Still,never mind Bob,whatever doesn't kill you makes you stronger.So they reckon. "},{"Title":"A dark subversion of fairy tale iconography more potent than anything Jordan had done before or since","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mona Lisa (1986) is both romantic and repugnant; a classically structured thriller that soars to Michael Kamen's minimalist score, whilst simultaneously burning with issues of loss and self-catharsis. Here, director Neil Jordan skilfully manages to structure his film around a series of intricate character studies, metaphorical iconography and a plot that is never less than enthralling. Jordan, whose previous film was The Company of Wolves (1984), an adaptation of Angela Carter's meta-textual cross-reference of Little Red Riding Hood and the sexual awakening of a young woman, seems obsessed with the codes and conventions of fairy tales. Here, perverted and moved to a modern day setting, Bob Hoskins plays George, a little red riding hood-type figure, lured into a labyrinth of illicit sex and prostitution by Cathy Tyson's titular fallen angel.The film opens with the sound of Nat King Cole singing the film's signature tune, as George, lost and dishevelled, in a suit ten years out of date, saunters across Tower Bridge with a parcel under his arm. All we know about George is presented by this opening montage; giving us a confused and dishevelled character, clearly out of prison and now back in a world he doesn't understand. Added to this, his wife has left him, he's forbidden from speaking to his now teenage daughter, the criminal world has moved on to bigger things - drugs, nightclubs, pornography - and the only two people he can count on are Thomas, a poetic Scotsman who lives in a caravan inside a dockland garage, and Mortwell, a local crime king-pin. It is from the latter relationship that George is given a job driving high-class prostitute Simone and it is here, with the exception of a few twists and turns, where the crux of the story is developed.At its core, Mona Lisa is a romance. It speaks of the kind of love depicted in the golden oldies that George listens to whilst waiting for Simone to knock off some Arab diplomat or business executive. He is a character filled with longing. He longs for the England of his youth, an England without immigrants, without prostitution, he longs for his family but most of all, he longs for someone to love. In Simone, he sees the two things he hates most - not only is she a whore, but she's a black whore - yet despite this she represents something more to him, and as the two drift through the streets into the belly of the London underworld, encased in a car that becomes their own metal tomb, she becomes the only beacon of beauty in an frightening and ugly world. Here Jordan is aided by cinematographer Roger Pratt, who turns London's kings cross into an immense labyrinth of lost children and burning rubbish bins, all shot under the kind of silvery night you could only associate with film-noir at its very blackest.Acting is superb throughout. Tyson, in a part similar to the one she would play in Lind La Plant's TV mini-series Band of Gold (1985), manages to essay the role of the femme-fatal to a T. She's always in control of what is going on and more importantly, she's always in control of George. Michael Caine as Mortwell gives a performance the likes of which he hadn't delivered since Get Carter over a decade before. He simply oozes contempt, whether he's cracking jokes with businessmen in a Turkish bathhouse, or berating George for failing to come up with the goods, he always comes across as a vicious and believable villain. However the film really belongs to Hoskins, who here creates a subtle, mannered, sometimes funny sometimes-heartbreaking character' the emotional yin to Harold Shand's yang, that volatile gangster from The Long Good Friday (1980). The centrepiece of the film is without a doubt the last twenty minutes, following the couple's relocation to Brighton, wherein they take a walk along a peer. Without warning Harold's emotions spill out in a soul-destroying monologue to the love he holds for Simone that will always remain unrequited. Here Hoskins cements his reputation as Britain's greatest actor, and, as the film moves into the final bloodbath, George finds his redemption in violence. You'd have f*cking done it he screams at Simone as she points the gun at him, tears pouring down her face, before staggering out onto the empty Brighton beach, as lost and alone as he was when we first met him.This is a truly seminal piece of work, and one that goes far beyond the British Taxi Driver tag that some short-sighted critics have labelled it. Neil Jordan is one of Britain's master filmmakers. His script fizzes with character and emotion, his visuals rival those of any celebrated auteur you might care to mention, and here he has the added bonus of working with Caine and Hoskins, two of England's greatest performers. Mona Lisa is quite simply, one of the greatest British films ever made. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It would be even better if I understood ALL of the dialogue. Some of it was, last night, inaudible to me. A lot like Sexy Beast was upon the first viewing. But I still felt the emotion of the film. It starts off with a bang. From the first moment, you're into it. There's some a great song that I don't know(I guess it's call  Mona Lisa). And the score, by the great Michael Kamen, is great.Bob Hoskins is absolutely fantastic. The film opens with a shot of the city, and the camera follows Hoskins down to his old home. The confrontation there is astonishing to watch. It's acting at its highest level.By the way. As uncool as it may be, I am a fan of a lot of 80's Genesis and Phil Collins songs. In Too Deep is a great song(Though the instrumentation could be a bit better), but does not belong where Jordan put it. I find it odd that he put it in there, but that is not enough from stopping this from being a great film. I won't discuss the plot at length, but the film deals with the relationship between Hoskins and Tyson(She is a hooker, he is her driver). Their relationship is intense and perplexing. The way the ending came about was absolutely shocking to me. But it's real and completely believable. No matter the outcome of everything, some relationship has been formed.Tyson is great, deserving of a nod. Michael Caine is also great in a small, but crucial role. Everyone else is simply ON in this film, but it belongs to Bob Hoskins. Hoskins is a great actor. Here, he gives his best performance to date. The Oscar should have been between him and Sean Penn for At Close Range. And I think Hoskins may have deserved it more. His performance is hilarious and heartbreaking. Brilliant work. This is one of Jordan's best films. P.S. Chris-132. I'm sorry, but the review you posted was forMona Lisa Smile. This is Mona Lisa. Two very different films.**** "},{"Title":"A moving, twisted love story","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mona Lisa with Bob Hoskins, Cathy Tyson, and Michael Caine, is aninteresting, funny and sad love story that takes us to the depths of the sleazy  London flesh trade in the 1980's. Hoskins is George, an ex-con who gets hired  to drive a high class hooker named Simone around London for crime bossMichael Caine. At first the relationship is less than friendly, as George reveals  himself to be an uncouth schlub. But as time passes, both George and Simone's  feelings change, as George finds himself falling for this tall, thin black tart and  Simone, looking for an old friend, enlists George's help.Without giving too much away, George's search takes him places he probablynever wanted to find, as he sees for himself the depths of human misery in aworld he was not a part of for many years. Hoskins' performance is, at timesheart breaking, as when he shows up at his ex-wife's door with flowers and apackage for his daughter and has the door slammed in his face, funny as hisinteractions with Simone in the beginning of the film, and raw, as his scenes  with Caine and some of the hookers he finds on the street while in his search for  Simone's elusive friend. Having seen what an incredible performance Hoskinsgave in The Long Good Friday I was not surprised that he gives anothersuperb performance in this wonderful movie. What an actor! When are theygoing to knight him!? Caine, as his usual, gives a low key but finally chilling  performance as George's crime lord boss. It might take two or three viewings of  Mona Lisa to appreciate all the subtleties of the plot (and to decipher the  cockney  accents and slang) but it will be well worth it. Highly recommended "},{"Title":"Michael Caine's best ever.","Date":"26 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mr. Caine should concentrate on this type of portrayal. Thoroughly believable, unlike his attempts at sensitivity (Hannah & Her Sisters; an English upper-class toff in Dirty Rotten Scoundrels - & countless other miscasting turkeys. Neil Jordan was right on the money with the casting here. He doesn't make the type of mistakes that proliferate in Hollywood, USA.Hollywood have this mistaken viewpoint that they will be unable to make money out of a film unless there is a brand name in the cast.Take, for instance, The Bonfire of the Vanities. Tom Wolfe gets right into the mouth & mind of an English man - the reporter. It is perfect counterpoint to the brash central character, the so-called Master of the Universe.Hollywood casts Tom Hanks as Sherman McCoy and ---wait for it ---Bruce Willis as the reporter.Is it possible to get it so wrong?Yes. Always - in Hollywood in the United States of America.They are still at it. Period. "}{"Title":"An Odd Crime Genre Entry","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Neil Jordan's Mona Lisa is a gangster film, but it's a love story, but it's not romantic, but it's sentimental. It has the violence and testosterone-driven grit and Cockney linguistics of an English gangster movie, but it's emotionally driven story and the deeply felt inner softy in the outwardly angry, husky Bob Hoskins character make it different. As a love story, it's not for one second a boy-meets-girl, boy-loses-girl, boy-gets-girl yarn. It's much more complex and goes in a much different direction. I like that about Mona Lisa. Jordan makes the film very offbeat by making it very personal, which he does every film he makes. He closes in on a character's emotional motives and inner battles.Bob Hoskins leads the very realistic cast with his powerful performance, not quite as intense or charismatic but just as interesting and different as he was in The Long Good Friday. Michael Caine, as he always has and always will be, is the highlight of the cast though. No matter how charming he is or how much presence he has to make the audience yearn for his time on screen, he still portrays a ruthless crime boss that we hate for Hoskins's sake. His half-closed eyes and spread lips during a scene when he loses his temper make him an almost bullying figure that must get his comeuppance.Mona Lisa, aside from its rushed and perplexingly tacked on ending, is a decent contribution to the English crime genre, coming from a very individual approach. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not really a gangster movie, more of a love story.  Bob Hoskins performance is one of the best I've ever seen. The range of emotion he shows is broad. I wasn't too impressed with Cathy Tyson's performance, or Coltrane's. Michael Caine has 3 or 4 scenes, and at first he's shown as comical, but as the movie progresses you realize how dangerous the man is.  I think Hoskins was nominated, and he definitely should've won an Oscar.  I was glad to have seen this gem of a movie.  5 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"A Lovely Work of Art","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just finished watching this movie and I thoroughly enjoyed every moment of it. This movie reminded me a lot of Taxi Driver with its characters and plot.Bob Hoskins gives an outstanding performance as a lonely loser who is employed as a chauffeur to a call girl(Cathy Tyson). Michael Caine really surprised me with his performance and he really disappears into his character. Neil Jordan has done an admirable job as he has made a movie that will stay in your memories for a long time.This is one of those rare movies that has elements from all genres.A must see for any fan of British films or any fan of Taxi Driver. "},{"Title":"Good movie that tries to bite off more than it can chew","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A longterm prisoner returns to the outside world and is rewarded for his silence by being given a job as a driver for a high class prostitute.One of those might-have-been movies that falls down because it bites off more than in it can chew. As a portrait of low, high and middle ground vice in London's famous Soho district it is bang on the money, but sadly it has ambitions above its station and tries to be a thriller and chase movie as well.Hoskins is excellent as our guide and driver (George) and Kathy Tyson (Simone) is his match as the class tart with a heart. Good support is given by Robbie Coltraine (Thomas) although his presence is hardly needed for plot purposes.Given we are told so little about what has happened before (we only know he has kept quiet on his then boss?) or why he went to prison for it is hard to draw solid conclusions about Hoskins. We only know he is not too bright and has had a child, who still loves him despite everything.Naturally he falls in love with Tyson and finds that he is being used all over again. Although only to find her drug addicted former girlfriend who is trapped with a violent black pimp. Micheal Caine crops up as a growling sleazy pimp master with more than a passing hint of his Jack Carter from the film Get Carter.Credit director Neil Jordan for trying to crank-up what could easily be a slice-of-life drama, but the finale gets us in to Martin Scorsese country and cuts across the pacing and thrust of what has gone before. "},{"Title":"Typical of 1986","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's typical of the 80s because it's preachy. Prostitution is bad and causes suffering to the people involved. Well, who would have guessed? This is a patchy film, and what others see as great acting I often see as shouting. As well as the shouting, there's a lot of grabbing people by the arm and hustling them along. There are some very good bits, though, including Hoskins' visit to a clip joint, his meeting with the girl in a grim cafe near Kings Cross (now long gone, as are most cafes like it). Another good bit is his rescue of the girl from the clutches of a horrible pervert in a room with a two-way mirror. (Did you enjoy that? You weren't meant to!) Robbie Coltrane is meant to be a bit of light relief but he is embarrassingly sentimental and unfunny in a peculiarly eighties way. I think quirky is the word I want. "},{"Title":"Could have been a classic thriller...","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Thoughts on Mona Lisa, 20 years later. I liked this very much when it was new back in 1986. I've seen it many times since on video. Saw it again last night for the first time in maybe 10 years and there are a few things I want to comment on. Spoilers!!!I did not remember it being so funny. It's almost a comedy. I think it had been better if it wasn't so cheerful. The ending was a bit too hopeful for Bob Hoskins. The film could have been grittier to really make a point of how terrible the conditions are for prostitutes. The film just leaves Simone at the end when it was Hoskins character who brought her to the point where she used the gun. I found it strange that she didn't flee or that Bob didn't help her. Did he ditch her because she fancied Cathy?The film really pulls the viewer into the story but it's all a little too unlikely. Simone's posh accent, Michael Caine with the white bunny rabbit, Hoskins cheerfulness... His funny friend with the garage and that Genesis tune were totally unnecessary! It all made the film superficial. It's still very entertaining, though...Sammi Davis was the best thing in it, all too briefly. "},{"Title":"Not a great film, but Caine is superb","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  watch it for the moment when Michael Caine tells Bob Hoskins to f*** off. It is one of the finest examples of intelligent deployment of swearing in a film. Tarantino and disciples please take note; I'm tired of endless, witless profanity in modern movies. "},{"Title":"I think that Michael  Caine was perfectly cast.","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The previous writer felt that Caine was slightly miscast as the thuggish pimp and was better suited to The Quiet American & Hannah & her Sisters.I couldn't disagree more. Caine is a one dimensional actor. He has one voice - that of the East End of London - Alfie - Shiner - Get Carter.Put him into the remake of Bedtime Story (David Niven & Marlon Brando) and you see his shortcomings immediately. He is no David Niven, but presumably the money was good & Steve Martin bailed him out.Caine has menace. He tried to be smoothly menacing in Sleuth and failed miserably.Horses for courses & Caine does not have Classic breeding. "},{"Title":"A  good, gritty watch for those who can make the buy-in","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Mona Lisa, Hoskins plays an excon who takes a job as a chauffeur for a call girl (Tyson) and becomes involved with seedy underworld people as he attempts to help her find a young woman also in the sex trade. Shot in the UK as a realistic drama, Mona Lisa runs longer than necessary considering the simplicity of its story. However, in doing so it becomes an in-depth character study with a hint of mystery focusing on the principals, showing their humanness, while avoiding exploiting its potential for sex, nudity, and sensationalism. Those who can appreciate the futility of the relationship of the star-crossed and mismatched duo, will enjoy this lukewarm film the most. However, all will have to contend with some thick cockney accents, poor quality sound, and mediocre cinematography. "},{"Title":"There Goes Mr. Jordan","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Neil Jordan is a graduate of the Ken Loach I-Hate-England school of film-making which means that like Loach he spurns no opportunity to explore its worst aspects in loving detail. This time around it's the sex industry that sleazes its way into his spotlight. The story is improbable-to-ridiculous, one leave it out, guv, after another. Why, for example does Michael Caine's Mr Big wait til Bob Hoskins gets out of the slammer before hiring a driver for Cathy Tyson's hooker - what did she do before, take a bus? In turn why does Tyson wait until their initial antipathy has thawed before asking him to locate another hooker when 1) surely the world of London hookers is not that large, there's obviously some kind of network whereby one can locate another without charming a violent oaf into doing the job and 2) for what she spent kitting out Hoskins with shirts, suit and topcoat in a trendy Men's Store she could have hired a private detective for a month but given how easy the hooker was to find he'd have taken about a day and a half tops. This leaves us with the acting; for Hoskins it's the mixture as before, all contained violence and effing and blinding, sure he was phoning it in by that stage, Robbie Coltrane is totally unconvincing and Mike Tyson could have done as well as Cathy. Okay, it's twenty years old - a freebie with a newspaper, just as well I didn't spend more than the price of a paper I buy anyway on this pap - and maybe at the time it looked better but it's way past its sell-by date. "}{"Title":"Very Well Acted","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Without doubt Bob Hoskins is one of Britain`s greatest living actors but does tend to shoot himself in the foot by appearing in supporting roles in Hollywood flops . Undoubtedly his two greatest performances are as Harold Shand in THE LONG GOOD FRIDAY and as George in MONA LISA . Hoskins is ably supported by his fellow cast , Cathy Tyson who unfortunately ended up being typecast after this film , Robbie Coltrane before he became famous for CRACKER , and Michael Caine who makes a rare but very good cameo appearance. My only real complaint with MONA LISA is the rather violent ending which is somewhat at odds with the rest of this darkly comical film  "}]