[{"Title":"hugely entertaining cheapo horror","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film just doesn't get the credit it merits, its a cheaply made film which inevitably relies on the viewer to accept the limitations of the genre and go with it, just as an old tom baker doctor who episode never had anything going for it except the characters and storyline so it goes with rawhead rex,the story and characters are good enough to carry the film, the setting in celtic ireland and the roots of the beast from the underworld are classic horror fare and i just don't see what more you can expect from this genre, its a blast from start to finish with gore and an unusual baptism scene for good measure, I've seen much worse major budget films, some of the acting . particularly the irish priest is gloriously over the top and all the more entertaining for it, its funny and gory at the same time, it sort of meets hammer and the evil dead and comes up with an entertaining movie, i voted a ten to hype the figures lol but its a good seven if truth be told) "},{"Title":"Rawhead Rex has its own special place in its genre!","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Im the kind of person who alot of the time will buy movies before I have even seen them.  That was the case with this movie.  I loved this movie! People say it was cheezy, maybe a little but if you love cult horror, get this movie.  Its defently a fun little satanic film and I would recomend it to anyone that are fans of the horror / cult genre. "},{"Title":"Top Cult movie","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I've given this a 10 to bump up the average, because 4.2 doesn't reflect the core 'horror' quality that is a strong undercurrent to this movie. I saw Rawhead when I was quite a bit younger but all those who saw it with me said the same thing; that this movie contains a genuine flavor of something you can't quite put your finger on, but other directors / collectors of horror should take note of.Don't dismiss this movie, its stupid on many levels, but like Evil Dead (One) contains that low budget horror magic that only a few directors can capture.Am I wrong? "},{"Title":"Way better monster movie than it's reputation","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  `Rawhead Rex' is one of the more unusual monster movies to come around.**SPOILERS**A photographer, Howard (David Dukes) comes to Ireland to do a book on sacred church sites. He stumbles across a site where three workers are raising a giant stone. Unbeknown to Howard, the stone is the resting spot for a creature called Rawhead Rex. As Howard checks around the town with various members of the church for permission to photograph the church, Rex kills one of the men who raised the stone. As Howard's wife (Kelly Piper) displays her dislike of the town, he goes to visit the man since the local priest, (Niall Tobian) gave him permission to do so. He stumbles across the murder and alerts the police. They believe that the murder is caused by someone in the town wanting revenge on the man, and start their investigation. Another couple nearby, arguing, walks off into the woods and leave their son. He finds Rex's first kill in the woods, as do the couple, and they race out of the woods, leaving only the woman and the son to reach safety. As the murders continue, the police chief (Naill O'Brian) realizes that a monster is behind it. Howard begins to suspect that the local verger for the church, Declan O'Brian, (Ronan Wilmont) is behind the monster's appearance, and he searches for the truth before Rex finds him.The Good News `Rawhead Rex' is a better movie than people give it credit for being. The locale switch to Ireland is a great twist and is very creative. It allows Ireland's landscape to be fully exposed to the outside world, and it's sweeping landscapes, dense forest, and luscious mountains are put on full display. The locale also gives Rex tons of hiding places to pop out of, allowing for some nice scares. Almost all of his appearances are great scares, having him pop out or showing up unexpectedly. Some were better than others were, but all in all the shock of his first appearances allow for some nice scares. The monster's roar was also very creepy. It was very deep, very loud, and very chilling. It sent a chill down your back when you heard it. It was effective for Rex in that a monster of that power and ugliness had a roar to match it. The killings in the film were also very gory. Rex had a violent end for all of his victims, and made the film a bit better to stand, with the gore in it. The gore was very realistically done, with as much burned or damaged skin as cut and bleeding. The blood flow wasn't as great as would be expected, but it was more of the aftereffect that provided more bloodletting. However, the best part of the film is easily the creativity used in telling the story and setting up the plot. No real reason is given for Rex to appear, but was certainly clever in allowing the characters to get into the plot and get it going. Harry's character is given an interesting job and a reason to be in the location when the events go down. His job of locating ancient sacred places where churches are now built is a great new, creative job to have in a horror movie. The ending is also very creative and was one of the more unusual endings in horror movies.The Bad News For being the central character, Rex was one really weird monster. It was an unusual movie, but Rex needed to be designed better. He looked imposing only in very few scenes and his power was displayed only in one scene, towards the end. As the central character, he needed to be a better monster. The main problem was his face. It resembled too much that of a gorilla on steroids, with the exposed lower jaw, fanged teeth, and human-ish face. His eyes were creepy, and could be left alone, but the rest could've been altered. The move to Ireland was creative, but that means that the viewers have to sit through the Irish accents for most of the movie. Only harry and his family are not Irish, so the rest of the cast has the almost indistinguishable accent that will probably hinder some viewers from enjoying it, as they should.The Final Verdict `Rawhead Rex' is an unusual film, but that is not necessarily a bad thing. It will grow on you after repeated viewings, but most may not make it to repeated viewings. That is a shame, since it is a creative movie that will surprise the casual horror viewer as well as those who want to see a new twist in horror films.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language. "},{"Title":"Read the short story","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The short story Rawhead Rex is a gory and stomach churning piece of literature appearing in Clive Barker's Books of Blood Volume 3. Reading it one sees the possibilities of a good old fashioned monster on the loose movie. Unfortunately, most of the graphic violence of the story is removed from the film that followed. Although many of the character details remain the same, except that the protagonist and his family are Londoners instead of Americans in the short story. The setting, score, a few actors and the occasional scare make the films worth seeing for true Clive Barker completists. Be warned, what does make the proceedings less alluring is the fact that Rawhead himself is a great disappointment; the direction somewhat poor and from a script by Barker himself I expected more. Not even in league with his superior Hellraiser, effective Candyman or intriguing Nightbreed. Though I must admit I must've seen this film about eight times since it was initially released.Trivia note The mother of the American Family is the actress who plays the nurse Joe Spinell skewers in Maniac.     "},{"Title":"These Reviews Floor Me!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Rawhead Rex was one of several unknown films I prided myself on discovering during the late 1980s, when friends would visit for a day or four. I seemed to have a knack (seemingly lost, now!) to pick out videos I had never heard of, which turned out to be surprisingly quite good. Rawhead Rex was one of these.I found it a quite riveting, scary movie. As with almost all horror movies, I thought a few things could have been done better. Still, Rex was infinitely more satisfying to me than a number of present-day horror flicks which center on someone hacking people up with a knife for no apparent reason or which drift confusingly between reality and halucination.I thought the monster looked pretty convincing -- then again, I was weaned in the pre-Speilberg era. I have to agree with the reviewer who said the scene where Rex kills the farmer in the shed and the wife sees him from the kitchen window, then tries to hide, is quite scary. So was the boy glancing up from his comic books in the van, to see Rex standing outside.I loved the touches with the stained glass puzzle & the chief detective's stunned I'll be d****, the Yank was right when he looks at the horrific crayon drawing made by the young survivor of the trailer park attack, too stunned to speak. (The severed arm was a very nice touch, too.)Anyone who thinks Rawhead Rex was hilarious, is no horror fan. It may not have been one of the genre's best efforts ever, but it was one of a number of very meaty horror flicks of the 1980s which are still have plenty bite today (pun intended)! "},{"Title":"No wonder Clive Barker wasn't pleased...","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" There is a scene in this movie in which someone screams He is god!, and then we cut to a shot of a big guy in a ridiculous rubber mask. That pretty much sums Rawhead Rex up, as the movie is so completely ridiculous that the audience is never allowed to take it seriously. However, believe it or not; horror fans have a lot to be thankful for when it comes to Rawhead Rex, as it was the crappiness of this movie (and the earlier 'Underworld' by the same director) that lead to Clive Barker's decision to direct Hellraiser himself...and that turned out pretty well. The plot is based on the story by Clive Barker, and features his typical ideas of otherworldly evil. The story takes place in the British countryside, and we follow the idea of a farmer who accidentally unearths a demon. After plaguing the English countryside for a while and upsetting a few people by doing things such as killing children and smashing up kids' toys, it soon becomes apparent that there may be more to this demon than just a daft-looking killing machine, and perhaps the church has the answer...It's easy to see why Clive Barker wasn't happy with this adaptation of his story. The themes of good against evil and religion are put across rather well, and the story behind Rawhead Rex is full of intrigue. The screenplay isn't bad either, and while the story feels stretched (despite the 85 minute running time), it's usually at least entertaining. The reason why it's brought down if you ask me is almost completely down to the demon itself. After the ridiculous intro scene, it's impossible not to approach every scene that the monster is in without laughing; thus making being scared impossible. The demon at the centre is supposed to be absolute evil...but if absolute evil really did exist, I doubt it would look as silly as it does here. The murder scenes aren't bad, though, and the British countryside bodes well with the story and provides an excellent location for having victims picked off in. I liked the way that the characters speak with thick country accents too; it gives the whole piece a little bit of credibility, which it lacks in so many other areas. Many viewers pass this film off as absolute rubbish, and while the film is terrible; I've got rate it more as a shame than anything. I'd be pleased if Barker himself one day decided to remake it. "},{"Title":"read it","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's really simple dire film, fantastic short story concerning entities older than organised religion, which also looks at the idea of the female as divine, without being preachy or even vaguely normal. Like all Barker horror stories; dark, twisted and original, if you don't own the Books of Blood, you should. For the uninitiated the Books of Blood (1-6) are collections of short stories. As well as containing the short story 'Rawhead Rex', the Books of Blood also contain the short stories 'The Forbidden'(which was filmed as Candyman), 'The Last Illusion' (filmed as Lord of Illusions), 'The Body Politic' (filmed as part of Quicksilver Highway)and 'The Yattering and Jack' which was also committed to screen as an episode of Tales from the Darkside. The only good thing about this film is that it prompted Clive Barker to start making his own text to screen adaptations, starting with Hellraiser. "},{"Title":"A fun monster flick!","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I remembered seeing this picture when I was very young & liking it so when I spotted it at my local pawn shop I bought it. And although the film was not as incredible as it was back then (The film did have it's slow spots) all in all it still turned out to be the awesome horror flick I remembered. Based on a novel by Clive Barker (He also wrote the screenplay for this) The story centers on an ancient demon that use to rule the earth, that was defeated & sent back to the very bowels of hell, whom is accidentally unearthed in a village near Ireland. Upon it's release, it hypnotizes people to be it's servants & goes around ripping up the usual humans that happen to stumble upon him in the woods. The monster himself in particular is terrifying, with it's glowing red eyes, quick speed, huge teeth & it's unearthly growls. Horror fans should have a fine time. What a shame Rawhead never came back for a RAWHEAD REX 2! Directed by GEORGE PAVLOU whom also helmed another Clive Barker project called TRANSMUTATIONS & like that film, Clive later disowned this.***1/2 (stars) "},{"Title":"A great low budget monster film with irish people, explosions and good gore...","Date":"19 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film isn't a big budget, CGI ladened, epileptic fit inducing block buster, but it's still fun. There are some good moments like the monsters raid on a caravan camp and the stand off between Rawhead, his human follower and the Riot police. The film starts in the Irish countryside with a strange boulder being found out in the fields. A farmer then disrupts the ground with his plow, it gets struck by that awful lightning thats 2D pasted onto the screen. Anywho, surprise surprise, it's the tomb for the title monster, who then rips the farmers face off, good introduction, Rawheads skills as a people person is shown further by having him kill another farmer, then, in a random scene, spare his wife for she's pregnant, or something. All through this, a strange alter glows red and disrupts morning mass. Then, a camera man realises more about Rawhead, who then kills his son. It's not done on screen, but, it's still quite disturbing, better than if it was done on show. He then, goes on a personal vendetta against the monster. After, Rawhead destroys a caravan park. This is where the best parts lie. People are thrown around, ripped apart, explosions happen cause someone falls and shoots a gas line. It's great, cheesy, and a gruesome. After, this policeman gets possessed by Rawhead, he leaves his partner to death in the car and goes to the church where the police have blocked off because, Rawheads in there, and his crazy priest friend. So, crazy cop blows up the police and burns to death, the vicars ripped up, the alter turns out to be hiding their statue that will kill Rawhead, then 80's special effects kick in, Rawheads dead, kinda... There's, many more points of interest, but, I don't want to ruin the whole film for you, watch it for yourself, it's a good cheesy movie, just, don't treat it seriously and it'll be a good time.Also, you do not want to screw with Rawhead, he is a beefy thing that'll screw you up! "}{"Title":"Clive Barker is the Creepiest Man Alive","Date":"16 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" To sum up the movie, overall Rawhead Rex is a monster that hunts and devours young boys, stopping only to violate women, and be worshipped as a God. How does he react to the worship? He pisses over his followers, which they eagerly accept as a blessing from their God.This movie is one of the creepiest and most disturbing ever made, and it doesn't matter how cheesy the makeup is. It's creepy and disturbing for the same reason all of Clive Barker's stories are it's as much sexual fantasy as it is horror.Clive Barker is the creepy old man that sits on his porch all day, asking the young boys who pass if they'd like to sit on his lap and hear a scary story. We're too young to realize why these stories include so much torture and sado-masochistic imagery, and we understand even less why the storyteller seems so excited as he tells it, made all the more excited by the young listener's fear. As a straight, relatively well adjusted man, these dark dreams are all the more chilling, especially at a young age, when everything is already so confusing. Ultimately, no Clive Barker movie is ever as scary or disturbing as the concept itself, and no movie studio will allow the story to be as dark and horrifying as Clive Barker wants it to be. That's why Clive Barker's stories are so great. It's not really about selling books. It's about satisfying dark urges, and terrifying young boys.What I'm getting at is that it doesn't matter if Rawhead Rex looks scary. It's what he does, and the mere concept of his existence that is both terrifying and disturbing, made all the more terrifying when you're young, because let's face it If Clive Barker dreamed of hunting and devouring young boys, then plenty of others have dreamed it to...and perhaps they aren't as willing as Clive is to merely allow his dark dreams to remain a fantasy.Like it or laugh at it, the story of Rawhead Rex is a dark reflection of the author's soul, and it is that reflection which is truly horrifying. "},{"Title":"Retro-chiller For Brit Horror Fiends","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  God - lighten up people! Why everyone is so down on this movie I'll never know. Yes, if you're expecting a state of the art wam-blam-sh*t-godd*mn thriller this is sure to disappoint....but I feel there's a real old-school 1970's 'British Lion' feel to 'Rawhead Rex' (a la 'The Wicker Man'). And, in that sense, it was probably the last of it's kind whereas now all British genre films try desperately to ape the US brand of quick cutting MTV 'horror', 'Rawhead' takes one back to the 'abandon all hope thee who enters the country inn' type of chiller that Britain used to excel at (and one that was equally aped by US directors for the likes of 'Straw Dogs' & 'An American Werewolf In London'). Not that this makes 'Rawhead Rex' a good film -  just one that time will probably be kinder to than all those current 'hip' US teenflicks.. "},{"Title":"Classic 80's horror","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was a great movie.  The story stood alone and didn't need great FX. It was classic 80's gore with a good story to back it up.  The acting was very good.  This movie should serve as an inspiration to any independent horror film maker.  The setting for the movie is beautiful and it really brings the movie to life. "},{"Title":"VERY SCARY!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know what the hell the other critics on this movie are talking about but I loved this movie!!  I thought there could have been more blood and more plot, but all in all I thought this was a very good movie.If you've got some time to kill, go ahead. "},{"Title":"An odd movie about a walking meatloaf..","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is one hell of an odd movie yet it always makes me think of dear old mom. A few years ago my mother had a chemical peel on her face and for a few days she looked just like the monster in Rawhead Rex, in fact I still call her Rawhead Rex every now and again (just for fun). This picture is good for a laugh but that's about it. Pity this picture stars the wonderful David Dukes but i won't hold that against him. "},{"Title":"Rawhead Rex and the forgotten monster horror genre.","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" So the year is 2011 and time has not been kind to poor old Rawhead Rex (1986) and the monster horror genre in general.Anyone who has read Clive Barker's short story Rawhead Rex knows that this is a downright disturbing and wicked tale. The monster Rawhead has sexual issues, he hates women, he pisses on priests and has an appetite for eating small children/babies. However, all these awful things are what makes the story such a page turner and adds more depth to what would otherwise be a mindless monster work.The movie Rawhead Rex (1986) suffers from a very low budget. The main offender is Rawhead's mask itself. Its cheap rubber with little to no animatronics and the rubber shakes as the actor tries to move quickly. A higher budget would have done this monster so much justice, if only a creature master like Stan Winston had gotten involved, this would have been a whole different movie experience.I would love to see Rawhead Rex remade today with all the trimmings, but unfortunately Hollywood is a complete mess. Bad actors are thrown into quick PG-13 horror crap fests and CGI technology has become the only main focus of everything.I think it's time for someone to step up to the plate and re-boot the monster movie genre. Rawhead Rex could be an action/monster movie extravaganza if remade correctly. Hollywood simply refuses to take any chances and because of this, the horror genre is more or less dead. In the end, Rawhead Rex is still an enjoyable monster flick for the bored late night horror buff. But it just doesn't measure up to the more well-made 80s monster classics like Pumpkinhead. "},{"Title":"Take it is it is...& laugh your ass off!","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film is just classic. They tried so hard to make it 'professional' that it looks terrible. Its so obvious that this film was more about making the most of some sort of tax break or government incentive to lure Hollywood to Ireland (maybe I'm wrong) but this was never intended to be a masterpiece.Actors where terrible, scenes feel forced, film language is unnatural....storyline is all over the place BUT I loved it. Sit back and laugh at how poor this film is and I guarantee you will enjoy it. The scene where Rawhead Rex jumps out from behind the boxes and eats the farmer are hilarious but what follows is just brilliant. The monster breaks into the house and while the pregnant farmers wive is near paralysed by fear (or bad acting), Rawhead just spends the guts of 5 minutes in the kitchen wrecking and thrashing everything in sight (pointlessly).Perfect wind-down movie after a party or night out. A few of your mates and calm drunkenness highly recommended to get the best from this accidental piece of comedy! "},{"Title":"It's a bloody massacre!","Date":"3 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" An Irish farmer ploughing his fields removes an ancient seal from it, to only release a demon and Howard Hallenbark an American historian on a working vacation in Ireland might be the only one who can put an end to its terrifying rage.An over-the-top and daft, but deliriously entertaining monster (ancient Irish demon) on the rampage low-budgeted opus. Rawhead Rex is an adaptation of Clive Baker's short story, who he also penned the film's screenplay. The ideas covered by Baker are unhinged and fascinating enough, but the tacky and sloppy execution of it is hard to take seriously and this especially goes for the monster creation. It's simply looks like a mutated head-banger crossed ape with its rippled muscles, long black hair and googly red eyes attached to a rubber mask. Oh it's a sight --- just wait for its spectacular entrance and you don't have to wait long either! While toweringly imposing in presence I didn't think it created much fear, but it sure was aggressive and destructive when in action/and gnawing upon its victims. Little bit of gruesome gore is chucked in and some bright optical FX work within its climax, but it remains pretty cornball. Where it scored high points for me was the choice of locations, rich rural Irish backdrops were atmospherically brought across and it was professionally photographed. Even the sound effects had certain eeriness and the music score, while overcooked was forebodingly judged. Something about its air had a dark mythical (its religious outlook) / fairytale (good vs. evil) edge, which only cemented how unusual it was and within it had that old-fashion tailoring of older monster features. Only if it didn't succumb to its pulpy silliness, but director George Pavlou (who also previously directed another Baker adaptation Transmutations) presented some ghastly and humorous moments along with few stunning images. The performances are reasonable, as David Dukes is committed in the central role. Niall Toibin, Niall O'Brien and Ron Wilmont offer fine support. Could have been better, but still trashy fun. "},{"Title":"Get your Irish up!","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I haven't seen this in like 18 years and I'm pleased i was even able to find the name of it. The critics here call this funny and it is! That's the best thing about it. But it is scary and thoughtful, too. It is also really Irish, unlike the cardboard cutouts we get in the usual mass releases. I am from the U.S. but have been to Ireland a few times and appreciate the Glen Roe reference in one for the few insightful comments presented here. A friend of mine and I were watching this and we were both cracking up toward the end. The actors seem to go beyond their lines and actually look ready to attack each other! i always think about this film when in Ireland. They are both funny and mystifying. "},{"Title":"Way better monster movie than it's reputation","Date":"8 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Arriving in Ireland to conduct research for a new book, a writer unwittingly releases a fabled monster from captivity and must use his family's help to stop it before the creature runs wild through the town.This ended up being a far better and enjoyable monster movie than it should been and has a lot to like about it. One of the better aspects here is the rather decided lack of explanation for the monster's appearance, yet not being that much of a detriment to the film at all. There's not a lot said about his back-story at all, and yet not even the events as they play out provide much explanation since there's four or five different ways it can go about doing things, making this a pretty enjoyable and interesting effort. The location switch to Ireland gives this a nice breath of fresh air as it tends to mean a lot of rather foreign-looking buildings and landscapes, as well as providing a perfect setting for the monster's antics to spring forth from, and those are certainly fun with all the mutilated bodies and burnt skin giving this a nice, healthy amount of gore, and it's rapid pace ensures a ton of them to come without too many down-points. Rather, the main flaw here is decidedly the main character, as the titular creature is a bit of a disappointment. While there's a lot of good work in its design and an ultra-creepy roar, the fact that the make-up for its face makes it look like a deformed gorilla is quite distracting and ruins the great design it could've featured. This here is pretty much it's only flaw, though it's not so bad at all.Rated R Graphic Violence and Graphic Language. "}{"Title":"Ah,come on it wasn't that bad.","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was by no means speilberg material, but are there any horror movies that are? It was campy and pretty exciting (although the ending was kinda dumb) All in all I thought this movie was pretty good, the plot was simple if not mindless and it had some pretty memorable scenes.....although the special effects weren't breakthrough I think they added to the genral campiness of this flic. See it for yourself but I recommend reading the clive barker short story on which this film is based first. "},{"Title":"He maims, eats and kills people . . . . . . . but he also does a nice sideline in baptism.","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Clive Barker has always been a superb writer who doesn't always translate well onto the big screen and here he writes a screenplay based on one of his many Books Of Blood tales and the final result comes up short once again despite his best intentions, and the workman-like approach of director George Pavlou.David Dukes plays Howard Hallenbeck, a photographer who is in Ireland while he works on a new book about ancient religious sites. Unfortunately, while he is there things start to get pretty hairy after the gigantic Rawhead Rex is awoken. Rex is a savage beast, entwined with some ancient beliefs that Hallenbeck may be able to discover more about before the creature kills everyone in the local vicinity.The pros and cons of Rawhead Rex both stem from the same fact this is a creature feature with little more to it at all. Viewed as a creature feature it's a lot of fun, even if the creature looks decidedly rubbery and fake for most of the time. Sadly, that's all you have. There are a few eccentric characters on screen (Ronan Wilmot is the best one, playing Declan O'Brien) but nobody you really care about. There are some decent, tense scenes culminating in death at the monster's hands but nothing as bloody or harsh as the best efforts of the decade could show us.There's an attempt here and there to keep the more interesting aspects from the story about religion and the choice of gods but it's sidelined for most of the time, as if Barker felt that anything inserted that would add some food for thought would end up turning audiences away. That's a real shame as, given a bit of meat on the bones, this could have been a great monster movie that managed to overcome its obvious limitations. Now it stands as something mildly enjoyable for fans of undemanding genre fare. "},{"Title":"No Dog Soldiers, but worth seeing......","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Though not without faults, this movie has some damned effective moments. Particularly chilling was the scene of the family driving away from the Rawhead-plagued village, and them seeing something large in a field, through a break in the brush and stone walls. When they stop the van, and begin backing up to check it out, it's a classic Don't do it! moment. Of course, it's a fake scare, but then something bad does come to pass...In this day of everything being put out on cheap DVD, it's frustrating that this movie is not in production. I'm sure there's money to be made on a DVD re-release. They put out the god-awful Alien 3000, which makes Rawhead look like Oscar material..... "},{"Title":"Rawhead Rules!","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" OK, this is NOT going to be a spoiler review or something to entice you more so than you may already be interested. What I do have to say is that out of the 1,000 odd horror/sci-fi movies I have seen this is one of my all-time favorites. Not only because I found it eerie, but in comparison to all demons-monster-things out there, this is the King baby. The tag line from the cover says it all, and if you are a fan of creative stories (that is not holding the screen play to the original writings,)and powerful evil then this will be your cup of tea. Rawhead is pretty much the king of all demons in the movie universe and beyond! I recommend this above most of the stuff out there, if you can find it that is. "},{"Title":"stupid fun","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  it was funny when i was a kid and we rented it.  sure, i'd own it if it was available at a reasonable price.  where does barker come up with a name like that?  i have a few guesses.  rent it if you can and laugh.  at one point you can see the face of the actor in rawhead's open mouth, it's great! "},{"Title":"Funny B-movie with added bonus to Irish viewers","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is an hilarious horror flick, if you like bad movies and especially if you remember Glenroe et al from the 80's..its a veritable spot the face. I loved the fact that the 'bad' priest was church of Ireland, another classic Irish touch.I found this really amusing, as I love this sort of bad movie. You'll never look at a fairy fort or ring fort the same way after seeing this! "},{"Title":"great when I was young, not anymore","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Rawhead rex was created by Clive Barker who is a genius through words, yet his film adaptations seem to fall short of his novels intensity.  And intense they are.  This film had a great monster when I first saw it, but after seeing it again, it's definitely lost its appeal!  There are some hilarious scenes, some gruesome scenes, and a few that plain sucked.  I can't wait for Tortured Souls!5 outta 10 "},{"Title":"Silly B Movie Horror","Date":"3 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" For a film that quickly found obscurity RAWHEAD REX is a horror film with a very poor reputation . On its release it quickly disappeared without a mummer and even in the VHS era it was a film that hardly anyone thought was worth hiring from a video shop . One legacy it did do was that screenwriter and original author Clive Barker decided if you wanted someone to adapt your work as a film then it's a good idea to direct the movie yourself which led to Barker directing HELLRAISER , one of the most memorable and haunting horror films ever made . So is RAWHEAD REX as bad as is often made out ?In truth it's not dreadful but neither is much good . Seen over 20 years after it was produced there's something painfully old fashioned in every aspect of its conception and execution . ,. A monster stalking the nocturnal countryside , it's something that we've all seen in science fiction B movies from the 1950s or DOCTOR WHO , or read about in medieval folklore , it's a story that's effectively centuries old and RAWHEAD REX brings nothing to to this type of tale . Perhaps most disappointingly Barker brings little new to his original short story and merely pads it out with needless characters and the occasional bloody set piece One obvious problem with the film is the production values which are often laughable and unfortunately this extends to the eponymous monster itself which resembles a man in a badly fitting rubber suit and is never menacing and often laughable as it head wobbles around whilst dispatching sundry monster fodder . victims . . The horror genre is not known for its cerebral ethos but when you've got a monster that elicits chuckles rather than chills then someone has made a huge mistake In summary RAWHEAD REX is a very cheesy old fashioned creature feature . That said it's completely unpretentious which is not something that can used to describe much of Barker's output and many of us have a soft spot for this type of silly B movie horror "},{"Title":"Movie poisoning.","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Clive Barker is known for liking things bloody, but apparently he doesn't like them *raw* - and after seeing Rawhead Rex I can't say I blame him for wanting to maintain a safe distance between himself and this movie.Rex was apparently ruling Ireland before all the priests turned up and managed to have him banished, which may explain why life before his reappearance reminds one strongly of Craggy Island. Unfortunately, some fool disturbs his burial ground and it's up to a tourist dabbling in amateur photography to try and minimise potential casualties. Not before Rex stomps about tearing limb from limb and seeming rather annoyed about the general imposition, of course...So there we have your solid setup for what should become a decent enough monster movie. Crucially though, what we are lacking is a decent monster. Imagine the original King Kong's uglier cousin, lumbered with a costume creating movement that wouldn't look out of place in a 50's stop-motion Godzilla film. They were all serviceable effects in their day, but this was made in the '80's, and disappointingly things don't seem to have gotten better over time. Add to this some appalling acting - particularly from an evil priest who's brainwashed by his radioactive church into siding with Rexy - and it feels like you're watching a throwback that's unworthy of its place in Barker's oeuvre. Just to top things off, there's a ridiculous finale with effects that rival those of Hawk the Slayer in terms of pure naffness.Admittedly, these are all elements that contribute to the entertainment in their own especially awful way, so Rawhead Rex is the type of film that might be good for laughs with some alcohol handy. It's just a shame that the crew also look to have had a few too many nips of poteen in its making, as well... "},{"Title":"Is there any connection between the murders? - Yes, they're all dead. Not brilliant but quite fun.","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Rawhead Rex is set in Ireland where a farmer is trying to clear a field of a huge stone pillar, as he does so lightening strikes the pillar & it falls over. From under where the pillar stood an ancient 8 foot tall demon known as Rawhead Rex (Heinrich von Schellendorf) is released, the farmer is turned into mincemeat. American photographer Howard Hollenbeck (David Dukes) his wife Elaine (Kelly Piper) together their two young children Robbie (Hugh O'Conor) & Minty (Cora Lunny) are on holiday, a holiday on which Howard is working on his book of sacred religious sites. Meanwhile Rawhead Rex kills a local farmer named Dennis (John Olohan), Ireland's finest Detective Inspector Gissing (Niall O'Brien) is on the case. Rex then attacks a caravan site & kills some more people which annoys everyone, Inspector Gissing doesn't believe the stories of monsters told by Howard who saw Rex in the woods. As the Hallenbecks are leaving town Robbie is attacked & killed by Rex, Howard is distraught & sets out to kill Rex with the knowledge he has learned from his investigations of the local Church & it's mythology...This English Irish co-production was directed by George Pavlou & is a pretty bad film in all respects although it's fun to watch if nothing else. The script was written by Clive Barker based on his own short story, it moves along at a fair pace & it's never boring but it's just too silly to be completely effective. The film feels like a basic monster on the loose randomly killing people with a few of the complex religious ideas & themes that Barker likes so much shining through but they are ultimately lost in the daftness of it. There's a scene in which a woman runs through a wood with her boyfriend supposedly holding her hand but when she checks she is holding his severed hand, as if you wouldn't notice. The dialogue is funny at times & the film has no subtly at all as Rex walks around making silly roaring noises, the bizarre Verger Declan O'Brien (Ronan Wilmot) who at first is just plain creepy & then suddenly turns into a foul mouthed nutter who worships Rex & gets a golden shower off him in a unique baptism ceremony! Some of the stuff this guy comes out with needs to be heard to be believed, very funny. I honestly think the filmmakers set out to make a disturbing, scary & effective horror film but it just comes across as silly & downright funny at times much of which has to be laid at the door of Rawhead Rex himself. Rex looks absolutely awful, his has crossed red eyes, rubber claws, a very rubber face, rubber teeth, a really bad mo-hawk hair-do, a stupid outfit & you can actually see actor Heinrich von Schellendorf's teeth at the back of Rex's mouth, this is most apparent at the rubbishy twist ending when he bursts out of the grave. To it's credit it's good fun to watch & provides a certain amount of dubious entertainment & unintentional laughs.Director Pavlou does an OK job but there's nothing spectacular about it, it has no real style or visual flair. There isn't much atmosphere, there's no scares or shocks & most of Rawhead Rex's entertainment value comes from it's silliness. The most effective scene is when Rex first bursts out of the ground at the start. There's a few decent bits of gore, a few decapitated heads, some bites, a severed hand & some dead bodies.Technically Rawhead Rex is OK, it's well made throughout except for the dodgy rubber monster suit that is. The acting was OK, some of the accents & dialogue are funny at times but that all adds to the cheese factor.Rawhead Rex is a decent watch, it's fun in a way the filmmakers probably didn't intend & I sort of liked it overall. Worth a watch for sure. Apparently Barker was so disappointed with this & other adaptations of his work that he set out to make his own film & thus the brilliant Hellraiser (1987) was made with Barker as director, at least that's one thing we can thank Rawhead Rex for. "}{"Title":"It cud hav been a contender for a good monster flick but the rubber mask man.","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" RAWHEAD REX is a very cheesy old fashioned creature flick. The cheesiest 80s special effects imaginable. The movie is silly but it is SO entertaining. Although the ending was kinda dumb. Saw this in the late 80s on a rented VHS rental The settings right, with sweeping landscapes, dense forest, and luscious mountains are put on full display. But the films effects are shoddy, acting is terrible, and ending isn't all that satisfying. The creature itself maybe looked scary back then, although nowadays a rubber mask doesn't work too well. Very low budget. The main offender is Rawheads mask itself. Its cheap rubber mask. It just doesn't measure up to the more well-made 80s monster classics like Pumpkinhead. "},{"Title":"I don't believe in the devil - but something started the rumor.","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" In a quiet town in contemporary Ireland, an ancient pagan monster dating back to pre-Christian times, and known as Rawhead Rex, is unleashed from the burial site where he was contained. He proceeds to kill at random, striking at country homes and trailer parks. An American writer doing research on ancient religious sites becomes involved in taking down Rawhead after the monster kills his own son.Generally speaking, the acting is decent in the film, and the setting of the simple Irish town is well realized. The music, composed by Colin Towns, is awesome. As for the overall delivery of the story, well...like a lot of horror movies, it's a cool premise, and the story has potential, but a lot of problems end up marring the experience.Part of the problem is the use of the monster. Rex is pretty much exposed in his full form just about seven minutes into the movie - no build up to the exposure, no suspense about this mysterious thing in the dark, nothing. He pops out of the ground, lifting up his arms and crying out right in front of the camera...and it's not scary. In fact, he looks like a professional wrestler making his entrance. I seriously expected John Cena's theme music to start playing in that scene. It's like taking out the build up of a joke and cutting straight to the punchline; there's something lost in the process.Another problem is how the monster looks. For one, the reason he's called Rawhead in the original story is because his head looked like raw meat. The monster in the film, by contrast, looks like an orc from some fantasy movie. I can see why Clive Barker later said he was unhappy by how the monster came across in the movie. For another, the costume looks like something designed for quick close ups or mid shots, rather than prolonged long shorts or action scenes. In some sequences (such as when Rawhead attacks the little boy, or when Rawhead slashes about in the church), it comes across way too obvious that it's a guy in a suit, given how little Rawhead's face moves aside from his mouth.Perhaps one surprising fault was all the clichés or tropes in this movie. You have the lovers out kissing who encounter the monster. You have the police who are annoyingly dense and hostile to the hero's common sense. You have a girl who gets her clothes ripped off by Rawhead for no discernible reason other than we need those bare breasts. And of course, the ending gives you the typical monster cliché of OH HEY THE MONSTER'S NOT REALLY DEAD! DERPY DOO! There's absolutely no purpose to the latter - it's like someone said, Hey! We need to put that in there! Because if a horror movie needs anything, it's an overused jump scare at the end! All these clichés were especially shocking for me because one of Clive Barker's other films, Hellraiser, is one of my favorite horror movies precisely because it's so original and unique.It also doesn't help that a lot of things explained in the original story aren't really explained here, or it adds things that aren't satisfactorily explained. Why does Declan automatically join Rawhead? Never explained. What's the deal with Rawhead urinating on people? Never explained. Why is Rawhead so afraid of pregnant woman, and what's the backstory of the special idol that can defeat Rawhead? Never fleshed out. Why is he called Rawhead Rex when they establish that he existed before the Roman Empire, and hence the Irish use of Latin (rex is Latin for king) wouldn't have been utilized? Why does NO ONE at the Roman Catholic church know about the story of Rawhead and what lies in the altar, when most Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox churches out there openly claim to have the pinky finger of some saint from 2000 years ago? Never explained. At some points in this movie I imagined Clive Barker sitting next to me saying, Yeah, uh...just go with it for now. I've heard Barker and others have thought of remaking this film. I say go for it! It's a cool story, and there's a lot of potential that could probably be realized in a refined second take. "},{"Title":"Rex cries out for a remake!","Date":"29 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm usually down on remakes, but I think this could really work if redone properly. After a farmer removes a large stone from his property, an ancient beast is unleashed on the Irish countryside. The monster (inexplicably named Rawhead Rex) takes wayward priest O'Brien (Ronan Wilmot) under its spell while American writer Howard Hallenbeck (David Dukes) tries to convince the cynical police this monster killed his son. Clive Barker adapted his own short story for this low budget flick and the results are pretty bad. The titular beast looks great in stills, but terrible in motion. Regardless, there are still one or two effective scenes in the film like when Rex attacks a trailer park. Kudos to director George Pavlou for having a woman pulled out of a window and getting her clothes torn off by the people inside trying to save her. That is a top exploitation move. Barker sticks in some jabs at religion at the end (Rex's baptism of a priest is an eye-opener), but it is too late in the game. Worth seeing for Wilmot's wide-eyed acting though. Given the amount of crap Clive Barker slaps his name on nowadays, it is interesting that he has disowned this film (and the Pavlou's other Barker adaptation TRANSMUTATIONS). "},{"Title":"Teeth Gnashing, Claws Ready, and Snarling Away","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" As far as monsters go, the title creature here takes the cake. He (I guess it's a he) is representative of what most imagine a typical lumbering monster to look like huge (8 or 9 feet tall), hairy, big teeth, with a nasty disposition. He seems to exist only to kill human beings, usually *AARRR* growling in the process. However, since this is based on a Clive Barker story, the monster turns out to be what began our notions of what the devil is. In a veiled jab at the modern church, one of the characters is a church rep who immediately switches sides to worship at the altar of this filthy behemoth, who, at one point, urinates on his new subject in appreciation. Ah, that Barker, whatta card. The monster also avoids killing pregnant females, for reasons I can't really remember (maybe babies are future food or potential sacrifice?).The rest, of course, is typical monster-on-the-loose fare, this time in the Irish countryside. The main lead (Dukes, pretty good) is a visiting American, however, who very quickly has a personal stake in destroying the murdering beast. In amusing sidelines, we see the natural antagonism towards the visitor from the locals; the coppers scoff at his account of a monster. Oh yes, he is a writer, this American fella. The ending is kind of sappy, and then there's a twist which doesn't really make sense, just for simple shock effect. But, you'll remember that snarling giant for awhile afterward. "},{"Title":"An abomination in comparison to the short story","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" You wouldn't be far off if you called me a huge fan of Clive Barker. I pretty much love the guy's work whether it's written or being put to film. I loved Midnight Meat Train more than most, I still think Hellraiser is one of the creepiest movies ever, and I always find myself getting lost in whatever Barker book I stumble upon. One of the first books I read by Barker was the Books of Blood Volumes 1-3. There were several stories that stood out, but one of the main ones that has always stuck with me over the years was Rawhead Rex. It's powerful, it's engrossing, and it's considered to be one of Barker's best short stories. So a film version of one of Barker's best should already have enough momentum to at least be decent at the end of the day. Unfortunately that isn't the case. Somehow Rawhead Rex became incredibly lame and plagued by 80's clichés somewhere in between its transition from novel to film.Did you ever used to watch Doug? The animated series on Nickelodeon with Porkchop, Quail Man, Roger Klotz, Patti Mayonnaise, and Skeeter? There was an episode called Nightmare on Jumbo Street where a horror movie hits the neighborhood where everyone in town sees it and is talking about it, but Doug closes his eyes and misses the ending. He stretches out seeing it again because he's scared, but when he finally gets around to seeing the ending he realizes you can see the zipper on the back of the monster's costume. That's kind of the way Rawhead Rex is except you basically see the metaphorical zipper as soon as Rawhead shows up. He looks terrible. It basically seems like a wrestler running around in a glorified ape costume. The mask looks like it's made of rubber except the facial features twitch occasionally, he's cross-eyed all the time, has two mouths in addition to one of those plastic sets of pecs and abs to make him look ripped, and his fingernails grow and shrink at will. Rawhead Rex basically looks like an ape raided Vernon Wells' leftover Road Warrior outfits and then decapitated and hollowed out the head of George, the King Kong-like character in the 1986 (made in the same year as the film) arcade game Rampage and wore that as a mask. Any of this sounding awesome yet? Oh, it's just getting started.I'm about to spoil the hell out of this movie mostly because it's out of print and practically impossible to find. Nearly all of Rawhead's kills end in some sort of obviously fake appendage or mannequin being used. Low budget films can be incredible, but it's usually when they're able to hide the fact that they were made so cheap. Rawhead Rex decides to embrace this fact while saying, Let's show Rawhead trying to bite this guy's neck even though his mouth doesn't open wide enough, it appears as if he's nibbling on the victim's cheek, and Rawhead looks like he's barfing blood on the guy rather than the blood coming from the victim's flesh wound. The monster is also territorial, which doesn't sound so bad until his territory is a trailer park. Rawhead not being creative with his kills doesn't really help matters either. It's pretty much all decapitations and claw swipes. One of the more bizarre moments in the film is when Rawhead Rex kills a man at his home and then goes after the man's wife. Rawhead destroys the inside of their home, but spares the woman when he realizes she's pregnant. The monster leaves and a friend of the couple shows up. When the friend finds the wife, he asks if she's alright. The woman clinches her fists and GROWLS at him before pausing for a moment and bursting into tears. That reaction should be used on unwelcome Jehovah's witnesses who come knocking at your door.The last half of the film is even worse. A magic rock saves the day. It's kept in a glowing red box in the Ireland church. Once the rock is used to help stop the monster, it uses the cheesiest 80's special effects imaginable. So if I'm a chick and I lift this rock over my head, I'll have a laser light show right in my own back yard? Righteous! The stone makes an appearance in the original story as well, but it's at least used in a way that comes off slightly less ridiculous than a rock that shoots lasers. The film just plays out in the worst of ways. A man tries to save a woman that Rawhead is about to slaughter, but winds up tearing her dress instead and we get our only nudity shot in the film. She bumps into a tree and dies. She's supposed to be thrown, but the impact is about as rough as accidentally bumping into somebody in public. Rawhead Rex is nothing like the source material. I was surprised they kept the vicar's baptism scene in there.Rawhead Rex is the type of film that gives horror a bad name; it's cliché, the monster is obviously a man in a rubber suit, it's predictable, and it's basically just meaningless gore. It's like the film tries to throw a little bit of the actual story in there near the end of the film, but it's too little too late. The damage has already been done. Rawhead Rex is pure cheese, but it's not even good cheese. It's like that hunk of cheese you've had in the fridge for a year and a half that's covered in three inch thick green mold. This film is out of print for a reason. Don't hunt it down unless you're a die hard Clive Barker or major horror fan. I implore you though to give the exceptional short story a read or to read it again if you have already. "},{"Title":"The Leprechaun's evil brother","Date":"10 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" If you were not frightened by the atrocity of The Leprechaun I must say that that movie has an older brother, which is even more atrocious and even more not frightening.Something evil in the forests of Ireland lurks - the terrifying Rawhead Rex. It has awoken from a centuries long slumber released from its womb of the earth.Red-eyed, ripped like Arnie in Commando and apparently 8-9 feet tall. Albeit the last feature is not much of a feat in countryside Ireland, since most Irish seem to be the same height as Rawhead Rex. It could be possible that Rawhead just didn't want to seem too tall on set (tall actors are mostly perceived as bad actors) and decided to crouch, so that he could see eye to eye with his meals. I must however state that he does try to give a delicious performance as a reject from Twisted Sister with a bad hair day and a piranha attached to his face.The movie itself can be used for Irish sex lessons for the catholically challenged. It gives great insight as to why pregnancy is a gift and also convincingly introduces you to the notion that kissing is gross.Apart from that one must admire the tremendous acting abilities of a certain priest (played by Ronan Wilmot), who hands out very well verbalised 'fcks' and does as stand up job as a latrine.Must give some negative comment about the lack of good screaming actresses, which did subtract somewhat from the watching pleasure. Also not enough chasing of females in woods and people tripping over their own feet.I had to double check if this wasn't a Troma film. Surprisingly it wasn't. I also double checked if Clive Barker really is responsible for the... ugh... I'll go out on a limb and call it a story. Amazingly he was. "},{"Title":"Oh dear","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Rawhead Rex was one of those that should have been much better. The settings right, but the films effects are shoddy, acting is hammy, and ending isn't all that satisfying. The creature itself maybe looked scary back then, although nowadays a rubber mask doesn't work too well. It seemed to only have two facial expressions. Mouth shut and mouth open.Most die-hard horror fans will like this the first time round, but come away feeling it isn't worth another viewing.If there ever was a film that should be remade its dear old Rawhead Rex. This original however can only serve a single viewing before you feel you've just wasted a couple of hours of your life. "},{"Title":"VERY SCARY!!!","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know about some of you critics, but this is THE scariest movie I've ever seen in my life!  When I first saw this movie, I slept with the light on, HONESTLY!  That monster's appearance his size, his power, and those EYES! They are what really spooked the (unowhat) out of me!  And when Rex snatched the little boy in BROAD DAYLIGHT, I was done! To this day, when 'Rawhead Rex' is on TV, I am very reluctant to watch it; it's a movie that can really expose the fear that is in all of us! "},{"Title":"This movie is great! - find out why!","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  So what if the costume is fake, the monster is HILARIOUS! You gotta see this movie, especially the scene when Rawhead urinates on some guy in a grave yard, and the other scene with rawhead eating a kid. The movie is silly but it is SO entertaining!! RENT IT NOW!  "},{"Title":"Ghastly, ghastly","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Awful, awful, awful. I am so disappointed I wasted 89 minutes of my life watching this dross. I'm thinking of turning to mighty god and asking for those valuable minutes back. I remember wondering into the video shop with a mate asking for a video to 'scare us out of our wits'. He told us about Rawhead Rex, and the box read just what we were looking for. How could we not be scared by something described as Pure evil, pure terror and so on. We had hardly got comfy when the film had started and you saw the 'purely evil' Rawhead Rex in the first nano second of the film. So the suspense vanished in a nano second too. So from there the film, leaps from awful to disgraceful. I never thought that the most 'evil thing in history's' idea of being evil would be to trash a caravan by spilling sugar, smashing trinkets and generally making a bit of a teenage mess. If you do see this video nestling in some box at Oxfam, pay no more than 20p (give a £1 to charity) and are curious about it, I suggest you do watch it, just to see how bad it really is. Then dispose of the video promptly to stop anyone else being exposed to it. I wish I had protested at the time, to the maker and protested in the most serious terms about him taking up another career, and also asking for my £1.00 back. I did ask for that back from the video shop arguing that the goods were not sold as described. I suggest that you just watch the hell raiser films over again and again... and again. "}{"Title":"Terrible, Terrible waste of my time","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I pick up a cheap looking low budget horror movie I do have some expectations. I expect crap acting, a dodgy plot and plenty of blood and guts. I expect to see the film makers putting a lot of time into the special effects to make them as sick as possibly. Unfortunately, Rawhead rex just has the bad acting and the dodgy plot. There should have been more blood and nudity.The only scene that I found interesting was when he attacks the caravan site for the second time. We see some breasts, some hilarious acting, a head being ripped off and an explosion. Apart from that minute and a half worth of entertainment the rest was trash.  "},{"Title":"painful","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  the original story upon which this film is based is an incredibly powerful raw piece of horror. and in writing the script for this film, clive barker managed to capture that, and write some of the best dialogue ive heard from a horror film in a while, just natural and real, without seeping into cliche and trashiness, and while there was not a lot of character development, the characters were again, not cliched. it also had the guts to push boundaries that are normally avoided, even in horror cinema, or should i say especially in horror cinema (but thats a different rant). however, the director deserves to be executed. the entire thing stinks of a dodgy cheap bbc doctor who episode. no imagination in the direction, and not even a documentary style, just a plain old no effort made for tv look, which really hurts the power of the script, totally removes it in fact. add to this the fact that the monster looks like something from doctor who as well, except doctor who usually manages to come up with horrors far more scary than this trash. with someone who could actually direct a movie in the helm and some actual effects as opposed to the childrens toy junk that is on offer, this could have been a classic of the 80s. but instead its just a nightmare for all the wrong reasons.... "},{"Title":"Worse than ever...","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I've been going through rigorous hypno-therapy to discover why I recently watched RAWHEAD REX again. A hold over from my Fangoria days (I believe REX received two severed thumbs up at the time), I sought this film out because of Clive Barker's writing credits. The fact that it was hard to find, I thought, meant it was an obscure classic...yeah, well I was a loser. Question Did they screen test the creature beforehand? I especially liked the monster's introduction, he seems pretty jazzed that he is in fact Rawhead Rex. The entire production is amateur night anyway, but the creature, zippers and all, trouncing through scenes clumsily knocking things over, produces quite a few laughs. The plot also deserves a few words...okay, there you go. I think my motivation for watching this movie, was that my girlfriend had not been exposed to the joys of exceptionally bad horror films. The strangest thing happened after viewing RAWHEAD REX she moved upstate and changed her name. Perhaps my therapist can also help me devise a plan to get her back. Thank you Fangoria for your glowing support of this forgotten film classic! 1/10 "},{"Title":"Could be better","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This could have been a better movie without question. Rawhead was one of the most fake looking monster's I have seen in awhile...But beside Rawhead this movie is only lacking some direction and FX, the story was good and the acting was just fine. overall it's a bit cheesy but it's worth a look. "},{"Title":"Worse Than Barker's Bite","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Clive Barker's script has some nice touches, such as the jigsaw puzzle of clues that must be deciphered to find the monster's weakness, but poor direction defeats his purposes. In addition, some leads are planted in the film and never followed up on, suggesting some of the story was lost in the editing, or else the filmmakers simply jettisoned those plot points that never struck them as important. "},{"Title":"Limburger, Feta, Swiss, Cheddar, Monterey Jack, in other words, CHEESY!","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film when I was 15 and for the record, Rawhead Rex is one of the worst films ever made. Let me repeat that, Rawhead Rex is of the worst films ever made.  Again, Rawhead Rex is the worst film ever made!  I'd rather collect lint with my tongue, I'd rather bath in peanut butter, I'd rather watch reruns of Carter Country!If you would like a good laugh however, Rawhead Rex is the film to see and not because it's a comedy. "},{"Title":"Reason why the monster is in the shadows in the poster","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Because it is the most fake looking monster since the 50s-60s sci-fi/horror era.  Really cheesily made.  And since when do demons wear boots, by the way? All special effects are lame.  As for the direction, it alternates between acceptable and terrible.  The two leads are good, but that's about it.  There are Clive Barker themes here (he wrote the script, but protested how the film turned out), but it gets lost or ridiculed unintentionally; Barker is better at doing his own work.  All in all, the only positive thing I can say is that it is not a boring movie. "},{"Title":"Raw, oh god its so bad","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" My god this is bad! How can the great Clive Barker the creator of Hellraiser stoop so low to stick his name next to this tripe? The acting is bloody awful,Mr.Rex looks like something of blue peter,sticky back plastic and flashing lights, come on give me a break.I actually watched 49mins before i skipped to the end to just watch Mr.Rex's downfall, this was the only good part of this bloody awful thing, no not the downfall of the big scary man in a suit,it was the credits because you know that no more crap is going to be thrown against your screen.Please if you are a serious horror movie collector,buy this film now and light a big fire and chuck it on,in-fact buy hundreds of copies and burn the lot!A must miss, trust me! 0/10 "},{"Title":"If ever there was a candidate for remaking a film, this is it!","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie had the potential for horror film greatness. The short story it's based off has kept me entertained for years however the cinematic release was a farce. Clive Barker, with the current technology, could direct and reshoot this and make it what it should've been the first time; a movie that would have grown men sleeping with the light on.I don't care if it takes 3 hours, this movie needs to follow the story in the book EXACTLY! The creature effects also need to be top notch. Might I suggest a healthy dose of CGI? If Mr. Barker doesn't remake this film himself or allow someone else to do it, he'll be doing us all a great injustice. "},{"Title":"Jesus Christ!  It's a bloody massacre!","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If it truly followed Clive Barker's short story, Rawhead Rex could have been a terrifying hour and a half.  Instead, it becomes a goofy, laughable experience.  The monster looks absolutely ridiculous, it's a real shame.  I can't believe Barker wrote this screenplay.  I'm sure the more delicate parts of the story are hard to communicate, but he still cannibalizes his own work.  The story invokes very disturbing imagery and Rawhead is one of the most vile and wretched creatures I've ever read about.  The most gut-wrenching and unforgettable parts of the story are completely left out (except for the baptism scene, but even that wasn't half as eerie as it should've been).  To add to the atrocities, the effects are horribly cheesy, the direction is bland, and the acting is instantly forgettable.  This is the second time George Pavlou has attempted to bring Barker's visions to life, and, while Rawhead is far better than Transmutations, it's still sucks.  I'm not a fan of remakes, but Rawhead Rex could certainly stand one. "}{"Title":"irish filmmakers come up unlucky","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Dull terror pic in which a big damn demon is released from underground and runs amok in a small Irish town. The make-up is rubbery, the pacing is awful, and despite two big fangs, the monster resorts to strangling and slamming people into walls to kill them (yawn). Or when he does bite, the view is from the back of his head, twitching back and forth to create the illusion of chewing. Far too many scenes of people investigating houses, or the woods, where they walk slooooowly and carefully for a good two minutes without anything happening. The only blood you see is stained on the victims clothes in the aftermath of the attack, as there is nearly zero gore here. Lots or restraint shown throughout, especially in the scene dealing with a pregnant woman, where the monster is about to tear into her exposed belly, but decides to spare her. And when he kills a young (though very jerky) boy, it's done offscreen. Clive Barker wrote this?? Technically it looks great for a low-budget horror from overseas, but its empty plot and lame action do it in. Apparently the demon has some sort of religious connection, which is discovered in some very annoying scenes set in a church. People's hands get possessed, then shows them something (the monster?) running past trees in a forest. Oh, and please don't miss the cheapo moment when it looks like the monster is kissing a victim. His mouth barely touches the guy's face, only to have 12 gallons of blood explode everywhere. Tsssss! You may enjoy the foul-mouthed priest or some nice atmospheric shots of the spooky countryside, but otherwise, this is useless. "},{"Title":"Yes, yes, yes, NO, NO!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this one a while ago. It's supposed to be horrifying (well, that's what Fangoria led me to believe when I swore that it was THE film bible). This movie is as horrifying as a hamper with too many clothes in it. People do get savaged, so I guess it's worth watching just for that. And before I forget to mention it, the title character looks really stupid, for the lack of a better word. Clive Barker was right for not wanting anything to do with this chunk of snot. If you like to see monsters that are kind of indecisive when it comes to killing pregnant women, then watch this. If you could care less, rent something else. Bleeeeechhhh. Rating * out of ***** "},{"Title":"Clive Barker, has every right to be disappointed at the final result (Zero Stars out of * * * *).","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Rawhead Rex (1986) is proof that filmmakers can lack any sense of creativity given a low budget and a list of unknowns to make a movie. The film's scriptwriter, Clive Barker, has every right to be disappointed at the final result.A monster known as Rawhead is resurrected from his underground prison and decides to wreak bloody havoc on an Irish countryside by killing and eating the town's residents. It's up to a visiting American father (David Dukes) to convince the police that a monster is really on the loose.There's not a shred of creativity or believability to be found within its characters (but at least a group of dumb teenagers know it's not right to go out in the woods alone). The characters are dumb and boring and the monster is just what it looks like a deformed rubber ape with glowing red lights in its eyes to show that it's angry. Compared to the other terrifying movie monsters of our time, Rawhead Rex is one that stoops at the bottom of the barrel.What's laughable is the story and its crucial plot points. Be amazed at how the cops discover that there's really a monster on a rampage. The baffling ending involving cheesy special effects. And oh, you can't forget this one a scene in which the monster literally urinates on a priest who worships him.The death scenes are hardly creative. They make the ones in the Freddy and Jason movies look like art.Not a lot of resources went into this movie and it shows. If I could, I would name a lot of low-budget films that are more better than this one. Some come in mind, though. How about the one where Clive Barker took the director's chair a year later? "},{"Title":"I can't believe Clive Barker wrote this mess!","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" At my local video store they were selling out old VHS's to make room for DVD's (gotta love progress) and I went searching. It is times like these that you can find rare stuff for almost nothing and that is what I found that day. I found Raw Head Rex. I had to have it because I had heard so much about and while I would rather have a DVD copy this VHS will suffice for. I wanted it because it was Clive Barker's first theatrical film even though he did not direct. I knew he had disowned it but that does not always mean a film is bad. In Raw Head Rex's case Barker was right to disown it. The creature is a muscle guy walking around in a rubber mask and tights. This would be forgivable had the film not been so polished looking. This film reeks of stupidity. The director should have learned a lesson from Steven Spielberg on Jaws. Less is more. They show Raw Head constantly and it makes it look phony. They should have just done some quick cut aways and made it more dark and scary. My opinion on this film is swayed a little in that while I was trying to watch it my roommate insisted on watching 8 mile and turning that up as loud as he could. The whole time i was watching Raw Head kill I was treated to the sounds of Eminium in the background. I don't know if that helped or hindered the movie. Watch this if you like Clive Barker. "},{"Title":"so-so,","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is another film that was nominated best film by the International fantasy film awards. It seems that every movie ever made has been nominated by them, so don't be fooled.the story an ancient god is brought back to life in the form of an ape-like monster, and attacks an Irish town. It's original, I will give it that. "},{"Title":"O.K.-it's bad...but not THAT bad!!","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I first saw this film, I was 7 years old! I remember me and my younger brother cowering behind the sofa! We spent roughly 6 years searching for this film, until finally we came across it in a car boot sale! How convenient! We both watched it again and we laughed all the way through!I still believe though that the two most scary parts are when we see R.R's face after he kills the guy on the farm, and when he turns to howl at his pregnant wife (and us the viewer!). That STILL scares me! (maybe I don't get out much eh?) The second part is when the couple are running through the woods and Rawhead kills the guy (unbeknowing to the girl!)All in all, an interesting concept, but badly made. Considering it was an 80's horror, and penned by Clive Barker! The best bit in the film is when the splendidly OTT preacher shouts -He wants you you know...wants to BAAAABTIIIISSSSEEEEE you!!!Hahahahaha! And when it's done in an Irish accent you can see how ludicrous it is! Final conclusion? An average plot combined with OTT performance's make a great drinking film when you're with your mates and got nothing better to do for an hour and a half!   "},{"Title":"I Will NEVER Watch Irish Horror Again!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  (Includes spoilers) Clive Barker must've been Pinhead when he wrote this film.  Nope, my friends, there was no luck of the Irish involved in this film.  I'm half Irish, half Italian and let me tell you, my Italian side makes better films then my Irish.  I mean, the monster looks INCREDIBLY cheesy and fake.  I mean, if James Earl Jones were a monster he'd look like the one in this film.  It has rolling eyes.  I'm actually laughing right now when I think about it.  Rolling eyes that move counter-clockwise and hypnotize people (and believe me, every time RawHead Rex hypnotizes someone you will be laughing hysterically).  Yep.  It works with the help of a Catholic Priest that gleefully lets RawHead Rex pee on him in one scene of this film that was as funny as some scenes in HOWLING II.  The Reverend is the good guy mind you which tells me right away that this was filmed in Protestant Ireland.  The back cover art on the original Vestron Video box will show you the Irish variation of the French kiss between the Catholic Priest and RawHead Rex.  Never has a Catholic Priest been so funny (well, in Dead-Alive Father McGruder was funny but that was intentional).  Take my word for it, RawHead Rex's bathroom scene was serious, or suppose to be.  The priest even says something to the extent of let it go Master.  Oh and by the way, I didn't know a big plastic monster could-.  Oh anyway, there are some scenes that are serious but they were so few and far between that by the time this laugh romp was over I just forgot that this was supposed to be a *SERIOUS* movie.  Yeah Clive, don't worry because you hit it big with HELLRAISER.  Someone told me that Clive Barker wasn't satisfied with this movie.  That surprises me VERY LITTLE.  *out of****If this film was supposed to be funny, it would have gotten ***out of**** for the reasons mentioned above.  By the way, RawHead Rex.  Really creative title Clive, it's just so stupid that it adds to the humor.        "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  People mock Plan 9 and Robot Monster, claiming they are the worst movies ever. At least they're so bad they're funny. Rawhead Rex is so bad it's almost unendurable. I kept wondering how hot the actor must have been in the cheap, fake Rawhead Rex head. Thank God for fast forward. "},{"Title":"Barkers worst hour and a half","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Don't get me wrong. Clive Barker is a wonderfully talented man, but Rawhead Rex is a dreadfully empty and boring monster movie. Set in Ireland, a monster awakens and starts killing uninteresting people.The acting and dialogue are as naff as Jim Davidsons last stand up act. You could easily be mistaken for this 1986 horror outing for being outtakes from the first series of Father Ted; Get up dem stairs f**kface! It's the way he said it. Or how about the zombified Rex follower who sets himself on fire shouting For you! For you! You can't take him serious when he's talking to a bloke in a cheap party costume.Having said that, the climax ends in a nice collection of pretty whirling colours, a bit like turning on Visualisation on Winamp. Not really worth watching unless you're a Barker fan though.1/5 "},{"Title":"not as bad as driller killer.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Rawhead Rex is OK, the movie could have had rex in it a little more. Apart from that i've nothing else bad to say about the movie. It is better than most low budget movie's. Like that pathetic excuse of a horror movie the driller killer that has to be the worst horror movie of all time, trust me cos i have seen a lot of really bad horror movie's too many to mention though. Rawhead Rex was a good movie for it's time (the 80's). I hope there will be a sequel made, doubtful though, but it would be good if there was, or even a remake would be better. So as to do Rex justice through better makeup etc. I don't see why there shouldn't be one there are too many bad horror's out there that have sequel's that don't deserve to be continued. Like Friday the 13th movies (how many time's can a guy be killed they are taking it too far now with (jason x) part ten of the series. The same as the nightmare movie's with freddy krueger. Here are a few movie's that should have at least one sequel to them = Rawhead Rex / The Convent / The Dead Hate The Living / The Forsaken / Demons (this time instead of the sequel we've got which starts some time in the future after everything died down) we should get one that starts exactly where the first one left off. Rawhead Rex 7/10, Remake please, or give us a sequel as Rex needs to be brought back from the grave...so to speak. "}{"Title":"Watch it expecting to laugh a fair amount and you won't be too disappointed.","Date":"24 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Apparently, writer Clive Barker was so incensed by this laughably bad adaptation of one of his short stories that he decided the next movie to be based on one of his books would be directed by himself (the result being the rather excellent Hellraiser!). I can't say I blame the poor bloke for an author to see his hard work turned into such a dreadful movie must be a painful experience.It's an experience, however, that fans of really bad horror movies will probably find quite pleasurable, thanks to the fact that it not only features some truly terrible acting, but also one of the least convincing movie monsters of the 80s the titular monstrosity looks like a bargain basement 'predator' (from the Schwarzeneggar movie)&#151;a bizarre combination of pro-wrestler, a Mad Max-style warrior, and a bog-eyed mutant pig with ridiculously huge fangs!The film opens with an Irish farmer attempting to remove a huge, ancient, neolithic monument from his field (he's obviously a man not too concerned about his country's heritage); when he finally gets the stone to shift, Rawhead Rex, a monstrous, nine foot tall creature that had been trapped underneath, is set free...The rest of the film is pretty much your basic 'creature on the loose' movie (dressed up with some nonsense about a church built on a site originally used in pagan, pre-Christian rituals) which sees the ancient beast creating bloody havoc in the rural community before finally being defeated by 'girl power'. Along the way, viewers are treated to some pretty cheap-looking gore, a funny moment when the church verger is 'baptised' in urine by Rawhead, a shocking performance by the actor playing the scared gypsy kid, and a wonderfully gratuitous spot of female nudity when a woman is dragged though a caravan window by the monster, causing her top to fall off! "},{"Title":"Ah...delightful 80's crap!!","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Rawhead Rex stands as my purest guilty pleasure!! Widely considered to be pure garbage and a complete cheesefest! I like it up till a certain level, since it's so silly and amateurish.Rawhead is the name of an ancient Irish demon that actually predates the Christian-Church era! Raising demons seemed to be pretty easy in the eighties.Lightening hits upon a rock and BOOM.a huge, filthy thing is resurrected! The demon looks like the result of sex between a giant ape and a heavy-metal artist and his rubber/plastic face looks hysterically fake! Anyway, lil' Rawhead starts a killing spree and collects the bodies of his victims. Meanwhile, an American novelist settles himself in the village and becomes intrigued by the historical background of Rawhead. I really think Rawhead Rex would have been slightly better if it were just slashing and killing. It actually are the spiritual and religious undertones that bring this film down, since cast and crew clearly couldn't handle this. Rawhead Rex completely tension, story building and logic and it all results in a ridiculous light- and laser show! The screenplay is a huge laugh, since the 'humor' totally doesn't work and the characters are empty and uninteresting. Mildly good aspects are the killings (decapitations all around) and the typical Irish accents of the villagers. Clive Barker wisely decided to turn his own screenplays into movies himself after this, as George Pavlou obviously lacks a little talent. "}]