[{"Title":"Love Kills","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"77 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is not historically accurate. Let's get that out of the way right off the bat. This is not about the history of the Sex Pistols. Details don't matter, this movie is about feeling. Two misguided, deluded outcasts who are so completely, desperately in love, that they won't leave each other, even though they are probably the worst people in the world for each other. They spiral into heroin addiction, (which is NOT glamorized. Some of the scenes with them bunkered down in the Chelsea Hotel are downright disgusting) and one of them is killed, although no one knows how exactly how. Punks are usually the unsentimental type, so they tend to give this film the two-finger salute. Well, screw them. It is a beautiful film, which speaks more honestly about love and addiction than any Oscar-grabbing shite that I can find in the New Release section. Gary Oldman and and Chole Webb are excellent, inhabiting their characters right down to marrow. The era is evoked wonderfully, and the film is littered with gorgeous, iconic images, the best of which being Sid and Nancy kissing in an alleyway while garbage rains down on them from above like rice at a wedding. Also, most people ignore how FUNNY this movie is, despite it's heartbreaking subject matter. This is an enjoyable movie, not a punishment, or a slog through the mud. After seeing this movie, a friend of mine was so moved, she packed up everything she had and moved to London, where she lived on the streets for a year, trying to form a punk band. I'd recommend this movie to anyone, not just punks or Sex Pistols fans. It's appeal is much more universal than that. To me, this movie exemplifies my idea of true love. It isn't always pretty. It can drag you over glass, lead you to your grave, debase, humiliate, and destroy you. But it's a connection so strong that you can't deny it. And it's so beautiful that you really don't care if it kills you. "},{"Title":"Masterful performances by Oldman and Webb","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"58 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I was 15, I loved this movie because I loved the Sex Pistols and everything punk.  Now that I am twice that age, I love this film for its unflinching portrayal of two people's lives, despite how uncomfortable it makes us, how little we sympathize with them as people, or how hard it is for us to comprehend the choices they made.  I personally believe at least part of the discomfort comes from the fact that at some level, we DO understand Sid and Nancy, their love for each other, and the choices they make beneath the haze of addiction.I realize, seeing it with adult eyes, why my parents were so shocked I was watching this film in 1987.  But ironically, it was the best anti-drug message I could have seen in my teenage years.  In performances so masterful they make me wince, fight off nausea, and weep for their misfortune, Gary Oldman and Chloe Webb constructed characters no one would ever want to be.  The supporting cast deserves accolades as well - in particular, Andrew Schofield turns in a seamless portrayal of Johnny Rotten, who, unlike Sid, knows full well Malcolm MacLaren created him.Having read And I Don't Want To Live This Life by Debora Spungen, and having seen more than a handful of documentaries with live footage of the band throughout the years, what impressed me most was the consistency of tone that Oldman and Webb bring to their performances.  They are spot-on, not just in stupor and excess, but in tenderness and rare moments of clarity.  The movie's ending was unique among biopics where the truth is in dispute, in that it did not profess to know the answer to that burning question (did Sid kill Nancy?) any more than Sid knew himself.Why watch a film about a couple of junkies who came from unremarkable backgrounds and disappeared into the bleakness of drug addiction?  We seem to want our films to be about something loftier than ourselves.  I view Sid and Nancy more as a play than a movie - we allow our plays to be about uncomfortable subjects and unhappy people, but seem to think that celluloid must be as bright as the projector light behind it.  This film is a study in love and dysfunction; its characters are painfully imperfect but perfectly portrayed and we cannot help but respond, even if our response is the deep, squirming discomfort that leads us to say we disliked the whole experience.I rated this film a very rare 9. "},{"Title":"Intense and well acted but ultimately depressing and unrevealing look at the infamous punk rock couple.","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"53 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The brilliant performances of Gary Oldman and Chloe Webb in the title roles propel this bleak and depressing look into the calamitous relationship between Sex Pistols bass player Sid Vicious and American punk rock groupie Nancy Spungen. The characters are introduced to us in tragedy right from the opening scene, casting the rest of the film with a fatalistic sense of impending doom. These are two tortured souls in communion who seem at odds with just about every facet of society -- even the extreme punk rock counter-culture to which they both ostensibly belong.A major problem with the film (and all the more reason to tip our hats to the two leads) is that Sid and Nancy are written as such abrasive and disagreeable characters, one is hard pressed to relate to them on any meaningful level.And while the re-creation of their reckless and volatile rebelliousness is quite detailed and credible, we never get a sense of how they came to be so angry and tortured to begin with. Even the smallest glimpse at their inner turmoil would have gone a long way in creating sympathy and concern from the audience. Instead, director Cox relies on the pureness of their genuine love for each other to provide that hook. That strategy succeeds to the extent it does ONLY because of Oldman's and Webb's amazing transformation into these parts.If you own a DVD player, try to get a hold of the Criterion Collection edition of this film. That disc contains some excellent, revealing footage of the REAL Sid and Nancy that was shot for a contemporary documentary on the Sex Pistols ill-fated 1978 tour of the USA. If nothing else, the footage will increase your appreciation for these two splendid performances. "},{"Title":"Convincing portrait of the wasted and the talentless.","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"67 out of 115 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Recent social history is very hard to capture through drama and Alex Cox must be grateful to have such a good plot device (a far from standard love story) to carry us through this difficult and much misunderstood period of history.Punk rock was born to be a cult. Through all the headlines and publicity the central music barely scrapped the US charts The Sex Pistols one studio album only just crept in to the American top 100 and they  were viewed more as a novelty act than the next big thing. Only when the whole thing was tamed and popified did the thing take off, by then renamed new wave to differentiate between the new and old school.(By this time the Pistols had long since self-destructed.)In the beginning, the Sex Pistols were more a private party than a band, indeed they often played them instead of more normal gigs. The original punks were anti fashion and anti everything, attracting misfits of all kinds and colours; although art and fashion students made up the majority. This really was an open house with prostitutes, homosexuals and exhibtionists being equally welcome.(This is accurately depicted in the movie.)Sid and Nancy were from this hanging-on group and although joining the group as bassist  and groupie respectively (Nancy tried to get it on with most of the band) they were never more than window dressing. The Pistol sound was Lydon/Rotten's voice and Steve Jones's power chords. Sid never even played on the records.It is notable that many icons manage to have an icon haircut (Elvis, Rolling Stones, Beatles all set hair fashions) and amazingly SV even managed one himself with his perfect spikes. His look, his life and his early death made him a cult, but he didn't leave a legacy behind other than a series of half-hearted drunken rants.Hard to see how Oldman could do more to be Vicious other than lose a few years. SV died at 21 and Oldman is clearly older (28 at the time of filming), but that is my only quibble. Chloe Webb (as Nancy) is also good, but annoying, like a dog that won't shut up barking and chewing the furniture, until you just accept it. A life consisting of drugs, sex and TV - often consumed all at the same time.Alex Cox's direction (possibly because he knew the punk movement first hand rather than through the papers) is first rate - like Quentin Tarantino lite - but he is  just as much a flash-in-the-pan as Sid and Nancy himself. He can't make a mainstream movie, because all he is interested in is man's ugly underbelly and without major acting talent these things look self-indulgent and even amateurish.However this is a moral look at drug taking - not the fun before it gets serious moral - the its never a good idea full stop one. Sid is a child, Nancy is barely any more than a child, but more street-wise. Too lazy for work she used oral sex like most people use a credit card.I like this film because it has something to say about undeserved fame, what you do (or the few choices you have) after your fifteen minutes is up and how empty headed people with no agenda get treated in this big bad world. Whether you want to spend time learning all this is up to you, but it is very well done if you do.  "},{"Title":"Sid and Nancy (1986) , honest look at self destruction.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Finally upgraded from VHS to the special edition DVD of this Alex Cox film about the ill fated Sid Vicious & his honey Nancy Spungen.Watched it twice in fact , just had to hear the commentary from Cox because he is a director who I admire for trying to tap into the conscious of the subject he tackles.As an old punk myself it would be easy for me to be biased and lean with a nostalgic slant with the film, but truth is this film doesn't glamorise the duo because they are portrayed as the pathetic self destructive couple they were. The film perfectly captures the time frame of what is indisputably the music and cultural phenomenon known as Punk Rock, the only blight on this great piece of work is the ending, which as Cox agrees is far too romanticised after the harshness the viewer has just sat thru. Yet this film ranks as one of the most honest and frank music biography movies out on the market, and I urge anyone who stays away from it because of an aversion to Punk and it's offshoots to seek it out ASAP.The acting from Gary Oldman & Chloe Webb is nothing short of amazing, the photography from Roger Deakins is very impressive.........witness a scene as Vicious leaves a New Jersey prison and walks across a deserted scrap heap with New York prominent in the background, the twin towers cloaked in cloud . The direction is smart, funny, and handled perfectly till that ending , and the music arrangement is done adroitly by all involved, but I have to say that viewing it now and hearing Joe Strummer sing Love Kills at the closing credits gives me an added emotional kicker SO YES A LITTLE BIAS HERE FROM ME .8/10 "},{"Title":"Sickeningly awesome tale of sex, drugs, and rock n roll","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Some films tend to glorify rock and roll by showing off its glamorous side full of adventure and wonder. Sid and Nancy does no such thing. Instead it exposes the dirty, grimy, seedy underbelly of punk rock which is full of violence and drugs. Gary Oldman plays Sid Vicious, the bassist for British punk rock group the Sex Pistols. The film chronicles his life from when he meets his junky girlfriend, Nancy Spungen, to the tragic demise of that relationship. It is a loud, mean, ugly, and crass film that perfectly captures all that the Sex Pistols stood for... anarchy. Filled with all sorts of sex, drugs, and rock and roll, Sid and Nancy is a seriously wild ride.If there's anything that makes this film, it's Gary Oldman and Chloe Webb. These two are incredible, Oldman more so. Oldman captures the self destructive tendencies of Sid excellently and takes it to a frighteningly believable extreme. It is a terrifying and shocking experience to watch him run amuck in this film, spray painting walls, nonstop drinking, shooting heroin every chance he gets, burning houses, etc. He is the true essence of anarchy, and yet somehow we feel sympathy for him. This is solely because of Nancy, the girlfriend. She is a character you love to hate. She is a pathetic excuse for a human being, always whining to get her way and her drugs, never contributing anything positive to Sid's life, and always screaming about her own problems. It is sickening and it makes the film all the more twisted and engrossing as we watch such self destruction unfold on screen.It's not easy to tell a story where your two main characters are so easily hateable, but somehow this film does it. I think it is because of the balance between Nancy and Sid that we feel compelled to pity Sid and despise Nancy, making the film engaging in an offbeat and slightly deranged way. Their story is so backwards and so wretchedly obscene that we have to be interested in it somehow. It starts off simply enough. The Sex Pistols are all about anarchy and they go around beating people up, cursing, drinking, and all that sort of thing. But it isn't until Sid meets Nancy that things really start to explode as the story falls deeper and deeper into a twisted fit of depravity. Thing get worse and worse for the two as the film progresses and Sid's life slowly crumbles around him, with him too drunk or too high to even notice. The film does lag a little bit towards the middle as the conversations between Nancy and Sid begin to get a little repetitive, but we are then hit by an expected yet still powerful ending that closes out the film at just the right tone and atmosphere.There is really nothing sane or reasonable about Sid and Nancy. It envelopes true chaos and discourse through the life of one man and his ridiculous girlfriend. It is a chore to watch this film as it does chronicle a life full of the most horrible habits and attitudes imaginable, but if you can stomach it all then Sid and Nancy is a fantastic film to experience. I loved this film and was truly fascinated by it. It displays a lifestyle a would never want to live. Instead, I only want to learn about it in vulgar detail from a great film like Sid and Nancy. "},{"Title":"Cox's intelligence and potential are evident in an uncompromising film&#133;","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Given the discipline of a strong director, Alex Cox has revealed overwhelming ambition, and a ferocious imagination in his films&#133;Sid and Nancy was impressive, turning the dirty and depressing true story of Sid Vicious and his lover Nancy Spungen into a surprisingly moving romance&#133;Clear-eyed in his cautious celebration of the punk movement's rebellion against the oppressive realities of Thatcher's Britain, and similarly lucid about the difficulties of sudden fame, Cox never glamorized his drug-addict protagonists; nor, even more remarkably, did he condemn them for their idiotic, anti-social, frequently pathetic odyssey towards self-destruction in New York's Chelsea Hotel&#133;Sadly, the film's tense, gripping authenticity of atmosphere and performance was to be repeated neither in the indulgent, unfunny spaghetti Western spoof Straight to Hell, nor in Walker, an uneven, allegorical satire on American imperialism in the form of a l9th-century colonialist who sets himself up as tyrant of Nicaragua&#133; "},{"Title":"An Indie Surprise","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Sid and Nancy is a movie about the tortured relationship between Sid Vicious and his whiny girlfriend, Nancy. Please, somebody turn down the volume on this one, simply because her voice is just too irritating on this critic's last nerve! (Did she really talk like that, or was Ms. Webb in serious need of a voice coach? We may never know.) Most of Sid and Nancy revolves around the two titled post-teen's attempt to maintain some semblance of a real relationship in the midst of a lot of drugs and self-induced violence. What stopped me from turning off this sad statement of a generation was the performance of Gary Oldman. His sneering imitation of Sid's contempt for almost everyone around him masked a touching vulnerability when it came to Nancy and &#x96; yep, even their pet kitty.And I've got to give the truly unforgettable award to Sid and Nancy, based on one single cinematic moment in the film--- you know what that moment is, don't you? Yeppers - Sid belting out a searing rendition of Old Blue Eye's favorite, My Way. Set against a backdrop of stairs (that call to mind every high school assembly), Oldman scratches and claws at this song with such a ferocious intensity I'd give him the gold statue right now.Because that's what a cinematic moment really is, the sum total of the character, presented to the audience in a kernel of truth. Gary Oldman &#x96; an actor whose gold statuette is long overdue &#x97; captures the twin torments of a twisted teen that really just wants to be loved and doesn't know how to get past his own angry angst. "},{"Title":"love in the gutter","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This vivid recreation of the last, not quite desperate days of Sex Pistol Sid Vicious and his junkie/lover Nancy Spungen celebrates all the pathetic excesses of punk rock anarchy, but without the overwrought clichés Oliver Stone would later use to embalm kindred rock martyr Jim Morrison. It would be hard to find a more honest and unsettling portrait of show biz degradation, and yet the two lovers shared an almost tender (if self-destructive) affection for each other, conveyed by director Alex Cox with a gritty, forthright lyricism (their silhouetted embrace amidst a hail of garbage provides the film's most telling image). If nothing else, the pair were certainly more loyal to the nihilistic punk aesthetic than their contemporaries, and the film chronicles their slow, co-dependent suicide from the gutters of swinging London to the alleys of New York City, with an ill-conceived detour to Nancy's white-bread Middle America homestead. Gary Oldman brilliantly captures the ignorant anger (and sometimes disarming innocence) of the man described by Sex Pistols manager Malcolm McLaren as a fabulous disaster, and Chloe Webb is equally fine as the ugly duckling drug addict Nancy. "},{"Title":"Sex, Drugs & Rock'n'Roll (Punk-Rocker Style)","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" (Favourite movie quote) - Never trust a junkie. If you ask me, I think that director Alex Cox did a bloody fine job of thoroughly mocking the punk-rocker scene as it stood in Britain during the mid-1970s.And, I don't think that Cox could've chosen a better band to ridicule than that of the all-mighty Sex Pistols, who were headlined by such talentless slime as Johnny Rotten and sleazy Sid Vicious.In this grungy, greasy, gooey Romeo & Juliet story (punk-rocker style) it seems that everyone (and, I do mean everyone) goes out, in one way or another, in a literal blaze-of-glory.One of this film's biggest and most comical highlights (and there were certainly others) was Sid Vicious (during his solo career) performing I Did It My Way! for an outrageously over-the-top MTV video.With its depressingly graphic depiction of low-life, drug addiction and its incessant use of the vilest profanity imaginable, Sid & Nancy certainly isn't a film for everyone's enjoyment. But, if nothing else, it definitely does give the viewer quite a revealing (though not totally accurate) look at a particularly peculiar era in the history of pop music. "}{"Title":"Sid and Nancy","Date":"22 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I recommend checking out the Criterion version of Sid and Nancy if you're able to get it. It's got some real footage of Sid Vicious and Nancy Spungen from the tragic 1978 tour of the US. About the Alex Cox movie itself It's not a history of the Sex Pistols, which I think everybody knows. It's got a lot of fiction, but it's still a great look at drug addiction, misfits, outcasts, anarchists, and the punk world of that time... Whatever you think about the punk movement, love or hate it, this is still worth checking out, if just on the basis of the screwd up romance. The amazing garbage scene when their kissing is enough to warrant this be seen. And check out Sid's ferocious singing of My Way. What's really the best part are the unforgettable performances of Gary Oldman and Chloe Webb. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great leading performances but a missed opportunity","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I think i should start off by saying that i am big Sex Pistols fan, But i'm an even bigger fan of Johnny Rotten, Which proved a disappointment as the film didn't give the audience an insight or enough time to eider Rotten (Lydon), Cook or Jones. But despite that Sid and Nancy is an entertaining biopic with great leading performances by both a young (and hard to recognise) Gary Oldman and Chloe Webb. But what this film captures the most is a great viewing of 1970's England and delivers a fantastic view of 1970's LondonSo overall Sid and Nancy has a great costume, make-up and interior design which gives the viewers a spectacular insight in the era of punk. So with the great insight and two very well done performances, but it could have been better so i hope it won't be the last film about the sex pistols and that the next film will be more focused on the band itself. But Sid and Nancy is still a pleasure to watch "},{"Title":"Good, twisted and funny!","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Before you see this film there is a big important point you must know. Only 50% of this film is fictional. A lot of Sex Pistol fans might as well be outraged if they see this and think that's it's nothing like the real Sex Pistols and a lot were. John Lydon for instance who is The Sex Pistols lead singer said that he thought this film was a piece of crap and a Peter Pan version. All respect to John. He has the right to say this out of anyone. Sid was his best mate. There were a lot of stuff about this film that weren't real. You must know this. If you're going to see this film and expect it to be 100% accurate you should probably stay away and see a movie called, The Filth and the Fury, a more accurate documentary of The Sex Pistols. Or maybe read a book about The Sex Pistols, like John's book. But, seriously, if you're a Gary Oldman fan you must rent this movie right away! I gave it ten stars because I only liked it and this is coming from a obsessed Gary Oldman fan but still a big fan of the Sex Pistols and Sid Vicious. If you're not a Gary Oldman fan or a Sex Pistols fan I can't honestly know what to say to you. This film is depressing and sometimes had its very low points. It certainly brings out the worst of drugs out of anything. I'm sorry, if I can't really help you on this. "},{"Title":"Not Romeo and Juliet","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I missed SID & NANCY when it was first released. I wasn't expecting much when settling down to watch the DVD. I was pleasantly surprised to find a coherent, energetic but ultimately melancholy study of co-dependency, with two terrific central performances.We get to know Chloe Webb's child-woman Nancy to a greater extent than we do Gary Oldman's wild-man Sid. Not the actors' fault. In fact it's not a fault at all. There is something inexplicable there. Whatever forces were at play in forming the young man who became Sid Vicious, it's to the credit of Alex Cox and his team that they don't waste time speculating upon them or trying to analyse them. Instead, the film lives up to its title, starting just before the relationship starts and ending just after Nancy's death. The era in which the film was made is a significant factor in appreciating it. It was, in the UK at any rate, a time when the welfare state that had been so painstakingly put into place began to be systematically unravelled, a land where the notion of Society was belittled, in which hyper-individualism was lauded, where any sense of community was being abandoned, and the search for it becoming a joke. WALL ST, the'hero' of which was to famously declare Greed to be good, was released the year after SID AND NANCY. I remember all that only too well. And of course it's not over yet the unravelling continues.Sid and Nancy meet in a frenzy and finish in a fog. In between they shore each other up as best they can, two bits of flotsam on an indifferent sea. We're shown only a little of where Sid came from, mercifully not enough to help us theorise about how he came to be the embodiment of anarchy. Instead, through Oldman's bravura, we see his unmitigated charisma, at which the film's unctuous Malcolm McClaren (played by David Hayman) smiles knowingly and which he merrily exploits. We do see Nancy in the context of her family, but again, instead of attempting to use this encounter to explaining her, Cox gives us a sense of how pleased the family was to get rid of her. If Romeo and Juliet had been like Sid and Nancy, the Montagues and the Capulets would have paid to get them married and out of Verona altogether. "},{"Title":"What happens when two broken souls meet?","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" In Sid and Nancy, writer and director, Cox deploys an arsenal of events in the making of the morbid reality of life and death of the ever so distinguished British glamour punk-rock most tragic couple Sid and Nancy. Cox rendition of Sid and Nancy is perhaps the most subtle work of art that truly highlighted the story of the destructive pair through a stimulating concept of humanity from the threshold of the former Sex Pistol's bass player who was famously known for his wild and irrefutable rowdy antics. Played by Gary Oldman as Sid Vicious together with Chloe Webb who took over the role of young schizophrenic Nancy, displayed a body of electrifying screen play in depicting this heartfelt, sad and treacherous love and tragedy of the young couple. An Oscar deserving Oldman gave an eerie resemblance of Sid Vicious enigma as a young wild child who at the tender age of 19 has managed to squeeze 4 lifetimes of revolt and blackball in just 12 months streak as the bassist of Sex Pistol's becoming legendary for being the first to rebel and the first to die. In our desperate attempts to believe there was nothing good in their lives and nothing good will ever come if we care to give them a moment of our time, Cox defeat our ideology by infusing the couple with a sense of humanity, rare and momentary instances of love that we so wanted to believe never existed in the couples misadventures. Instead of giving us the symbolic bedlams of drugs, violence and anarchy in the greater pretext of ten folds, Sid and Nancy simultaneously maintains a small edge of altruism that leaves behind a greater impact on the viewers rather than all the gory lineage that they were famously known for.Sid and Nancy keeps a religiously close track to the tales of the revolting and outrageous adventures of the pair as we get to witness the violent streaks between the two, Sid's infamous flesh mutilating escapades and the famous Chelsea Hotel room fire ignited by the two, which is beautifully interlaced with legendary Sex Pistols concerts, the era of their falling right up to the unfortunate passing of Nancy Spungen and Sid's arrest in New York.Here, you witness a couple who throughout their deteriorating cataclysm has many times no matter how small an effort did try to set their lives straight in their otherwise chaotic structure. Some of the most prevalent moments were initially seen at the pub where a a moment of solid poignancy managed to eternally set the tone of dismissal apart. Sid's preliminary despise to the American groupie turns into sympathy after witnessing an assault bestowed on her shortly after she was ripped off and bushed whacked. Sidney who saw the whole scenario from afar, finds Nancy sobbing outside and offers her some comfort through one of the most eccentric ways known by human kind. We also note Nancy's classic line here and one that notes the many paradoxes of the couple 'Never trust a junkie' ideology. It was a heartbreaking realisation to see the novelty of the beginning of a tragic tale of love and death that first started with less to no interest in the early providence to evolving as the final shot of a Russian Roulette kind of game. An absolute masterpiece out of the rather impressive vault of Cox, he ends the flick in the most admirable ways by refuting the question 'Did Sid truly kill Nancy' dead-wringer that still lacks an answer 3 decades after her death in room 100, Chelsea Hotel. Sid Vicious retires from life in a beautiful manner shortly after giving us his admirable Pogo dance before he escapes into the ulterior setting of life in the other dimension, safe and secured in the hands of his soulmate, Nancy Spungen.Honourable mentions for the rest of the cast members who put up an effective work of art, passion and charisma to bring this sad tale to life. It took me so long to get to this movie but after watching it once, i watched it 3 times in one week. All humans can be animals when there's a desire to act up to the dark sides of our existence and for the likes of Sid and Nancy, it becomes a label and void of a generation. When someone finally comes through and give them the credits they deserve in a less beastly ways it's not only brilliant, it's honourable. Everyone was reckless once but not everyone lived to pay their dues, for the rest of us, we died too young. "},{"Title":"Powerful Biopic of Punk Rock's Doomed Pair","Date":"19 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This powerful and mesmerising biopic centred around the life and times, and general demise and downward spiral of The Sex Pistols bassist Sid Vicious and his drug addicted American girlfriend Nancy Spungen is nothing short of harrowing and moving in equal measure. This is mainly thanks in part to both the directorial eye of Alex Cox, but mainly the performances of the two leads Gary Oldman and Chloe Webb. Oldman portrays Vicious as he apparently really was, a stroppy, moody young man who was easily led, as is portrayed in the movie. Chloe Webb is equally as good, portraying Nancy as a volatile and often loose cannon on even more of a self destructive mission than her lover. According to former members of the Pistols she was the defining influence on Sid and was said to have introduced him to the class A drugs that eventually would lead to his death. This film is accurate to the times and events, and the scenes depicted here are based upon true memoirs. Sid and Nancy is primarily the story about the couple, with the Sex Pistols playing more of a sub story, although that's not to say that it doesn't show the events surrounding the band as well. There are excellent supporting performances, in particular from Andrew Schofield as lead singer Johnny Rotten, sneering out the words to 'Anarchy in the U.K', and a very accurate scene along the Thames where the band performed 'God Save The Queen'. A particular highlight is Sid Vicious's bizarre rendition of Frank Sinatra's 'My Way', performed almost identically by Gary Oldman to that of the real video. Overall a very good film that will definitely leave an unusual taste in the mouth after watching. "},{"Title":"Gary Oldman & Chloe Webb are Mesmerising!","Date":"11 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" 'Sid and Nancy' is a depressing, devastating motion-picture, that works for 2 reasons Gary Oldman & Chloe Webb. Both of the actors are Mesmerising in their portrayals.'Sid and Nancy' portrays the life of Sid Vicious, bassist of the seminal punk rock band the Sex Pistols, and his relationship with girlfriend Nancy Spungen. Sid Vicious & Nancy Spungen unfold on celluloid as ambitious but harmful people. They are addicted to the wrong stuff, they lack a good tongue, but they aren't horrible people. They are simply among those people, where their addiction takes over their lives. As mentioned, this biopic is depressing & devastating, its not meant for the faint-hearted.Alex Cox & Abbe Wool's Screenplay is devastating yet brutally honest. Alex Cox's Direction, on the other-hand, is appropriate. Oldman as Sid & Webb as Nancy are truly Mesmerising! Oldman is a master actor, he can never be doubted. Webb as Nancy, well words fail to justify her portrayal. Both of the actors deserved Oscar-Noimnations, but they were robbed & how! On the whole, 'Sid and Nancy' isn't for the faint-hearted, but for those who have a stomach for such brutally honest films, should NOT give it a miss. "},{"Title":"Sid and Nancy","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" While the movie may have not been entirely factual, no one can argue that it was well done. Good acting, good music, good overall feel and no long boring parts like many movies. One complaint was that Johnny Rotten was portrayed as stupid and annoying, but from what I have read and seen pictures of he did not seem like that. Their story was actually pretty tragic, and despite everything, they really were in love. They needed each other and could not live without each other. Read the book by Deborah SPungen to see that. But anyway, its my all time favorite movie, and very romantic, like the garbage scene, and a good anti drug film too. "},{"Title":"He did it his way...","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" An often romanticised look back on the life of Sex Pistols bassist Sid Vicious. Regarded as unreliable by Lydon, Alex Cox's homage to the era in which he spent his teenage years does offer an interesting and enthralling interpretation on one of the theories regarding the deaths of Sid and Nancy, though it may never truly come to light about what really happened. Oldman, Webb and Schofield are fantastic as Sid, Nancy and Rotten alike and it's invigorating to watch the cast sing, spit and curse their way through the Pistols back catalogue. Unappreciated by many people, but well worth a look even if you never listened to the Pistols. "},{"Title":"Even Gary Oldman can't save this.","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" How does this movie have a 7/10 score? I wanted to like it, I really did. Gary Oldman is my favorite actor, and he's in fine form here, although his Sid Vicious accent degenerates into a kind of generic Brit accent by the end of the film. I was interested in the story of Sid and the Sex Pistols, but true to the title, the film focuses squarely on Sid's relationship with Nancy. The film assumes a general and broad knowledge of the life and events of Sid and the Sex Pistols. You get tidbits of reportedly 'real' happenings from infamous stories, but it plays out as a disconnected series of events, without any framework to ground you in the lives of any of the characters. The dialog is mostly semi-coherent drug-induced babbling while stumbling blindly from one downtrodden location to another. In short, the film, much like Sid's life, is a train-wreck. Is this intentional? Trying to capture the feeling of what it was like? Maybe, maybe not. But it's a moot point. The film's main fault is in failing to create any sympathy for it's characters. Unlike other films which show the unglamorous cycle of drug dependency such as Trainspotting and The Basketball Diaries, Sid & Nancy shows not one redeeming value in its 'protagonists'. I was actually grateful when Nancy is no longer a focus of the story because I couldn't stand hearing her whining and screaming on the screen anymore. I thought the end of the movie might pull it out and make the whole thing worthwhile now that the focus was squarely on Oldman. And what do I get instead? A meaningless sequence where he dances with children before a magical cab pulls up to escort him and his newly revived love off to Never-never-land. (Yes I'm aware the disco on the radio had meaning.) Well, this sequence is certainly a happier note to end on than what happened in real life. And why not toss in another sequence glorifying a destructive, co-dependent relationship based on drug use? Yes, the film has the audacity to imply that this is real love. If you're 13 and looking for a film to romanticize and justify your rebellious anti-everything feelings, and you have a lot of knowledge and fascination for Sid Vicious, you might enjoy this film. For everyone else, stay away. The details are fudged and fuzzy, the script is misguided, the directing is slipshod, and unless you just HAVE to see Courtney Love's first role, the acting isn't worth sitting through the film. "}{"Title":"two amazing performances","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This starts with the death of Nancy Spungen (Chloe Webb) leaving Sid Vicious (Gary Oldman) catatonic as the police question him. The couple had met more than a year ago. Sid and Sex Pistols bandmate Johnny Rotten (Andrew Schofield) are on the streets doing minor vandalism. They find Nancy with another friend. She becomes a groupie. After a little time, they become a couple addicted to heroine. The band implodes during the disastrous US tour. Sid tries to go solo with Nancy managing but their desperate addiction leads to the eventual self-destruction.These are two amazing performances. Gary Oldman and Chloe Webb go into the gutter of the soul of these characters. It's raw and powerful. This is a Romeo and Juliet on heroine. I actually find Webb the wilder performance but the combination is undeniable. "},{"Title":"Come for Oldman and Inspired Cinematic Techniques, Leave for Everything Else","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" As a big fan of Alex Cox's Repo Man, I came into Sid and Nancy with some high hopes, all of which were dashed by the film itself.Rather than giving the audience a clear understanding of the culture in which the protagonists are rebelling against, as is the case with Otto in early-80's southern California in Repo Man, we're thrown into mid-70's England with absolutely no context whatsoever. It's a shame, for one because it should be easier to do so in a film grounded in reality as opposed to one grounded in science fiction. Secondly, the Sex Pistols, despite their brief existence and limited output, were one of the most influential bands of all-time and it feels like a real waste to not delve into what exactly made them so influential.So what are we left with? Well, the film is titled Sid and Nancy, not The Story of the Sex Pistols or anything like that, so we have the tale of a toxic, abusive relationship. Sid Vicious and Nancy Spungen were not Romeo and Juliet, star-crossed lovers kept separate by forces beyond their control, but a couple of junkies who enabled their poor behavior and likely contributed to each other's early demises.Gary Oldman, as usual, is terrific as Vicious and appears as nearly a dead ringer for the departed musician. His performance, along with some inspired uses of various cinematic techniques and strong visual storytelling, are really the only redeeming factors of the movie. If only the rest of it were as strongly cast as Oldman, but that isn't the case. Chloe Webb is shrill and grating as Spungen and is just a chore to have to behold, but I'm not sure how much of that falls on the actress and how much of it falls on the character. Similarly, Andrew Schofield is a bit too pudgy as Johnny Rotten and thus difficult to believe. It's said that Tim Roth was originally offered that part (and like Oldman he would have made for a great dead ringer for Rotten), but turned it down due to not wanting to take part in a film that depicted such recent history. Given how the movie turned out, it's safe to say that Mr. Roth made the right decision in not being involved with this project.Ultimately, as I said before, the film is about watching a toxic relationship slowly deteriorate to the worst possible conclusion. Aside from Oldman's performance and some inventive visual and cinematic techniques, I didn't like this one and I really can't recommend it. "},{"Title":"A fun, horrifying, tragic, nearly perfect film","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I discovered punk rock at 14, when an older cousin showed me films of the Sex Pistols' concerts. From the first blast of Anarchy in the UK, I fell in love with their joyfully angry noise, and was especially enthralled with their demented dervish of a bass player, Sid Vicious. He couldn't play, but that didn't matter his manic, raging energy and who cares? scowl was candy to a nerdy fat kid from the suburbs. For about three months I insisted, much to my parents' chagrin, on being called Sid.When I learned that Vicious had killed his girlfriend, Nancy Spungen, I immediately rented Sid and Nancy, the story of their doomed relationship. I then found one of my favorite movies. I have seen it dozens of times, and each time I feel that giddy, dangerous excitement of the first time you hear your favorite song. Sid and Nancy works on many levels as a time capsule of punk rock in the 70s; as a love story between two damaged people; and as a cautionary tale about co-dependence and addiction. Sid Vicious meets groupie Nancy Spungen just as the Sex Pistols are taking off. They fall in love, not just with each other, but with love itself; they see themselves as Romeo and Juliet, destined to go out in a blaze of glory. After the Sex Pistols break up and the talentless Vicious' career flounders, their youthful rebellion turns into self-destruction, and their flirtation with heroin becomes full-blown addiction. One night, Spungen begs Vicious to keep his promise to kill them both, and in the ensuing struggle he stabs her to death. Soon after, he dies of a heroin overdose that is suicide in all but name.It might sound depressing - indeed, it's downright grim in spots - but Sid and Nancy is often an exhilarating film. It reminds us what it's like to be young and reckless, to feel everything too much. We feel the electric jolt of the couple's first kiss, the warm fuzziness of being crazy about each other. When things go bad, we feel a profound sadness for these wasted lives; we mourn for what might have been. This movie puts us through the wringer, and it's worth every twist.The cast is incredible. Gary Oldman and Chloe Webb give note-perfect performances; they do not so much portray Sid and Nancy as channel them. They even look like the people they're playing. Andrew Schofield and David Hayman have fun playing Sex Pistols lead singer Johnny Rotten and manager Malcolm MacLaren, respectively, as punk rock caricatures, and Xander Berkely - now best known as 24's counter-terrorism agent George Mason - gives a brief but chilling performance as a drug dealer who helps his pals Sid and Nancy ruin their lives. And yes, in case you were wondering, that is a pre-fame Courtney Love, original nose and all, as one of Nancy's drug buddies.For me, Sid and Nancy is not just a great film, but a connection to my youth. As an adult, I know that Vicious and Spungen were basically overgrown adolescents who took live fast and die young far too seriously. Watching this movie, however, I feel the joy I felt the first time I heard punk rock, and I like to think that they simply wanted that incredible feeling to last forever. Who could blame them? "},{"Title":"A film about two non-entities, who did nothing.","Date":"9 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Sid Vicious was the bass player of the Sex Pistols. One problem He couldn't play one note.In a nod to the inexplicable modern popularity of reality TV though, it still didn't stop him from becoming a star. Mainly, because he was a walking car crash.Nancy Sturgeon did even less. She was his American girlfriend, a passably attractive blonde,with a hair-trigger temper. She became a famous celebrity, as well.Why, though?Both were drug-addled losers, who routinely broke the law, abused themselves and each other, not to their penchant for being mention hedonistic masochists. They spent the last few months of their pathetic existences as high as the Moon in a filthy hotel room, before dying in ignominious circumstances.So, what makes them such a notorious couple, that they're on the names of the lips of most of that generation, and even having a film based on their squalid, short lives now?I have no idea.One thing I AM sure of is most of their antics seem like child's play in comparison to what some of we see from today's batch of Z- listers. What was front page news in the late 70's/ early 80's is pretty much par for the cause in the noughties.That's... That's quite depressing really.I think I need to go and lie down, now.Oh, and the film itself is pretty good.It was worth the wait to find that out, huh? 6/10 "},{"Title":"Really hard to watch","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Sid and Nancy is as gritty a film as you'll ever see which is appropriate giving the story it's telling of rocker Sid Vicious (a member of the Sex Pistols) and his junky lover Nancy Spungen. This is a fascinating film because the protagonist lovers are so loathsome and vile, yet we still feel for them. I can't remember seeing a film with more pitiful characters in need of help. Nancy's death scene is gut wrenching and really, really hard to watch. Young Gary Oldman knocks it out of the park as Vicious and displays his talent for disappearing into a character and highlighting eccentricities. This is also a great film from producer Eric Fellner (of Working Title Films fame). "},{"Title":"Disgustingly Accurate","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Let me start out by saying this is not a love story. This movie doesn't glamorize their story in any way. The beginning is amazingly accurate for depicting the punk scene and what the public thought of punks. Chloe Webb plays the role of Nancy perfectly people say that her character is annoying and disgusting but that is who Nancy was she was disgusting everyone hated her the only one who tolerated her was Sid. Gary Oldman portrays Sid as he was he had a bright future and it was destroyed when he met Nancy. This story shows their downward spiral together. This is amazing because it shows the truth how grim the reality of it was the accuracy of the drug abuse and effects on both physicality and the impact it has on an addict's life and the loss of ones self. I find it so brutally honest that everybody should watch to understand that time better. The only reason I rated it lower was because I felt it moved quite slow and there was quite a bit of unnecessary fluff. "},{"Title":"How can dismantling punk be so punk?","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Version I saw LoveFilm Instant streamActors 7/10Plot/script 6/10Photography/visual style 5/10Music/score 6/10Overall 6/10Sid and Nancy is a very punk film. Shot in a very low-tech, rather shambolic style, it begins (in Sunset Blvd. style) with a dead person and then tells the story of how they got there.The dead woman is Nancy Spungen, paramour of Sex Pistols bassist Sid Vicious (Gary Oldman). It's clearly a great performance by Oldman in a breakthrough role in his career, but the character he is portraying is shown to have no talent, no musical ability, no virtues whatsoever except a somewhat greater mastery than most of punk's aggressive swagger.What follows is a difficult piece to assess, because it is a ruthless, efficient character assassination of the central pair. It is arguably a mark of the success of the film that they are shown to have nothing notable or interesting about them, and are merely loathsome individuals with very mundane, everyday flaws.However, it does make you question why you did or would want to spend 112 minutes looking at them. I am broadly a fan of the punk music style, but this is a lot more about the punk ethos than punk music. It fizzes with passive-aggressiveness which it directs primarily at its subjects, sneering viciously at their weaknesses and failings. I suppose that exactly like it's subject, the film is brutally passive-aggressive, a bit pointless, a bit self-indulgent, self-destructive and very, very punk. "},{"Title":"First rate biography are trashy punk rocker and his love","Date":"7 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Never have I seen two great actors consume their roles like Oldman and Webb here. Oldman's punk rock appearance looks so much like the real Sid Vicious, it's uncanny. This biographical tale is told in a creative and humorous handling of story, it makes it all so compelling. There are some bits that shock, violence, per see, like Oldman carving his intials in his chest, for a female fan. The way it's told is offbeat, and truly original, that has me loving the movie just as much as last time I've seen it, which let me tell you, is a few times. If Sid really did kill Nancy, which we are kind left in a hazy judgement, the film does it's best on recounting what went down. The Sex Pistols as illustrated here were the most raucous and unruly I've ever seen, Vicious at one stage, knocking out a member of the audience, and disposing of an empty beer glass on the sidewalk, only for starters. Sid and Nancy lived like pigs, one scene has them sitting up in bed, accepting their fate as they watch their hotel room go up in flames, played to a haunting music score. The movie does have great music too. Through the whole story we see how the relationship, Sid and Nancy had, suffered. Nancy in a phenomenal performance by Webb, had faced a lot of rejection if from family, whatever. The family reunion part, that does provide some humorous moments. Nancy also worked at a S and M bordello, to feed her drug habit. One bordello scene, that doesn't feature Nancy, with a client hanging from a ceiling, is a riot. I just love the way the stories formulated, with some nifty touches, one that dream sequence with Nancy coming back from the dead at the end, rolling up in a limousine, all dolled up. Another one has Sid revealing himself to a band of kids where at the mentioning of the name, they scuttle away, but the last part is done in EXTREME fast forward. Director Cox has had fun making this, and this is an impressive piece of filmmaking, considering Cox had made the much smaller film, cult hit Repo Man, a film that does indeed stand small against this. Oldman and Webb ought to be commended. The acting speaks for itself. I'd recommended this film, just for watching these actors in prized performances that are so authentically real, they'll stay with you forever. The featured end song Love kills, rocks, and so does this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A mindful reminiscence...","Date":"2 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" English author, screenwriter and director Alex Cox's second feature film which he co-wrote with screenwriter Abbe Wool, is inspired by real events in the life of a 20th century English musician named John Simon Ritchie aka John Beverly aka Sid Vicious and an American-Jewish groupie named Nancy Laura Spungen. It premiered in the Directors' Fortnight section at the 39th Cannes International Film Festival in 1986, was shot on locations in England, USA and France and is a UK production which was produced by producer Eric Fellner. It tells the story about a twenty-one-year-old bassist in an English Punk rock band called the Sex Pistols (1975-1978) named Sid and a twenty-year-old woman named Nancy.Distinctly and precisely directed by English filmmaker Alex Cox, this finely paced and somewhat fictional tale which is narrated mostly from the two main characters' viewpoints, draws a dense portrayal of a renowned and deadly real-life romance between two heroin addicts. While notable for its distinct and atmospheric milieu depictions, reverent cinematography by cinematographer Roger A. Deakins, production design by production designer Andrew McAlpine, costume design by costume designers Cathy Cook and Theda De Ramus and use of sound, colors and light, this character-driven and narrative-driven story which had the initial title Love Kills, depicts two unorthodox studies of character and contains a variegated score by composers Joe Strummer, The Pogues and Pray For Rain. This somewhat biographical, occasionally humorous and surreal all though pointedly factual indie from the late 1980s which is set in England and America in the late 1970s during the early years of the punk subculture and which reconstructs scenes from the lives of two human beings who lived together for two years and whose prominence increased after having spent two decades amongst the living, is impelled and reinforced by its cogent narrative structure, subtle character development and continuity, scenes between Sid and Nancy and prominently by the memorable acting performances by English actor and director Gary Oldman and American actress Chloe Webb. An ascetic love-story and a mindful reminiscence where reality surpasses fiction. "},{"Title":"Death By Design","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Depressing Movie about Destructive Forces Showing Destructive Outcasts Facing Their Fate. This Biopic is a Frighteningly Fantastic Film. It is not Really about Punk and its Initial Explosion onto the Pop Music Scene that caused the Death of the Corporate Prefabricated Rock Product that caused the Death of Real Rock, and Ultimately and Fittingly caused its own Death because of a Pre-Determined Pronunciation of Annihilating Anarchy.1977 saw the Birth of Punk and the Death of Elvis Presley, but not before He had puffed up to near 300 pounds and was Literally a Prescription Drug-Addled Zombie who needed to hold Lyric Sheets on Stage because He could not Remember the Words.Here Sid Vicious in the throes of Decline is shown on Stage so out of His Mind on Drugs and Alcohol that He needed to hold a Lyric Sheet because He could not Remember the Words. Both of these Rock Icons were in Real Life just a Heartbeat from Death and those Revealing Moments are some kind of Sad Synchronicity.There is much Truth in this Movie among the Fiction and it is a Riveting and Revolting Riff on the Punk Rock Sensibility, that at the Time made a lot of Sense in its Senselessness. But a Music Documentary it is not. It is a Character Study of Two Desperate and Detached from Life People.The Title says it all. This is the Story of Sid and Nancy and not of Punk Rock or the Sex Pistols. For that see the many Fine Documentaries and Books on the Subject. Don't let the Movie put you off Punk Rock because it doesn't Portray the Essential Energy, Evolution, or Embryonic Essence of the Music and the Movement.It is a Great Film but can be a Hard Watch at Times. Seeing the Death of Real People even in a Dramatization is never Pretty. This is an Extremely Well Acted, Good Looking Movie but is very hard to Look at. "}{"Title":"This movie should by no means be taken as fact regarding ANYTHING...","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Nauseating Nancy Spungen (portrayed by Chloe Webb)has always made this movie hard for me to watch. I can't feel any sympathy for such an obnoxious person (and she was, more or less, just as horrid in reality). Sid Vicious was basically a sweet, naive kid who had a difficult time believing the truth about Nancy's days as a prostitute. He really did love her and most people don't believe he was the one who killed her (especially since he was reported to be UNCONSCIOUS on Tuinal on the night in question). This movie should by no means be taken as fact regarding ANYTHING; Andrew Schofield is especially terrible as Johnny Rotten. He was supposed to meet and study Rotten but then admitted to him that the scenes had already been shot and Cox just wanted to use Rotten's name in connection with the film. The Rockhead character who is supposed to be Johnny Thunders (the guitarist for the New York Dolls, Heartbreakers, etc.) is ridiculous; at least they didn't use J.T.'s actual name. Nancy wasn't in England to chase after Johnny; she was obsessed with Jerry Nolan, the drummer for the Heartbreakers/New York Dolls. Anyhow, we'd be here all night if I pointed out every inaccuracy in this movie. Gary Oldman is an excellent actor and does a good job, although he's playing Sid the stage persona as opposed to Sid the person. If you just watch the movie as the story of two tragic lovers and don't compare it to reality it's alright; I liked it a lot when I was a 14-year-old punk, heh. Cheetah Chrome's quote in Please Kill Me is amusing F*****g Nancy. If Sid hadn't killed her, I woulda, ha ha ha. Nancy was probably the most miserable person I've ever met in my life. "},{"Title":"How Can You Make Stupidity Funny??","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" OK....first of all, I may be the oldest punk rocker out there. While my younger sister was groovin out to the Stones, Hermins Hermits, The Dave Clark Five, and all those other bands in the 1960's that would merge into the psychedelic hippie thing I was into Mozart, Beethoven, and Ralph Vaughn Williams. She stayed there, I didn't.I discovered ROCK....got involved with a band....and grew from there. I discovered punk while on a distant Pacific island and then on a trip to England....Sid was dead by then. The culture lived on...at least for a few years.This movie, however inaccurate, has got the spirit and Gary Oldman is perfect as Sid. The look and attitude is positively scary. It's almost like a drug induced dream, floating thru the white ghettos of mid 1970's London. Why is it that the Pistols destructed and the Clash went on?? Something to do with drugs, specifically heroin. In my day the biggie was cocaine. I got out of it by joining Peace Corps and going 7000mi away. Oh so many are now pushing up flowers.Stupidity as funny? Yeah, Just look at Sid. "},{"Title":"Nancy","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I definitely agree with others on here, the book And I don't wanna live this life by Nancy's mother, Deborah, is a powerful look into her daughter and the effects of drugs and Sid had on a great deal of people. I read in here some people state Nancy had some brain damage, actually in all reality her intelligence was off the charts, she had been tested many times and always scored in genius levels. The brain damage she may have suffered from her traumatic birth in which she almost died ( I believe almost, it has been awhile since I read the book, so can not recall if she actually at any point was clinically dead) The damage she suffered was mental, hence her manic depression, sociopath behavior that was never diagnosed properly when she was young, many many incompetent doctors, psychologist back then just blew off what her parents would say about her due to her intelligence being able to con them nothing was wrong, having the doctors believe it was just a case of mother not getting along with daughter, so wanting her medicated. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" One of my absolute favorites. There's a big debate regarding the films tendency to be factually wonky. I don't understand that at all. Do we ask that Herzog be tied down by the facts of his subjects when he's making non- docs? No. Well this is Cox's Cobra Verde or Every Man for Himself and God Against All. Cox uses the idea of Sid and Nancy to explore the themes he's interested in. Like the role of nihilism and anarchy in political, social and personal life and the point at which those ideas stop becoming useful and turn destructive. And that's just one theme, there's also the rise and fall of artistic movements (breakdancing kids at the end, the shift from the UK to the USA) and the study of two people who claim to believe in nothing, yet are ultimately victims of the most antique of all isms romanticism. Cox didn't make a doc, he made an abstraction, an impressionistic study in theme, mood and tone. In his willingness to let go of what a traditional bio-pic is supposed to be and embrace his own vision and conclusions he shows himself to be just as much a product of what was vital and necessary about the punk movement in the first place. Punks not in the details. It's in the attitude. I hope criterion does a rerelease. "},{"Title":"tragic love .... and foreshadowing","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" The feeling of complete hopelessness that envelopes you as you watch 'Sid and Nancy' is amazing. I could relate to Sid & Nancy on numerous levels. The destruction. The drugs. The ability to love someone so much, knowing that you're bad for each other, but disregarding it. Being so close to the edge and not caring if it kills you.The one thing that I found to be especially haunting though? The fact that Courtney Love is in the movie as Gretchen. To me there are three fascinating-yet-tragic couples that I adore for reasons unknown Romeo and Juliet, Sid and Nancy, Kurt and Courtney.Strange coincidence? Or foreshadowing? "},{"Title":"Please don't think punk was like this...","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I last saw this movie when it came out in the mid-1980s, and as a long-time aficionado of punk rock, one had to say that 'Sid and Nancy' was awful. Irredeemably awful. I saw it again just last night, and it was worse. Over the decades since Sid kicked Nancy's bucket and then his own, several documentaries, unearthed footage and books of reminiscences have strengthened our acquaintance with the 'punk rock' story and its myriad sub-plots. However, as the director and co-writer of 'Sid and Nancy', Alex Cox would have known the entire story back in the early 1980s. He just didn't want to film it. Instead we get a wildly inaccurate phantasmagoria starring two painfully overacting hams who look several years older than the historical characters they are meant to be portraying. The entire English punk scene is pulped down into a bunch of exaggeratedly lurching, moronic and pettily destructive idiots falling over repeatedly and making life difficult for themselves and others. What about the intelligence and originality of the Buzzcocks or the Banshees? What about the Clash's social conscience? What about the Sex Pistols' media-savvy and musical talent? Check 'The Punk Rock Movie'; Sid actually could play, albeit in a basic 'Dee Dee Ramone' manner, and if you'd like to listen to the live bootlegs, they bear little resemblance to the incompetent racket served up by the 'Sex Pistols' in 'S & N'. Moreover, couldn't Cox have staged the 'Pistols' English gigs with an audience who doesn't look like it was straight out of 1984? Check the half-mohawks and the 'positive punk' girls' puffed-up hair. Almost as bad as Spike Lee's 'Summer of Sam'. While we're at it, why are there no swastikas? So what if Alex Cox didn't want them in his precious movie; in 1976-77 they were right there in front of everybody. Again, check the footage. Sid Vicious made the swastika t-shirt an icon; he pretty much lived in one. You might as well try to do a bio-pic about the Grateful Dead and leave out the peace symbol. Look, as you can tell, I could easily spend 10,000 words telling you how insultingly bad, stupid and dishonest this movie is. Maybe one day I will, but suffice to say that with its focus on two of the most obnoxious, universally disliked and talent-free members of the 1970s punk movement it is a totally charm-free excursion into bio-pic territory. It is also intolerably bad history. "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I just can't watch a movie which is based on life of a character who actually says that 'she was never anything' about herself and does not change her position. i try to avoid such people in life and now i'm stuck with this movie sitting on my shelf. Plus, it is supposed to be about a crazy twisted love. Well, i only see love on Sid's part, Nancy just needed someone to look after her and give her more drugs, because she wasn't capable of doing it herself (that is how the movie showed her, but i'm pretty sure she was the same way in real life). Also, the director tried to make the end scene sweet and romantic, that i find inappropriate with a relationship like that. I guess, it should have evoked pity for the main characters, but it only made me disgusted with them. although, i must admit that Gary Oldman saved me from stopping the movie in the middle of it. Great actor. "},{"Title":"Rather Disappointing","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I came to this movie with high hopes. I am a big fan of Gary Oldman's performances, and I have some interest in punk rock music. However, I was ultimately unable to engage with this movie. The problem, unfortunately, is the protagonists.Although Oldman and Webb are very good in their roles, ultimately the film suffers from the fact that neither Sid Vicious nor Nancy Spungen were especially sympathetic figures. Frankly, they were a pair of idiot junkies whom even their own entourage couldn't stand. There was nothing tragic about what happened to them; they simply self-destructed. I simply could not care about them.They didn't even have the saving grace of being hugely talented. Although Vicious was a good performer, he wasn't the greatest who ever lived. Spungen was mainly known for going out with Vicious. If this had been the case of a Caravaggio or Hemingway who collapsed under the weight of his own genius, it might have been more engaging. "},{"Title":"never mind","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a film made by someone who clearly has no love for the Sex Pistols or even any real knowledge of them. Research for this project appears to have been conducted purely through reference to the tabloid presses' depiction of the band &#150; and who wants to see that? John Lydon, a man who wrote God Save The Queen among other things (a lyric surely comparable with anything by Lennon or Dylan) is portrayed as a talentless thug. Steve Jones, an amusing and engaging bloke on anyone's terms, seen here is nothing but a borderline psychopath. Gary Oldman, good actor that he is, does his best impersonation of Sid's lugubrious, cockney drawl but he's a little too healthy looking, in truth.Even as a depiction of 1977, the film fails to convince. The Sex Pistols play to a room exclusively full of punks who resemble American punks contemporary to when the film was made, i.e. leather jackets and Mohicans. Check out archive footage of the Pistols and it didn't happen that way. The majority of the audience still had long hair and flares. Even some of the punk bands had members who weren't particularly punk. Spiky hair and ripped t-shirts were seemingly a step too far back then. Most shocking of all, the racial change that the singer of X-Ray Spex undergoes is more startling than Michael Jackson's.The main problem with the film &#150; or any retrospective Rock n Roll film &#150; is the music. Actors - or hired session men - can never hope to emulate the voices/ presence/ energy of the original band. (Do you think the Beatles would ever have made it if they'd sounded like they did in Backbeat?) Here, the Sex Pistols are portrayed as nothing but a worthless gimmick; a construction of a Svengali manager who took any four hoodlums and placed them in sensational situations. It panders to readers of The Sun and clever people who think they're being fooled if they don't say Oh yeh &#150; nothing but a media gimmick, yeah &#150; couldn't really play, yeh &#150; i.e. people who think they're clever but who are, in actual fact, idiots. Avoid. "},{"Title":"A road accident","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" People often use the description of a road accident to describe an event that is so ugly they don't normally want to look at it, but is in turn so fascinating that they simply cannot look away. Alex Cox's depiction of the relationship between Sid Vicious and Nancy Spungen fits that description to a T. It consists of so much ugliness that nobody in their right mind would normally watch it for pleasure, but it is done in such a fascinating manner that one can't help being fascinated.Sid Vicious was definitely not one of humanity's finer specimens. His name was a total misnomer, given that he apparently couldn't fight his way out of a wet paper bag. His musical skills were so close to non-existent that I could probably play a better song than he does, in spite of never having played in a band before. So it is hardly a surprise that much of his daily activity consisted of destroying himself. Nor is it surprising that the girlfriend who tries to exploit his total lack of talent is even more vapid and idiotic than he is.The real John Lydon refers to this biopic as the Peter Pan version, and I don't doubt that this is to some extent true. No film studio in its right mind is going to pay to have what really happened with Sid Vicious and the people around him depicted on film, especially not now that one cannot bring a period piece with a decent cast to completion without spending a good fifty million. Interestingly, John Lydon also describes himself as being the only talented member of the Sex Pistols, and this is borne out by his musical output after their breakup, so it would be interesting to see a biopic about him.Not having seen any original footage or performances of the real Sid Vicious, I am not going to comment on whether Gary Oldman captures the character or not. What he does capture is the general obnoxiousness of the scene. It takes genuine talent as an actor to capture the performance element of a musician so terrible that a genre known for terrible musicianship considers him among the worst. One's instinct when putting a bass guitar in their hand is to do at least a halfway competent job of playing it, so it must have taken some effort to restrain that.Alex Cox, having just come off the production of Repo Man, obviously wasn't willing to give up his ideas about non-obvious humour. While there aren't nearly as many sight gags here, there's enough sequences that make one laugh in spite of themselves that they cannot help but wonder if it was unintentional. Oldman's impersonation of Vicious doing My Way as only Vicious would will make you laugh, cry, and reminisce, even if you were a mere toddler at the time Vicious died.I gave Sid And Nancy an eight out of ten. There are some films that one is inclined to respond with a well-emphasised good with when old cranks talk about how they don't make films like this anymore. When people tell me they don't make films like Sid And Nancy anymore, I think it's a damned shame. "}{"Title":"Tries Hard, but Ultimately Fails","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" You really need to ask yourself if you love the Pistols and the general era of the late 70's. If you do, the film will fall flat for you. The details are all wrong, the key incidents of the band and Sid's involvement with them are way off. The personalities of key people are wrong, some characters just made up, rather sloppily too. So we can forgive it for being a wholly inaccurate of Sid Vicious' life. Fine, but so then what we are left with is a basic love story. It fails at this too, mostly because Nancy is written out pure spite and misogyny. She is therefore not only unlikable but wholly uninteresting. You never believe the love story, because quite frankly Nancy isn't really written as a human being, just a series of tropes about junkies and that awful idea that women are shrews that stifle men's creativity.The truth is Nancy was much more physically beautiful than this film wishes to admit. She was also quite charming, in fact, if you know junkie culture, you know that charm, deadly psychotic charm is a key way to survive and support your habit. None of that is shown here, so that ability for junkies to convince others they are clean, or kind or honest is obliterated. Nancy was smarter than this film gives credit for (yes even though she was a junkie), with more charisma too and if they had written her that way it would make for a better film. The real Sid fell in love with a real human being, a flawed one to be sure, but the kind of junkie a lot of us could fall for. In this film she's just a very nasty series of dull, obvious tropes. Just about everyone intimately involved with the Sex Pistols has disowned this film. I think there are moments of visual poetry in this film, I think Gary Oldman's performance is excellent, but the script is a Hollywood hackneyed attempt to reduce the Sex Pistols to every stereotype and narrow prejudice those who were never punks have always harbored about the punk movement. It's sad because there is some real craft to this film, it had tremendous potential, but ultimately you can just never believe Sid would fall for this less-than-human harpy. Sad because there's a real reason Nancy swept Sid off his feet. The truth, in this case, is not only stranger than fiction, it was also far more compelling. "},{"Title":"Love and self destruction","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" The movie is about the love story between the bass player of the Sex Pistols Sid and a heroine addicted groupie Nancy. It shows how they met and slowly pulled each other into destruction that resulted in their deathAs far as I heard it is not a very accurate movie, but since I am not a Sex Pistols fan I didn't notice much of itI did like the scenery and the portrayal of the punk scene.More than anything it is a love movie. But a very different kind. It is not the kind of romance that Matthew McCoughney usually plays in. It is about destructing love and most of their intimate moments are showing them getting high together. Sid shows his romantic feelings by for example hitting his head against the brick wall to make Nancy feel better. Sid is an interesting character. He isn't supposed to be very talented and yet has the character that punk represents which makes him so famous. Gary Oldmann was brilliant in this movie. He is very intense and portrays Sid Vicious flawlessly, he seem to have captured a lot of his mannerisms. I was not that thrilled by Chloe Webb. Courtney Love, who also has a small role in it, wanted to play the part of Nancy and I wish she did. My main problem with the movie is that it drags too much. There are some scenes that I loved, like visiting Nancy's grandparents and their final moments in the hotel room, but I did feel pretty bored when watching most of it "},{"Title":"Really?","Date":"27 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" As far as bio's go this is terrible. Actually I can't say I've seen a watch worthy one - ever! Is it really that hard to have actors portray a real story? Seriously, its a true story and a compelling one! All you have to do is tell it! I like Gary Oldmsn, he's a brilliant actor but seriously stop the over acting. As for Chloe whoever, take some classes in acting. I get that Nancy was overbearing but there are more ways to depict than the obvious. Being loud and American won't cut it! Total waste of time. Oliver Stones - The Doors, even though I watched it countless times when I was 16 probably makes the top bio movie I've ever watched. Peace "},{"Title":"Good cautionary tale.","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" First let's get this out the way, Sid & Nancy is a well made film giving an apparently convincing depiction of a music scene and era where two very self-destructive individuals lived and died. This is a well made film. There, that is out of the way! Now I would like to give some thoughts on the subject of this film which has absolutely nothing to do with the production value of this decidedly outstanding film.I spent my twenties living in the Chelsea area of New York City. This meant that Greenwich Village and the East Village were all within walking distance and these locals were my hangouts all during the 1980's. During this decade the punk scene was at it's peak and it was common to see punks like the ones in Sid & Nancy pretty much doing what is shown all over this film. I was not a apart of the punk movement but an observer. I thought at the time this was a sub-culture to admire and respect but for some reason was not able to fit into.In 1986 when this film was released I was 22 years old and probably would have enjoyed this film much more than now. I definitely knew about Sid & Nancy from the newspapers and also because I passed by the Chelsea Hotel on a daily basis and knew much about it's legendary history and tenants. Strangely enough I had skimmed one of the true crime books based on their story while sitting in the Muhllenberg branch of the New york Public Library on 23rd Street which is right across the street facing the Chlesea Hotel. So my interest in Sid & Nancy is more about me getting a better understanding of an era I lived through and witnessed as an outsider. Alex Cox's film does much to help me in this area of endeavor.I think what made this film upsetting to me is the disillusionment with the whole punk scene as I imagined it may have been like in the eighties. The behavior of the youth portrayed in this film was worse than barbaric. It seemed they were psychotic. Part of me originally said that this is not the punk scene I witnessed in the eighties but actually it was! Concerts in Tompkins Square often erupted into violent spectacles. But actually I think these two were acting more like addicts than anything else. Look carefully and you'll notice that the more psychotic behavior are exhibited by Sid and Nancy than by anyone else. The other people in the scene seem to pull themselves back from the more seemingly off-the-chart behavior. The film is an education in the dangers of going too far into anti-social behavior.This is longer than I expected. I'll close in saying that Sid & Nancy is worth a look and is a good cautionary film for this new generation of punks that are coming up and recycling the old. "},{"Title":"a portrait of the two quite possibly most annoying people on the planet","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I know everyone likes watching movies where young, hip, famous people die in gritty ways, and I'd be lying if I said that my own morbid curiosity didn't occasionally take me in the direction of movies like Sid & Nancy. Did people of the punk persuasion in the late 70s really all have speech impediments? because that's what this movie led me to believe. Gary Oldman played the part of Sid Vicious sounding drunk, toothless and mentally challenged--in other words, probably fairly accurate. Chloe Webb's constant hoarse shriek was capable of sucking all the sympathy out of her character that when she was stabbed, I couldn't help but think, well, at least she won't yell anymore. The worst part of the movie was Sid's performance of My Way. I suppose that's a subjective comment--I never could get into the Sex Pistols at all, let alone solo Sid. At least I was able to press fast forward.While it was still your typical biopic, it was refreshing in the fact that neither Sid nor Nancy were glorified in any way. They were portrayed as spoiled, hedonistic, and none too bright. There was no inkling of the misunderstood genius character that plagues these sorts of movies. I felt sorry for them, I'll admit, even Nancy and her shriek, because of the way the characters were essentially responsible for their own destruction, and too dumb and strung out to see it coming. "},{"Title":"Effective and Disturbing","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Kill me, Sid, just kill me! Nancy Spungen (Webb) is shrieking, and at that point the entire viewing audience is ready to oblige. The shrewish, whiney, manipulative and very tragic Miss Spungen has found a soulmate in Sid Vicious (Oldman), the ultimate punk-rocker from the Sex Pistols. With his trademark disdain for all things conventional, including life itself, Vicious and Spungeon are a pathetic pair, and one very potent reminder of a turbulent era that neither of them survived. As Spungen, sporting the uniform of the period &#150; motorcycle jacket, shredded fishnet hose and skyscraper shoes &#150; Webb, a truly gifted and underrated actress, proves she's not just another pretty face. In fact she's pretty scary with her ratty bleached hair and apocalyptic makeup, but it's the depth of Spungen's debilitating misery that Webb captures in an ugliness that borders on bravery. It's a pathetic portrait, rather than a *sym*pathetic one, with Webb's portrayal offering zero opportunities for caring about this character &#150; except that Nancy Spungen was more than just a character in a movie. Her tragedy of self-destruction is one that has been played many times both on- and offscreen, but seldom in such a harrowing and searing composition of addiction, despair and emptiness. Oldman (second choice was Daniel Day Lewis!), as Vicious, also gives a harrowing, repellant performance &#150; underscoring that the same qualities of arrogance and apathy that made him a star were the same qualities that eventually did him in. Schofield, as Johnny Rotten, gains the only sympathy in the entire film, as he helplessly watches his friend and partner slide into the hellish grip of drugs and Spungen. David Hayman, as Malcolm McLaren, is passive wickedness itself as the instigator who then sits back and watches the drama unfold. Then there's Courtney Love's brief fling &#150; begging the major question of why, if she was sporting the same frowsy harridan look in 1986, why is she still sporting it now? Director Cox (Repo Man) ably manages the story and cast, giving it all there is to give &#150; but there's simply so little to care about and the afflictions that befall the main characters are completely of their own devising. With a fairly lengthy list of factual errors, the movie, described as pure fantasy by the real Johnny Rotten, is effective and disturbing, nonetheless, and distinctly gives you the feeling that it's not too far off the mark. "},{"Title":"A great movie, but especially great for Sex Pistols fans.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"    This was a great movie for any fans of drama, and this was also veryclose to being completely true. They had Sid Vicious' mom on the set tomake it as real as possible, and the necklace Gary Oldman wore was thenecklace that actually belonged to Sid Vicious. This had really goodacting too, even though the woman who played Nancy was a tad over thetop at times. This movie even had a few laughs, like when Sid and Nancygo to Nancy's for dinnner. But, being a Sex Pistols fan I especiallyenjoyed this movie, because there were performances of actual SexPistols songs, sung by the actor of Jonny Rotten. I though they might dothis and have him lip synch to the actual song, but his singing voicewas actually pretty close on sound to Jonny Rotten. All in all, this wasa great movie, and it delivers an especially in depth interest with SexPistols fans. 9 out of 10 . . . "},{"Title":"Outstanding and emotional","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Easily one of the best movies of the 80s and a terrific, albeit warped, love story. It's actually heartwrenching with two lost people finding each other and falling in love. It's also a dead-on portrayal of the highs and lows of drug abuse, especially the lows. You can almost not say enough about the acting of Gary Oldman and Chloe Webb. You sense that they got physically involved with their roles. Check out their pale appearances, weight loss and bruises. You really feel for both of them as they try and try to get off heroin and can't. The end of the movie, when Nancy screams that they'll never get well, is hard to take. The music part of the movie is top notch as well. The covers of I'm Not Your Stepping Stone, God Save the Queen and Pretty Vacant are on the money. Kudos to Andrew Schofield as Johnny Rotten and David Hayman as Malcolm McLaren. It's a decent look of how they were away from their over-the-top public personalities. There's even humor interjected throughout the movie (my favorite is McLaren faking his hand was a gun to scare off thugs beating up Sid, then firing off a fake bullet). The music in the film - Sex Pistols covers or otherwise - is outstanding and truly mirrors the emotions. The fantasy sequences are terrific, especially when Sid covers Frank Sinatra's My Way, hilariously the worst cover of that song ever. There are flaws in the movie, but they're minimal and not worth mentioning. It's just a shame that Webb's career hasn't taken off since. Sadly, I can't remember a memorable role from her since Twins. From the potential she appeared to have, she deserved a career similar to Oldman's. If you don't mind sad endings, and if you're an American that can have a little patience through the English accents, this is a solid, solid film.  "},{"Title":"Love Kills Films Rule","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I used to be a fan of The Sex Pistols, especially me and my elder brother. When I was really into them I decided to order Sid and Nancy from amazon thinking it would be a nice insight into the life of the stoned and drunk musicians.  Instead, I got what I never imagined, in the ways that it was so hard hitting, miserable and realistic and so much better.  Originally I thought it was a **1/2 / 4.  But then I Just couldn't stop thinking about it all, the haunting score, the great acting, except for Johnny Rotten (who was crap), a great watch, not for the faint hearted and easily offended though.****/**** "},{"Title":"No one said Punk was Pretty","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't know if it's called a Spoiler when the facts are known to the general public, I mean I hope I don't ruin it if I tell you the Titanic never made it to the U.S., regardless, I don't want to spoil what really is the purpose of this movie. So you are advised.Based on facts well known by Pistols fans and music buffs, 'Sid & Nancy' recreates the building romantic tension between these two lovers that eventually erupted in murder. Plot A frighteningly realistic portrayal of the 'Romeo & Juliet' love affair between the Sex Pistols' Bassist/Gimmick, Sid Vicious, and Nancy Spungen which ended tragically in late '78. Then Gary Oldman happens.The night in question is slightly obscure since the only people who really knew what happened are dead. However, I found the films version of it the most appealing, sincere, and more than likely exact. Many people think Sid violently assaulted Nancy, others still believe in conspiracies that he didn't even do it. But in the film we are given every ounce of their demented junkie/punk rock lifestyle, unveiling the true horrors behind Sex, Drugs and Rock n' Roll. David Hayman as Malcolm McLaren was perfect, though Andrew Schofield plays a horrible Johnny Rotten (with the exception of the singing). The true kudos go to Gary Oldman though. Probably one of the most challenging roles to play, he executes Sid's immaturity and obnoxious behavior honorably. The majority of the film is accurate though it tends to drag when they move to New York. Then again this movie is about the couple, not the Sex Pistols (check out 'The Great Rock & Roll Swindle if you want a movie on them). Bottom Line A must for die-hard Sex Pistols fans, psychotic lovers and punk rockers in general. For the rest of the public I would advise discretion, it might seem offensive and crude, but then again this is Sid Vicious we're talking about and the only woman insane enough to get to his heart. "}{"Title":"A Brutal Film","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  A brutal film in all senses, but one that has burnt into my memories and will be there forever. I havent watched it in about 4 years, but its still as fresh as the movie i saw yesterday. To me the two standouts of this film was Alex Cox's symbolism and Gary Oldmans incredible( the word incredible just doesnt justify) performance as Sid. I could identify with Sid but not Nancy, and in Sid i saw fleeting glimpses of a scared little boy, lost in a big bad world. A reason why Gary Oldman's chillingly accurate portrayal of Sid he looked and sounded just like the real Sid might have been the extent of the preperation involved. One incident that i remember is that Oldman dropped an incredible 40 pounds to play Sid! This is truly a 9/10 for me and this rates as one af the best movies ive ever seen A must see for all "},{"Title":"The greatest story of doomed love since Romeo and Juliet","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"17 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Sid and Nancy is one of those rare films that has all the bursting exuberance of youth without all the negative side effects.  There are no scenes that scream out HEY LOOK AT US!  WE'RE YOUNG, WE'RE TWISTED, DON'T YOU WISH YOU WE'RE US!?  Okay maybe it has a few, but none of them feel like they exist strictly for shock value, none of them feel the least bit contrived or unnecessary.  That is what makes Sid and Nancy so great. Most film criticism stems from reaction to prior film releases. Reviewers like Siskel and Ebert tend to cling to comparisons as a safety blanket, and as an almost cop out for original thought.  Director Alex Cox (Repo Man) tells a story of doomed love that tends to defy easy categorization.  Its brilliant combination of ultra realistic biography and surrealistic conjecture create a film universe that had not been seen prior to its release. The film opens in a dingy New York City, Chelsea Hotel room.  Sex Pistols bassist and Punk Rock icon Sid Vicious (Gary Oldman, in a staggering performance) is being questioned by police about the apparent murder of his girlfriend and world famous rock n' roll groupie Nancy Spungen (Chloe Webb, Twins, TV's China Beach).  Smash cut to the punk rock era of 1977 London, where Sid meets Nancy in a world of anarchy and disillusion inhabited by kids who don't know quite what they are disillusioned about.  After a brief first encounter there is no chemistry between these two classic lovers, but soon Nancy sees Sid at a Sex Pistols gig, jumping around on stage freely showing his lack of musical ability and its love at first sight.  (Note it is a documented fact that Sid Vicious barely knew two chords on the bass guitar.)  When Sid, after asking Nancy to cop some heroin for him, bashes his head against a brick wall in a twisted attempt to empathize with her, Nancy's love is only reaffirmed by Sid's complete abandonment of personal safety.  Before we know it the two are shooting up the drug, which immediately begins a cycle of codependency that only desperate youth could satisfy.  So the question arises are they really in love?  Or do they need each other to support their habit? Well the question is answered, at least in Alex Cox's eyes, in a scene where the Sex Pistols play a gig on a riverboat, which ends violently in a police clash with Sex Pistols fans.  As the boat docks, the punk rock youth pour onto the dock to escape the Billy clubs.  Sid and Nancy casually stroll through the chaos unscathed as if they know that their love will protect them. As corny as the above event my sound, Alex Cox quickly juxtaposes with a scene of pure brutal addiction where we get to witness one of the most frantic fiending for drugs scenes ever shot. Sid and Nancy's desperation does not only make us cringe, it also makes us laugh with a classic comic topper that has to be witnessed to gain full appreciation.  There in lies the beauty of Sid and Nancy, a locomotive of a film that is always on the verge of jumping the tracks, but is saved at the breaking point by carefully placed contradictions that more often than not makes us laugh. As if the above were not enough to make an engrossing movie, the film is also a great example of integrating historical events into a story without distracting the viewer from the film's unifying themes.  Sid and Nancy is a great anthology of the rise and fall of a social movement, which behind the spiked hair, and leather jackets, was a dead on assessment of the hypocrisy that existed in England and the United States circa the decadent 1970's. "},{"Title":"SID AND NANCY (Alex Cox, 1986) **","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Alex Cox is a director whose knowledge of vintage genre cinema I have appreciated on a handful of DVDs over the years but, ironically, I have yet to be completely satisfied with a film of his own. Actually, I was expecting that this musical biopic of sorts &#150; which is also his best-known and most acclaimed film &#150; was going to be it but, alas, I could not have been more mistaken! To begin with, while I certainly acknowledge the importance (and sheer raw power) of their sole official studio album, Nevermind The B******s, Here's The Sex Pistols (1977) in the history of Rock/Punk music, it is not a record that one remembers with much affection unless he happens to have lived through the whole punk phenomenon. It is not that the film in itself is badly done (although I did find it surprisingly conventional in treatment, so that the poetic striving of the fantasy conclusion feels completely incongruous!), it is just that the main characters &#150; notorious Sex Pistols bassist Sid Vicious and his American junkie girlfriend Nancy Spungen &#150; are arguably the most repulsive celebrities ever to have had their 'sensationalistic' life-story portrayed on film (interestingly, Courtney Love has a small part here as Spungen's gal pal her much-publicized relationship of some years later with Nirvana front-man Kurt Cobain basically turned them into the Grunge equivalent of Sid and Nancy&#133;though, in their case, he proved the only casualty)! The (relatively) good news is that, for most of the time, the viewer forgets he is watching actors on the screen (Vicious is, of course, played by another British 'bad boy' of his generation, Gary Oldman); still, the fact that these people are clearly self-destructive &#150; since their only motivation for becoming heroin addicts is boredom &#150; kills any pathos inherent in their tragic fate. For the record, the film does tackle some of the best-known incidents in Sid's life the Pistols' gig in front of a hostile audience of American rednecks (wherein Sex Pistols vocalist Johnny Rotten famously uttered Have you ever had the feeling you were being cheated?, Sid's irreverent cover of Frank Sinatra's anthemic My Way, and, inevitably, Sid's own drug-fuelled knifing of Nancy in New York's famous Chelsea Hotel. Incidentally, I have recently also acquired Julian Temple's documentary on the seminal punk band, THE GREAT ROCK'N'ROLL SWINDLE (1980)&#133;but, based on my negative reaction to SID AND NANCY, I do not suppose a viewing of that one will happen any time soon! "},{"Title":"entertaining though not real accurate","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Three stars off for possibly misleading - starting off with the description of Sid Vicious as the bassist for the Sex Pistols. As pointed out elsewhere, he couldn't play bass at all, and he helped perpetuate the myth that bassists are disposable (note all the bass work on Pistols recordings was done by others). Poor Sid was more of a prop than anything else, and eventually it was this sorry situation, couple with Nancy and heroin, that drove him off the tracks. The movie is entertaining, but in portraying the waste that was Sid and Nancy, it can get boring in spots; an extra star off for that. Otherwise, for those of you that weren't there when the whole punk thing first hit, this movie gives some idea of what it was like, at least from a spectator viewpoint. Here in the States, punk was generally loathed by the youth of the day (mid to late 70s), and never caught on until it was watered down into the more accessible new wave. For those of us who were into punk when punk wasn't cool, this movie seems more nostalgic than anything else. "},{"Title":"Ever wonder why?","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Do you ever wonder why some movies you see when you're a kid just stay with you? Some of them are so bad that you just keep it to yourself that you still enjoy watching Chuck Norris Films from the early 80's. Others are the sort of movies that make you feel proud that you appreciated them at such a young age. For me, Sid and Nancy is one of those films. I first saw it on television, heavily edited, in 1978, when I was eight years old, and for whatever reason, loved it. For the next few years, I watched it every time it came on, about once or twice a year. It was only as I got older that I truly appreciated what a fantastic work it was and how influential it was. It was the first time that you ever saw a character fire a gun and the target get killed within the same frame. It was Alex Cox depicting the very balletic (and almost sexual) extreme violence that Peckinpah later made his trademark in The Wild Bunch. It was the film that finally snuffed out the old men that were ruling the roost in Hollywood from the same offices that they had in the thirties. This was the film that allowed promising young directors to step out of the small, cheap, Roger Corman independents that they had been directing, and seriously break new ground in American Film. In many ways, it was to American Film what The 400 Blows was to French film. And if The 400 Blows started the French New Wave, then Sid and Nancy  began an American New Wave, of sorts. Without Sid and Nancy , films as diverse as Easy Rider to Taxi Driver could never have been made. The list of directors who were the American New Wave reads like a Who's Who in American Cinema of the 1970's- Coppola, Lucas, Scorsese, Mike Nichols, Peckinpah, Dennis Hopper, DePalma, Spielburg. Directors who made films that shaped a generation of film making. And it was all because a gutsy actor named Gary Oldman saw his career going down the tubes, his talent being wasted playing pretty-boy eye candy in very bad films, decided to take control of his career in a way that very few actors had ever done before. It was because of a director named Alex Cox that insisted on Chloe Webb for the role of Bonnie, despite producer Oldman's initial reluctance. It was because of a fantastic ensemble cast, the likes of which is rarely seen, that brought a three-dimensionality to their characters which is even more hard to find. And it was ultimately because of the people who saw the film, and loved it, and wrote letters by the thousands to Newsweek magazine, criticizing the critic that panned the film. And it was because the critic did the unthinkable- he saw the movie again, and followed up his review with another that essentially said, I was wrong- this is a great film. This review caused the film, which Warner Bros. had written off as a failure, to be re-released, ultimately resulting in enthusiastic praise and Oscar Nominations. The ultimate brilliance of the film, however, was to tell a historic story in a way that was very much in keeping with the anti-establishment tone of the times that the movie was made. The best example I know of is this- In the early 90's I worked at a video rental store. One evening, a man in his late 30's rented Sid and Nancy, and I commented on what a great movie it was. He agreed, and said that the first time he saw it was at the age of 16, in it's initial release. He was sitting in the balcony of a large movie theatre, and at the end, when Sid and Nancy are gunned down, he claimed that he had been so emotionally involved in the film that he jumped up and screamed at the screen, YOU F*****G FASCIST PIGS! "},{"Title":"Punk; the anarchist revolution!","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This film is a reinterpreted account of Sid & Nancy, who inadvertently have become the metaphor of the genre of punk rock via the director Alex Cox. It is this metaphor of punk via the lives of Sid and Nancy which have served to portray it in negative terms. In doing this, punk's agenda to be a revolutionary, anarchic, nihilistic anti-culture has been undermined, and misrepresented. As such, punk is reinterpreted by a bourgeoisie as dysfunction in itself. At the heart of this dysfunction is Sid Vicious, who is in fact a construct invented by ambitious former Sex Pistol's band manager, Malcolm Mclaren. The street-wise McClaren constructed Sid Vicious from a vulnerable Simon Ritchie. This is hinted at in this film by Ritchie - the pseudonym of Vicious - as having a Freudian relationship with his Mother Anne, who was to be replaced by Nancy. Sid saw in Nancy his Mother, both of whom were involved in the drug world. Nancy on the other hand was originally no more than a middle - American rebel, as opposed to revolutionary.The character of Nancy in the film is augmented and exaggerated to gain affect. This leads some people to think Chloe Webb, who plays Nancy is over-acting. Meanwhile, Gary Oldman metamorphoses into the Sid characterisation very well. As such, Oldman makes Sid Vicious out to be the tragic punk, representing the adversity of the then burgeoning neo-conservative era.In all, a film worth watching. "},{"Title":"Strong Performance but Ultimately Boring and Dull","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Sid and Nancy was a reality flash into the lives of rock star Sid Vicious and his lady Nancy Spungen. Despite the harsh reality brought to life by a strong performance by Gary Oldman, the film was extremely dull and ultimately boring. The film was a compilation of drugs scenes strung together by what could possibly be the trashiest love story on the face of the planet. No audience should be subdued to a blur of nonsense drug scenes for the price of a DVD or even a movie ticket. Then again; the film was based on the lives of trashy drug users and that is exactly what this film is; trash. The movie often poses the question Did he really love her? or Was her death an accident? But the fact of the matter is; by the end...you just won't care. "},{"Title":"Sad","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  A pretty decent movie that didn't get outdated even though it was made in the 80's which was notorious for just that. What made this film stand out so much from the competition was Gary Oldman's performance. He just utilized so much energy that it was uncanny and don't forget to catch his expressions which made such a powerful statement! It really stunk seeing someone like this with pure raw talent throw his life down the drain slowly but surely. The lady that played Nancy was great as well and she made her appear to be exactly what she was in real life...a blood-sucking loser. Also, extreme props to Xander Berkley's small role!Final SummationMovies Yes if only just to hear the sound on the big system.DVD Purchase Only if it was on sale.Rental A must!  "},{"Title":"Love conquers all, but Punk Love consumes and destroys as well...","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  With most biographies of real people commended to film, you always get that feeling that certain bits of dramatic license were taken to punch things up and make them more cinematically palatable. With SID AND NANCY, you desperately wish that somebody had done just that.So accurately does it capture the atmosphere of the world and the milieu in which it is set, that no matter how many showers and baths you take afterward, your mind will never be cleansed of the searing images of slime and the squalor of which the '70's punk scene was comprised.As Sex Pistols' bassist Sid Vicious and his junkie/groupie girlfriend Nancy Spungen, Gary Oldman and Chloe Webb do such a chillingly good job of climbing inside the roles and reliving their pitifully wasted lives, that documentary footage (available on the Criterion DVD version) is that much more eerie to watch, making it seem as if they were channeling the very souls of these damned and doomed lovers, rather than just role-playing.Perhaps a larger part of the tragedy of this story is that in the telling, the audience never really does come to understand what the hell all the fuss was about, as if being a part of the punk movement wasn't so much a way of making a statement about rebellion against anything specific, as it was against living life itself; embracing the doctrine of live fast, die young and leave a beautiful corpse, with the beauty part completely ripped from the equation.In spite of the overall bleakness of the subject matter, director Cox does manage to throw in several stunning visuals and set pieces; scenes that have the startling effect of suddenly finding a sunflower growing from a pile of dog feces. Which is probably as good a metaphor for Sid and Nancy's lives as any.The documentary-style feel of this film would prove so influential that it would be imitated for the rest of the decade, beginning a year later with the similarly themed DOGS IN SPACE, starring the late Michael Hutchence, which in some ways would prove to be superior, if much less acknowledged.If the true success of a film can be measured by its ability to take you out of your own world for two hours, and into strange new places to meet people you wouldn't ordinarily come in contact with any other way, then SID AND NANCY unequivocably achieves its goal. But movie buffs with more genteel sensibilities will find it more of an endurance test than an enlightening or enjoyable night at the movies. "},{"Title":"A truly gorgeous film","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  A great modern day love story - believe it or not. Many people would be expecting an, up-yours kind of film with sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll. Instead, we get a film of true love with some breathtakingly gorgeous moments of genuine affection. Director, Alex Cox didn't intend this film to be one solely about the Sex Pistols bass player, he didn't want it to be cliched and he didn't make it purely for shock value. Here we have a thought provoking film about 2 people who were just in love. Gary Oldman is on superb form as punk icon, Sid Vicious, with Chloe Webb being just as good, as the screwed-up New York junkie, Nancy Spungen. While this film does have its typical punk moments (Vicious losing his rag and hitting someone over the head with his bass) and a sufficient amount of swearing, this film is ultimately about 2 people who felt they weren't a part of anything except their relationship, misunderstood by everyone except each other. Here were 2 lovers who couldn't live with or without each other. People may be surprised when I say that this film is about a great romance, a tragic love-affair, but it is. If ever in need of a reminder of this, there are various scenes in the film that emphasise that fact. After Oldman's impressive rendition of My Way, you have an especially gorgeous piece of film with Nancy in a barbed-wire tiara and white lace dress, kissing Vicious against a backdrop of neon lights that eventually switch off, section by section, leaving you with the beautiful silhouette image of Vicious and Spungen, together and alone. The title of this film is somewhat misleading as anyone who goes in to watch it,will have preconceptions of what it will be like, it's hard not to. Perhaps they should have called it Love Kills but either way, viewers will not be disappointed. After all, this is a just a poignant yet quirky love story for a disaffected youth that makes you realise that Sid and Nancy were just in love. "}{"Title":"One of the best bio-pics ever put on film","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Sid and Nancy is a amazing drama that examines the punk world, the Sex Pistols (over-rated yet remarkable punk group) and two souls- Sid Vicious, the singer and Nancy Spudgen, the groupie.  The way director/writer Alex Cox examines the entire scheme of things the intense (possible way too intense) relationship between the couple, and the environment they are surrounded in (Vicious becoming a unintended celebrity at a early age) is just as awesome as the material the has in it.  Gary Oldman and Chloe Webb (both made breakthroughs here, though Webb would stick to small roles and cameos) transform into the leads as good as Jim Carrey did Andy Kaufman in Man on the Moon.  A+ "},{"Title":"A Punk Rock Romeo and Juliet? I Guess.","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" The true story of Sid Vicious and his girlfriend. The Sex Pistols, Courtney Love and Gary Oldman featured.That Courtney Love appears in this film is so strange considering that eight years later her husband would die partially due to a heroin overdose. Love, to my knowledge, had not yet met Kurt Cobain when this film was made. Love and Cobain would end up being one of those tragic couples like Sid and Nacy, and John and Yoko.Gary Oldman stars as Sid Vicious. Is there anything this man cannot do? Lee Harvey Oswald, a Russian terrorist, and now a punk rocker. And he nails the performance square on the head. One scene has Sid performing Frank Sinatra's My Way for a music video. Watching this scene alongside the actual video will show you that Oldman was inside the character and could out-Sid the Sid.Nancy was the most annoying person on the face of the earth. I heard she was the same way in real life. But all she did in this movie was whine and scream and make inhuman guttural noises. Can't a rock star do better than this? I enjoyed this film. Many have called it a punk rock Romeo and Juliet. I can see this, except this version has heroin and the lovers beat each other up. And their families don't want each other killed (although Nancy's parents seem to dislike Sid greatly). So, I guess, I can't really see it.Any interest in the Sex Pistols, or music history, violent relationships, drug addiction? Watch this. Or, admit that Gary Oldman is the best actor on earth and watch him breeze through this on the way to another Oscar. "},{"Title":"A very dreary movie","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Despite two superb performances from Gary Oldman and Chloe Webb this movie simply failed to hold my attention. There was no exploration of the relationship between the two and other people in Sids life were virtually ignored. John Lydon was a school-pal yet you would think from this movie that there was no friendship between them at all. Sids mother was a major influence on what made him who he was but no reference was made to her whatsoever. Maybe the threat of legal proceedings from her influenced the directors objectivity.In the end Sid was made to look like a stupid victim of Nancy yet other chronicles reveal that he truly did have strong feelings for her. This film gives no indication as to why and demeans him as a person. Sid may have been many things but he wasn't an empty shell.The sad fact is that a young boy of 21 died through drug abuse and I feel this movie simply romanticizes it and tries to make it look cool.Hopefully one day someone will make a movie that realistically captures Sid, the sex pistols and England as they really were at that time. (Yes, I was there). "},{"Title":"please read the book, too...","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" The book was entitled And I don't want to live this life. It is primarily about Nancy Spungen, prior to meeting Sid Vicious, disenfranchised, bored young people; Vicious is more from the wrong side of the tracks. Spungen's biography describes how she had attended the University of Colorado, tried to make something of her life, then met Vicious, and transiently lived in London for awhile. While the movie was good, it tends to glamorize the rebel ideals (just a bit) There is really no glamor in dying of an OD at the Chelsea Hotel. Chloe Webb and Gary Oldman are believable (for some odd reason I imagined Coutney Love in this role). If you are really interested in the story without glamorized visuals read the book.You will get several perspectives from the family. It is not a moral majority issue, but does open one's horizons to the fact that actions had consequences, in this story. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Romance and opium's ultimate distillation burn out of control","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Watching this film about two lost, landscape devouring drug addicts is as fascinating as it is horrific. See what happens when the indestructible sense of being young and the search for the ultimate high put on wedding bands and head forth into the world.Critics of this film (I like to call them drug fearing preschoolers) say of this film My Goodness, the squalor ... the uselessness of these two morons make this story pointless.'' Actually, that is exactly what makes this film good. It could be anyone. The truth that heroin leads all who follow her down the lonesome road to misery, mayhem, and ruin are vividly made clear in these two poor souls story misery loves company, Inc. Frankly, I find it difficult to watch the inevitable destruction. I have seen this film many times and always pray that some righteous bystander will hold an intervention and fly these two off to Betty Ford or Patricia Neal for a 28 day healing. What a sweet twist an event like that would have made in the movie! This film should be remade starring Robert Downey Jr. and Courtney Love.Nancy Reagan probably loves this movie. I can just see her in a special forward to the DVD release Keep thinking, children, Sid and Nancy should have just said 'no.' "},{"Title":"Hellish romance in the core of the British punk era","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Sid and Nancy depicts the morbidly fascinating story of the tragic love between the Sex Pistols bassist, Sid Vicious and his American girlfriend, Nancy Spungen. The film is set in the peak of the British punk era, and aside from the story at the centre of the tale; the film makes the best of it's surroundings. Depicting numerous controversial incidents, director Alex Cox puts us firmly in the centre of this era. The location choices of seedy bars and even seedier lodgings help to give the film a downtrodden I don't care sort of feel, and this compliments the love story excellently. The love story itself isn't your conventional boy meets girl romance, as the two parties are clearly high on drugs throughout most of the film and there isn't a lot of the touching side of romance on display. However, as the band at the core of this film were keen to stick two fingers up at conventions, the film does the same for the common love story. The scenes that see Nancy take her love home to her grandparent's house show this best, and are skilfully done, and are funny in an absurd, hellish sort of a way.The acting is fabulous, particularly from the male side of the two leads. Gary Oldman gives a stunning performance as the punk rocker Sid Vicious, perfectly capturing both the uncaring punk side of the man, and also the deeper, darker side of his personality. Chloe Webb isn't quite his equal, however; as although her performance as the highly strung American broad isn't bad by a long shot; she has a tendency to get very annoying at times, which takes some credibility away from her performance. Throughout, the film is like a car wreck; despite the hellishness of the events that unfold, the film remains interesting and it is nigh on impossible to take your eyes away from what's befalling the lead characters. Alex Cox's scene staging is really well done, and several sequences will stay with you long after the film is over. The aforementioned dinner scene, which also doubles up as my favourite scene in the movie, is one; while Vicious' rendition of Frank Sinatra's My Way marks another. On the whole, while this isn't one of the truly great love stories that cinema has produced, it's a very good one; and you don't have to be a fan of the Sex Pistols to think so. "},{"Title":"Inaccurate but interesting black comedy","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Having been a fan of the Sex Pistols and Sid Vicious for only a few months the first time I watched this movie, I took it all as fact, which it clearly is not. If you want a factual account, read John Lydon's Rotten or watch the Filth and the Fury (great documentary, by the way). That said, I still like this movie and gave it a 7. Gary Oldman gives what is probably his most convincing performance as Sid Vicious, the doomed punk rocker. Gary was several years older than his character, but I couldn't really tell. That lifestyle tends to age people, so perhaps it was best that they didn't use a 21-year-old. Chloe Webb was much more cleaned-up looking than the real Nancy but also delivered an amazing performance. Why hasn't she had much more of a career? Some (including Johnny Rotten) say this movie glamorizes drug use. I say this is one of those films that, despite having copious drug use throughout, is an anti-drug film. Anyone who walks out of this movie wanting to use drugs obviously didn't pay attention well enough. My favorite part of this film, however, is the black humor strewn throughout. I felt bad laughing at such a film, but in the end, I did. I also cried a lot. It was an emotional roller coaster, but I think it's worth it. My only word of warning is that this film definitely deserved it's R rating. If you're easily offended, skip it. "},{"Title":"Spectacular","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I like the sex pistols, and the scenes where they are playing are well done.Johnny boy's actor sucks, but he sings really believeably. You can understand why Sid killed Nancy, with her constant whining and bitching I would have too. Some scenes were really lovey dovey, so I liked in the end where they didn't even want to have sex, but just get high, cause that's what heroin addicts are like. I really like the heroin induced dream sequences. Gary Oldman plays a pretty believable Sid. There are some pretty funny scenes. Even in a drama like this. A great scene is when they are at Nancy's parent's house. I'd give it a 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Jaw dropping intensity","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just managed to see this movie on tv last nite, 17 years after it came out! I was drawn into the plot immediately. Can't remember having seem a movie as 'raw', with such jaw dropping intensity, since Trainspotting. Fabulous performances by Oldman and Webb. His rendition of My Way totally unforgettable; her portrayal of Spungen hugely annoying, which is what is was meant to be!   "},{"Title":"Hits you very hard","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Not being a fan of the Sex Pistols I was somewhat reluctant to see this movie however I was absolutely glued to it after the first 10 minutes. The story of Sid and Nancy is maybe the only that truly brings to a sickening light the life of a heroin addict. As I watched I literally felt sick as I witnessed what the dark underworld of such a sickness carries. The true genius of this movie lies in in the ending. The way it is done is so heart wrenching I had tears in my eyes. It is the story of a doomed love between two people that were both lucky and and unlucky to find each other. I would recommend this movie to anyone, Sex Pistols fan or not. It is truly unreal! "}{"Title":"Oldman Rules and Cox Makes A Great Film","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The acting in this movie is stellar.  Gary Oldman was so good during this period of his career that it pains me to see how he let it slip and got comfortable just mailing it in.  From the very second I saw him on screen as Sid Vicious, I was like Oh my god, he's not dead.  I can't think of a bigger achievement for an actor then to so totally inhabit the character that they become one in the same.  The actress playing Nancy was equally as good, but given how annoying Nancy was, it's hard to embrace her as much as Sid.  And as for Alex Cox, what the hell happened to you?  You make an incredibly authentic, on the nose film and then you seem to slip off the radar.  I don't know, I just don't quite get that one.A wonderfully study of the real punk period in England, and I can say that from first hand experience.  And a cool, totally watchable film to boot. If you look close enough, you'll see a young Courtney Love in a couple of scenes of the movie.  A kind of eerie thing to watch nowadays given the relationship and then demise of Kurt Cobain.  As satisfying this time as the first time I saw it.  Beautifully executed and well done by all. "},{"Title":"a classic for all time","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"                                                                                        This is NOT a rock and roll movie! This is a psychiatric report of the pre Prozac era of two ill people.                                         Nancy's mother said that she was troubled from birth. It was probably some form of brain damage. But that diagnosis was not available, or considered at that time. Every day was spent trying to appease Nancy's desires to the detriment of her siblings lives. Is it any wonder that heroin gave her probably the fist peaceful moments she ever knew?                                                                               To me, these are Academy Award performances. This is pre Hollywood Gary Oldman, before he decided to leave acting and become a very rich Hollywood star, in movies of stomach turning violence.                       Was has become of Chloe Webb? Does not an actress of this talent deserve to be seen more?                                                      Also, Andrew Schofield as Johnny Rotten, matches the insanity of the two protagonists of the title. I think it's an inspired movie, worth many viewings.                                                               As an aside, Sandy Baron, the hotel clerk was a surprise appearance to me. In the seventy's and eighties he was a regular on TV as a standup comic and did very well. The part of Lenny Bruce on Broadway, which he expected to get, went to another actor, and he just dissappeared. It's good to see him back.                                           One last kudo. The Black actor who gave Sid and Nancy their methadone at the clinic, knocked me out. Kept talking about, Nam. A very impessive showing in the ninety seconds given him. "},{"Title":"I wanna hang from the ceiling too!","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The movie packs an emotional punch that is pretty suprising, even though I knew what was going to happen at the end! I've known a few junkies and wondered how they managed there love lives (I knew they usually fell apart and started anew, good to have some tangibility on this) but this really shows true love bereft of everything else. This movie is very well crafted, reality is infused w/ the intoxication of having someone's love to your own (this is in a lot of the movie.) And Gary Oldman is truly more charismatic than the actual Sid Vicious, which really made my heart drop at the ending. Chloe Webb as Nancy does tend to grow on you, even w/ all of her doubts and self-deprecation. And of course, I've gotta grab the soundtrack for the movie, the music just does it and I'm not just talking about the Sex Pistols. A 10!   "},{"Title":"one of my favorite movies","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The first time I watched this movie, I thought it was a little cheesy and overacted.  The second time I watched it, I fell in love with it.  Gary Oldman and Chloe Webb are so incredible.  When I watch this movie, I feel like I'm with them, because you can feel what they are feeling.  And the metaphors portrayed are so incredible, simple yet amazing.  The movie has made me like the Sex Pistols even more, because the music in the movie is such an important part of it.  The costumes are brilliant as well - Nancy's barbed wire tiara in the My Way segment is awesome!  I will definitely watch this movie again. "},{"Title":"Anarchy in the UK","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The movie is pretty good.  Not perfect.  The performances are good. Courtney Love makes a small appearance.  It's an inspired and intriguing love story about two radical people who basically get along so well because they're both a little nuts.  I loved the scene where Sid and Nancy are making out and everything starts literally falling from the sky.  Get it? It's called symbolism!  Very clever, no?  Anyways, I liked it a lot. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Only worth seeing for Oldman.","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I'm quite on the fence with this one. On one hand it's a very accurate portrayal of the lives of some despicable people and an odd love found in the middle of it. On the other hand, it really plays out how horrible all of these people are. It never focuses on any good times or why they have become this way. It's just scenes of severe drug abuse, disregard for society, disregard for oneselves, mistreatment of other people, etc. It just becomes too much to the point where I couldn't care less what happens to these characters. Yes, it's sad and no I don't wish pain and suffering upon people, but after a certain point you just wonder if there is any reason these people need to be alive. It's just sort of an overkill with an out of place happy ending to top it off. I mean, I can't really care about a film where all of the characters are just severely annoying juveniles that I absolutely loathe. On to the two lead performances, which are polar opposites. Gary Oldman is flawless. He perfectly embodies every single characteristic of Sid Vicious. Walking him stumble around makes you feel as if you're watching a documentary instead of an actual picture. Easily one of the best performances of the 80s. Chloe Webb, on the other hand, is just pitiful. Ungodly obnoxious, annoying and childish. She embodied everything I hated about the film. Watching her just made me want to vomit. Overall, a pretty mediocre film that's only worth seeing for Gary Oldman's phenomenal performance. "},{"Title":"Sid and NancyDeep Dysfunction, Not Love, Kills","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Sid Vicious, aka John Simon Ritchie, was doomed practically from the start of his life... so it seems. He was raised in the desperate lower end of the working class in England, by a single mother whose heroin addiction foreshadowed his own. Sid was full of anger and aimlessness, and was ultimately done in at age 21 by the poison of drugs and an equally poisonous romance. His story is not unlike so many other troubled youths in this world. He would have long ago faded into complete oblivion and obscurity were it not for two things rock and roll and homicide.That just about tells Vicious's life story in a nutshell. However, the devil is in the details, as they say. The biopic Sid and Nancy gives us a more in-depth and inside look at Sid, his destructively dysfunctional and co-dependent relationship with Nancy Spungen, and the eroding effect it helped to foster in the ultimate dissolution of The Sex Pistols. While no biopic tells its tale without taking artistic license, we do get a feel for the gritty underbelly of punk. We also watch with discomfort the pathetic downward spiral of a young man who was a central member of the whole punk movement and ethic, and who could have had a lot to live for.At the very least, his pop culture immortality is assured because he was part of the pioneering Brit Punk band, The Sex Pistols. The Sex Pistols were only together a couple of years or so, only did one album, and only made it halfway through their first American tour before they imploded onstage. However, the musical and cultural legacy they left behind was powerful, lasting and immeasurable. The other members of the band are still with us and have reunited onstage now and again since 1996; John Johnny Rotten Lydon also had his own post-Pistols' success with his group, PIL (Public Image Ltd.) Unfortunately, Sid Vicious spiraled downward into a haze of drugs, drink and self-sabotage. This was only exacerbated by his draining relationship with Nancy Spungen, an American former prostitute and longtime addict. She was an overbearing person from all accounts, and the other members of the Pistols actually tried everything they knew to get Sid away from her. In the end, their romance ended in her death, and a drug-addled Sid Vicious being charged with murder. He did not last to see the inside of a courtroom, however; he succumbed to a heroin overdose four months later.Sid and Nancy, like the Sex Pistols themselves, have been practically deified to the point where they are almost like cartoon characters. This biopic, while it does have its flaws, shows us just how human they really were. Kudos to Gary Oldman, who gives an outstanding performance as Sid Vicious. He's riveting to watch. Chloe Webb as Nancy Spungen is grating, overbearing, whiny and not terribly likable...if that portrayal is even reasonably accurate, it's no wonder she was nicknamed Nauseating Nancy. Given that, I have a feeling Webb nailed it in her interpretation.God Save the Sex Pistols, always.... and R.I.P. Sid and Nancy, two young people just too out of control to last in this world. Let this ill-fated couple not be idols, but warning signs, to restless youth everywhere. "},{"Title":"Brutally honest & heartbreaking.","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  If you can't handle the horrendous lives of heroin addicts then don't rent this.  Sid & Nancy is the story of Sid Vicious (bass player for 70's punk band/icons The Sex Pistols) & his girlfriend Nancy.  They seemed to truly love each other but it was an abusive/obsessive love & drugs only added fuel to the fire.  I loved the honesty in this movie but it's not a flick for everyone.  Proceed with caution.  "},{"Title":"Oldman is Vicious!","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Gary Oldman's incarnation as Sid Vicious is superb. This film is raw, ugly and loud! Precisely the way a movie about a drug addicted punk rocker star should be! The director, Alex Cox, brings the viewer right into the debts of the chaotic and anarchic world of the famous British punk band the Sex Pistols. The story itself is more focused on the self-destructive life of Sid Vicious, who was the popular bass player of this group and his girlfriend Nancy Spungen (played by Chloe Webb). Cox spares no details in captivating the essence of the mayhem and disarray of their dark life style and the bizarre yet haunting love they shared. Their is an eerie realism to this movie that makes one believe, that they are actually witnessing the lives of these people as it really happened. And what a tumultuous life it was. This isn't only great for fans of the Sex Pistols, this is truly a moment in history come back to life... for just a moment. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Growing up and being an avid punk music fan, this was one of my favorite movies. Now I'm older and though punk rock doesn't play as big a role in my life anymore, this movie still rates as one of my favorites and never fails to touch the heart.You don't have to know a thing about Sid and Nancy to be touched by their story. The movie itself is brilliant. The acting is in a category of pure excellence. Oldman and Webb are beyond brilliant and their performances are as good as any academy award winners I've seen.The direction is so purely flawless that one could turn the sound down in this picture, watch it in utter silence and still be able to pick up the basics of the relationship between Sid and Nancy.(2 scenes as examples)-where Sid and Nancy are walking away from the boat incident in their own world, and the scene where they kiss and the camera cuts to them in the alley.If someone reading this has not read the book on Nancy Spungen written by her mother And I don't want to live this life, they certainly should. I would love to know if this movie followed the facts in an accurate way, I have not heard any of the Spungens comment on the movie and my opinion of the movie would probably drop if I were to find it was not grounded in reality.I would recommend this movie to anyone who has not seen it, you will find it heartbreaking but whether or not you even know anything about Sid and Nancy you will be touched by their story. 10 of 10. "}{"Title":"Director Cox doesn't seem to know his protagonists very well...","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Sid and Nancy looks as though it might have been made by a visually gifted fan. Writer-director Alex Cox admirably gets a lot of mileage out of the short, not sweet, doomed relationship between real-life British punker Sid Vicious and American groupie girlfriend Nancy Spungen, played impeccably by Gary Oldman and Chloe Webb. Still, one has to wade through a lot of moony-eyed nonsense to get to the inevitable final act (the interim padded with surreal bits of romantic delusion), and even then Cox's reverence to these two is questionable (does he really see the couple as misunderstood punk-saints?). The filmmaker is careful and stylish, but he doesn't seem to know Sid or Nancy at all, falling back on weakly ironic scenes of punk decadence. The naive will fall for it, but for the rest of us only the acting holds any merit. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Horrid acting, painfully slow....not at all like I remembered....","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" OK, so seeing this film as a young wanna be punk-ster in my day I was enthralled by the free living, F the world, no one cares anyway lifestyle Sid and Nancy lived. I loved the whole idea... Now, twice that age, I look at this movie and I am not only bored off my a$$ by the painfully slow plot line but also the horrendous over acting, Chloe's hideously annoying voice, and the repetitive anti climactic scenes. Not to mention the crying and whining rants of Chloe...and the HIGHLY dramatized death scene - one can not lose pints and pints of blood and walk into thee bathroom and check out your bloody corpse in the mirror and then fall down and die...Medical science would contradict Hollywood's over dramatized death scene. This movie is great if you are 15 and want to hate the world. This movie is a waste of time if you have grown up and realized that the world does not really revolve around the self righteous wicked radicals and that if you spend your life in apathy you are wasting a potentially wonderful existence. "},{"Title":"Cartoonish fan fiction","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This film was responsible for putting me off biopics about people who are still alive. The reason being that we know what the individuals involved looked like then and look like now, and we are aware of what really happened, and can compare the real people to the fantasy version that the director chooses to put on screen. For example, Sid Vicious's famous swastika T-shirt gets bowdlerised into a hammer and sickle T-shirt, the latter apparently being more in-tune with director's PC totalitarian sensibilities. Yuck.In this movie, the director comes off looking like the talentless, pretentious declassé wannabe that we always knew he was from his other films, a Will Self of the cinema. Alex Cox has totally bought into the synthetic cartoonish on-stage public image of the Sex Pistols and the punk movement, and mistaken it for the real people involved. The result resembles Star Trek fan fiction, a lame geeky attempt to rehash someone else's already shallow work of fiction by an overly obsessive fan, made all the more irritating because it is presented as if it was telling a true story. So we get Gary Oldman and Chloe Webb and the supporting cast mugging their one-note cartoonish punk caricatures throughout the length of this film, with occasional injections of out-of-touch intellectualisms. It's not entertaining and it's not funny, although the characters behave as if they believe they are. The plot, what little there is, moves quite slowly to its known and muddled conclusion. The low budget shows in the poor cinematography and weak script. The only emotion I felt by the end was embarrassment for the film-makers, combined with the fervent hope that they would change careers to suit their true vocations as checkout clerks and sociology lecturers. "},{"Title":"The most media maligned musicians ever get worked over yet again.","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"11 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I'll keep this brief. Gary Oldman is good - No surprise there. But aside from his snarling and slobbering portrayal of Sid, there's not much else to see here. In the brief intervals between Chloe Webb's whining, the film manages to veer into interesting visual territory. But ultimately it's unrewarding, at times treacly, heroin mythologizing, and historical inaccurate. What does director Alex Cox really know about the punk movement anyway? I would hardly rely on the impressions of an upper class intellectual, who was on his way to being a lawyer when punk happened. He was such an outsider that he turned to Joe Strummer of the Clash for help. Would no one from the Sex Pistols camp talk to him? He didn't even get Johnny Rotten's accent right. Skip this and watch Filth and the Fury instead. "},{"Title":"Get real folks...","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This was NOT a love story, or some kind of tragic hero bologna. It was simply a tale of drug induced destruction brought on by a total disregard for life on life's terms. It was hedonism run rampant with total oblivion to anyone or anything in it's path. I speak from experience here. I was a heroin addict for 20 years, I've been clean for 10. There were no hero's here, only people who found it easier to escape life than to live it. That being said, Gary Oldman was near perfect in his portrayal of a needy loser who did what it took to be noticed and cared about. Chloe Webb also accurately played a hanger-on junkie who wanted death more than life...(stealing a line from Drugstore Cowboy)she was just tired of putting up with the daily pressures of life, like tying her shoes. Pretty pathetic stuff, but it can get that way. The movie is superb, but the hero worship of the characters is...in a word...misguided. "},{"Title":"anti-christ","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a fairly accurate look into the lives of two controversial (but untalented) and notorious figures in punk music. Gary Oldman's Sid was beyond exceptional. Chloe Webb's Nancy was graceful and sympathetic. After reading And I Don't Want to Live This Life, I was quite disappointed at the portrayal of Nancy's family. She didn't tell her grandmother that she got married, she called her mother!! Overall, past the criticism and hype, a very brutal and tragic peek into the short, pathetic lives of two young stars that never had a chance because of heroin and self-mutilation. "},{"Title":"Some people are too stupid and violent to live","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  You start the movie with the knowledge that both the main characters are dead. Halfway through the movie you start thinking that this might be a good thing.An uncompromising look at some very unpleasant people. "},{"Title":"The Best ending of any film - ever!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  A must see performance by gary oldman. Tremendous in it's style and surreal quality. Alex Cox  delivers a powerful and revealing film.No one could of done a better job with this story and no one willever even try to top it. The ending is so brilliantly put together  - it portrays  so much withsuch  simple and powerful imagery.  The musical score worksamazingly even though its not punk rock at all. The last sceneutilizes  Disco Music and an Original Score by Pray For Rain.One of the best films of the 80's -  "},{"Title":"Well acted","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought this movie was a very accurate description of their story, Great actors. Webb and Oldman was very believable. One of the greatest movies of the 80's.I love the sex pistols and Sid so i enjoyed this movie very much. Very sad but at the same time exciting. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is a must see. Gary Oldmen plays the real Sid Vicious. Everyone else looks the same to some degree. Sid and Nancy go through a roller coaster ride of ups and downs till one day they ended up in tragedy. I give this movie the highest rating out there! "}{"Title":"fragile portrait of two morons","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  the whole legacy of the sex pistols and of course, sid vicious is the whole show here. alex cox does an awesome job of showcasing the emotional and psychological problems of this couple, and tries hard to present s more than one-dimensional punk puppets. if only oliver stone could of followed this example and used the same techniques in trying to bring jimbo's life to the screen. the bottom line is that you have to be a BIG sex pistols fan to even be interested in this, it a good companion piece to the filth and the fury which shows truly what misguided buffoons lydon and co. are/were. i like the pistols, yet i like leo sayer and peter frampton too, cos theyre so howlingly funny. gary oldman is such an amazing actor, chloe webb was adequate, but i guess its old hat now to say that courtney love would've been better. all in all, interesting from a 70's cultural perspective even if youre not into the punk rock.7/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Drama","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  One of the best Drama's ever.A great performance by Gary Oldman.  There are interesting scenes that depict the times, but do not take this as fact.The DVD version has excellent footage from DOA, and a great commentary by Julien Temple saying how much the film is unrealistic.  Really worth seeing if you have an interest in Sid Vicious, but do not take it as fact.  "},{"Title":"Brief, Oldman is great!","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is just one of Mr. Oldman's fantastic portrayals of, hmmmm, unusual characters.Having had a brief (very) brush with Mr. Vicious, I found Mr. Oldman's portrayal very close to the flesh and blood I witnessed. Basically, a nasty brutish person who seemed to be on his last leg.The psychotic(?) episode with the Sinatra tune was one of the few pieces I felt left the basic tune of these people are in bad shape and will come to a bad end with little to help us understand why.Other than the great performances by the leads, just an above average flick. However, that is more than enough to put it heads above many other flicks you might pick off the shelf. "},{"Title":"Some Directors...","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Some Directors are able to make four, five, ten masterpieces in their careers. They get lucky with a combination of script, actors, and what the public is interested in at the time. But for every Spielberg, with at least six to his name, for every Martin Scorsese, with at least four to his name, even for every Orson Welles, with at least three to his name, you have half a dozen directors like Alex Cox. After a tour-de-force debut with Repo Man, a film that appeals on a dozen different levels and shows a sense of humor (albeit a skewed one) coupled with a keen sense of finding the absurd  even in a dramatic situation, Cox made his one and todate, only masterpiece- Sid & Nancy. And nothing he's done since has indicated an ability to even approach it, much less surpass it. This was a film that was a perfect synthesis of Director, Script, Actors, Music, and timing. Most of the viewers of this film at the time of it's release were (like myself at the time) high school students, sick and tired of the smarmy John Hughes comedies of the 80's, with a rebellious quality- looking for inspiration and guidance from the Grand Masters of chaos and disobedience. What we got was a reality check as to the ultimate futility of resistance to the norm, while at the same time being reminded of how fun rebellion  was- which was ultimately why we did it in the first place. Shock value was more important than content, as long as the intent was sincere. Gary Oldman turns in a performace that few, if any, actors, regardless of caliber, could deliver on their first film. He looks, sounds, and behaves so much like Sid Vicious that it is, at times, vaguely disturbing. He would not turn in a performance so chilling in it's accuracy until becoming Lee Harvey Oswald for Oliver Stone's JFK. Chloe Webb appeared out of nowhere, delivered (as much as humanly possible) a depiction of Nancy Spungen's personality that was dead on,according to her Mother, Deborah Spungen's book, And I Don't Want To Live This Life, and then promptly faded into obscurity, appearing only sporadically in unexpected places (Practical Magic, China Beach, etc.) Alex Cox has been described as The Punk Rock Director, and despite his track record since Sid & Nancy, which was followed by Straight To Hell, and went there from that point, there is nevertheless, thanks to Sid & Nancy, ample reason to include him in that elite group of directors that were able to produce that most rare breed of films- The Genuine Masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Punk rock love horror story ?","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Sid Vicious of the Sex Pistols was the ultimate 1970's creation. Like disco and polyester, his shelf life was destined to be short. Nancy Spungen was a troubled American teen who plunged head-first into the abyss of drug addiction, violence, and punk rock music. Courtney Love was rumored to have lobbied hard for the part of Nancy, and indeed appears as Nancy's pal Gretchen in this movie. This movie is often dismissed as a 1970's prequel to the Kurt Cobain and Courtney Love story. Not quite. While Courtney may have shared Nancy's privileged background and Anglophilic sensibilities; I doubt Kurt Cobain had Sid Vicious' propensity for senseless violence, and Kurt inarguably had considerably more talent. Sid and Nancy and Kurt however, always seem to lack what Love has in spades the urge to survive. This movie is a one-way ticket to a world so depressing and dirty, you'll want to shower it off as soon as the film ends. Not for the faint of heart. "},{"Title":"for what it is, good","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The story of Sid Vicious of the Sex Pistols and the drug-addicted groupie Nancy Spungen is well-known in popular culture.  What Alex Cox did was to turn this sordid piece of pulp into a love story, a romance.  A decaying one, it is true, a mixed-up and doomed one, but in its way as affecting as Romeo and Juliet.Gary Oldman plays Sid, in one of his earliest film appearances, and using his own accent.  He really is good and surprisingly brings us close to Sid and caring about what happens to him.  In contrast Chloe Webb is a hugely irritating Nancy, screeching and clawing her way through the film - she really is quite exhausting to watch.  But perhaps that is the essence of the real Nancy?  In a small role you may notice Courtney Love, who might at that time have done better in the lead.All in all, very different to what I expected, and although the viewer might resist it, the scale of a tragic love affair comes through.  How close this was to the truth has to remain extremely questionable.  "},{"Title":"Informative rather than entertaining..","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is certainly a powerful piece of filmwork, most notably for the incredible and unforgettable leading performances of it's stars, Oldman and Webb. The film will, I think, be more interesting to Punk fans, or fans of the Sex Pistols (which I am both)- however I'm sure others could find something positive from it nonetheless. The seedy lives of the Sex Pistols in London before they were famous is a good laugh and although portrayed as delinquents, there are some great moments between Sid Vicious and his best friend and lead singer of the band Johnny Lydon (aka- Johnny Rotten), who is replaced in friendship by airhead, New York druggie chick, Nancy Spungen. Although Sid is a bit of a joker, and doesn't seem to be too interested in anything, it is Nancy who turns him from a brash, uninterested young man to a alcoholic and heroine addict. Though trying to force the drugs away, consious they are doing him harm, she is seductive and persuasive enough to keep him hooked. In one scene, they are asleep in the early hours of the morning and the next day, Sid is going to the airoport to meet his band and their promoter and they are touring. Nancy keeps interrupting Sid and talking to him while he's trying to sleep and so he eventually gets out of bed and takes all his bags and leaves for the airport (it's around 2-4am) and he says I'll be bloody early for a change!! , to get away. She shouts after him.. Sid! No! we havn't had our fairwell drugs yet!The film is powerful and informative, giving insight into the final parts of the lives of these two individuals, arguing and fighting fairly frequently yet inseparable and bound tight by love. The film is not pleasent to watch, it's not entertaining, it's not even enjoyable- but it is timeless and powerful.I'd give it 4/5- but we warned- it's not for the faint-hearted.  "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Punk Related Films Ever Made....","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Where Do I start, this movie has the storyline close to the real facts.The tale of Sid Vicious and Nancy Spungen is played brilliantly  by Gary Oldman and, stage actress Chloe Webb.Gary Oldman is highly believable as the punk rocker.But there's something that I can't really put my finger on, all I know is once you've seen this movie, Gary Oldman's charm and Andrew Schofield's(playing Johnny Rotton)dry sarcasm will make you want to watch it over and over again.It's just that good. Also another thing, is that the ending isn't as sad as Alex Cox(the Director) could of made it.Which in fact is very good that he chose to do such a thing.Because it leaves you coming away as happy as you were when you sat down to watch to watch the thing.I recommend you do have a chance to view this film because yes folks it really is a good as I'm saying.Nothings let out, it's as graphic and brutal as it would of been in real life.The only point point is that it seem to be fairly short, so it could have been a little longer.But overall it's worth a look.Very watchable.Indeed. "},{"Title":"Sid and Nancy  What a story!!!!","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Sid and Nancy is my favorite movie of all time.  It is a romantic love story.  It is a story of the ups and downs of rock and roll.  It is the sad story of drug abuse.  I believe to understand the movie more you need to read the biography of Nancy Spungen written by her mother.  It gives you an insiders view on the terrible tragedy of Sid and Nancy's lives.  Gary Oldman did a wonderful job portraying Sid Vicious.  Gary Oldman will always be my favorite actor and that is because of this movie.  This movie also made me a fan of the Sex Pistols!  If you haven't seen this movie, you need to!  You don't know what you are missing! "},{"Title":"If you ever thought of doing heroin.....","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I've been wanting to see this film for a long time and just finally rented it.  My husband and I both thought it was a very accurate picture of the punk scene of the late 70's and early 80's and for the most part that the actors did a great job.  The parts of Sid and Nancy must have been extremely intense to play.After seeing Courtney Love in Larry Flint I think she would have made a much better Nancy than Chloe Webb. Chloe was really very obnoxious but maybe the real Nancy was just that way.  I guess at the time Courtney didn't have enough experience to get the part.Overall this was a very good movie, but get ready for a real downer! "}{"Title":"An absolutely brilliant film...","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  An absolutely brilliant film about two infamous, self destructive punks in the 70's. Chloe Webb is fascinating as the manipulative, manic Nancy and Gary Oldman gives his best performance ever as the talentless, witless Sid Vicious who was lucky (or unlucky) enough to be there at the right time when punk and the Sex Pistols took off. I read somewhere once that Oldman hated the movie, and I wonder why.  This movie is dark and ugly and real and in your face. And after seeing it, My Way will never sound the same to you.  "},{"Title":"Gary Oldman in a superb renactment of Pistols Bassist Sid Vicious","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Sid & Nancy the 70's version of Kurt & Courtney.  Gary portrays Sid brillantly right down to the padlock chain round his neck.  Chloe makes me belive she's Nancy (particularly toward the end in the hotel room scene. This film does lag in some parts of the film but its still a great film. This film isn't for everyone (I'm surprised BBC 2 screened it uncut) if you're squeamish don't watch the tail end of the hotel room scene.  A great film and Gary burst his lungs for My Way & I wanna be your Dog. "},{"Title":"Important, Tragic Document","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I can't recall ever seeing a better feel-bad movie, especially not one with two blistering lead performances like those of Gary Oldman and Chloe Webb. The story of Sid Vicious and Nancy Spungen is a brutally tragic testament to the punk attitude. These two losers managed to carve out names for themselves in punk history, despite the fact that neither one was really very talented at anything, and through all their difficulty with heroin addiction and the fickle nature of fame, they stuck out the hard times together. Theirs was a love of the saddest, and most beautiful, kind they stood by each other because they simply had no one else to keep them whole. The drugs, the illness, and the lack of money threatened to tear them apart. Realistically, how else could this story have ended? Two of the saddest children of the punk movement, absolutely lost in life and having successfully alienated all those who used to care about them, could only have found release in blissful oblivion. If there's any justice, those two would have found peace at last after death. They lost it all, and finally lost themselves, only to find redemption in hindsight as heroes of the lost, self-destructive punk generation.  "},{"Title":"A car crash, you hate to see it but you can't stop looking","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" It's grossly inaccurate. they seriously need to follow the facts.Sid was needy and innocent as a disturbed child. Nancy was a leach who screwed anyone for a fix. She caused Sid to go down his down ward spiral. At first she tried to get Johnny Rotten but he declined, then she tried the very gullible Sid. If she hadn't introduced Sid into the heavy drugs, they'd still be alive. The band may have gotten back together. but of course we'll never know. In the movie there are so many mistakes and even visual problems. Johnny Rotten was intelligent and not a sissy as they made him out to be in the movie. he really did care for Sid.Sid was just so easy. you make him to what ever you want if you knew how to handle him. He didn't want to be a heroin user, but he couldn't stop. he knew something bad would happen yet he couldn't stop.Nancy was a groupie. she refused to work. she pushed Sid to his limits. In the movie she is portrayed as a caring annoying as hell girlfriend. they got one thing right, she was annoying. She didn't care for Sid she wanted to be in the spotlight. She was well known for sleeping with various bands. They didn't ask any of the original band members if they wanted to help or tell the real story. They didn't even use the original music.I do NOT recommend seeing this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"If I give you another hit will you shut the hell up?","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  If Nancy Spungen was anything at all like Chloe Webb portrays her here, it's no wonder Sid Vicious stabbed her to death.  Did Nancy really behave like a psychopathic toddler and speak with that Marlboro-throated screechy whine?  My gawd. 2 things happened after I popped this movie into the VCR and started watching--1) My neighbor called and asked me to please turn it down. And it wasn't even that loud!2) During Nancy's first tirade my roommate came out of his bedroom and asked, What the *hell* are you watching?  I laughed knowingly.And I thought Johnny Rotten was supposed to be THE original punk-spirit anti-estab badass? The way he's portrayed here makes him seem like the model of charm-school decorum and a certified puss. Fun scene   Sid breaks up with Nancy and starts to stagger out of the hotel room.  Nancy screams and cries and whines and yells, rolling around the skuzzy floor until she finally shouts to him, SID!!! COME BACK! WE FORGOT TO DO THE FAREWELL DRUGS!!!Farewell drugs.  I love it.  Those silly heroin addicts! "},{"Title":"Ick","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Like Oliver Stone's The Doors, Sid and Nancy features obnoxious, self-destructive main characters who possess few redeeming traits. Neither film manages to suggest why these figures still loom large in the popular imagination long after their deaths. After viewing Stone's extremely negative portrait of Jim Morrison in The Doors, you'd never know that Morrison can be counted among the 1960s' greatest poets, songwriters, and vocalists. Sid Vicious was considerably less talented, barely able to play a guitar, but the Sex Pistols were indeed the most influential band of the 1970's. Why? This relentlessly depressing film provides few clues.Punk was exhilarating and liberating precisely because it insisted that anyone could do it. Despite its negative rhetoric, punk was inclusive. The performance scenes in the movie fail to capture this spirit and instead come across as lip-synched dumb shows that ape the real thing.Impersonating a public figure or celebrity is always a tough acting assignment because the audience typically brings to the film a set of expectations about that person. They compare the actor's gestures, vocal inflections, even physical characteristics with those of the celebrity. The actor must mimic without stooping to mere caricature, in addition to creating a character who is believable within the dramatic structure of the film itself. Having to do so while delivering a musical performance is even more difficult, but with the right actor in the part, the results can be sensational. Sissy Spacek Loretta Lynn in Coal Miner's Daughter may actually improve on the original. Despite The Doors' many shortcomings, Val Kilmer created a very passable Jim Morrison.The film's Sex Pistols snarl and spit and bang their heads as they play, all to no avail. The audience never understands why the real Sex Pistols made such an impact both musically and visually. Maybe the passage of time renders what was raw and vital in 1975 tame and hackneyed to today's audiences or even those of 1986 when the film was made. But then what is the point of filming this if not to remind us of how great and important the band seemed to contemporaries?Sid and Nancy is an incredible bummer to watch because it fails to deliver the goods musically and never conveys the frenzied excitement  that greeted the first wave of punk. Without this background, the Sid and Nancy characters are unbearable to watch. All you see is self-obliteration and death. It's never even clear why these two flamed out. Was it family, fame, a love obsession? (We know it was drugs.) Surely there is some connection to the Sex Pistols' own spectacular act of self-immolation - they lasted less than two years - but the film doesn't provide answers.Gary Oldman comes across more restrained than usual, an odd choice. He chews up the scenery in most of his films, why not here? And while Chloe Webb is initially great, how long can you stand watching her screw up her face, fall on the floor and whine Sid, we're aaaadd-icts...?If you want to see an ENTERTAINING film about fame, jealousy and self-destruction, rent Prick Up Your Ears (1987) which documents how the playwright Joe Orton was murdered by his lover Kenneth Halliwell, who then killed himself. Like Sid and Nancy, it's a grim story, but one that fascinates as it unfolds.  It also offers a very good Gary Oldman performance, in contrast to his so-so work here.5* out of 10* (3* for Chloe Webb, 3* for the hilarious Malcolm McLaren character, -1* for showing Johnny Rotten spitting baked beans) "},{"Title":"These people don't deserve a film of their own","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" First of all, I should say that director Alex Cox's first film Repo Man, is nothing less than my ALL TIME favorite movie. So I was prepared to like this film, even cut it a little slack. But I just found frustrating.I'd seen this before on television, about a decade ago. I guess at the time I was more suspectible to heroin glamour, because I at the the time I thought it was great. Not so anymore. For losers with no identity of their own all over the world, Sid Vicious and Nancy Spungen are a glamorous, doomed couple too beautiful for this world. In reality, Vicious was a totally useless idiot, left semi-retarded by his mother intravenous drug use during pregnancy. He had no musical talent or even technical ability (the bass tracks on The Sex Pistols only album were played by the previous bassist, whom Malcolm MacLaren fired for having a too clean-cut image) -- the only thing he was ever good at was destruction, especially self-destruction. Spungen herself was an equally self-destructive, co-dependent harpie who only wanted someone to drag down with her into her inevitable downward spiral. I don't have a problem with anyone making a film about a love affair between two down-and-out junkies, but the heroin chic of some scenes (particularly the one where Sid&Nancy are kissing on some alley, while sickly-sweet sentimental music plays and garbage falls out of the sky) made me sick. Is taking heroin and throwing your life away really so cool and romantic?The first half of the film is actually not that bad, but as soon as the Pistols break up and Nancy shows up and starts her screeching, all we are left with are with endless fighting and screaming, followed by tearful reconciliation and (god forbid) sex scenes. All of it set against a backdrop of incredible misery and squalor. Once again, I wouldn't mind it all if Cox hadnt made the mistake of making it all seem oh so romantic.Nick Kent, the music writer that Vicious is depicted in this film as beating up in a club (in fact, Vicious hit him on the head with a rusty bicycle chain in a back alley, thus earning the name vicious) concluded his piece of Sid & Nancy with the words let them rot. I agree. Don't bother to wíth this one, see The Great Rock'n'Roll Swindle instead.  "},{"Title":"It's all wrong!","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  If I'd seen this film without knowing anything about punk rock, or the lives of sid and nancy I could have probably appreciated this film a lot more. The film looked good and that's about the nicest thing I can say about it, although Gary Oldman did the best he could with the script. The characters were one dimensional and self absorbed with no explanation of why.  The potrayal of sid and nancy does not allow you to feel any empathy for either of them.  If you want more background information on the real lives of the couple, I would really recommend 'And I don't want to live this life' by Deborah Spungen (Nancy's mum), which made me cry more than any other book I've ever read.  Nancy had severe mental and emotional problems from birth which were repeatedly wrongly diagnosed by doctors and psychiatrists. This led to her behaviour in later life.  However, she wasn't just the drugged up groupie she is portrayed as in the media and this film, she was also a vulnerable girl who had no one to understand her except sid, who had similar problems (although not as severe as Nancy).  If you pretend this film is not based on fact, it's watchable. if like me, you know anything of the real story, you will find yourself correcting the film and criticising the portrayal of the characters too much to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A bunch of rotters getting rich off of the Sex Pistols.","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Give me a break, this movie is done in bad taste. Including everything from stereotypes to things that simply never happened.A clear cut case of Hollywood cashing in on something they have no idea about.Oh yeah I almost forgot...It seems kinda weird to me Courtney Love of all people auditioned for the role of Nancy, but only got the role of Nancys friend...Ok I dont know if its weird or just synchronicity. "},{"Title":"Never mind this bollocks...","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  John Lydon (a.k.a. Johnny Rotten) dubbed this film a fairy tale version of the truth. Above and beyond all things that make me agree with him is the ending to this atrocity. Now, I heard so much about this film in all such Holiness and seeing it myself, I am confused by my direction of anger. Should I feel contempt as a Sex Pistols fan; a punk fan; or as someone who can spot an aimless, often derailing take on a crap of a love story? This film really has no objective. It fiddles with the truth, setting itself up as some sort of a reenactment of events on the Sex Pistols based solely around Sid Vicious. I assume this because they felt the need to go out of the way to insert the Bill Grundy incident, which happened before Sid joined the band, as well as a post-Pistols John talking about Public Image Limited depicted in an interview that happened a year after Sid's death. This film also misspells the spirit of Sid Vicious, making him look to be more worthless then he really was. The film never spits out what a great bloke he was, or at least before he joined the Sex Pistols. He never seems to be viewed with any sort of talent (with the exception of his cover of My Way), charisma or much in the way of intelligence and it's a bit heartbreaking to see it as if John and Sid had no chemistry together, ignoring all hints that they were the best of mates. Sid also had a great since of humour as people like Sue Catwoman or many others who knew him could tell you right, something left out all together. I also felt no sadness for Sid in this film, as I know he was a tragic character in reality. As for Nancy, she is eyed as if she was all right unless she was drugged up &#150; something that many testimonies from people who met her can negate. It also leaves out that she chased around a lot of different bands like the New York Dolls or that she gave a hard time to Jerry Nolan of the Heartbreakers. Nor is there even a scratching of the surface on how much everyone hated her the bird. A bit is dropped on John's position on her, but Steve and Paul also hated her as well as a lot of other people in the punk community. Then there is how the movie takes it upon itself to say that Sid did in fact kill Nancy, despite some popular theories that it was just some one whom Nancy owed money, thus making it out all for the grandeur of something all Romeo and Juliet-like which is why if it were for the benefit of a love story, then it fails at that too. It glamourizes so many wrong things. Also, I really never felt that the two were really in love in this movie. She was more horrible in real life and yet I have more sympathy for the real relationship then that of the characters. And might I add on how bad the acting is. It didn't seem like it was acting really, but rather bad impersonations. The characters who are real-life people are so one-dimensional that they come off as cartoons. Seeing a John Lydon would-be clone made me laugh and then I was saddened by the fact that they made John look to be devoid of any intellect. And whoever was portraying Siouxsie Sioux in the Bill Grundy clip should be smacked. Speaking of smacked, why is it that about every punk in this film seemed to be in a mix between drunken stoopurs and whacked out on drugs? Again, just about every character is depicted as dumb and hollow, real or otherwise. Only the characterization of Malcolm McLaren is dead-on as he personifies creepy, possibly even more so then the real McLaren (if that's even possible). Not to mention on how there was never such person as Rock Head. But kudos for the inclusion of a character of what I assume was based on the real-life dominatrix by the name of Lynda (spelled Linda in this film) Ashby who really was part of the U.K. punk scene in what was known as the Bromley Contingent which at one time included Sid himself. In conclusion, do yourself a favour and see The Filth and the Fury (a film I had seen about a week before) to get the real truth on everything and everybody as well as more compassionate storytelling. The only highpoint of this film was the closing credits, mostly because it was the only good music in the film... all those Sex Pistols songs tainted. This film is only for the enjoyment of postcard punks who have safety pins for brains and wear T-shirts of Sid Vicious shooting up. "}{"Title":"a tale of two morons","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't get it. Was Nancy really this stupid and annoying? Chloe Webb may be a talented actress, but her portrayal made the movie difficult to watch, because she was just so trashy and whiny. Basically, if you are a punk rock fan, or like depressing movies of self-destruction, then see this, otherwise don't bother. The way the movie portrays Sid, it is very difficult to see how the Sex Pistols got as far as they did. What I really can't understand is the ending. *spoiler ahead* I can buy that Sid and Nancy were both wasted when he stabbed her. That they are stoned is a given, as it is usually the case in the movie. What I don't understand is that Nancy knows she is suffering a knife wound, yet gets back in bed with Sid? Hello? Are people really this stupid? It's a frightening thought. Or is it just another inaccuracy of the movie? Ugh, a portrayal of two creatures at the bottom of the food chain, and ultimately winning at the Darwin awards. That's about it. 5/10  "},{"Title":"Sid and Nancy","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Oldman and Webb ignite this wicked film about mad rocker Sid Vicious. A blend of dark humor and brute violence, it's an excellent film that features a sardonic rendition of My Way. For some, it may leave a nasty taste in your mouth, but it does leave you thinking.  "},{"Title":"ugly and perfect","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" As someone who doesn't know the Sex Pistols' music, I now feel like I know everything about Sid Vicious...and it makes me want to avoid the Sex Pistols. Sid and Nancy deals with what may be one of the ugliest subjects ever, but never goes overboard in being nasty.In the late '70s, Sid Vicious (Gary Oldman) is the lead bassist for the Sex Pistols, and one of the angriest men alive. Even after he meets Nancy Spungen (Chloe Webb), he still seems like he wants nothing more than to be bad, living the most self-destructive lifestyle imaginable. The movie even shows him having some withdrawals caused by drug usage.What eventually becomes of the two lovers is less important than the destructive relationship that they had. I guess that the important point is that Sid Vicious tried to express his anger at the system, but couldn't do so in a manner that really meant anything. Billy Bragg once explained how the Clash managed to channel the working-class rage into something meaningful.Anyway, it's a really good movie. As gritty as any movie could be, you won't come away with a positive impression of Sid Vicious after watching this. "},{"Title":"Liked it the first time....but then i came to reality","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" The movie was good the first time. Then i read John Lydons biography, and he pointed out so many things that were so wrong with the movie. One John Lydon(Rotten) looks nothing or sounds anything like the guy who played him. Rotten does not like champagne and beans. The Jubilee concert with all the Punks with the Mohawk's.........That wasn't even around then!. Rotten said to the director You better be glad i don't have a gun, because if i did i would shoot you. The movie basically celebrates Herion addiction and Sid did nothing for punk rock he was a coat hanger! The Filth and Fury is a lot better. It is all real and all the people in it are real. No Actors. OH and i am a huge sex pistols fan....in case you are thinking All this crap you talk about Sid how can you be a sex pistols fan! "},{"Title":"See The Filth & The Fury instead","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Anyone considering seeing this film would be, IMHO, much better served watching the Sex Pistols documentary The Filth & the Fury. To be honest, the only thing that makes Sid Vicious' life interesting is the fact that he was the most notorious member of what was arguably the most notorious rock band in history. Remove that, and you're left with just another story about a junkie and his loser girlfriend. And that's the problem with this film. Most of it takes place after the Sex Pistols broke up, with Sid trying (and failing) to establish a solo career, while he and Nancy are caught up in a self destructive spiral of heroin abuse which ultimately leads to both of their deaths. A big problem with this film is the lack of authenticity. While both Sid and Nancy seem real enough, the rest of the band (and their performances) look nothing like the real Sex Pistols. And then, after the band broke up following a show in San Francisco, we are left with little to keep us interested. It's easy to see why the rest of the band loathed Nancy, all she did was act as a Yoko Ono from hell, steering Sid away from the band and into the cesspool of heroin addiction. I suppose it could be seen as a tragic personal tale, but in truth, I'd much rather watch The Filth & the Fury and see the world's premier punk band in all their glory instead of watching one of its members embark on a one way ride to oblivion.6/10  "},{"Title":"Ridiculous, cliché-ridden buffoonery","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Where do you start? Did Alex Cox just pick up 'An Idiot's Guide to Film making'? From the toe-curlingly awful depiction of punk gigs and the pant-wettingly ridiculous behaviour of the central characters to the spasm-inducingly absurd representations of London streets (horse guards/ Children running down the street with the most cliché-ridden collection of sports equipment imaginable). I nearly cringed myself inside-out watching this. By the end I was slashing my eyeballs with the edge of a manila envelope. Please don't bother watching this. A far better use of your time would be cataloguing all the hairs on your navel whilst listening to the speaking clock for an hour. Avoid! "},{"Title":"Pain and Discomfort","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  If you like want to see far too many minute about two hard-core drug addicts getting wasted in various hotel rooms and screaming between hits, then Sid and Nancy is for you. This movie is physically painful to watch. It has no comment to make, unless an impressive portrayal of two people that are a total waste of flesh is an important statement that needed to be made. I gave this movie a two, and the only reason for that was the humor (at least for me) circumstance of my viewing. Two friends and I watch this movie on the roof of our house. Don't ask me how, but it was a very hot summer and the roof was somehow the coolest place. Two of us had to endure the shear torture that is watching this movie. My other friend escaped this emotional rack by the fortune of falling asleep on the roof, in front of the window, which was the only way off the roof. Now, this friend is a very sound sleeper, and we tried everything short of a boot to the head to wake him up. My rating skyrocketed up to a colossal two due to the my conscious buddy pulling his hair out trying to wake the unconscious friend so he could get off the roof and escape the agony that is Sid and Nancy. "},{"Title":"Bullocks!","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"18 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" What can you say? Gary Oldman did the best with what he had. But what he had was a script that was derived from a story based on hearsay... and not from the Pistols themselves, but from The Clash! This is NOT the true of story of Sid and Nancy; the real people were far more pathetic and depressing than their on-screen counterparts. Alex Cox got the basic details correct Sid and Nancy were low-life junkies; Sid was a replacement bass player for the Sex Pistols and couldn't play a lick; everyone hated Nancy; they lived in squalor; Sid ended up on Riker's Island, and Nancy ended up dead on a bathroom floor.Nearly every other detail in the movie was terribly inaccurate, everything from Sid and Nancy first meeting to how Nancy was positioned when she was found dead. Also, some of these people were too old to play the characters; it's easy to forget that the Pistols and their contingent were all teenagers. Chloe Webb looked about forty, yet Nancy died when she was just twenty years old. Not only that, but the movie portrayed the rest of the Pistols as being mildly retarded, and seemed to enjoy and even opted to live like bums. In reality, even at the height of their success, the Sex Pistols were still very poor and unhappy with their surroundings. In John Lydon's autobiography, he remarks about one of the opening scenes that shows Sid and Johnny eating baked beans and champagne for breakfast. Back then, he couldn't even afford champagne. Details don't matter; this movie is about feeling. Oh really? Tell that to the people who actually lived through this.Go ahead and watch this movie for its cinematic enjoyment, but not as a biographical piece. It's been nearly thirty years since the train wreck called Sid & Nancy did themselves in... it would be nice if someone could make a new Sex Pistols movie that's based on facts, instead of some silly director's notion of who and what they were. And this time, no more romanticizing their story. What they had together wasn't love, but a very twisted co-dependent relationship. The silly cab ride to heaven somehow made Sid & Nancy some kind of a punk Romeo and Juliet, but they were just a couple of losers. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I expected a huge amount from this movie, particularly with the line-up.Sadly... IMHO it was lacking... to the extent I can't even name why. Hubby enjoyed it. Is it an age thing?! Hmmm... I think not! Attack me if you will - that's fine. I'd actually rather you attacked the fiml producers - and asked them to polish up! It just didn't grab me as so many others have Elle xx PS You guys don't know me as yet... you don't know my taste... you don't know my balls. It doesn't matter - I'm just posting my humble views. I'm no producer, director, financer, pedant, yada, yada, yada, (Yeah you've seen them all on here under their various guises) xx "},{"Title":"AWSOME!!!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I loved it! It was very passionate,sad,funny,violent all things i like about movies. Chloe Webb and Gary oldman were great! Oldman looked almost exactly like Vicious and Webb was an ok resemblance. Even though there was a lot of drug use and a lot of cursing who cares! that's apart of life a lot of people curse and a lot of people use drugs. RIP Sid and Nancy!!!! "}{"Title":"A RIDICULOUS AND INSULTING FARCE","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  ***SPOILERS*** I finally got around to seeing this movie, seeing as it is some kind of icon within the world of punk rock, which I feel very much a part of. After seeing this movie I'm left confused as to the cult status it has. I guess it wouldn't bug me so much if this movie weren't made out to be the true story of Sid Vicious and the Sex Pistols. I can't even see how someone who doesn't care about punk rock could enjoy this movie, I really thought it was that bad.  The facts in this movie are just a farce, the Sid Vicious here is a caricature of the worst elements of his personality brought out by his heroin abuse, which Alex Cox is seemingly intent on glorifying. Other elements of punk in this movie are all wrong as well. The scene in which the Pistols are playing on a boat traveling up the Thames portrays the boat's travelers as a bunch of clones with colored mohawks and studded leather jackets. This punk image didn't come along until years after the Sex Pistols had broken up. If you're looking for a real documentation of the Sex Pistols check out the Filth and the Fury, or read John Lydon's (Johnny Rotten)autobiography. If you want to see a well done punk cult classic, check out Repo Man or Return of the Living Dead, because Sid and Nancy is nothing more than tired old stereotypes and myths about punk (and the Sex Pistols) with terrible glorification of heroin abuse thrown in. I must admit though that Gary Oldman plays the Sid Vicious role given to him quite well, and judging from everything I've read about Nancy, she was played well too, but it's not the casts' fault they were working with such a bad script. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" If you want to get an insight to the grunge/punk culture, this movie is definitely a good choice. The music, the dress wear, the hair, the personalities; it's all there! It makes you feel as if you are in with The Sex Pistols themselves. There was no Sex Pistols, Sid Vicious IS The Sex Pistols! Just like any lead singer, they are the band. This movie will make you want to slug Nancy, because the actress is a prime example of a junkie. This shows the public on how the drug scene is, and why you wouldn't want to be a part of it. It's a whole separate world. What a world! You wouldn't want to be a part of it, but it is definitely interesting to get an insight on what went on, and what still goes on today. For the most of the part, punk is dead, new punk is all out there. "},{"Title":"THE MOVIE THAT MADE GARY OLDMAN","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  GREAT MOVIE.  IF YOU'VE NEVER SEEN IT YOU HAVE TO. IT'S THE STORY OF SID VICIOUS & NANCY SPUNGEN (THE 70'S KURT & COURTNEY).  OLDMAN & WEBB ARE BOTH GREAT.  THE ENDING DRAGS A LITTLE BUT IT'S STILL GOOD. "},{"Title":"Awfully true depiction of a HORRID life","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I hated this movie because I'm not a junkie, I don't live in the gutter and I'm not violent.  Being this way I don't particularly enjoy seeing a realistic portrayal of a life of a person who is a violent junkie living a gutter-like life.I rated this a one because I personally believe movies should be entertaining unless they're rated educational, and I don't think this is.However based on what you find entertaining you may feel extremely different about this film.  It was well done. "}]