[{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"84 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm sorry, I can't see why this film has been given such a low rating. This film is wonderfully life-affirming through the character of robot Jonny 5 (the scene where he realises what it means to be alive through crushing a grass hopper is beautifully portrayed), Ally Sheedy brings a bucket load of positive energy to the character of the naive but loving Stephanie, and to top it all there is a subtle but powerful comment on American militarism. There is a real emphasis on quality screen writing here which only comes through on a small ratio of films. The characters could easily have become 2 dimensional stereotypes, but instead given some interesting dialogue and motives (science, military etc). Yes it is cheesy, and I think many people label it as a cheap and tacky 80's movie, but having watched it again recently I think history may well judge it a minor classic. "},{"Title":"A rarity among family-oriented films...","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"60 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" There have been many films that claim they can entertain audiences of all ages. Indeed, this seems to be the most profitable kind of film to make, with the family-oriented often translating to the lowest common denominator. There is a rare kind of film in this oversaturated market, however. Namely, the film that claims it can entertain an audience in almost any age bracket, and really can deliver on this promise. I know how this sounds, so bear with me a moment.Short Circuit is, at heart, a comedy about what happens when a robot designed to replace a special forces soldier is struck by lightning, and starts to believe he is a living entity. Much of the rest of the film revolves around either Number 5's attempts to evade capture by the people who made him, or his attempts to convince the people he meets of the truly wonderful thing that has happened to him. Ally Sheedy and Steve Guttenberg provide an excellent support cast that does a first rate job of interacting with the character. This was one of the first films to show human actors engaging in conversation with what was essentially a full-scale puppet, and it remains one of the best. With brilliant voice acting by Tim Blaney, Number 5 seems more human than some of the other actors in the film, especially G.W. Bailey. They must have had a special on Police Academy alumni that year.Speaking of Police Academy, the let's rip the front seats out and sit in the back joke gets a couple of references here. In fact, a few old classics get a good reference in this effort. Interestingly enough, the Three Stooges short that is shown and imitated in a couple of sequences is called Woman Haters. Go figure. The one weakness of the film is that it seems primarily constructed around a few puppeteering or special effects sequences. The use of the laser beams here seems very dated by modern standards, and the computers would look unbelievable if I hadn't personally seen the computers that were available to the public and business around this year.Sadly, they do not make films like this anymore. In this day and age, where every film has to be made as expensively as possible, and even films aimed at children seem segmented, nobody seems willing to consider that the adults in the audience might need to be entertained, too. Which is a real pity. Films like Short Circuit have the ability to appeal to this viewer even more now that he is twenty-something years old than was the case when he was eight years old. I doubt that anyone who turns twenty-six in 2020 is going to same the same about the Pokemon or other such mind-numbing single-digit-age-only crap that is being churned out.I gave Short Circuit an eight out of ten. It is starting to show its age, but as a relic of the mid-1980s, it also shows that there were people asking questions about the advancement of technology. Indeed, on the basis of films like Short Circuit, I am almost willing to regard the 1980s as the last bastion of creativity in the mainstream film industry. Give it a look expecting a film about more than money, and you may be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"A very fun movie!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"44 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember watching this when I was 8 years old. It was all that and then some. When you are a kid, anything amazes you though, I guess.However, I recently had the chance to watch this flick again. I must say, that it still has it's redeeming value to it. If you ask me, Number 5, is STILL alive! I recommend this movie to anyone. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I still love this one today","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I practically grew up watching this one. And this film is two years older than I am. Number Five has long been a movie personality I grew to adore, as well as his human co-actors. There has never been a time where I have watched and not smiled at it's quirky verbal humor. I have recommended it to many acquaintances looking for a good, old 80's comedy. The sequel is not quite as up there, but I also keep it mixed in with my favorite DVDs. For any science fiction fan, it can be seen as a classic and prelude to movies such as I, Robot.10 out of 10 is my rating because this movie has played a great part in my movie-watching life. I first saw it at the age of 9 (edited Disney broadcast version, with the adult language cut out) and have looked to it ever since if I just want to get a little laugh. And, for me, a little laugh in my otherwise stressful life is a great thing.10/10 "},{"Title":"A sweet and genuine comedy","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think anyone any age can appreciate this film, and some might even find it funny.  Not terribly funny, but just good.  The plot involves a robot (#5) who after getting electricuted, becomes malfunctioned, in a good way (the robot thinks it's alive).  And some light hearted comedy (and some messages about life) ensues.  Nice to watch on a weekend day.  A- "},{"Title":"A wonderful film","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great comedy and family film. No. 5 is a cute, friendly and fun filled robot. After he becomes struck by lightning and runs away from the Nova, he is at first just a curious wonderer, until he runs into Stephanie's house. Stephanie is this young woman who loves animals and finds No. 5 to be this innocent looking robot who she takes into her house. No. 5 keeps saying Malfunction.Need input. So Stephanie lets No. 5 reed all her encyclopedias then lets him watch the T.V. all night.After all the initial fun and input the chase begins when No. 5 realises that the people from Nova are after him and want to dismantle him. Because they think he's malfunctioning.No dismantle! Not malfunction. No. 5 is alive! Are what No. 5 says. And N. 5 has to go through a number of obstacles to avoid being destroyed by these soldiers and a ruthless general who will do anything to permanently shut No. 5 down. But No. 5 is just too smart. He out smarts military men in many was, using all these tricks he has up his sleeves...or in his massive memory bank. So overall if you have a heart then No. 5 is the perfect friend. He will truly capture your heart. "},{"Title":"Great fun for kids and adults","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What makes this movie so entertaining? It could be a number of things A cute robot, a good cast, great comedy, and John Badham, the director that can take a low budget film and make it into a classic (such as his previous work, Saturday Night Fever, which was alot more vulgar) Or Maybe it's just fun to watch all of the neat little gadgets Number 5 has, showing that some of the least expensive things can be made to look high-tech.  "},{"Title":"I Heart Number Five.","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Short Circuit is an off-the-wall comedy about a series of robots made of the military. They sort of resemble Conky from the old Pee Wee's Play House series. One of the robots, 'Number Five', escapes and finds sanctuary in the home of Stephanie Speck (Allly Sheedy), a nice lady with a soft spot for runaways. Speck becomes good friends with 'Number Five' who begins to take on a lot of human characteristics, transcending the static life of a robot or the hostile life of a military weapon, which is what the robots were designed for. Speck learns that Number Five's owners are looking for him, but she knows that the military would only destroy Number Five or terminate the emotional drive that he has developed. Number Five's designer, Newton Crosby (Guttenberg) and his silly assistant Ben Jabituya (Stevens), have yet to appreciate what Number Five has achieved, as a shell of wires and controls able to take on human qualities, but, soon, they too will join Speck in the quest to save 'Number Five.' Some of it is kind of reminscint of other 80s sci-fi movies like 'Batteries Not Included' and 'E.T.' There's two issues at work in this movie. The first, and obvious one being about the development of human emotion and would it be possible for anything to gain an understanding and appreciation for it? And the second being the ethics of military useage. Plus, it's your standard 80s love and friendship story. Because of the story and the sharp wit comedy and sarcasm, it's makes for good comedy. I haven't seen the sequel in a long time, but I do remember enjoying it almost as much as the first. I think that's because 'Number Five' is such a funny, loveable robot.If you like the theme of this movie, I recommend seeing the hilarious comedy, 'Making Mr. Right,' which is about a robot designed for space exploration rather than military use. But, the robot begins to take on human emotions while the owner becomes increasingly more like a robot. (It's from Susan Siedleman, the director of 'Desperately Seeking Susan.') "},{"Title":"This movie has been under-rated","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is NOT one of the best movies of all time, and I am not going to try to tell you that it is, however, this movie has been made well and considering it was made in 1986, it's funny. It's not 2003 funny, but it IS 1986 hilarious. The movie kept me laughing enough, and I felt that the ending was also a nice one. I'm not going to spoil the movie as to what makes the ending great, but I liked the way the movie ended.I also think that the type of people who would enjoy this movie are the people who feel like Newton Crosby. He's devoted his entire life to something (science and technology), just to have others who used to be devoted to it steal it all away from him. It's almost like the whole movie you want to score one for the little guy. Most of us have been there at some point in our lives. This movie kind of captures that, and if you watch the movie with that intent, it does keep the viewer intrigued.The movie also makes you appreciate what your life is, when you see just what the robot can do, and you realize just what your mind is capable of.All in all, I think I found it a lot more touching than it should have been, because it was 315am when I started watching it, and I THINK I watched the movie Pi right before it. "},{"Title":"Better than Must See TV...","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" When this first came out in theaters...that by-gone age before DVD's and before VHS tapes were popular...and BETA tapes were still around...I went to see it at the earliest show. Then proceeded to watch every showing that day at that theater, on both screens. I do not think I've ever found such a movie that truly entertained..that was not offensive..that you wouldn't have a problem letting kids see.The only thing that sort of is upsetting was after this first movie. There was to be a sequel that had all the original cast in it..but it never made it to theaters in time. Where that copy is I have no idea. What was called the sequel...should have been kept under wraps.I really do wish they would revisit the idea of a sequel for Number 5...this is one robot that deserves another chance at a far better script than what he was given in the 2nd movie.But going back to the original. Very good job for his supporting cast. Steve and Ally were excellent. I don't think they could have picked better to be in this movie. I still see, and still laugh at the ex boyfriend getting his boot heels shot off...his belt and brim of his hat...the look on his face as he saw his precious car taken apart...not Number 5's fault he had left the Chilton manual in the car...) ) ) This movie is truly an original tale, very well told, and will stand out as an excellent piece for a long time to come. "}{"Title":"What a great movie for kids!","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I bought it this evening for my kids they are 7 and 5. My kids sat and they laughed like they've never laughed at any movie that i can recall like that before. They absolutely fell in love with Johnny 5. My son who is epileptic and has ADHD and high functioning autism sat through the WHOLE film, it was a wondrous joy to hear him squeal with delight, nearly uncontrollably, and i found myself in tears when the fake #5 that Johnny 5 built was blown up, as i saw my sons reaction, because he thought it was the real one, then he cheered in the end when Johnny 5 showed up from under the truck with Steve Guttenberg and Alley Sheedy. They begged me to watch it again after it was over, but it was bedtime so I promised them that they could watch it in the morning. Great movie for kids! 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"So cutesy but so good!!","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I haven't seen Short Circuit for some time now, but it is such a huge milestone in my childhood that I have to say something about it. Maturer audiences will have a hard time overlooking some of the childish nuances of the movie, but it is such a fun and entertaining family film that all of those things can be easily forgiven. It reminds me of other wonderful family films like Flight of the Navigator and The Goonies, that I used to watch over and over when I was a kid. I feel like I've lost something when I can't think of a single movie now that I love so much that I will watch it a few times a week. Maybe I just am more aware of the time involved in watching the same movie over and over today than I used to be. Johnny 5 is a robot designed for military use until one day it's struck by lightning and, apparently, comes to life. This is a pretty tired formula, something man-made suddenly displaying life-like qualities and wanting to be recognized as a real boy, but it's accompanied by some clever messages about the advancement of technology, particularly technology designed to replace humans, which has always been seen as a bit of a dangerous idea, criticized brilliantly by everyone from Charlie Chaplin to James Cameron. Johnny 5's adventures involve his efforts to avoid capture by the people who made him (NOVA! No!!), while at the same time trying to prove to the world that he's a living entity now. They could not make a movie like this today. Sadly, CGI has forever replaced the need to create a physical robot like the one that plays Johnny 5 in this movie, so any Short Circuit that was made today would just be some soul-less digital effect cavorting across the screen, instantly forgettable. But here, he's really there, and he's heavy and clumsy and metallic, but so memorable as a movie character that I've recently read that the actual robot prop was sold for something like $500,000. Now THAT is a fan!Steve Guttenberg and Ally Sheedy have a cute chemistry on screen that is satisfactorily simple. They are both cookie-cutter caricatures, Sheedy the lonely Stephanie, who drives an ice-cream truck for a living, and Guttenberg plays a scientist named Newton, who works for the evil NOVA but who only needs a cute ice-cream lady and a charming robot to change his evil ways. Sound like fun? No? Well, it is, trust me. The film has definitely dated, but I'll take special effects that look dated 20 years later over expensive CGI that never looked real in the first place any day. A lot of films claim to be fun for all ages, but Short Circuit is one of the few that really is. It's too bad that movies like this seem to be gone forever now&#133;. "},{"Title":"Fun film from the '80s","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first watched this in the '80s I rather enjoyed it as I recall and upon watching it again recently found that it had lost little of its charm.The film opens with five new military robots being demonstrated to a group of politicians and senior officers. After they show how the can eliminate a variety of vehicles everybody goes inside and the robots are recharged... while robot number five is still connected to the generator there is a lightning strike which causes it to malfunction. After a collision with a rubbish disposal robot it ends up on the back of a lorry with the rubbish and is taken off the base. At around the same time it is noticed that he is missing and everybody at Nova, the company that made it, starts to panic. Skroeder, the head of security sets off with his men to catch it while its inventor Dr. Newton Crosby and his assistant Ben Jabituya follow its tracking signal to help them locate it. They find Number Five but it evades capture by jumping off a bridge and parachuting on to the back of a van driven by Stephanie, by now it is out of range for the tracker.When Stephanie finds Number Five she initially thinks he is an alien and invites it into her house where he seeks input, he quickly reads every book in the house and turns to the television for further learning. When she learns that instead of being an alien he is a robot from a weapons manufacturer she is not impressed and calls them to take it away, however when she tells Number Five that he is to return to Nova he reacts in a way one wouldn't expect from an inanimate object... he shows fear. Realising that he is in danger Number Five takes Stephanie's van which he learns how to drive by reading the instruction manual. She manages to jump aboard as he drives off but they crash and are found be Doctor Crosby who deactivates Number Five and puts him on a truck bound for Nova. Five however manages to reactivate himself and escapes once again. He returns to Stephanie and is present to help rescue her from her abusive ex-boyfriend. She believes that if she can persuade Doctor Crosby that Number Five is alive then he well help them, unfortunately they meeting is interrupted by Skroeder and as well as rescuing Stephanie Number Five must confront the other robots, I won't say what he does to them as it would spoil one of the films jokes.As stated before the film still seems charming and Ally Sheedy and Steve Guttenberg performed well in the lead roles and while watching it was easy to suspend disbelief and accept that Number Five was indeed alive. I'm not sure what to make of Fisher Stevens's portrayal of Ben Jabituya, on the one hand he was an amusing character, on the other it seemed very dated to have a white actor playing an Indian rather than actually employing somebody from the Sub-continent. There are one or two jokes some parents might find a bit racy but I think most children would enjoy this film as will plenty of adults, especially those who first saw it as youngsters in the '80. "},{"Title":"MEMORABLE CLASSIC probably the inspration behind WALL-E","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie at the pictures This Movie was a Classic back in 1986 I still remember this movie well NUMBER 5 IS ALIVE I would have been 7 years old when I watch this movie the reason I am guess it has such a low rating. is cause there have been so many movies in this Genre, Over lets say the last 8 years, Including Short circuit ripoff Wall-E http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0910970/ Anyway it doesn't have the awesome graphics Wall-E has cause 3d computer graphics didn't really exist in 1986 Wall-E might even have a slightly better story line But you must remember Short Circuit was the original and did not have 100s of robot friend movies to copy of like wall-e at the time it was made to copy ideas off and revise from, Wall-e received 9 out of 10 Short circuit received 6 out of 10 I feel Short Circuit have been very hard done by for being a old movie. Anyway thats my piece its up to you to make the right choice when you vote. "},{"Title":"All About Ben!!!","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" As cute as Number 5, Steve Guttenberg, and Ally Sheedy were in this movie, the greatest character was Ben! His witty I don't get it comments are hilarious. Plus, we are needing gas money. Also funny, is all of the Number Five takes on Saturday Night Fever. Overall, this movie is 80's fluff, but we all loved 80's fluff at some point. Though fluffy, it does touch on some serious subjects such as military weapon usage, animal rights, and abuse. Howard Marner and Schroeder make good villains, and Guttenberg and Sheely have a very cute love/hate chemistry. Very lovable and adorably funny. And if robots don't interest you, just watch it for the Ben quotes! "},{"Title":"Don't get it ?","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't understand it. All the written reviews for Short Circuit I and II, on this message board are superlative. On the other hand, the ratings are pretty low.Speaking for myself, I first saw the movie series when I was 12 years old. I thought at that time, that they were the greatest movies I had seen but that's just me. I recently saw the series again and still enjoyed them to the hilt. My ratings  9/10. "},{"Title":"I love it and always will","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hey I love this movie and the other one too! they are my favorite and Johnny5 (Number5) or J5 is my hero, he is always kind, funny play full, childish and cute. he is just like the friend I have always wanted, PERFECT! If he was with me and my mates all the time I would die! and so would they. he has been my friend for ages! and If there is one thing I learnt whilst watching Short Circuit of Short Circuit 2 is that I will always love Johnny 5 and no matter what I will never stop loving him of forget him like I done. (I saw it when I was little and after a couple of years I saw it a gen and thank god!) So all I can say is if you love Johnny 5 as much as I do then buy this movie and the first and vote it as a 10 star. it will make J5 so happy I know because I E-mail his creator! "},{"Title":"Johnny 5 is Alive!","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great classic comedy. I know, I know, it's not like it's a brilliant work of cinematic history or anything, and Steve Guttenberg is hardly the greatest actor of his generation, but if you are looking for just a fun movie with some cheap laughs that won't make you think too much, this is a great pick. Especially if it's for the whole family, because Short Circuit is definitely family friendly (for the most part).One thing we didn't appreciate was that Fisher Stevens was playing a silly comic-relief character, a nerdy scientist from India who talks with a stereotypical old Indian accent and just doesn't understand things and is super socially awkward. But I guess that was okay in the eighties.Fun times! "},{"Title":"fun charming cute","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Oregon, Number 5 is one of the experimental military robots build by NOVA Robotics. When it gets hit by lightning, its memory gets erased and becomes self-aware. Newton Crosby (Steve Guttenberg) and his assistant Ben Jabituya (Fisher Stevens) are its creator. It gets accidentally thrown out with the trash and gung-ho security captain Skroeder (G. W. Bailey) is sent to retrieve it. It lands on animal lover Stephanie Speck (Ally Sheedy)'s food truck. At first, she thinks it's an alien and Number 5 wants input. Eventually she contacts NOVA but it fears disassemble because Number 5 is alive. Ally Sheedy is adorable and Steve Guttenberg is adorkable. Sure Ben is a racial stereotype character but Number 5 more than makes up for it by being so much fun. Number 5 is like an adorable baby who grows up with all the pop culture references. It is light charming family fun. "},{"Title":"I Love this Movie because Johnny Five is a Great Robot","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" An amazing feat of electronic and wire puppetry every bit as good as anything that Jim Henson ever did! Everything fits including the voice! Directed by John Badham as a companion piece (I suppose) to WarGames, as it has a somewhat similar theme. The adults are rather stupid and the young adults are wise beyond their years. As usual, A great cast including Steve Guttenburg and Ally Sheedy when they were both very young. Somewhat original in concept, although I am aware of many other Sci-Fi stories in which either a robot or computer achieved consciousness. Johnny is hit by a bolt of lightning and has a short circuit that makes him truly alive. Children will love it and not even pick up on the anti-war nature of the basic storyline in which a war robot decides to change his own destiny and become peaceful and loving instead of a laser-powered war machine. An often overlooked minor classic, in my book. "}{"Title":"Life not malfunction.","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" A robot made self-aware after being struck by lightning runs away from the military weapons testing facility where it is set to be disassembled. The robot, called Number 5, meets a woman (Ally Sheedy), who befriends it and tries to help it. As the military hunt for the escaped robot, two scientists (Steve Guttenberg, Fisher Stevens) try to find it first.A heartfelt sci-fi comedy that's funny, positive, and extremely entertaining. How cool was that robot? Old school effects are remarkable. People built these things by hand, you know? There's just something so much more effective and impressive about that than CGI effects. The cast is really good. Sheedy and Guttenberg are both likable leads. Fisher Steven is a lot of fun. Guttenberg's Police Academy co-star G.W. Bailey plays to type as he did so often in the '80s. Such a fun movie. I had a big goofy grin on my face the whole time I was watching this.I recently read a review of this movie that trashed it. The reviewer's main reasons for doing so were based on how unrealistic it was. He went on and on about how robots aren't capable of this and that. It made me very sad for him because I know he must not have any friends. If you are reading this and you view Short Circuit the same way that reviewer does, please do yourself a favor -- go out, meet some people, have some adventures, enjoy life. Then come back and watch Short Circuit and see if the stick up your ass is gone yet. "},{"Title":"Johnny 5, a memorable robot","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the spirit of ET, comes an 86 hit, from a director who makes films like John Hughes writs scripts. Though if you look beyond the computer components and the boring banter of this high tech machine facility, what we have is a quite an adventurous, and surprise fun flick. When a experimental robot, among a score of them, is electrocuted and grows smarts and takes off from the facility to tour the splendour of San Francisco, it's creator, likable Guttenberg, a stay in, and his peers, one another Police Academy favourite, are desperate to recover it, where they do whatever it takes. The robot is befriended by a female vet, sweet Sheedy who harbours it, and the two become great friends. The manipulation of the robot is very smart as from the designers of it, and the escape sequences are so well done. Too, I liked the geeky, sleepy voice of one of the managers, as if illustrating sarcastically the enjoyment of this job. Fisher Stevens is a hoot as Guttenberg's assistant, who lectures him on how there's another world outside the facility. SC pretty much has the same kind of approaching climax, whether it's ET, Starman, where Sheedy, who of course strikes up a relationship with Guttenberg, will protect Johnny Five at all costs, from the facility guy who will turn back into an experiment. Not being a lover of kid's flicks, though I was more flexible as a teen, this film had grown on me, and it's song from El Debarge rocks. Certainly a movie for all ages, this couldn't be a more perfect flick for everyone. Of course it spawned a not as successive sequel, not in the same class as the first, with only Stevens staying for it. "},{"Title":"Simple and Fun,","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Short Circuit is a good movie with a good storyline and a decent but not fantastic cast.I watched the movie because my mom always talked about it as a fond movie she remembers as a child,but it definitely wouldn't hold up today,the effects and especially the acting is very cheesy,but its almost impossible not to fall in love with Number 5,he's a very funny and lovable character.I wasn't impressed with the cast,however,I did enjoy G.W. Bailey's performance,I really enjoyed his asshole that he proved from Police Academy that he can pull it off very well.Short Circuit is a very fun movie that the whole family can enjoy.After the fifth member of a group of robots is electrocuted,he forms human feelings and emotions,and escapes his organisation with no intention of returning. "},{"Title":"A consistently entertaining piece of 80s fun.","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Looking like a cross between a mechanical ET and a prototype Wall&#149;E, Johnny 5, the robotic hero of John Badham's Short Circuit, is a top-secret, multi million dollar piece of army hardware that comes 'alive' when he is accidentally zapped by a bolt of lightning. After escaping the high-tech facility where he was designed and built (by Steve Guttenberg, of all people!!!), Number 5 meets animal-lover Stephanie (Ally Sheedy), absorbs huge amounts of information from her books and television, and learns that life is precious&#151;especially his own.Oozing 80s style from every frame, Short Circuit might be an extremely dated movie (check out the computers that feature in the film&#151;a Mac classic is seen being unpacked!) but it still manages to be a whole load of fun thanks to its likable characters and a pretty funny script. I just finished watching the DVD with my kids (aged 7 and 5), and we all had a great time I particularly enjoyed the sense of nostalgia I got from watching a 'pre-internet, pre-mobile phone era' piece of cheesy sci-fi from my youth, whilst the children just lapped up the silly antics of Johnny 5.Badham might not be the most stylish of directors, but he can always be relied upon to deliver a solidly entertaining film, and although this one isn't packed with state of the art special effects (even for the time), sometimes the action is rather weak (the 'high speed' chase scenes look rather slow to me), and Fisher Stevens' portrayal of an Asian is rather dubious, it's still worth a try. Even if Guttenberg is in it. "},{"Title":"The best childhood memories","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Recently I was talking to my mom and for some reason this movie just popped back up into my memory and how much I loved it as a kid. The next day she saw it in a $5.00 bin at Wal Mart and bought it for me. *sob!*, how touching! Anyways, I still love this movie, I mean, I know it's a movie for kids, but still I think adults could enjoy this movie just as well. Not since C3PO have I love a robot so much! OK, that sounds silly, but Johnny Five is awesome.Basically, the movie is just about a robot that was meant for army use is struck by lightening and malfunctions. He gets loose into the town where he is found by Ally Sheedy, and she learns that he is more than a robot, but he feels that he's alive. But the army and Nova(the plant that created him) feels different. Until Number Five and Ally convince Steve Guttenberg otherwise.It's a heart felt comedy that anyone could enjoy. I swear, this movie is definitely worth more than just a 5.9. I know anyone who sees it will most likely agree with me, at least I hope so.9/10 "},{"Title":"Fun, iconic childhood film","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a child of the 80's, I first saw the movie growing up as a kid (came out when I was 3). Whereas I've watched it several times, I haven't seen it in its entirety for at least 15 years, give or take some. Watching it again tonight, and I was blown away. Whereas it is true that both Steve Guttenberg and Ally Sheedy play tired roles (the liberal cat lady and the insanely dorky scientist), as an insanely dorky scientist myself (or at least a grad student) the funniest moments are Fisher Stevens' comments about adult-related humor that I just now get. As Guttenberg is discussing the meeting in the bar with Stevens, I'm rolling on the floor laughing, because I know guys who talk like that...The film does have tons of what I'd like to call fuzzy logic to it, as well. The CEO of the company obviously would have had control over his security, even as pencil-necked as he was. They would not simply go out and try to destroy a 11 million dollar investment willy-nilly, or come out with a military option again and again if it kept failing (which it did, several times). The scientist in me screams against the stupidity of the security force destroying the experiment, whatever it may have been.However, the movie stands on its own two feet. Sure, it's a relative hack job at parts. But, it's fun, it gets into some issues in a backwards sense. It takes a large leap at the moment where No. 5 becomes able to think abstractly, considering the problems that abstraction has been having in computer programs, but that's going to be given considering that they're screenwriters.An iconic child's film, worth seeing again for those in their twenties now. "},{"Title":"Beloved children's classic still holds up today","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" SHORT CIRCUIT was a childhood favourite of mine back in the 1980s and I'm pleased to see that it still holds up for modern viewers. This is the kind of well-plotted, action-packed family fare that gets by on physical effects and well-filmed action sequences, rather than boring and tired CGI scenes. The choice of making Johnny 5 a physical model was a very good one as you never question the believability for a second. Plus he's one of the most lovable robots ever put on screen, so there's that.Otherwise, the story is fairly typical for an '80s film. There's the 'outsider' heroine, played by Ally Sheedy, who goes on the run from the usual military-type bad guys who take ruthlessness to the extreme. G. W. Bailey plays EXACTLY the same role as his one in POLICE ACADEMY, and Steven Guttenberg is very similar to his part in that film too. Fisher Stevens gives the most memorable and funniest performance as the Indian guy; those who champion political correctness might question the use of 'brown face' but it's hard to dislike his constant malapropisms and his sheer good-naturedness.Otherwise, SHORT CIRCUIT proves to be a rollicking good time for all the family. There are fun references to classic movies, lots of cute animals, chase scenes, explosions, and a wonderful, western-style showdown. No crude or lowbrow humour in sight, but some nice throwaway jokes for adult viewers. Plus there's that ending, which will have any kid crying. The one reason this works though is that Johnny 5 is an extremely endearing protagonist, and would return in the even better sequel, SHORT CIRCUIT 2. "},{"Title":"Screams '80s and I love every ounce of it","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Were it not for the salty dialogue, I'd be surprised that Disney's brand isn't attached to Short Circuit. It amuses me that such grown-up science fiction themes - sentience and identity - are couched in a silly kid's movie with a cute robot. Regardless, it did its job on me as a kid, and I've loved it ever since. I've always been a sucker for that old computerized robot voice you hear in this movie, and I'm kinda surprised it didn't leave me with a zen for vodka tonics as well.But it's also got plenty in the amusing department Ally Sheedy's comical overacting, a guy in brownface, happy-go-lucky Steve Guttenberg, and most importantly, the cool robot with the funny voice and distinctive look.And a laser.A lot of fun, this movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"Freaking hilarious and well done.","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" For a family title this movie is great, no profanity very little real violence and a good treatment of what might happen if a machine suddenly became self aware and had to learn about the world just as a child might. The scene with the girl's nut case boyfriend is classic (I won't ruin it for you). The scene in the yard where Johnny learns about death for the first time was very, very, well done. This is one of those situations where the sequels were as good as the first one and not just the same old rehashed stuff. I'd get this movie for my ten year old if they wanted it but even the adults will find something thought provoking in it. Very enjoyable. Must be one of the first movies where anyone tried to shoot a movie using a robot and not just stop action animation or some such. "},{"Title":"feeling is believing","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now here's something. John Badham* of Saturday Night Fever and WarGames fame directs a movie about a robot that gets struck by lightning and becomes sentient. Some scenes are clearly inserted for comic relief, but the movie flows very smoothly. Steve Guttenberg (best known for Police Academy) and Ally Sheedy (best known for The Breakfast Club) both play roles that look like different turns for them. It's just a really fun movie that everyone can enjoy. I sure liked it. A bit like E.T. without copying it too much.PS Weird Al Yankovic spoofed the theme song Who's Johnny as Here's Johnny (about Ed McMahon, not The Shining).*John Badham's sister Mary played Scout in To Kill a Mockingbird. "}{"Title":"Can't decide if it's a crude comedy or kid's movie","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" (www.plasticpals.com) Short Circuit is one of the most beloved robot-related movies of all time. More than 20 years have passed since I had last seen it, so it was with cautious optimism that I selected it on Netflix. I have fond memories of it, but I was just a kid then. Now, I can see it falls into just about every pitfall of the comedies that characterized the '80s. It closely follows the sappy E.T. formula, where an innocent, otherworldly creature is hunted by the heartless military authorities. So this is definitely a kid's film&#x85; or is it? It stars the contemptible Steve Gutternberg (who hasn't starred in anything worthwhile since), as a carefree roboticist, and Ally Sheedy of The Breakfast Club gets caught in the middle as the animal-loving girl who can't find a trustworthy man. Notably, Fisher Stevens rounds out the cast as a racist brown face East Indian character with a thick accent. He's full of off-putting sexual innuendos, which kind of tars the film's family-friendly image. But there's enough slapstick gags based on The Three Stooges that Short Circuit is clearly appealing to a younger audience.The undeniable star of the show is Number 5, a prototype built by the NOVA company for the military. It was designed by the legendary concept artist Syd Mead (who gave us the TRON lightcycles and Blade Runner's spinners, among others). It's a fantastic looking robot puppet, and was one of the most sophisticated movie props ever built. It's expressive eyes are enough to melt any robot junkie's heart, even if it's primary objective is to nuke the Soviets. Hit by a jolt of lightning after an explosive demonstration of the robot squad's firepower, Number 5 inexplicably becomes self-aware and shows incredible intelligence and curiosity. It's a far cry from the complex and semi-believable explanations made by smarter science fiction, but it's just one of those things you have to go along with for the sake of the plot.Of course, all hell breaks loose when Number 5 inadvertently escapes from NOVA's lab. It's absolute nonsense with few if any laughs, but it's still sort of fun to watch out of curiosity. One can't help but notice the similarity between Number 5 and certain real robots developed since then. I'm sure I'll probably make a lot of people angry by saying so, but Short Circuit hasn't exactly aged well. It's one of the few examples of robots on film where the robot isn't a villain, so at least it has that going for it. It's practically required viewing if you're into robots, but unless you're on a serious nostalgia kick you're probably better off skipping it and watching WALL-E again instead. "},{"Title":"SAINT Number 5, It's Alive!","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Short Circuit is directed by John Badham and written by S.S. Wilson and Brent Maddock. It stars Ally Sheedy, Steve Guttenberg, Fisher Stevens, Austin Pendleton, G.W. Bailey and Brian MacNamara. Tim Blaney voices the robot, and the design is by Syd Mead. Number 5, a prototype military robot, is hit by a power surge that causes a malfunction in its programming. When an accident sees it leave the Nova Laboratories grounds, Number 5 finds his way to the home of Stephanie Speck (Sheedy). Here it displays signs of being alive, but the new found respect for life could soon be curtailed as the Nova security staff are seeking him out for disassembly. On release it was met with mostly positive reviews, debuting at No.1 at the box office, film was undoubtedly a family winner. Also spawning a sequel due to its popularity, Short Circuit is by definition an enjoyable fantasy flick. Yet today there are film critics who give it a good kicking, lamenting how safe it is and decrying the sentimental aspects that come to the fore in the latter stages. That to me is like shooting Bambi! A refusal to let the child in all of us come out once in a while. Yeah it's schmaltzy at times, I'd personally be disappointed if a film about a robot finding a will to live wasn't! While in Sheedy and Guttenberg you couldn't ask for two more amiable bastions of Americana to star in such a movie. But the feel good factor is high and it's also full of funny sequences. Saturday Night Fever and The Three Stooges play a part, as does Fisher Stevens, who send the PC brigade scurrying for their complaint pens. Lighten up folks, the World has moved on you'll be pleased to know.Sometimes safe and amiable is all you need. I suggest it's all these grumpy modern day critics who need a good kicking, not Short Circuit. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Somewhat good comedy film thanks in part to Ally Sheedy.","Date":"20 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film had the same basic premise as another 80's movie that came out not that long before or after called Chopping Mall. Basically a lightening strike causes a robot, or robots in the case of that movie, to go out of control. While they went killer in that movie, here it had a more positive effect as it made the robot self aware and actually seemed to give it a mind of its own. The result, a robot made for military use on the run from the military who wants to get it back. He somehow gets into the home of a woman who takes him in and soon discovers that the robot is actually quite intelligent and she later tries to convince one of his creators that he is actually alive. A lot of funny things happen, though as you can expect a lot of sweet sentimental stuff is to be expected too. Also, Steven Guttenberg is also a star in this one, and I have never really cared for him that much. He is tolerable in this film though and not nearly as annoying as Fisher Stevens is, who for some reason was made the focus of the sequel so yeah I hated the sequel. This one though for the most part is rather good and a rather nice family flick. "},{"Title":"Classic 1980s","Date":"23 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" A government robot, designed to kill, is hit by lightning and may now be alive, whatever it means to be alive. A traveling bakery woman and the scientist who created the robot (called Number Five) face off against the government to see that he is not disassembled.Long before Wall-E, there was Johnny Five. With Ally Sheedy, Fisher Stevens and Steve Guttenberg, this is an 80s classic. I miss the Guttenberg, I miss the Sheedy. And Stevens was underrated even in his time, he was an excellent comedian and character actor.I do not wish to really go on and on about this film because everyone has seen it. But the point is this it's a good family film, with humor and charm and very little offensive in it. No nudity, little violence, and only one really noticeable use of profanity, which is pretty light by today's standards. The sequel is also worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Your Mama was a Snow-Blower!","Date":"9 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Short Circuit is a rare case when a robot character makes a film and outshines the rest of the cast in the film.A military organization that builds weapons known as Nova creates five robots. One of the robots, Number Five, is hit by lightning and as a result is able to become alive. He escapes from Nova and befriends a woman named Stephanie and begins to gain a lot of input and learns a lot. Nova plans on capturing him, but Number Five realizes that he must not get captured in order to remain alive.First off I have to say that this film is a comedy and much of it should not be taken seriously. By that I mean that the depiction of the military group of Nova constantly bickering and having lame discussions is something that film intended on doing.The acting and human characters are pretty odd in this film. I can see why Steve Guttenberg is constantly criticized by viewers. He is just a boring not funny guy who makes robots in this film. Ally Sheed plays Stephanie, a really naive and not that intelligent veterinarian. Also the character of Ben being a Caucasian who speaks like an Indian Person is something that I think is pretty funny, if not a bit racist as well. But for the most part the human characters are not special at all and completely overshadowed.They attempt to make a love story with Guttenberg and Sheed's character. However it comes off as rushed and horrible and I did not buy it. If anything the romance with Number five and Stephanie is much more convincable.The reason for this film being good is Number Five. Number Five is one of the greatest robot characters ever in a film. Hilarious, intelligent, and highly entertaining. He can do anything. It is quite interesting seeing him gain input and learn a lot about the world. It is not common for a robot to steal the show and make a movie good just by itself, but this is one case where that happens and the film is good because of it.Quite an interesting film. Lame acting and human characters. However a great character in Number Five. I recommend this film to viewers because of Number Five. "},{"Title":"Cast and crew of Short Circuit get it it's just about a goofy robot","Date":"6 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Short Circuit is one of those rare '80s comedies that knows what it is. It delights in its tackiness, awkward jokes and poking fun at both the tech movement and Cold War dramas. It never gives off the sense that it's trying to be something it's not, staying fresh, funny and even laughing at itself.Maybe the best way to put the filmmaker's attitudes into perspective while making Short Circuit would be to mention that director John Badham not only made a much more serious Cold War adventure film in War Games a few years before, but the robot (No. 5 as he's called) at one point imitates John Travolta's dance moves in Saturday Night Fever, another Badham film. Badham even takes to making fun of his other work using Short Circuit.Although Badham gets the credit for making No. 5 such a lovable character (with some help from fine voice acting in Tim Blaney), the writing team of Wilson and Maddock deserve a lot of credit for the film's clever and amusing take on artificial life as well as the numerous jabs at Cold War America.Short Circuit is about a top secret set of military robots designed by Newton (Steve Guttenberg of Police Academy) for the military supplier he works for called NOVA. When a lightning strike fries one of the robots, he ignores his programming and escapes the facility where he meets an animal-lover named Stephanie (Ally Sheedy of Badham's War Games) who takes him in believing he's an alien. When NOVA searches for No. 5, the robot soon develops the concept that if NOVA catches him, they will disassemble or kill him. The rest of the film No. 5 is on the run with the help of Stephanie and eventually Newton.No. 5 is a crafty robot thanks to some brilliant writing. After soaking in hours of television, he drops clever catch phrases from westerns and other films including commercial jingles as he evades his captors and even other robots in what is a hysterical sequence. Wilson, Maddock and Badham realize what a truly unique character they have to play with and they utilize him to the fullest.Admirably, everyone on this movie knows that the plot is immaterial and it's all about watching to see what goofy stuff No. 5 will do next. Both Sheedy and Guttenberg just play to the robot, seeming to laugh whenever they have to interact with him. They understand it's not about them at all and they just enjoy themselves while doing adequate acting. The only other role with any personality is Fisher Stevens as Ben, the unacknowledged Indian stereotype that loves women and butchering English phrases for comedic value. Funny, but it probably wouldn't fly in the 21st Century.It's also worth knowing that this is not as much a family film. Kids will find No. 5 funny, but there's a lot of questionable language including some sexual references. With the number of funny one-liners, Short Circuit is ripe for kids to repeat. Still, the comedy in this film is so much better than so many other '80s movies because it recognizes that it's goofy, which also makes the satire work better. Not Badham or anyone else tried too hard to make a quality movie and the result was that they got one. "},{"Title":"Short Circuit","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I knew it was about a robot with a mind of its own, and I had seen it listed in TV times so much, I had to try it one day, and I'm glad I did, from director John Badham (Saturday Night Fever, WarGames). Basically a group of experimental military robots have been created, and one of them, Number 5, gets a surge of lightning from a strike on a power cable going into his system. He has escaped and is now wanting (that's right, wanting) to learn about the world around him, and that is where vegetarian animal lover Stephanie Speck (The Breakfast Club's Ally Sheedy) comes in. Number 5 wants input, aka information, and he gets all of this from rapidly racing through books and watching TV, until he has become alive. Meanwhile, his creator Newton Crosby (Steve Guttenberg) along with fellow robot expert Ben Jabituya (Fisher Stevens) are looking for Number 5, aka Johnny 5, to see what has happened to him, and they are against the military forces who think it's best to destroy him. Also starring Austin Pendleton as Howard Marner, Police Academy's G.W. Bailey as Skroeder, Brian McNamara as Frank, John Garber as Otis and Tim Blaney as the voice of Number 5. Guttenberg is always good to see on screen, Sheedy makes the most of her fascinated character, and Stevens makes some good giggles with his Apu from The Simpsons impression. The whole family will love the hip robot with its whiny voice, cheekiness, mimicry and gadgets, he is obviously what makes this film such fun to watch. Good! "},{"Title":"a love story with a girl and a robot","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" The recent 'WALL-E' has many echoes of this earlier robot film, about the electronic killing machine which develops a soul after receiving an electric shock. Cue a lot of cute situations where the robot - Number Five - can sing, speak, dance, and fall in love.Steve Guttenberg and Ally Sheedy, both key 1980s movie faces, are well served by great parts in this, and although 'Short Circuit' occasionally feels contrived and a bit certain about the black and whiteness of good and bad, it is still a good film and a lot of fun.A sequel which appeared after a decent interval appeared to have forgotten the first film's ending and was nowhere near as good, but this original item in the series stands up well, despite clunky special effects which pale alongside CGI. "},{"Title":"Newton, we are wasting valueless time here!","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I absolutely love this movie. It is clever, unique, and very funny. I think this movie is way underrated. This movie is about a robot created by Newton Crosby who is struck by lightning and as a result becomes alive. The men who work for NOVA which is the company responsible for the robots are panicked and try to find him. The robot meets a lady named Stephanie and befriends her. My favorite character in the movie is Ben because he is so funny and has the best one liners. This movie is entertaining for both kids and adults. I used to watch this movie all the time when I was a kid and now that I'm 22 years old I still watch it a lot. "},{"Title":"Johnny 5 is alive!","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Who would have known that an artificial being would develop feelings? In the movie, Short Circuit, it could. In this movie, 5 robots made for military purposes, armed with lasers, are serviced to protect the USA from certain danger. A storm hits, and robot #5 gets a jolt from a lightning bolt, and goes completely haywire. In desperate need for input, he leaves the lab and heads out into the open. There he meets a young lady named Stephanie(Ally Sheedy) who is a big animal lover. He tells her he needs input. She later returns the favor after he deals with her boyfriend by disassembling his red Pontiac. And it was funny when Johnny 5 lasers his drive shaft, his hat, his boots and his belt buckle. After learning to understand life, he gets a kick when he sees her in the bathtub and said, Nice Software. Oh, Boy! I'll think I'll hide on this one. Then there's the scene where the other three robots went on a search and destroy mission, which it resulted in Stooge-a frication! There's Newton Crosby(Steve Guttenberg), who is loyal to the company he worked for, gets a eye-opening awakening when he sees how Johnny 5 feels. Now his loyalty of the company is questioned. This movie is truly heart-warming and funny at the same time. Not kid friendly though, but it's fun! 4.5 out of 5 stars! "}{"Title":"Sparkling movie","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the most enjoyable films I've ever seen. Number 5 is so cute. And his interaction with Stephany Speck (Ally Sheedy) is great (Loveley Software). It contains lots of references to other movies. Just look closely and you might discover a hidden reference to one of your favorite movies. It is a subtle combination of humor, thriller (a diamond robbery) and the very dramatic struggle of Number Five to understand what live is. Steve Guttenberg as Newton Crosby does a convincing job of a genius who doesn't understand what live is. His point of view is diametrically opposed to Stephanie's and their consequent interaction just sparkles. It contains jokes for both children and parents. Perhaps that's one of the things which makes it so enjoyable. "},{"Title":"I agree - underrated","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" This had to be the most enchanting movie of the 1980's. Although we all knew it was metal and wires - admit it, how many were a little choked up when they thought Johnny Five was a gonna? OK, I admit, I was. Although the film has some similarities to ET, the robot comes out more adorable with his little quirks and comments when he is bought to life by the magic of Tim Blaney's voice than the rubber glove puppet. Credit must be given to the casting - Fisher Stevens who played Ben Jabituya was absolutely superb with Ally Sheedy and Steve Guttenberg both putting in excellent performances.Let's see some bigger votes and give this movie the rating it deserves! "},{"Title":"funny, 1980s nostalgia","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Short Circuit' is a 1980s film about a witty and loud-mouthed robot (Number Five/Johnny Five) who begins a quest on his own after he has been brought to life after being electrocuted. Number Five meets a young girl who stands up for Number Five and to convince the engineers that he is alive. The film is filled with plenty of one-liners and hilarious incidents involving the plot to capture Number Five and re-program him. As well as providing many laughs, this film also has some pretty good messages about respecting life and living. If you grew up watching this film, it will bring back the 1980s nostalgia. Hilarious, witty, and so-immature-it's-funny. "},{"Title":"A comedy movie with some serious undertones","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I agree with most of the comments about this movie made by readers on the website - it's funny, entertaining, full if action. But only one commentator so far (December 2002) has mentioned what I have always seen as its slightly more serious strand.Watching it again for the 8th (possibly) time on video last night with a friend I was struck once more by a few climactic moments, particularly the point where No. 5 realizes that living organisms can not be 're-assembled' when they have been 'dis-assembled'. He already knows that dis-assembling is 'wrong', because his 'input' has given him enough information to make this judgement.This event seems to me to be a neat and telling way of trying to distinguish human beings from machines (or even non-human animals). But, chillingly, it also asks whether human beings that lack this insight are truly human or simply machines themselves.In fact, the whole film can be seen as an extended metaphor about what 'alive' really means, especially being human alive. "},{"Title":"BANG ON SENSOR!!!","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Short Circuit is warming, it addresses life and touches on common sense issues.     Number 5 was, is and will be one of the smartest none human leads in HollyWood!!   Steve Guttenberg of the Police Academy fame,paled in comparison beside this fast thinking-quick acting robot.  The disassemble, reassemble scene had me in stitches.   But on afterthought;it was black humour,machines can be put back together but humans who build and assemble machines can't be put back together.When you are dead,you're dead!   The cast weren't over the top,they kept the humour within endurance levels. The robots acting and voice are stellar!!   This is one of my 4 all time favourite comedies!!!Unbeatable,Rib Cracking Humour!!  "},{"Title":"Too many Short Circuits to be a good movie","Date":"10 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Number 5 is a cute robot and brought to amazing life through special effects, however, I'm a little confused as to how this is a kids film? It's full of foul language, even from the robot and it got a real dark sense of humor that is more likely to scare kids that entertain them. Number 5 is a cute character when he is not shooting at something with his laser and when his eyes are blood shot red.It's about a series of prototype robots called S.A.I.N.T.S. (Strategic Artificially Intelligent Nuclear Transport) that are built by NOVA Laboratories. Newton Graham (Steve Guttenberg) is the designer of the robots and he disagrees with the companies agenda of using the robots for the Cold War. Number 5 is hit by a lightning storm and has his programming scrambled which gives him a sense of free will and he becomes intelligent. The Robot escapes the facility and ends up on the run with, Stephanie Speck (Ally Sheedy ) while a team of agents are in hot pursuit to recover the robot as his laser is still armed.Number 5 is a battlefield weapon. He moves and talks like a real person and has a strong intelligence he gathers from reading through books at lightening speed. His metallic body and impressive facial structure make him an interesting character to look at. The picture opens with a demonstration of the robots using lasers to blow up several army jeeps. Steve Guttenberg appears as a slack-type brilliant scientist who doesn't like media or press because of the companies intentions with the robots he has made for them. Guttenberg becomes the lucky hero when he must get the robot back before the company he works for loses all their funding.It's got an impressive story but this is a very dark and violent film. Whenever the robot is going to blast something, his eyes turn red and he looks like something nightmares are made of. He has a friendly heart but the army chases him throughout the whole picture and its a gunshot here and a gunshot there. It never rises above a basic premise to give us anything special. It reminded me of ET in the sense that Number 5 is almost like an alien. He is curious and has no assurance of his surroundings. He doesn't know what's going to happen next but he can sense the danger ahead.None of the characters in the picture is interesting except for Ally Sheedy. She is a third major character. She takes care of animals in her home so we can figure out what her personality is but she never does anything in the picture except try to hide the robot until Steve Guttenberg shows up and finally realizes the robot is alive at the last twenty minutes of the movie. When Number 5 shows up on her doorstep, she adopts him thinking he is an alien when she finds him in her ice cream truck. There are a lot of good ideas here but none of them are presented and we're left with a boring premise that showcases Number 5's robotic abilities and the plot never rise above a Search & Destroy movie that is too dark and violent for kids. "},{"Title":"Number Five is Alive","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" My earliest memory of an A.I. movie is Terminator--and Short Circuit is right after that. Short Circuit showed that adding emotion to the most robotic organism could make it lovable.Short Circuit was a cute and funny movie appropriate for most audiences. The robot, Number 5 (voice by Tim Blaney), along with Ben (Fisher Stevens) were absolutely my two favorite characters. Number 5 because he was an adorable robot bumbling through his newly discovered life and Ben because his jumbled words and teen-like lust for women was hilarious.As much as I like those two characters I found Stephanie (Ally Sheedy) annoying. She was so naive and vociferous in her naivety it was sickening. She was clearly the movie's means of showing off Number 5 and his new self awareness no matter how elementary it was done.Still, I appreciate the movie Short Circuit. This was the predecessor to Chappie and many people may not know that. It's still funny and a good watch. "},{"Title":"Loved it when I was a  Kid!","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, So I saw this movie a loong loong time ago , when I was 10 yrs old (im nearing 30 now). At that Age I did not know what good screenplay /direction/ camera-work etc  were , Nor do I clearly remember the story. All I remember is that This was One movie That I really enjoyed watching with my whole family . Now that I see the clips, The Robot Johnny-5 seems really well made for a 1986 film special effects. (Bollywood still cannot come up with a decent one in 2013! ) . This movie has been surprisingly Underrated and under recognized. btw...Wall-e Reminded me of Johnny -5!(resemblance is uncanny) There was another movie which I liked a Lot at that time , I think it was short circuit . "},{"Title":"Great film from my childhood.","Date":"11 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing this movie when I was little and I have loved it ever since. The story is a great family tale thats heart warming and adorable. It is kind of a 80s B movie because the acting is not great but it makes up for it in story line and hilarity with the robot.This movie is about a military robot that is struck by lightning. It gets out of the military compound and now realizes it has gained consciousness. He finds a lady and they become friends and he becomes more and more human.This movie is just great I would still highly recommend this to kids now a days just because they are sure to fall in love with the robot just as I did as a kid. "},{"Title":"For the sake of Peter.....","Date":"8 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Number 5, one of a group of experimental military robots, undergoes a sudden transformation after being struck by lightning.He develops self-awareness, consciousness, and a fear of the disassemble that awaits him back at the factory.With the help of a young woman, Number 5 tries to evade capture and convince his creator that he has truly become alive.....This is one of those films that was released in the eighties which you really only appreciate it if you were a child at the time it was released.Introducing it to my daughter, she loved it, but I feel that people my age, if they saw it now for the first time, they really wouldn't feel nostalgic toward it, a lot like me and Buckaroo Banzai.Other than that, it's the epitome of eighties cheese, Sheedy was in her prime, and Guttenberg was riding so high from Police Academy he brought his friends from the franchise along for the ride.And don't forget, it was acceptable in the eighties to darken someone skin to make them appear to be of a different race, and mock their race by making him say things in the wrong order.Hey ho, it's a fun film though, and it's all down to Johnny 5 and some marvellous direction by Badham.It's a simple homage of Frankenstein, but it's for he kids, so he just wants to learn, and he loves everyone and everybody.I'm sure somewhere in the narrative there is some message about love or how war is bad, but I was nine when this came out and found the three stooges robots brilliant. "}{"Title":"no disassemble!","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Short Circuit follows the story about a military robot that becomes electrocuted through a strange happening with the power lines. The robot is one of the five experimental projects through a company called N.O.V.A. The robots do as they are programmed...except for Number Five, the mechanical hero of our story. Number Five begins at first as a clean slate from the electric mishap, having no memory of being programmed at all, and has a thirst for input....any kind of data it can absorb. Books, television, radio songs, it all helps recreate him along with human emotion just like a regular person. Being on the loose, N.O.V.A's director has given strict orders to do whatever it takes to take the robot down, since they are not sure if he will harm anyone outside in the civilian life, after they find out he is still armed with his laser. It's all a fun journey to stay 'alive', along with the help of his female friend Stephanie (Ally Sheedy) he befriends along the way. Rewards come in play, and the other robots are even commanded to help take down Number Five, unaware that he wouldn't hurt a grasshopper...at least, not intentionally. Great film! Worth a watch! "},{"Title":"A well made metallic E.T. knock-off","Date":"2 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Movie history has shown us that audiences have been handed knock-off items before. Of course, most of them are either made so badly that they gain a cult following or they just sink altogether with no one behind them at all. And then there are the few that stand the test of time for being executed well and received few to little recognition. Just like the film Leviathan (1989), which was a combination of several previous films, still had a lot of appeal to it. The same goes for Short Circuit.It obviously does not have the same story line but the looks and the feel of it are almost parallel to the movie of E.T. The Extra- Terrestrial (1982). Short Circuit is literally about a Short Circuit in the robotic war machine. The Short Circuit occurs when a bolt of lightning strikes the robot and gives it its own brain. Like any character's origin, they are always new to their surroundings. The robot analyzes and senses its perimeter to make an assessment of what it should do next. And as time goes on, the character begins to learn how to react quicker in different situations.However, none of this were to have happened if it wasn't for the help of Ally Sheedy's character, Stephanie Speck. The voice of the machine is by Tim Blaney. Steven Guttenberg plays the creator of the machine (Newton Crosby) in this story. Guttenberg makes a good nerd, especially for what he looks like and his inability to communicate like a normal human being. Along side Crosby is his close friend Ben, played by Fisher Stevens, who I'll admit besides the robot, had some funny lines. I thought the robot character was well done too. The personality is very childlike and innocent which makes it a cute character to watch and listen too. It's not to say it has the greatest story or the funniest lines, but it does have character. In a sense it appears to look like a premature WALLE (2008). The puppetry is well done too. All the movements are smooth and coordinated, making it look very lifelike. The soundtrack by David Shire is good too. The re-occurring them is welcomed as is the emotional tones there inserted inside them. If only this film could be looked back on as not a cheese film but of something with more value than that, then it really would stand the test of time.Short Circuit is well made for its time with realistic puppetry, comical scenes and good music. Yet it still can't detach itself from the era that it came from. "},{"Title":"A cute movie","Date":"9 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" The thing about rating movies is that we tend to give absolute values and by doing so, we could never give a '9' rate to a movie like this because a '9' should be given to something like a masterpiece, which this is definitively not. Short Circuit is part of my youth, I've seen it when I was 13 years old and I simply loved it. It brings some cute ideas from ET, in the shape of a very funny robot that is brought to life (and given human thoughts) after being struck by a lightning. The whole story is very cute, I cannot judge the flaws or the glitches here and there because the target is mainly young people who couldn't care less about those things - and mostly, the ones that you may get to see aren't important. I'm also not judging the actors that much, they do their job just right, in a story that goes around Number 5 or Johnny 5. So after all, I decided to give it a '9' because I feel that this movie has been a bit underrated, probably because most people who are rating it didn't see it in the right time, and yes, 26 years later it's not the same thing... But if you haven't seen it, and are curious about it, please watch it like you are 12 or 13 years old! "},{"Title":"short circuit is excellent","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love this movie its was funny charming and really good the story is about number 5 who gets hit and starts to have a mind of his own and ends up at a farm and becomes friends with a human who also think he is a live this film is a like The love bug where it took time for Jim to realize that Herbie was a live I saw this after watching the 2nd movie that is a sequel to it but this movie is better the 2nd I find it more fun and funny the 2nd one was okay but compared to this one it look a bit corny this is very sad and you will love it and its underrated maybe give it a better rating because its a very good movie this would be great if they made a 3rd movie to this and the 2nd The movie is pretty good for the family and you will love it watch it again and again mostly if you have not seen this movie then get out on DVD because it was a huge hit and I love this movie this has became one of my favorites movies its on my favorite movie list that get a 5 stars in my book I give this movie a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A surprising gem","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Number 5, the fifth member of a line of super powered killer robots being developed by a defense contractor, is struck by lightning and becomes self-conscious. He then escapes from the research facility and takes up residence with animal lover Stephanie (Ali Sheedy), who recognizes Number 5 for what he is. Newton (Steve Guttenberg), the engineer who developed Number 5, sets out to recover and fix his creation, while other elements in the company have more devious plans in store for Number 5.Its refreshing to finally see a movie in which self-aware robots aren't trying to kill us or take over the earth. Number 5 wouldn't harm a fly, and his only objective in life seems to be acquiring more input. He's adorable, and the film delves into surprisingly deep themes, such as what it means to be alive, and whether or not the spontaneous generation of life as an accident somehow cheapens its value. Afterall, if you believe in evolution, didn't all life on Earth arise by chance? The movie is somewhat cheesy in that its villains are one dimensional, and their actions and motives are apparent a mile away.Overall, if you are looking for a light-hearted comedy that will shock you at times with its depth and thoughtfulness, you will enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Creative and Funny too many swearing words","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really liked this movie. Number 5, the star robot of the movie gets hit by lightning and some thing happened to his circuits. He act and thinks more like a human.The robot repeats commercials he learns after watching TV. He then applies these sayings to his circumstances. Number 5 is quick witted and funny. The character imitates voices of stars, tries to dance like John Travolta in Staying Alive and a lot of other things. He has a saying for most of his circumstances that he memorized. The actions of the robots is really good. Number 5 wants to drive, cook and please Stefany with all the characteristics of a human. The way the robots move and line up is really hysterical.I am disappointed that the writers could not keep this clean for all viewers. This movie has a surpris ending something you would not expect. I hate movies that have swearing in them even though I like them I give them a lower rating. This movie had swearing words. Jesus Christ was used as swearing word which offends me it is used a least 3 times. G-d D-m, Bull sh_t etc. It could have been a wonderful movie with out all this offensive language. There is no sex in this film, some violence like robots blowing up cars and machines. "},{"Title":"Underrated by some of you, and overrated by me.","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I deliberately overrated this movie for one reason, and one reason only My children's reaction to seeing it the first time.I remember this movie from the 80's. It was cutesy and cheesy and all of that, but it was a relaxing movie to watch. It simply entertained--simply. Fisher Stevens is the actor whom I remember as defining all that was fun in the film.4 nights ago, I watched my children in amazement, as they voiced appreciation of and approval for virtually all that I found worthy in the movie. Yes, there are some language moments that I wish were not there, but these are--compared to real life--light weight moments. My children have (unfortunately) heard far worse at school and in the check out line at the grocery store.At any rate, this movie is old enough to be new, and my children laughed themselves silly for most of it.My youngest daughter's favorite line? Bimbo! Watch the movie to 'get it.' "},{"Title":"A nice story of friendship and love","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film has too many messages, which makes the film valuable. Protecting the environment, the value of having friends and trust them, tolerance, fool cops who believed their guns would kill good feelings, and so on, Steven Guttenberg and Ally Sheedy were unforgettable. The cops play their roles fine, specially the crazy sargent. I would like to add that the pictures are amazing. First, the bridge by sun dawn, the bay and the clean roads. Second, the young man who is running with his pants down, allow us notice the importance of being far away from greed. Third, values such as classic music will never be old. Finally, the amazing work made by the robot, which is a very nice creature with too many feelings inside... "},{"Title":"Lovable Every Step Of The Way","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Why in the world this movie is receiving such a low ranking is way beyond me. If you know why, please enlighten me.Anyway, I spent my childhood growing up to movies. This has always been a favorite of mine. This movie has everything a family movie should have comedy, romance, a lovable character everyone can relate to in some way, and also the greatest line of all Well, if you gotta go, don't squeeze the Charmin. OK, I'm kidding on that last one, but everything else is true. Number 5 is one of the most lovable characters anyone could have hoped to invent. To think this movie started out as a thriller! Just imagining that gives me chills. I could never see Number 5 as anything but the funny little robot he is! Oh, wait. He's not a robot. HE'S ALIVE!!!!! "},{"Title":"One of the best Robot movies.","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I finally got to see the entire movie. And it was very good.Short Circuit is about these military robots made for future defense for the army. They don't have emotion they can only be programed for control. One of the Robots got hit by lightning and is now able to control itself.Number 5, which is the codename it was given is confused and ends up being in the outside world. The army tries to track him down, but Number 5 isn't too easy in capturing.Number 5 eventually winds up at a home of a woman who like to keep lost animals as pets.She thinks #5 is from another planet and she treats him to her home. After #5 inputs more info from books and TV, it gains more knowledge and more personality. And believes it's alive like a human.But with the army in search for #5, it needs to find a way to avoid being disassembled.Short Circuit is a cool 80s movie. Has great animatronics, and plenty of humor. It's rated PG for some language. It's worth renting. "}{"Title":"Except for the innuendos, this is worthy of Disney","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think a better tag line would have been Life is not a malfunction. Yes, the movie is corny - but if you know that going in, you can sit back and enjoy it. The love story is saccharin sweet. The pace of the movie starts out a little slow, but really picks up speed as it goes along - so hang in there. It is fun to see how the writer takes the blank slate of the robot's mind and has it learn and connect concepts. Johnny Five is as hilarious as any alien ever was. His fresh wise cracks and sense of humor are great, but are secondary to the excellent humor offered by the character Ben. This foreign (?) U.S. native, with his (unintentional?) misuse of the English language with a straight face, is my favorite comedic character in the movie. The story is corny, it's true, but the humor is dry - and that's what I love about it. The only thing I could have done without the implied (sexually oriented) affection between the robot and the heroine. I fear that as time goes on, the jokes based on cultural television program references will be lost on younger generations of viewers. "},{"Title":"Modernized (if juvenile) version of Mary Shelley's vision.","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" This treatment of the Frankenstein saga has a robot as the creation who is alive, by way of a short circuited electrical attachment, hence the title, Short Circuit. Dr. Newton (Steve Guttenberg) takes the place of the modern day Frankenstein, while Ally Sheedy assumes the role of Elizabeth, Frankenstein's love. While this is geared more towards t'weens, it is fun for all ages. There are no kills, and casual language even though there are many action sequences and a good amount of twelve-year-old level tension.This work has some good vista shots of the south western US, decent (but campy) dialog from the 1980's (of course), and a decent love story. It is entertaining, and a good family movie for the kiddies. I enjoy it from time to time, myself.It rates a 7.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"A quirky slice of robotic fun from the '80s","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Short Circuit has to be one of my all-time favorite movies. First off, the story is imaginative. It has a slightly quirky quality to it that I have yet to see in any other movie, save for the sequel. (Possible Spoilers ahead.) My favorite parts are the very beginning, when NOVA is putting Number Five together, when he first discovers the wonders of television, the hilarious sequence where he's making breakfast for Stephanie (I've even re-done the egg-beater scene at least once!), and the sequence where he disassembles Stephanie's boyfriend's Firebird! The ending was sad, but at least with a robot, you can rebuild. *wink* All in all, a GREAT movie! "},{"Title":"One of the best movies with robots.","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Short Circuit is one movie that you'll want to keep watching.  It was REALLY a breakthrough in movie making, since this was the first movie with robots that moved completely by themselves without humans in suits.The jokes are great, the music adds to the excitement, and the star - a robot named Number 5 - is so real! If you haven't seen this movie yet, see it today! "},{"Title":"My children loved it","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Simon (7) and Vicky (5) thought this was terrific and watched it again after only a week.  Their favourite scenes were Number 5 reading very fast, parachuting and making the ex-boyfriend's trousers fall down by a laser shot at his belt buckle.I admire director John Badham's ability to pace a film so as to make a thin plot into a story that holds the interest throughout. He did it again in War Games.A good film for children that adults can also enjoy. "},{"Title":"Amusing, entertaining escapism","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Any movie where the main character learns life's important lessons from watching the Three Stooges has to be a winner.  Number 5 is, in spite of his non human status, the kind of machine you'd like to pal around with.  The dialog is clever, the plot interesting and the special effects low key and believeable.  A very enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Simply irresistible","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you like unusual, funny, pleasantly surprising action-packed sci-fi films, this is a must see. Short Circuit is indeed worth watching repeatedly.Number Five, one of the robots originally designed as war weapons by Nova Laboratories, accidentally gets struck by lightning and starts to have a mind of its own. He leaves the lab and goes out, the adventures have begun. Number Five becomes very hungry for input and thinks he is alive. His co-creators want to find him, disassemble him because they think he malfunctions, and the army wants to destroy him. Then Number Five meets a young woman, Stephanie Speck (Ally Sheedy), and they become friends. After learning about the beauty of life (Remember that butterfly on the truck?) and what death is (After Five unintentionally killed an insect while trying to jump like it), Number Five refuses to be disassembled (which is death). He also ignores his programming because he is aware that killing is wrong.As Number Five gets more and more input there are more and more hilarious moments. But he and Stephanie have to convince Newton Crosby (the robot's co-creator, played by Steve Guttenberg) that Five is ALIVE and has emotions, just like humans. As the ending approaches the plot gets really dramatic and you feel so happy after you watch the whole movie.Number Five is enormously sweet and adorable on one particularly memorable scene which he dances with Stephanie and sings along to More than a Woman. What a lovely and delightful masterpiece! I take my hat off to the entire cast (Tim Blaney was splendid as the voice of Number Five) and crew for their tremendous hard work. The film is followed by a fabulous sequel.  "},{"Title":"Short Circuit","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Easy to confuse the first with the second if you haven't seen either in a while, the second is the more fun of the two and the one set in New York. The first is the totally boring one, half set in the military base with Steve Guttenberg and half set in Ally Sheedy's house.J-5 is accidentally carted off from the base and winds up at Sheedy's home searching for input!, wherein he learns the meaning of disassemble! (death) and tries to hide from the military who are trying to destroy him for being a malfunctioning war weapon. Lots of to-ing and fro-ing, very repetitive and disappointingly dull. "},{"Title":"Number 5 is alive but all he gets is a 5","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Badham, who entertained us so well with War Games, yet disappointed us with movies such as Bird on a Wire and Blue Thunder, brings to the screen this time a film which plays like a collage of many previous and better shows, E.T. being the most obvious.The plot follows the adventures of No.5, a hi-tech defence robot that has 'short circuited' after being struck by lightening, and is on the run from his creators who wish to 'disassemble' him. Having no wish to be destroyed, our little hero befriends an animal lover (Ally Sheedy) who offers him protection.While it presents no originality, and the special effects and gadgetry have been outdone both before and after its release, Short Circuit is a good humoured film which provides reasonable entertainment thanks to some enjoyably funny antics from No.5. The cast are never impressive, and G.W. Bailey's role as the leader of a swat team is too derivative of his Police Academy character. Otherwise, it's not a bad show.Sunday, January 9, 1994 - T.V. "},{"Title":"Don't worry little lady, I'll fix their wagon.","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Short Circuit is one of those films I rented as a kid back in the precious 80s when we got so many good family movies that just wouldn't see the light of day in these awful times. A Short Circuit made in 2007 would be mind-numbingly PC with bullet-time effects and a CGI Johnny voiced by a hip-hop 'artist'. It's a grim time for this genre indeed. But back in 1986 I had nothing to complain about as most of the family movies from that decade are fondly remembered as classics.I loved this movie as a kid and it's been a long, long time since I watched it from start to finish. Plus the VHS I rented back then was in horrid pan and scan with half the picture chopped-off. Which is a real shame since John Badham shot it brilliantly-framed Panavision. So I've never really seen the FULL movie until now. How does it hold-up 21 years later? Well, I guess you could say Johnny Five is kinda dated but not so much as all the rest of the 'ground-breaking' technology at the Nova factory. Number Five is a robot made for Military Stealth purposes and armed with a laser beam. But designer Newton Crosby (Steve Guttenberg) and his partner Ben Jabituya (a non-Indian and very funny Fisher Stevens) originally designed him as a marital aid, apparently. They are unhappy with the way Nova has marketed the robot but after a demonstration to the Military, Five is struck by lightning and assumes consciousness. Needing input and desperate to learn more about his surroundings, he escapes the factory and journey's across Oregon, soaking up knowledge and the idiosyncrasies of modern human culture. As a reflection of today's 'zany' society, Five is full of spirit, personality and random pop-culture references.The Military are kinda annoyed at a potential lethal weapon (not the Mel Gibson kind) running loose about America, so it's their new mission to find him and destroy him. Five, who has been taken in by animal-lover (not in THAT way) Stephanie Speck (a gorgeous Ally Sheedy) does everything he can to stay out of harm's way. But they are persistent and won't let him live because they don't believe he is truly alive.It's not totally original since some of it feels inspired by the works of Issac Asamov and I doubt a film like this would have been green-lighted had E.T. not been so successful. But it is very enjoyable and funny and Johnny Five is a great character despite being nothing more than a puppet. Short Circuit is definitely a film for any kid born in the 80s. The video-game obsessed kids of today might to be so interested but its charming simplicity and good-natured story will never really date despite the old-fashioned 'cutting-edge' technology featured in the film. "}{"Title":"Robot Dreams","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having already been a sci-fi fan for many years i naturally saw this movie as soon as it came out,and i loved it! OK,so it hasnt got a sci-fi plot as such but it does have humour charm and best of all Johnny 5. In all of the history of robots in movies only two have been convincing; the Terminator endoskeleton and No 5 this is not counting those robots which were obviously men in tin suits e.g. Gort.Both of these were thank God! pre computer graphics and although Terminator was a trailblazer, No5 was a work of genius-i defy you to watch the film and not believe he really is alive! Fisher Stevens as Ben provides an excellent comic foil,too. Unfortunately,like my other favourite movie of the time Fright Night , SC suffered from Poor Sequel Syndrome and the cast have gone on to do absolutely nothing! Johnny 5,though,deserves to have his track prints in the Hollywood Walk Of Fame!    9/10 "},{"Title":"an Eighties fairy tale...","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was great from scene one, with the strange computer music, to the near hypnotic assembly of one of the robots, this movie kept your attention the entire way through. The lovable Number 5 is brought to life astoundingly well, without the use of computer animation of any type. a magical movie. Great plot, amazing special effects and alright acting, this is a classic tale of a Frankenstein gone right "},{"Title":"I adore this movie! I gave this a 10 rating!","Date":"26 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I fell in love with Johnny Five! The scene with the 3 robots as the Three Stooges was priceless! I even remember a lot of the lines from this movie. Fisher Stevens was a joy, especially when he was standing by the truck and said, I am so excited I am standing beside myself! Steve Guttenburg was a dream. Ally Sheedy was just made for the part of Stephanie. I work with a young woman named Stephanie and every time I see her, I say her name the same way that Johnny Five said it in the movie....Steph...a...nee! I will watch this movie over and over again. It really makes me laugh and feel great! I recommend this movie to everyone, and hope that it makes them laugh as much as it made me laugh. "},{"Title":"strong language","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I chose this film for my nine year old because I recall it being funny/cute/ and having a nice message. And it is, however, I was 16 yrs old in 1986 and I probably wasn't bothered by some of the language used. But as a parent, I was 'really' bothered. Words like hell, shi-, Da--, Go-Da--, Jes--, and Bitc- are not words we use and I saw my daughter cringe. I cringed too. I wonder if this would have been rated PG-13 today. My friends are right when they say the best way to choose films for my kids is to watch them myself first and then decide if the content is appropriate. Also, she was pretty grossed out by the toungue in your mouth comment and I'm not sure what to make of the use of the bat as a weapon against the boyfriend. "},{"Title":"Goofy but enjoyable comedy about a robot that thinks he is alive!","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know why it has taken me so long to see this movie, on budget DVD with no extras.Steve Guttenberg is Newton Crosby, PhD, and shy inventor who is responsible for a new robot capable, with its laser beam, of destroying just about anything. One day, after a demonstration of the capabilities of several of these robots, Number 5 is the recipient of a stray high voltage electrical shock from the sky, and they believe his circuits are fried. Instead, he has taken on feelings and a conscience, but his memory banks have been virtually wiped out. In an accidental escape in the back of a truck hauling away garbage cans, he ends up in the home of a young lady and animal lover.Ally Sheedy is Stephanie Speck, and she initially thinks Number 5 is an alien, and she is thrilled to be chosen for contact. When she finds out it is a robot that talks a little, she guides it inside, where it quickly reads all her books, watched TV all night, and learns.Meanwhile the administrators and security guys back at the institute are frantically searching for Number 5, who with his new-found smarts is hard to catch. A side story is whether Stephanie and Newton will fall in love.Fisher Stevens is very funny as Ben Jabituya, who speaks in a clipped Indian accent and says some very funny things.SPOILERS. In a very exciting climax, an armed helicopter hunts down and destroys what we believe is Number 5. Saddened that the robot with human traits has been killed Newton and Stephanie drive away, only to hear Number 5's voice in the back of the van. He had built a replica, which was destroyed, so they would leave him alone to escape. Off to the 40 acres in Montana! "},{"Title":"Amusing stuff but it is no ET","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" The future of warfare is robotics and five prototypes are being tested in the field to demonstrate to the military and political representatives what they can do. When one of the robots (number 5) gets struck by lightening, the lab technicians are relieved when it still appears to be functioning. However the lightening has caused Number 5 to malfunction and he wanders off base seeking input. While the military pursue him Number 5 hides out with animal lover Stephanie. Meanwhile the robot creators Newton and Ben realise that something special has happened to their robot.Although it is not in any means ET, Johnny Five is a cool creation that makes for an enjoyably silly film. It isn't brilliant at all of course but I must admit that I am a bit biased because this came out when I was about 10 years old and was easily won over the robot and the effects so I probably like it now more than I should. The plot is an uneasy mix of wartime ethics, 80's romance and discussion on the nature of being human. It will not send you home pondering bigger questions but the message is writ large so children will easily follow along with it. It is silly from start to finish but it does work well on this level although for an adult audience, Johnny Five will probably either be charmingly endearing or painfully grating.Aside from Blaney's voice work the rest of the cast are mixed although mostly at home in this light entertainment vehicle. I was a bit disturbed to find two Police Academy actors in this but of them Guttenberg is the more natural and manages to avoid being too smug and annoying (which is something he doesn't avoid easily). Bailey is less convincing and is more simplistic and he did put me off by essentially doing his PA role. Sheedy is basic but surprisingly natural and has a good chemistry with Guttenberg that does cover up the weaknesses in their romance subplot. One surprisingly uncomfortable casting choice is Stevens, who for some reason has had his skin painted so he can deliver a pathetically stupid Indian stereotype. He provides some laughs for children and, although I appreciate I'm looking with modern eyes, it is hard to overlook this clanger.Overall then this is an amusing little film that falls a long way short of being ET; it is distracting and a good family film even if it is clearly more for children than adults. "},{"Title":"Flawed Genius","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this about a decade ago, and as a 7 yr old i thought it was brilliant. Having re-watched recently, the magic's sorta worn off, but it was still an excellent film. You will thoroughly enjoy this if you like the idea of a humanised robot with real emotions. It's sorta funny to note how both #5 and Stephanie are slightly naive, and how #5 translates everything into computer language. upon walking in on Stephanie in the bath nice software! lmao. Also while kids while easily identify Skroeder as the bad guy, adults and teens will recognise how he has basically become more of a machine than the robots he works with because of his inhumanly cold, ruthless attitude. "},{"Title":"So funny","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie ,i was stationed in san diego when i first saw this move, i love ally sheedy and steve guttenberg and also fisher stevens is hilarious. the robot was cute and made me laugh all the way through.great song Who's Johnny  from el debarge is played in the background in a few scenes ,, i highly recommend it for kids too ,will make them laugh "},{"Title":"Kitsch","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I used to always claim that Short Circuit II was better than the original. More recently, I have come to terms with the fact that (a) it isn't and (b) no-one cares. But I still like them. Yes, it's dodgy to have Fisher Stevens playing (presumably) a Pakistani...although not more dodgy than Peter Sellers in similar roles. Still, Number Johnny Five was an icon of an eighties childhood. And so was Steve Guttenberg "},{"Title":"At Nova Robotics Something Has Gone Horribly Right!!","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS        At Nova Laboratories, a line of robots are being constructed. Each one is armed with a laser for military purposes. There was a ceremony for the robots that day and presiding was the head of Nova, Dr. Howard Marner. The one who designed the robots was shy Dr. Newton Crosby. The five robots stood out back. Number 5 was on the generator when suddenly there was a thunderclap followed by lightning that struck the generator and flowed into Number 5. He seemed okay. He rolled after the other robots then wandered around on his own. He then found his way outside the gate. Crosby, Marner and the others soon learn what had happened. Sergeant Skroeder of security wanted to destroy it due to the laser was still armed but Crosby and Marner were against that. Outside, Number 5 rolled down the street when suddenly he was being chased by Skroeder's men. They were now on a bridge and Number 5 accidentally rolled off. Luckily his chute opened and he sailed on top of a catering truck belonging to Stephanie Speck, an animal lover. When they reach her house, she has to chase off her cruel ex-boyfriend Frank. She meets Number 5 that night and takes him for an extra terrestrial. She shows him around and talk about speed reading! Number 5 can read a book in a one-tenth of a second!         Crosby and his assistant Ben Jabituya wanted to go out and find Number 5 themselves. They took Number 1 with them and drove off. Back at Stephanie's, Number 5 had watched TV all night and obsorbed all the commercial input. Stephanie then showed him her animals, but he was scared by her dog and fell off the balcony. It was then that Stephanie found out that Number 5 wasn't an alien, but a robot. She was about to call Nova when Number 5 became afraid! He was afraid that Nova would disassemble him. Disassemble = death! Number 5 jumped in Stephanie's truck and drove off! He read the manual in a second! Stephanie followed. Crosby and Ben were right behind them. Number 5 was definitely not the world's greatest driver. He swerved all over the place and was just inches from driving them into the river. Skroeder and his troops arrive then also. Crosby, Ben and Skroeder don't believe Stephanie when she says Number 5 is alive! Crosby deactivates him, loads him in the truck and they drive off. But since a life force was given to Number 5, he came alive in the truck and commendeered it and went back to Stephanie. When Frank learned there was a $25,000 reward for Number 5, he went to Stephanie's and tried to shoot it, but Number 5 used his laser to render Frank pantsless.         Crosby and Ben went out again, much against Marner's orders. Stephanie agrees to meet with Crosby. Unfortunately Skroeder planned to interfere so while Stephanie and Crosby talked, Number 1, Number 2 and Number 3 were deployed. Number 5 was able to stop them, deactivate them and reprogram them. Stephanie and Number 5 escape when Skroeder arrives. Crosby follows them and they begin to get to know one another. Skroder and his men arrive then with helicopters, or hueys! Number 5 made a run for it but missiles were fired and blew Number 5 to bits. Stephanie and Crosby drive away distraught when suddenly they see Number 5 in back of the truck! He had built a copy of himself from the spare parts in the truck. So the gang decide to drive to Montana because Crosby had inherited 40 acres. Perfect for Number 5 to hide in, so Number 5 took the wheel and the friends headed for their new life.        A pretty good movie. I recommend it for robot fans! Steve Guttenberg is Newton Crosby, Ally Sheedy is Stephanie, Fisher Steven is Ben and his character was somewhat annoying! Austin Pendleton is Dr. Marner and G.W. Bailey is Skroeder. Guttenberg and Bailey were together in the Police Academy series. Well, Guttenberg was in the first four. Tim Blaney voices Number 5. You may know him as the voice of Frank the Pug in Men in Black! Short Circuit was followed by Short Circuit 2 in 1988. I haven't seen it yet but I will very soon so until then, I recommend Short Circuit. Oh, one more question. What ever happened to Number 4? They didn't show that one going after Number 5, just 1, 2 and 3. So where has Number 4 gone? Perhaps that's another story. Anyway, I recommend Short Circuit!- "}{"Title":"Frankenstein Gets a 1980s Update","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Short Circuit is a watchable film about a military robot who gets zapped by lightning one day and develops a mind of his own ala Frankenstein. He becomes interested in the world and meets a young lady (Ally Sheedy). However the military is trying to track him down and destroy him, believing that he could be dangerous.  Police Academy alums Steve Guttenberg and G.W. Bailey do fair jobs here.  Short Circuit is a rather curious film that is far from being excellent, but is far from being a turkey as well. Average to say the least.  2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"I wished the characters were short circuited!","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Another movie from my kid past, a story about a military robot named Number 5 developing self-awareness and consciousness after being struck by lightening. With the company who built him, Nova, out to get him because they think he has malfunctioned, technician Newton Crosby (Steve Guttenberg) and animal lover Stephanie Speck (Ally Sheedy) are on a mission to save Number 5 from being reprogrammed.After watching this movie in its entirety as an adult, I, unfortunately, was not impressed with the film. The movie takes a very long time to gain any steam, if any, and there is really no plot, just Number 5 befriending Stephanie while Nova is out to get him - no twists or turns and no unpredictable moments. I could live with movies with simple or no basic plot lines if there are any redeeming qualities like humor, comic relief, likable characters and action. This movie, to me, doesn't deliver on any of those. The so-called comedy is unfunny, the action is dull and the characters were extremely annoying.Ally Sheedy's Stephanie Speck character was loud, obnoxious, overbearing and developed no chemistry with lead Steve Guttenberg; Fisher Stevens' Ben Jabituya character was very lame with his dumb, stereotypical Indian accent and unfunny jokes; Austin Pendleton's Howard Marner character was overly-excited; and G.W. Bailey's Skroeder character was over-asserted as the supposed villain. Only Steve Guttenberg, Brian McNamara and Number 5, which I thought was pretty cool, had any likable qualities.Overall, though, this movie is dull and boring with pretty awful acting. Watch at your own risk.Grade F "},{"Title":"A War Games Clone (dvd)","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's not a surprise because the two movies have the same director James Badham. (And, if you are a movie fan, you will see even a third movie of this director, in a funny April egg&#x85;). Thus, if you like War Games, you'll like Short Circuit The same 80's feeling  The same energetic actress  The same background electronic, war, and military  The same choice for a light comedy&#x85;.But, the difference is the scope unlike War Games which have worldly consequences, Short Circuit is more centred around a peaceful northern town.Another reference would be Frankenstein a machine becomes human&#x85; But, don't worry there's nothing to be afraid of here. On the contrary, the robot is cool, his learning shows some good tricks.All this, without digital effects. It was the time of real things. Sure, actually number 5 would do impossible stuff, but the limitation of that time gives an unique flavor, which is similar of the one I felt while in 80's, I discovered 60's classic movies&#x85;. A good recommendation&#x85;.. "},{"Title":"Too cute, but watchable","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Short Circuit is like the movie ET with a robot substituted for the extra-terrestrial and a young woman in place of the child.  Unbelievable and sickeningly cute at times, this movie should be placed on the to avoid list of sci-fi enthusiasts, however, the movie is well done and entertaining, so it is marginally worth watching.  My rating 5 of 10. "},{"Title":"Sappy","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you like Care-Bears movies, then this one is right up your alley.  With the exception of a little Three Stooges shtick, everything else was just way too sugary-sweet.  Now if you're looking for an 80's techno-gizmo-kid's type movie, give Flight of the Navigator (1986) a try. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's Ally Sheedy and Steve Guttenberg!","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Short Circuit (1986) was a high-tech comedy that came out during the 80's. When I was a lad I thought this was a cool movie. Looking back it was okay but not as good as it used to be. A military robot rebels against it's masters and goes out on it's own. It's your typical P.G. rated comedy with some slapstick childish humor mixed in with some light adult language as well. Now what's an 80's movie without Ally Sheedy or Steve Guttenberg? (this time you have both!) Short Circuit was made during the time period when Ally Sheedy was an attractive lass. She stars as the lady who harbors the robot (named Johnny-5). Steve Guttenberg stars as the Military engineer who designed it. Fisher Stevens co-stars as his East Indian assistant.It's a harmless film that worth a watch. The robot was kind of cool and the comedy is funny at times. Short Circuit was followed by the obligatory 80's sequel (I guess it made a slight profit for it to warrant one).Fair.The sequel is real bad and not worth watching. "},{"Title":"Short Circuit","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There's only one reason a person would like this film If anyone would love to see Steve Guttenberg be upstaged by robot, this is the movie for you.  "},{"Title":"Sick, sick story of robot-lust.  Avoid this film unless you seek moral corruption.","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I believe that Howard the Duck, and recently AI and Bicentennial Man are the only other (Hollywood) films to dare cover such taboo-ridden territory, dealing as it does with the highly un-natural relationship between a woman and robot.  Why else would the producers choose such a bland leading man so obviously past his Boys-From-Brazil bankable days?  Just as The Riddler is there to distract us from the sordid male-only fantasy-club world of Bruce and Robin, so too Guttenburg is there to distract us from the truth that lies in the dark, dark heart of this offensive film.This is not a love story, this is the sick, sick tale of a robot's lust for a human women.  Why can't they go for their own kind?  I would never fall in love with a robot, unless it was truly beautiful, and soft.If this is the way robot's are going to behave, then perhaps we should dismantle them and send them back to where they came from before it is too late.  We must, at the very least, take steps preventing them from infiltrating our society, and causing the mayhem they are designed for.  I suggest re-programming camps or something similar.Avoid this film unless you seek moral corruption. "},{"Title":"Dreary, formulaic kludge","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's been almost two decades since I saw this alleged comedy and I still remember the first moment I wanted to walk out of the theater and go across the parking lot to a local watering hole for a beer--the opening segments where the army loses control of some sort of robot and . . . cripes, I still don't care.One can almost always gauge the stupidity of a movie by how many times the people who liked it call it cute. I had an art teacher in high school who said the worst thing one's work could ever be called is cute. If I have to explain it, you won't get it.Suffice it to say, Short Circuit buries the needle on being cute. From the hack performances by Ally Sheedy and Steve Guttenberg and the guy who played the Asian Indian or Pakistani or . . . cripes, the only reason I'm writing this is that I can't sleep and I'm bored, so I'll wrap this up.This is a predictably mid-80's, anti-Reagan, anti-military, anti-adult, insufferably cute, aimed at concrete-thinkers, moron movie. Other than some interesting special effects for the time, it's dreary, formulaic kludge.There. I'm getting sleepy, sleeeepppyyyy . . . "}]