[{"Title":"Underrated teen flick.","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great, great film. Quite possibly one of the most accurate depictions of high school life I've ever seen. Lucas is funny, touching, and insightful. Corey Haim gives a truly winning performance as the tormented title character and makes the audience sympathetic towards him. Charlie Sheen, Kerri Green, and Winona Ryder all leave their mark in this film as his few friends and the rest of the cast works nicely. The great thing about this movie is that, although billed as a romantic comedy, it is more of a drama that explores the difficulty of being an outsider, this film doesn't give in to teen-flick cliches, it is almost relentless in terms of causing the audience to feel sorry for Lucas and at times it's downright scary. This film really made me think about how stupid high school social structures can be, it really is that bad for some people, in fact it's worse. I think this film is an emotional, moral masterpiece. I hate high school, I love Lucas. If you want to see high school for what it really is...skip Ferris Bueller or 10 things I hate about you, see Lucas, good stuff.    "},{"Title":"Heartwarming","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw Lucas for the first time today... more than 20 years since it first came out. I have to admit, I'm a huge 80's fan and even though I was just a kid during the 80's I consider myself to be pretty familiar with the pop culture of the time. However, for some odd reason, I never got around to seeing Lucas. I have to say that, despite the fact that this movie is so old and I've seen movies with similar plots since, this movie still made me teary-eyed. I absolutely adored Corey Haim when I was a young girl and his role as the sweet, vulnerable, yet highly intelligent nerd gave me the fuzzies... the same way he used to when I was young. He, along with the rest of the cast (including Kerri Green, Winona Ryder, and Charlie Sheen), gave a great performance... typical of the 80's teen flicks (with an over-abundance of clichés), but, nonetheless, touching. It's definitely up there with the all time classics Sixteen Candles, Pretty in Pink... and any of the flicks including the Brat Pack. Definitely worth seeing if you're in a nostalgic mood and want to revisit the old days of knee-high tube socks and head bands. "},{"Title":"The locust will be back soon...","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...and Lucas is still a charming and sentimental little high school campus comedy with a message about what's important in life (and it ain't football). Telling of a goggle-eyed shrimp (Haim) with little going for him, save his indomitable spirit, who tries desperately to win the affection of a pretty cheerleader (Green), Lucas is a crowd pleasing blast from the past with its priorities in order. In this day when movies with messages are rare, Lucas is a good family flick (for 13 and up) worth revisiting. "},{"Title":"More Than Your Average Brat Pack Movie.","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is becoming a classic because of the fine, early performances from Winona Ryder, Charlie Sheen, Corey Haim, even Courtney Thorne-Smith of Ally McBeal.It is a unique movie with a love triangle where the viewer wants both guys (Sheen and Haim) to get the girl.  But of course both can not.Lucas is about the truths of life and relationships, and how the teenage years bring them to the surface.  Another interesting element is the use of insects for symbolism. "},{"Title":"What Happened to Keri Green?","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What ever happened to the adorable female co-star of this film? She's quite lovely in this film, but she seems to have disappeared. Anyway, this is a fun teenage comedy-romance that features Corey Haim, before he got annoying, in a role where he showed great potential as an actor. My guess, he didn't know Corey Feldman yet? Charlie Sheen mumbles his way through the role of the jock with a heart. Winona Ryder, Jeremy Piven, Courtney-Thorne Smith also co-star in this...a cute film.   "},{"Title":"Stands alongside Breakfast Club as an Eighties teen classic","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lucas was released with little fanfare in 1986, and many think it is one of the greatest teen movies ever made. I would agree, for the simple reason that this particular film has realistic, sympathetic and likeable characters and, with the exception of all the football heroic antics towards the end, it's just full of sweetness and charm.Looking back, it's one of those films with a very interesting cast...Corey Haim (Lucas Blye) - this was Haim's finest hour, giving a really excellent performance as the title character, a misfit who listens to classical music and collects bugs in lieu of rock 'n' roll and partying. He followed this up with The Lost Boys the following year, but then WHAT happened?!!?...Kerri Green (Maggie) - everyone loved this sweetly appealing, auburn haired actress in The Goonies (1985) and Lucas - she was lovely in both films. However, Kerri sadly chose not to persue an active film career, which is a disappointment as she would certainly have become a big movie star had she wanted to be...Winona Ryder (Rena) - even in such a small supporting role, not to mention a debut performance, Winona indicated that she had an extraordinary acting talent. Even though her Lucas co-stars had the bigger roles, it was Winona who has become a major movie star with a huge array of films to her credit, plus two Oscar nominations for her work in The Age of Innocence (1993) and Little Women (1994)...Charlie Sheen (Cappie) - 1986 was a great year for Martin Sheen's son. In Lucas and Platoon, Sheen did some great work. But like Corey Haim, what on earth went wrong?!...Courtney Thorne-Smith (Alise) - who would have thought over a decade later this actress would do such a good job as Georgia Thomas in the hugely successful TV series Ally McBeal?!...Despite its almost universal acclaim and brilliant young cast, Lucas is not as well-known to movie lovers as, say, Pretty in Pink or any other teen movie of that era. Well, all I can say is that those who have not seen Lucas are sadly missing out on something incredibly special. "},{"Title":"Painfully true to life.","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *Spoiler Alert*Lucas is the story of an odd, but gifted pre-pubescent youth who happens to be attending high school at an early age. He falls for the pretty new girl in town who happens to be a few years older. She, on the other hand, has the hots for hunky Charlie Sheen, and Lucas is relegated to friend status. (As if he ever had a chance with her in the first place.) Lucas is played by to perfection by Corey Haim. In fact this is most likely his best film role. (It sure beats the heck out of Blown Away!). Kerri Green (I wonder what she's doing today) plays the new girl in town.They along with the rest of the cast is top drawer. Many of the main characters are well-known celebs today. Look for Winona Ryder in her screen debut as a nerdy girl who has a crush on Lucas. The lovely Courtney Thorne-Smith plays Sheen's hottie girlfriend before he dumps her for Green.As the action unfolds, we see Lucas try everything to win Green's affection to no avail. At one point he even tries out for the football team and proceeds to get clobbered by the bigger upper-classmen. We as the viewer feel for the kid, because we all know the deck is stacked against him.This film is truly special. It packs a real emotional punch at a time when most movies dealing with teens were pretty shallow. We can all relate to Lucas to some degree. We have all pretty much had strong feelings for someone we knew we could never have. This film captures the pain involved with crushes better than any other I have seen. In some ways it can be tougher to just be friends with a girl you like than if she never talked to you at all. Another thing that is really great about the film is the ending. It isn't simply your run-of-the-mill happy ending where the hero gets the girl. Lucas fails to win her over, but at least he wins the respect of the guys who have been tormenting him.If you haven't seen this one, SEE IT! If you have, SEE IT AGAIN!4&1/2 of 5 starsSo sayeth the Hound. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary inspiration...","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There's something extraordinary about Lucas; something that makes it impossible for us to reject it. We have always watched movies like Lucas along the ages, I have watched plenty of movies like it; and have disliked them all. Not that Lucas is great, but you know what I say about 'Love Actually? If you express it with this film, Lucas is good as a movie, but almost brilliant as a family inspirational picture.What happens in the film is like a tale&#133;An old tale of a boy who is not accepted in his everyday environment and tries to live with it. The hero of this tale is the special Lucas, played by Corey Haim as a boy who is definitely stranger and more intelligent than the rest of his companions; it's something you notice immediately.Or at least Maggie (Kerri Green) notices it. She spends the entire summer with him and when school starts he doesn't know what's going to happen. Logically, he has his two or three nerdy best friends that are there for him, included a girl named Rina (the first role Winona Ryder ever played, with 15 years old or so&#133;Gorgeous), who obviously likes him and follows his look while he is searching for Maggie on the first day of classes. It's not that Lucas dislikes his friends, but that he had sensed something different when knowing Maggie. But Maggie is older, and interested in older guys like Cappie (a very young Charlie Sheen), for example. In a very good scene where Cappie takes care of Lucas, Maggie thanks him and they both talk about Lucas&#133;My brother thought Maggie was in love with Lucas, but I told him that she had a crush on Cappie&#133;The movie understands the characters so well that it turned out the way I said, of course.The language these kids deal with, the situations they live are real. David Seltzer, who directed and wrote the film, puts strong and hurtful words in his screenplay so they generate an impact in the picture's most moving moments. But that doesn't turn you on, does it?, Lucas tells Maggie&#133;That's not the kind of phrase you'd commonly listen a 13-year old say, even less on a film. That's the way Seltzer shapes his characters, in a way that we believe everything they declare and in a way that the only thing that becomes predictable in the movie is the storyline itself.A known writer, Seltzer has directed few things. As a director, he also preserves his characters. Watch a beautiful scene where the choir is singing and the camera goes from side to side showing each of the main characters looking at the person he likes, but not one of them being corresponded with the look. That's perfect directing, even more in a film of this type&#133;So classic the simple edition (Priscilla Nedd-Friendly, Down to Earth), the touchy score (Dave Grusin, The Goonies, Hope Floats, Selena).What I'm trying to say is that, to Seltzer, is all about the movie. The actors don't show off, Corey Haim is the hero but not the star. It's about the movie; a piece with an absolutely clichéd resolution that we find inspiring and therefore embrace. "},{"Title":"A Touching and Emotional Teen Drama.","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Haim gives his overall best performance as the 14-year-old title character who has a crush on new girl Green and they bond during the summer, but by the time school begins, he gets teased by the jocks and Green leaves him out in the cold and has eyes for football hunk Sheen, who has become Lucas's bodyguard.  Fraught with rejection and neglect, Lucas attempts to prove himself worthy by trying out for the football team, which he knows is no easy task for a boy his age.  Unlike many other teen movies, LUCAS gives us a character that we can actually relate to, and the other characters fit in perfectly.  One of the best teen movies of the 80's.4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A Touching Classic from the Wonderful 80's","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" During the summer vacation, the fourteen year-old Lucas Bly (Corey Haim) meets the sixteen year-old newcomer in town Maggie (Kerri Green) and they become best friends. Lucas is an intelligent boy that loves bugs and shows the mansion where he lives to Maggie. When classes begin, Maggie learns that Lucas is not a popular student but an outcast nerd at school and bullied by the football players. The football captain Cappie (Charlie Sheen) protects Lucas because the boy helped him when he was ill. Soon Lucas has a crush on Maggie but she falls in love with Cappie, while Lucas' schoolmate Rina (Winona Ryder) loves him. When Maggie joins the cheerleaders, Cappie's girlfriend Alise (Courtney Thorne-Smith) becomes jealous of her and she ends the relationship with Cappie. Meanwhile Lucas joins the football team expecting to impress Maggie. During a game, Lucas is hurt and Maggie finds that he lives in a trailer with his alcoholic father. What will happen to Lucas?Lucas is a touching classic from the wonderful 80's, with a pleasant and sensitive story of unrequited first love. Corey Haim has a magnificent performance in the role of a boy with no family that falls in love with an older girl. The difference of two years for a fourteen year-old boy is indeed too much. Another attraction is to see Winona Ryder, Charles Sheen and others very young in the beginning of career. After almost thirty years, Lucas is still a delightful heartbreaking film. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) A Inocência do Primeiro Amor (The Innocence of the First Love) "}{"Title":"Lucas would never have dropped ball in real life, but a worthy movie","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lucas was a very interesting movie, which gave extra dimensions to the young characters and explored their level of maturity. I only gave the movie a 6 because of a few major flaws. First the good points. The characters who were in different stages of physical and emotional maturity. Note how the Sheen character is allowed to grow early. By being a sort who shoots up in physical growth early he capitalizes (Cappy) on the chance to mature as a leader as well, preferring some intellectual friends to the immature teammates who still pick on Lucas. The fun loving offensive lineman character and his middle level of maturity is also interesting. Lucas is a nerd, but tries to expand his horizons. And the casting crew and director made sure to make this a female appeal movie by casting the ugly duckling girls as the glamor girls, and the gorgeous girls as the nerds. The major flaw was Lucas dropping the ball in the end. We've all played different roles in life, and any guy can tell you that in that situation Lucas catches the ball 100 times out of 100. The character of the coach who is well defined as a punk from the beginning is very hard to envision as keeping his job (maybe he didn't.) One weird bit, a woman must have had the most say in the casting, because easily the best looking girl was the one in the band, and I remember being a high school boy. There is no way the boys would be chasing the two plain girls in the movie and ignoring the foxes like that girl in the band. Looks like a female fantasy. All in all, a worthy movie. "},{"Title":"Above-Average Teen Flick.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  High school freshman Corey Haim (in the titled role) falls in love quickly with the new girl in town (Kerri Green). She is a couple of years older, but that is no big deal. She is a good soul herself, but she only thinks of Haim as a friend and nothing more. It appears that football star Charlie Sheen is the one that Green has her eyes on. Sheen's current girlfriend (Courtney Thorne-Smith) does not care for this development as it is obvious to her what is happening. Band member Winona Ryder likes Haim, but Haim is oblivious to her completely. Haim will do most anything to get Green so he decides to quit band and play football instead, thinking that will be the way to win her heart for good. A good teen film overall that plays more like a soap opera than anything else. Really funny at times, but also highly dramatic as well. All this makes the film uneven to an extent, but the messages it tries to go for make it a competent work anyway. 3.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Reverse Sex Appeal","Date":"23 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here is an ordinary film, ordinary high school stereotypes and adolescent redemption.But it is worth looking at model of the girls, because it is all about getting the girl.You have two guys, the head of the football team played by Charlie Sheen, and a wimpy smart smaller and younger kid.You have three girls. The jock is paired with the blond shapely head cheerleader of course.Then an appealing, athletic redhead moves to town. She brings a story about her randy father that hints that she could in time not be ass innocent and sweet as she is when we meet her. She befriends the small, genuinely appealing guy, who develops a crush. But in time she dates the jock. Both continue to be principled friends. An event occurs where the kid. Lucas, goes from being bullied to celebrated, and the third girl who has been admiring in the wings is set up to be his real love.As I said, the cheerleader is tall, buxom and blond. The contested new girl is fair, redheaded, less shapely and average height. The third girl is smaller yet, black haired, not sexy at all.Now why this is remarkable is because each of these girls is played by an actress who is clearly directed to be as appealing as they can. Almost surely, they each are using traits that are close to their real beings. The blond is the least talented actress and though she has the sexy equipment, and plenty of cheerleading scenes, we are ready to not focus on her.The redhead is played by Kerri Green, who had a run as a child actress playing the appealing, perky redhead. She made her impressive debut as the girl in The Goonies. She is the center of attention for most of the movie, for us, the writers and the two boys. Things are pleasant enough.We don't see the third girl until much later in the film. But when she comes on, she shines and so completely overwhelms every other character, you know from the first moment that she will be the real prize. We end up learning nothing at all about her. We just see her face, and hear a few unimportant lines. This was Winona Ryder's film debut, and it really underscores why she rose so fast &#x97; and probably suggests why her career stalled when she outgrew what we would accept from this presentation.This isn't a John Hughes movie where you play with the notion of stereotypes. That's what made the man an interesting filmmaker. It is instead just taking the stereotypes and moving them around like game pieces. But wow, Winona does charm. No wonder Johnny Depp ended up with her name tattooed.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"If you dislike this movie, you have no heart. Corey Haim is absolutely sensational","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lucas is a peculiar individual. He is picked on by his peers for being unusual, meets a pretty teenager named Maggie (Keri Green) and falls in love with her. Lucas gets his heartbroken when he learns Maggie has fallen for one of Lucas's best friends, Cappie (Charlie Sheen) what follows is a test of courage for Lucas. Sometimes I just need a movie to uplift my spirits and send me to bed happy. Lucas is that movie. What makes Lucas stand out from some other movies in this genre is that it's not contrived or artificial, it's real. The characters are real, and it is extremely genuine. It's an accurate portrayal of everyday High School life. There is plenty of bullying of similar people like Lucas. But what makes this movie so great, is that not only does it manage to give Lucas a fitting send off, but it also has a message that it's OK to be different. The entire cast is wonderful, but the movie's heart & soul is Corey Haim. Corey had star appeal. He had the looks, the charisma, and the acting chops to be one of the all time greats before drugs took over his life. His infectious energy is irresistible, and his portrayal of Lucas is one that is impossible to dislike. His performance was so great, that I actually believed Lucas was a real person at times. His football scene is not only heroic, but the best display of courage you can possibly see. That's how much I loved Lucas. His chemistry with Keri Green was excellent as well. Corey, I salute you! R.I.P. Keri Green is cute as a button. You can't help but love her. It's too bad her career ended so soon. Charlie Sheen is charming as the likable, good hearted jock. You may question a couple of his motives, but he is amiable in one of his early roles. Stars like Winona Ryder & Courtney Thorne-Smith have substantial roles as well. Try and resist the urge to cry in the finale. Rarely ever do I come close to crying happy tears, but I was very close to doing so here. It's hard not for your eyes to well up, and I'm a guy!Final Thoughts Everyone has a right to their opinion, and to like or dislike anything, but if you don't like this movie, I really do question your heart. 9/10 "},{"Title":"SPOILERS ... A good movie but couldn't get into it","Date":"23 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ***SPOILERS***I am split about this movie. On one hand, the acting and the dialogue was very good. There are a few scenes that I will always remember, like when Lucas saw Maggie for the first time playing tennis or when he got onto the stage, was embarrassed but still had a good time making fun of the coach.On the other hand, I couldn't believe how much people acted like football was instant suicide for Lucas. I couldn't get past how ridiculous it was. (Of course no one ever started trying out a week before the first game of the season either). But people seemed to act like this kid was a paper bag and football was played with Lions and not people.I went to a high school that was somewhat football centric (In Illinois like the movie) unlike some high school in Texas or Pennsylvania maybe, and there were a couple smaller kids on the football team. If they weren't good, then they just didn't play much. Anyway, the only reason the kid got hurt was because he took his helmet off, which would have resulted in a penalty in real life. (That whole game was ridiculously unrealistic). I feel the unrealistic game, and the attitudes about football are so hard to believe that it takes away from the great heartfelt stories of the film.The great thing about the film is how atypical it treated the top jock and the girl Maggie. They were both really nice kids. The movie made all three characters, Lucas, Maggie, Cappie very whole people and not just clichés. Someone had obviously put a great deal of thought into these characters. The movie doesn't force anything and we are left to make up our minds about the characters based on something more personal to us. I tried to think of the football in the movie as just equivalent to superficiality in general in our society. Personally, I think the movie could have been a lot better if it had handled it differently somehow. The attitudes from all the adults in the movie, the school administrator, the coach, about the kid wanting to play football being crazy, just seemed too ridiculous to me. "},{"Title":"Lucas Falls into Typical Teenage Trap ***","Date":"14 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Though Lucas falls into the usual teenage film trap, it is saved by very sympathetic characters and a very good performance by Corey Haim. It's so interesting and revealing to see Winona Ryder, Jeremy Piven and Marty Sheen when they were young teenagers.The film tries to discuss the age old problem of a very bright teenager, who at 14, is advanced in high school. While he may be academically suited to be with the other students, physically, emotionally and socially he isn't.The trap that this film falls into as well as so many others with similar subject matter is that the young lad has to do something to impress everyone, even if it endangers his life. How many times have we seen these first-love films where the older young lady falls for the only friend that Haim (Lucas) has? The bitterness, the brave act and a change of heart by the group he has tried to impress are all common denominators in such films.The ending is inspiring though well predicted beforehand. "},{"Title":"You don't know me Winona Ryder","Date":"22 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" But Lucas did. He should have just dated Winona Ryder but no, he wanted Charlie Sheen's girl. That's a no-no. Plus, to make matters worse, Jeremy Piven was picking on Lucas. Poor Lucas. His bugs loved him however, so that's something. The best scene was when the football team gave Lucas a wedgie. Then again, him getting his head knocked off on that punt return was enjoyable also. You do have to like that this movie was somewhat realistic. One, Lucas was a poor nerd and he didn't end up with the pretty girl. Not only that, he didn't end up with anyone. What did he really achieve? Pseudo-acceptance from the jocks who terrorized him? A friendship with Charlie Sheen's character who stole his woman? At least he got a letterman jacket to wear at the end. At least he'll be warm in that. "},{"Title":"Slow, generally boring, with an irritating lead","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had its strengths, particularly the likeable characters and the theme of the little guy against the rest of society, but the lead actor playing Lucas, Corey Haim, was not easy to relate to. He is a smart small guy in high school, but he is eccentric enough to be irritating and it is difficult for me to find any sympathy for him. His attempts to become the romantic interest of Maggie, played by Keri Green, are understandably unsuccessful. It was also comical to see him try to try out for the football team. The plot of this film progresses slowly, and the reasons I watched the film to the end were some of the likeable characters/actors as they appeared in 1986 Charlie Sheen, Courteney Thorne-Smith, Wynona Ryder. I disagree with most of the reviews I read, giving this film a 5/10 (being generous). "},{"Title":"Simply Beautiful","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nine Comments & One Question About LucasComments1)  Excellent acting by a star studded cast.2)  Wicked 80's music throughout the movie.3)  Lucas is a pervert.4)  Corey Haim had SO much promise as an actor.5)  Lucas is a party animal.6)  I love Kerri Green.7)  I cry everytime I watch this movie.8)  Yeah I'd like some Ree-sees Pee-sees.9)  Lucas is a true testament to how great the 80's were.Question1)  If you're so depressed, how come you're eating pizza?Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"The Story of A Hopeless Romantic Who Joins the Football Team to Try and Gain the Love of a Beautiful Girl. What He Gains is A Few Bumps on the Noggin and A Bruised Ego.","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the story of Lucas Blye, a 14-year-old, highly intellectual youth. He's already in high school. He enjoys studying all kinds of bugs and insects. One afternoon he came across something else that caught his fancy a girl named Maggie. She was only two years older than Lucas. Before long, they just hit it off. They did everything together. They went for a drive, even though Lucas wasn't old enough, and listened to a concert while sitting in the sewer. Before long, school started again. Lucas is reunited with his friend, football captain Cappie. He's also reunited with other jocks who pick on him on a daily basis. At the assembly, they literally upstage him. That night, Lucas, his friend Ben, and Maggie accompany Cappie, his girlfriend Alise, and some other friends to the movies. Sure enough, bullies Bruno and Spike were there with their comrades. Cappie stuck up for his friends, luckily. Maggie began taking an interest in Cappie after that. The next day, Cappie has an accident with a smoothie in Home Ec and Maggie offers to wash his shirt. While down in the laundry room, they get to know one another. Cappie says the reason he and Lucas were such good friends is that once while he was sick with hepatitis, Lucas did his homework for him and that sparked their friendship. At Cappie's suggestion, Maggie tried out for the cheer-leading squad, to which Lucas objected.Soon, Cappie broke up with Alise and started going around with Maggie, which made Lucas jealous. Rina, who had a crush on Lucas for the longest time tried to console him but he took no notice. Lucas saw Cappie and Maggie kiss at the pizza parlor. Well, after that, Lucas decided to do the most desperate thing anyone in his position could do he dropped out of band and joined the football team! Right away the evil coach picked on him because of his size as well as the other football players. Size was also an aspect of ridicule in the shower room. The principal said Lucas was forbidden to play football again or even go near the field. A devastated Lucas left school that day in a hurry and went to his secret spot under the bridge. Maggie followed him. She realized Lucas had been upset over the relationship between her and Cappie. She explained to him that she and Lucas were just friends. Nothing more. But Lucas wanted more. Maggie said it wasn't possible so Lucas just cast her out, wanting nothing more to do with her ever. Well, the day of the big game arrived. Maggie and the cheerleaders were there, so were Rina and the rest of the band and on the field in uniform were Cappie, Bruno, Spike and the rest of the jocks. At that moment, Lucas went inside the locker room...And grabbed his jersey.Lucas told off the coach and then took his position. Right away the audience, the cheerleaders, the band, the opposing team, even Lucas' own teammates laughed at him. So next to trying to get the ball, both teams' other goal was to knock Lucas down every chance they got. Before long, the ball was tossed to Lucas who ran for a touchdown. Another team member grabbed the ball and when Lucas tried to get it back, he fell victim to a tackle, which almost killed him. He was rushed to the hospital. When Cappie, Maggie and Rina couldn't find Lucas' parents, they go to the hospital too. Luckily Lucas wasn't killed, but he was hurt pretty bad. And worst of all, his team didn't even win the game. Lucas and Maggie talk about their futures, and about how the locusts would return in 17 years. Well, sometime later, Lucas was able to return to school and when he got there, there was a big surprise waiting for him a team jacket with his name on it! Not only that, but he had won the respect of everybody in the school, even Bruno and Spike. So, Lucas felt the whole experience, no matter how trying, was all worth it. Sure he didn't get the girl, but he got something even better a team jacket with his name right on it!Lucas was a good film. Corey Haim was good. He was 15 when he did this movie whereas his character was 14. The video box made a mistake and stated he was 16. Charlie Sheen was good too. This is one of his earlier films. This was Winona Ryder's debut film! Also here are Kerri Green, Courtney Thorne-Smith, Tom Hodges and Guy Boyd. Everybody was good in their roles. If you like movies about short guys wanting to make a difference by joining the football team, I also recommend Rudy with Sean Astin. Hoosiers is a good movie too, although I've never seen it. But anyway, if you're in the mood for a good drama/comedy/romance, then to you I recommend Lucas! It's unlike anything you've ever seen before. Well I don't know how true that statement is, but see it anyway! It comes recommended by me! See Haim, Green and Sheen in action today!- "}{"Title":"You have to be in a concussion if you think Lucas is a good movie. This coming of age movie is depressing, as hell. Lucas is the poor man, Rudy.","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie had its fans, particularly those whom who like; its honest portrayal of the highs and lows of adolescent, it's not so stereotypical 1980's teen characters and the theme of the little guy trying to become somebody within his society, but for me, I found this movie to be, somewhat unwatchable. I'm not a fan of this movie at all. I give the movie, some credit, the movie does have a terrific young cast. Both the main actor, Corey Haim and the female lead, Kerri Green were amazing and very attractive in their role. Supporting actors like Charlie Sheen and Winona Ryder weren't that bad, as well. However, this movie wasn't that inspirational to me. The reason, why I'm say this movie is a poor man, Rudy is because, unlike the 1993 movie, which had a very inspiring main character, wanting to join the football team in order, to better himself and his family, by getting a college education. This coming of age movie about a socially inept boy, Lucas Blye (Corey Haim) trying to join the high school football team, only, because he was suicidal by heartbreak. By heartbreak, I meant, that the local girl, he has a crush on, Maggie (Kerri Green) doesn't want to date him. You can see the problem of the story, right here. He isn't doing this, because he has love of the sport, he just doing this, in order to change her mind of him. It's in the same mindset levels of a man like John Hinckley Jr shooting the President in order to impress Jodi Foster. It's disturbing. It felt a little more self-centered and selfish, than inspiring. I hate the fact, that this movie was market as a sport movie, because it isn't all about his dreams of being a football player at all. The football plot, only plays a part, toward the end. The movie is more about learning to deal with first love and teen angst. Don't get me wrong, I love 1980s coming to age stories that deals with this. After all, 1985's Breakfast Club is one of my favorite movies of all time, but this movie directed by David Seltzer, really anger me, in saying it's a sport movie, when it's barely is. The reason why Rudy works, and this film doesn't, is because Rudy's not only fighting to get into the team, but also driven to help others, reach their goals. They is a reason to root for him. Not only does Lucas barely show, any interest in the sport, but he rarely treat his friends any better. Ignoring them, isn't going to help you. The movie really tries to make him, into a hero with the idea of him, being a victim of bullying, but when you think about it, the school wasn't really that mean to him. Most kids in his school, honestly somewhat accept him. It's only a few guys that really doesn't like him! Honestly, how many nerdy teens in the 1980s, do you know, are able to hang out with the captain of the football team, while, also being cool with one of hottest girls, in school? Not that many. So, I don't buy the whole, stand up against natural selection, BS, this movie is, saying, because of the fact that there are girls that secretly love Lucas. Yes, I get that, his best friends&#x97;somewhat betrayed him, when his older-brother figure, Chappie Roew (Charlie Sheen) and his crush, fall for each other. However, as upsetting, it is, to him and for me to see those two hook up. I still can't feel too much pity for Lucas. I feel worst for Chappie ex, Alise, (Country Thorne Smith), because she end up with nobody in the end. The reasons why, I couldn't felt pity for Lucas, is because he still good friends like Reda (Winona Ryder). It's very stupid to see him, always overlooking her sexual advances throughout the film. You have to be really crazy, not to want to date a girl like her. I would love to see a scene where Lucas finally admit, that he mistreated Reda, so badly, and ask her to forgive him. You know, like address the love, he has for her. It would had, made a better ending than the misguided slow clap for Lucas after getting himself, nearly kill and quitting football. Honestly, what the hell!? How is getting a football jacket, supposed to solve anything!? He still lives, poor with his alcoholic father. He's now suffers from a severe concussion and most, likely not going to finish school. Also the fact, that the movie never resolve that conflict with Reda, nor does look for a solution to the love triangle between Chappie, Maggie and him. What a horrible ending! I hate how the movie ends so abruptly with him, getting a varsity jacket. Anyways, take off your nostalgia glasses, people! That wasn't the only problem with this movie. The whole symbolism with the locust was also a bit off in its message in morphology. I get the movie wants to use it, as a metaphor for growing up, but if the filmmakers read any science book, they would know that having locusts around, isn't a good thing like having butterflies. They're a serious economic threat to agriculture. If anything, the sign of locusts returning, is bad news than good. Overall Besides the good acting, the wonderful music by Dave Grusin, this movie isn't a film, I will rewatch, anytime, soon. If you want to check it out, go ahead. You might like it, but for me. I'm staying far away from this film. It upset me, too much. "},{"Title":"sweet and awkward with hormones everywhere","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lucas Bly (Corey Haim) is a smart bug-loving nerd. He falls in love and befriends new girl Maggie (Kerri Green) during the last days of summer. He pretends to be rich and popular but his family simply mows the lawns. During a school assembly, Lucas gets embarrassed by a football player. His antics earns the respect of football captain Cappie Roew (Charlie Sheen) and his girlfriend Alise (Courtney Thorne-Smith). Cappie is nice to him because he helped him before. Maggie starts to fall for Cappie and the more popular crowd. She even joins the cheerleaders despite Lucas' ridicule. All the while, Rina (Winona Ryder) actually likes Lucas but he dismisses her for Maggie.The great thing in this teen drama is that none of the lead characters are all good all the time. They are simply teens trying to get by. Lucas is ruled by his fears and his awkwardness. He is racked with jealousy and pettiness. His heartbreak is heartbreaking. Maggie and Cappie are nice people trying to navigate a complicated teen romance. Lucas would be a bullied saint in another simplified teen movie. The audience is left wishing Lucas could be his best self. "},{"Title":"For people who think Thomas Kinkaid is high realism","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As the lowest form of life in high school do you remember all of the football players who stood up for you when bullied? Do you remember the beauty who wanted to hang out with you rather then every one else? Or how about all the people who wanted to learn things? I have no memory of any of these things because THEY DON'T EXIST!!!!! Except here in the alternate universe of Lucas. Where teenagers have morals!! Hahahahahahahahaha.... Having said all that this unique film is really great and the worst depiction of high school on the planet. The niceness of this film make it sweet and loving but not anything near my high school experience. Except for the pain... "},{"Title":"Sweet, Heart Warming And Interesting!","Date":"25 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought Lucas was a very interesting film and also very sweet and heart warming as well! I really enjoyed watching Lucas it was very well made and had a great cast Corey Haim, Kerri Green, Charlie Sheen and Winona Ryder and also the plot was very well done and is a very lovely 1980's film. It was also interesting to learn about the locust! Lucas Bly (Corey Haim) an average 14 year old boy quickly falls in love with Maggie (Kerri Green) a new girl who has just moved to the area after they develop a friendship Maggie notices Cappie (Charlie Sheen) a boy on the football team after they spend a lot of time together Lucas decides to join the football team. Lucas is also friends with Rina (Winona Ryder in her film debut) another girl who is in the same school.I think Corey Haim gave a brilliant acting performance he seemed to stay in character well and really fitted the part of Lucas Bly! I was totally impressed with Corey Haim's acting performance he did so well. I also think Kerri Green gave a solid performance and she did very well also. Charlie Sheen fitted the role well as Cappie well and he also did a great job. I was also very impressed with Winona Ryder's acting performance she did fantastically. Overall I was very impressed with Lucas it was a brilliant, interesting and amazing film I will watch it again sometime soon. I give it a 10/10 such a brilliant film. I totally recommend it to anyone who loves a great 1980's film! "},{"Title":"One of the best teen films out there","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is for the underdog in all of us. It's about a kid named Lucas, who's very unpopular at school, despite being outgoing. He is teased and bullied by most the kids, because of his small size.What I really like about this film is how it explores the themes of innocence. In a time when most teen films focus on sex or drugs, this one speaks more about simple emotions love and happiness. It shows the connection to nature that one so often loses as one grows up.It also focuses on the need to be accepted Lucas tries out for the football team, even though all the other players are twice his size.A triumph in this film is how it dodges all the stereotypes and plays around with clichés. Lucas is not your standard nerd. His best friend, Maggie shows incredible depth for a cheerleader. The jock of the story, Cappie, is shown to be actually a very sensitive guy. Even the climax of the film nimbly dodges what could have been a cardboard cut-out finale.The music by Dave Grusin is almost all electronic, yet it somehow hits a deep emotional note throughout the film, especially the later part.. The ending is one of complete jubilation.I have seen Lucas three times, and the last scene always brings me to tears. "},{"Title":"Heartfelt 80s","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Over 25 years old, Lucas, a quintessential 80s flick is a big marker of the decade. Indeed, Director David Seltzer's movie is decidedly more heartfelt than comic, and is pretty close in-line and style to many of John Hughes 80s movies although perhaps less silly. I like Lucas especially for it's period signature music. The late Corey Haim is excellent for the title role, and young Kerri Green is a good choice for his romantic interest as well. There are several other memorable performances, and the premise has been done both before and after. The themes and dialog of young romantic love are well written, handled and believable. The production is satisfactory, with the Midwest locations decent - and the locusts (cicada) 17 year cycle/life sub-topic an interesting enhancement to the story. Recommended 7/10 "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Teen Films Ever Made With An Excellent Performance From Corey Haim (RIP) .","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lucas is a one of the best Teen films ever made that is funny and dramatic. Filled with wonderful direction,a great cast,well-written screenplay and a beautiful score,Lucas is a timeless classic of Teen films and Coming Of Age films.Lucas tells the story of Lucas Bly(Corey Haim),a smart and intelligent 14-year-old who while on Summer vacation meets the new girl in town Maggie(Kerri Green)an older girl that Lucas befriends over the Summer. But when school starts,Lucas and Maggie relationship becomes troubled when Maggie falls for Lucas' friend Cappie(Charlie Sheen),a football jock and older brother type that protects Lucas. Feeling rejected,Lucas takes a drastic Action and joins the Football team which leads to funny and dramatic turn of events.Released in 1986,Lucas was an excellent Teen film that got lost in the shuffle because it wasn't a Brat Pack movie that didn't have big names and was overshadowed by two other Teen classics released that same year in John Hughes' films Ferris Bueller's Day Off and Pretty In Pink. Thankfully,Lucas is now seen as a Teen and High School classic and is one of the best Teen films that John Hughes never made. One of the reasons Lucas is one of the best Teen films ever made is because it's one of the most realistic Teen films that is basically a simple story that is funny but in an honest and truthful that feels real but Lucas greatly balances out Comedy and Drama without going over the top or over dramatic You feel like the characters and feel of High School and how it real wascomplex and confusing. Lucas is honest in the way it deals with love and friendship between Lucas,Maggie and Cappie. Because unlike most love triangles and friendships in films the three main characters don't hate each other when things start to go bad like when Cappie and Maggie fall for each other the two are not mean or hateful towards and Lucas despite being mad at Cappie and Maggie and being betrayed he doesn't hate the two of them and still consider them his friends. There is no backstabbing or viciousness between the three characters and that's one of the great things about this film. Lucas while a Teen film is also a great character study of the main character Lucas as most of the film is seen from his point of view and as we watch the film we see Lucas deal with love and his Teenage adolescence as well as dealing with bullies and also being socially awkward because while Lucas is smart and intelligent and knows things,he doesn't always know how to deal with relationships and people which makes Lucas an easy target for bullies. Lucas is a character that most of us can relate to because we were like him dealing the harshness of being a teenager. Lucas is such a classic character of Teen movies and Coming Of Age films and the character is timeless because he can exist in anytime or place and will always be relevant. The powerful screenplay by Writer-Director David Seltzer is great and well-written giving most of the characters great dialog which is sometimes really funny,memorable and insightful and makes the three main characters very complex. The three main characters in the film Lucas,Maggie and Cappie are great characters because while the three characters are in a Teen film they are not brought down by stereotypes and silly cartoon like actions because the characters feel and act like they can exist in the real world. Lucas,Maggie and Cappie are are flawed but likable characters that you can relate to in many and different ways. The ending of Lucas is a great ending that will give you an optimistic feeling and it will have you clapping at the screen and put a smile on your face.The whole cast does great jobs in their roles. Corey Haim is brilliant and gave the best performance of his career as Lucas,with Haim bringing depth,sympathy and likability to the role. A powerful performance. RIP Haim you and your acting talent will be sadly missed. Kerri Green is wonderful and beautiful as Maggie,bringing great range and depth to the performance. Charlie Sheen is great as Cappie,Lucas' friend and Maggie's love interest. Courtney Thorne-Smith does a good job as Alise,Cappie's beautiful and jealous girlfriend. Winona Ryder(in her film debut)is fantastic as Rina,Lucas' friend who has an unrequited crush on Lucas. Tom Hodges gives a good performance as Hodges,a football jock that bullies Lucas. Guy Boyd is funny in his role as the High school football coach. Ciro Poppiti(Ben)and Garrett M. Brown(Mr. Kaiser)give good performances as well. Also,lookout for an early role appearance from Jeremy Piven(Spike)in the film.The direction by David Seltzer is simple yet great and effective with Seltzer occasionally moving the camera when he can and giving the film a good atmosphere. Wonderful direction by Seltzer.The score by Dave Grusin is excellent,beautiful and very innocent and definitely goes well with the tone of film and it's a great score you won't forget. A powerful score by Grusin and one of his best scores.In final word,if you love Teen films or Coming Of Age films,I highly suggest you see Lucas,a film that is one of the best films of the Teen genre and a powerful classic that is well worth your time. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Utterly endearing","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Personally, I adore this movie. Along with the classic 'boy meets world' conflict, Lucas has a really great cast. Corey Haim showed serious talent in this film in the intelligent, anti-conformist, nerdy role of Lucas Bly. This was the first Haim film I had seen and even after seeing The Lost Boys, I consider this his greatest work. It became really hard to see more mature films of his like Blown Away because I simply couldn't see Haim as anything other than innocent, nerdy Lucas. I don't understand why the film is so underrated; its a classic! If you're seeking an action-packed, hot & heavy 80s film, this certainly isn't what you're looking for. "},{"Title":"I'm a proud Lucas","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lucas is not only a marvelous high school film, but a brilliant Corey Haim film as well. I don't recall cheering in too many teenager movies for the protagonist to accomplish a certain goal, but I couldn't help myself. This is the kind of movie that is one I'll remember for years to come. It's nothing shy of it's expectations, and puts other movies of it's kind to shame. It's so polished and witty, I'm surprised John Hughes didn't have his name on this gem.I bring that up because it's a good point. John Hughes was always doing movies that revolved around the underdog or someone who was an unlikely hero. In Weird Science, the premise was centered around a couple of geeky kids, Career Opportunities is centered around a Target slacker, and Sixteen Candles was when the geeky kid gets the girl. So it looks like someone beat John Hughes to his own game making a film about the nerd and the dream girl. Still, no disrespect to the God of teen films.Lucas (Haim) is a nerdy fourteen year old who meets and quickly falls in love with a girl named Maggie (Green). Maggie is a new girl, and Lucas wants her all to himself. Who could blame him? Maggie is a gorgeous individual. Id want her all to myself as well. If I went to the high school Lucas was in, it'd be The Battle of the Nerds.Like many would guess, Lucas' nerdy ways and foul mouth get him into all kinds of trouble. The main bullies are ones on the football, but due to their high appeal of being men, Maggie is attracted to Cappie (Sheen). Cappie is a football player who sticks up for Lucas because he fears his mouth will get him hurt. Maggie and Cappie become close friends, which drives Lucas nuts. Lucas begins to become more and more distant from Maggie.The film captures what many teen movies ignore, or don't focus on too much; the first love. I'm going to kind of follow Roger Ebert and say your first love isn't because of beauty, it's because the other person is perfect in their own way. I remember my first love way back in first grade. I invited her over to my house countless times. During the second grade, she went to a Catholic school and I never saw her again.Thankfully, I found her on Facebook this past year. She lives out of state, and we talk every now and then. By now and then I mean once every six months. It hurts because I know we'll never be close like we used to. I was nuts about her, and talking to her not too long ago she said she even knew I was head over heals, but never told me. I was so shocked.I got over it like anyone would, but I think about her a lot from time to time. She was perfect, but chances are I'll never see her again. She was one who made me think about marriage at age six! Thats an accomplishment. Thats what makes her on my unforgettable people list.Going back to the film, I can say with a straight face I saw myself inside Lucas. The way he was picked on and mocked, to be loved and cherished at the end is how I see myself sometimes. I can be ridiculed at points in life, but I'm also loved by lots of people. I'm extremely grateful for that in every possible way.Lucas is one of the many teen movies that is worth watching, but only one of the handful that deserve the title of coming-of-age. Lucas himself shows you that it's okay to live life on the sidelines and to stand up for what you believe. He shows you it's okay to be different. And most importantly, he delivers one of the simplistic but satisfying lines in a film; Keep an open mind. You go, Lucas! Starring Corey Haim, Kerri Green, Charlie Sheen, Courtney Thorne-Smith, Winona Ryder, Tom Hodges, and Jeremy Piven. Directed by David Seltzer. "},{"Title":"Has all the typical 80s teen movie clichés, but still a great film","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lucas from 1986 is a great film. Yes, it has all the typical 80s teen movie clichés, such as the nerdy kid who gets picked on by all the jocks in high school; the nerdy kid loves the most popular girl in school but she doesn't love him back; the nerdy kid lives in a dump and has an alcoholic father. But all these clichés work in this film. Corey Haim was perfect as Lucas, the smart, nerdy, short little kid in high school who befriends a popular girl Maggie (Kerri Green) during their summer break. But when school starts Maggie begins hanging out with all the football players and getting close with Cappie (Charlie Sheen), who has always stuck up for Lucas when he is being picked on. So to get Maggie to start having feelings for him again, Lucas joins the football team, despite all the criticism he gets for being short. Lucas is a sweet and smart kid who only wants to be loved and have a friend and be popular. He has a girl who likes him (Winona Ryder) but he doesn't realize it. You start to feel sorry for Lucas because you want him to have friends too and you start to yell at Maggie for pushing him aside. This film can get a little too sentimental at times and can become boring, but it is such a sweet film and you want to see what happens to Lucas. I think Corey Haim should've gotten more recognition for this role because he played Lucas perfectly. Too bad his career slumped. But I think Lucas is a great film and anyone who loves 80s teen dramas should watch it. It will definitely make you cry and smile at the same time. Thank you for reading my review! ~LaTissa~ "}{"Title":"An 80's teen classic, it reminds you of your high school days. You want to cheer for the underdog!","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lucas when I first saw this teen film in 1986 I said this is a winner, I was right as the film continues to get airings on basic and premium cable! This is an emotional drama-comedy film that as you watch it you remember back to your high school days, and you remember the times you can relate to with people being different having nerds and bullies and the need for social acceptance. Corey Haim plays the Lucas character perfect he's just fine as a thoughtful geek who's smart all brains and no brawn who just wants to impress the social crowd. Most all of us remember kids like these in high school who are picked upon and bullied you feel sorry for them and at the same time you want to cheer them for the inspiration they bring by trying for social acceptance. This film never has a dull moment the acting, lines, and adventures the Lucas character have are memorable. The supporting cast is just great, my man Charlie Sheen is great as the football stud, who tries to help Lucas thru his tough journey and the film features Winona Ryder in one of her earliest roles. Courtney Thorne-Smith plays the high school beauty queen who's snobbish this was well before her fame, and last but not least the best friend of Lucas is played by a bright vibrant cute red head Kerri Green, but Kerri where art thou now? Overall this is a classic 80's teen film that reminds us of the typical nerd-jock theme that centers around cliques and social acceptance. The movie ends on a happy note the way you want it, but remember it's always good just to be yourself. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most beautiful movies I have ever seen.  It is a wonderfully acted story of young love that is far more realistic than most Hollywood movies.  The performances are all excellent, especially Kerri Green as Maggie, and Corey Haim as Lucas.  This should have been nominated for some Oscars!  "},{"Title":"solid drama","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  LUCAS is a solid and enjoyable drama which is quite moving and features some great acting.  Older eyes will rightly look at parts of it as being hokey but only to small extent, overall it is a fascinating portrait of adolescence. "},{"Title":"A Hidden Gem...","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember when this movie came out in '86. I wanted to see it mainly because it was shot fairly near where I used to live in Chicago. I ended up wandering into this after seeing another movie (Pretty in Pink, I think), and was pleasantly surprised.I really think that Lucas could have been much more popular than it ended up being if Fox had decided to concentrate its ad campaign less on the Kerri Green/Charlie Sheen love story and more on Lucas himself. The only commercial that I ever saw that had Lucas in it was the clip where he and Maggie are sitting underneath Ravinia listening to the concert.The other reason that it didn't do quite as well was that it was different from the teen comedies of the day, which you could more or less split into two groups--John Hughes movies and naked horny teen movies. Lucas was far too intelligent to be a naked horny teen movie, but not quite funny enough to be in the same league as a John Hughes movie. I always thought that the movie veered unnecessarily into melodrama after Lucas got sacked, and you found out that his dad was an alcoholic--especially considering that the plot point was never used again and didn't seem to change things.So many good actors came out of this movie (Winona Ryder, Courtney Thorne-Smith, Charlie Sheen--even Corey Haim), and it works on so many different levels. I would highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants to see a warm, relatively inoffensive coming-of-age movie. Just fast-forward through the shower scene where Lucas thoroughly takes out one of his tormentors. True, he gets some Liquid Heat in a very not-cool place, but it's still worth it. "},{"Title":"simple and charming","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" sometimes you want something simple. like a walk in the park or some time to listen to your favorite CD. or just a good wholesome movie that doesn't take to much out of you to watch, well, Lucas is one of those movies.there's no special effects or confusing plot line to twist your brain into a pretzel,...its plain and simple. geeky boy falls in love with the new girl in school and tries to win her heart. there you go,...simple. Lucas its one of the best movies i remember from my childhood. its filled with characters everyone can relate to and the whole geek attempts to woo the cheerleader premise is charming. Cory Haim(Lucas) plays his role to a tee,..and Kerri Green is absolutely adorable as Maggie. you also get to view Winona Ryder in her film debut and a very young Charlie sheen as Cappie, the jock whose got a soft spot for Lucas. sometimes the fast and furious or texas chainsaw massacre movies of the world need to be left on the shelf for the night to allow time for something a little more,....whats the word,...innocent. Lucas is a sweet movie that children and adults can both enjoy again and again. "},{"Title":"Corey Haim's finest starring role. (minor spoilers)","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lucas, a sweet teen romantic comedy is Corey Haim's finest starring role, done long before he became an annoying teenager who eventually fell off the radar.Little Corey Haim plays quiet, sensitive Lucas. He's a smart kid who was placed in accelerated classes at the high school. Because he's so young (14 years-old), his classmates don't take him seriously. His only friends are a handful of loners (including Winonna Ryder in her film debut), the school's football team captain Cappy (Charlie Sheen), and Maggie (Kerri Green), the new girl in town.Lucas is the first person Maggie meets. She and Lucas spend plenty of time hanging out that summer (the story starts in the few weeks of summer before school). Maggie seems to be Lucas's most closest friend and so much so, that he has a crush on her. She doesn't entertain the thought too seriously because of their age difference (she's 16), and Lucas hides his background (she's from money and he's not), but not too much, in order to please her, hoping she would be his girlfriend. Lucas doesn't want school to start because then Maggie will be introduced to other kids at the school, giving her the opportunity to make friends other than Lucas. Lucas prefers the isolation of his one good friend.When school does start, Maggie meets Lucas's friend, Cappy. Cappy's a popular kid with a jealous girlfriend named Elise (Courtney Thorne-Smith), who doesn't want Cappy hanging out with Maggie when she sees that they enjoy their time together. Lucas gets annoyed, too, once Maggie and Cappy fall in love with each other, because he figured that something like that was going to happen. He was just hoping pretty hard that he wasn't going to get passed up. Still too young, but growing up too fast, Lucas can't seem to understand why people can't get past how young he is. So, like any brave young man trying to prove his worth to the girl he loves, he takes on some pretty dangerous endeavors to compete with Cappy and show Maggie that he's not just some little kid.The ultimate feat joining the football team. That is certain death for Lucas, a little 80 pound runt being chased around the football field by steroid pumped guys in their thirties (including Thomas Hodges and Jeremy Piven). But, Lucas is a smart kid, and is a bit too stubborn to see that he's gotten in way over his head. But hell, he's a romantic, so it doesn't matter as long as he makes his point to Maggie and pretty much everyone else that belittles him at school.It's a great romantic comedy, though probably one to be most enjoyed by female fans of the 80s, or heck, just fans of Corey Haim. It certainly is one of his best in this likeable, realistic sweet comedy.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful, classy teen movie!","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is shown on HBO quite a lot. It is one of the best teen movies from the 80's, and possibly ever. The one thing I admire most is the lack of the usual teen movie ingredients-violence, sex, tons of profanity. This film shows that teen movies can be intelligent and interesting without those stereotypes. It is so well-written, well-acted, funny, and touching. Rent this one for your kids instead of letting them see 'American Pie' or any of the other teen smut movies out there! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Dated and sluggish teen drama","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I admit I was amazed to read all the glowing reviews of this film, extolling it for being real and poignant. I didn't get around to watching it for 20 years, so there's no nostalgia involved. For me, the film was corny and endlessly tedious, even with all the potential of the pack of young actors involved.There's really very little that's plausible about the film at all, from the particular geekiness of the lead to his relationship with the cute 16 y.o. girl (two years difference in high school? are you kidding?) to the corny gentle football player . . . it's loaded with sappiness and drags on unmercifully. Anyone looking for real high school drama would be much better off renting the series My So-called Life or even Freaks and Geeks. Much better stories and far more plausible. "},{"Title":"The greatest teen film of all time","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hollywood never targets movies at teens, but in this brief time , there was hope that they may start. Anyone in middle school who has seen this film and can't relate to it is lying. The performances, masterful, the plot, fresh, the ending redeeming, it is one of the best films period. True, the 80's brought some cancers to cinema (Road House)but this is a glimmer of truth that shows that not all filmmakers were on drugs. If this film had grossed millions there would be more like it and that makes me sad; however, maybe it's for the best for now we can look at this gem as the greatest teen movie that has ever be made. So bravo, for lucas and for all cinema. "},{"Title":"One of Corey Haim's roles if not Corey Haim's best role.","Date":"19 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a pretty good film showing a boy who's not popular but still variably appreciated in the end for his efforts short and to these points. Yes it's portrayal of an outcast who still manages to have a girlfriend.Yes The now late Corey Haim may well have been typecast as an outcast as we may see from film to film and even on TV like in Roomies later on.Yes Lucas' love of bugs doesn't even draw his girlfriend away from him anymore than when they go to a concert underground where he can move the round lid & ask some man above to lend him his program but without giving to much away we get to see how in the end Lucas get's to be appreciated more and more.What can anyone also say but sadly Corey Haims's Star had faded upon his getting older.Truthfully, Stephen Steve G.Baer a.k.a. Ste of Framingham,Ma.USA "}{"Title":"Lucas is a smooth watch!","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" David's 'Lucas' is surely one of the most heartwarming movies from the 80's. It's a very old film, but it's charm will rule even today. The film released in 1986 and bombed at the box office, but earned a cult following in its video/DVD release. Its really a very sweet film which deserves a watch.Performances A young Charlie Sheen does well. A really young Wionna Ryder also is good. The actor who plays Lucas is first-rate. Ditto for the girl.'Lucas' is a heartwarming, lovely film. A feel-good film that leaves you satisfied and impressed. "},{"Title":"I have been to the high school and movie theater in Lucas!","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I grew up in Wheaton, IL which is a town right next to Glen Ellyn, IL where the high school and movie theater from Lucas where located. This movie is still one of my all time favorites from the 80's. When I was in middle school we had a track meet at Glenbard West High School where Lucas was filmed. It was a thrill to be on the same football field where the movie was filmed. One interesting thing is that for the movie the visitor's bleachers where removed so that Lake Ellyn could be included in the shots. The movie theater used in the film was the Glen Theater in downtown Glen Ellyn. When my friends and I went to the Glen we where all excited and kept saying This is where Lucas was filmed!. Glenbard West is a beautiful looking high school. The real mascot for the school is the Hilltoppers and not the Pirates like in the movie. One of the biggest disappointments for me was when I was to substitute teach in the Glenbard West gym it was not the gym used in Lucas. "},{"Title":"Very touching...","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" On Thanksgiving Day, i was flipping channels, hoping to see some memorable movies, when i caught this movie Lucas by accident. First, i thought it was terrible since it was made in 1986. But, despite the time span of 20 years apart, this movie depicted the love of teenagers so well, i called it modern version of Romeo and Juliet. The fact that i felt so childish and devastated about Lucas's life made me remember this movie forever. I would put that as a compliment to the director of the movie. It's interesting how the movie is directed. One noticeable example is Lucas playing football against the enemy team. Most movie directors would probably make it so that Lucas actually makes his football team win that game and give happy and cheerful ending. Instead, Lucas almost died at that football game. Throughout the movie, i was confused about my feelings whether certain part is a funny part or a sad part. Anyway, i didn't really like the ending since Lucas and Maggie didn't get together. "},{"Title":"Before they were famous!","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just saw the film last night on satellite, had never heard of it before.Sure brought back a lot of memories from the '80s. It's great to watch '80s nostalgia flicks like The Wedding Singer and Romy and Michelle's High School Reunion, but to actually watch a new (to me) '80s movie was something else. And the stars - Charlie Sheen, Courtney Thorne-Smith, Corey Haim, Winona Ryder - were a real joy to watch.  To think that Charlie Sheen went on to make Platoon later that same year.  And Winona - what a cute geek.Wonderful film.  May not be a classic, but great to watch. "},{"Title":"Love this movie!","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a great flick! Definitely, one of Corey Haim's most brilliant and touching performances to date!! I enjoy seeing this movie every time it is on. Wildly funny and sensitive, it is easily a film that will not be forgotten and hits home to some of us who remember what is was like back in high school. It is great to see Sheen and Ryder so young, but who give awesome performances. It should be featured in every family's movie collection. While some of the scenes might seem a little cheesy to some people, the overall effect of the movie makes the viewer want more and more. I always find myself clapping with everyone at the end of the movie as if I was there. It is moments like these that truly make this movie amazing! "},{"Title":"Feel Good Film","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great feel-good, teen dream flick about a high school misfit.  Cop-out ending ruins the otherwise enjoyable storyline.  Charlie Sheen, Courtney Thorne Smith, Winona Ryder and Jeremy Piven all launched their careers with this one.  Corey Haim went on to do lots of forgettable teen flicks.  "},{"Title":"A very well done 80's movie about life","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this is such a good and sad movie that I could never get tired of watching it.  Everywhere there is at least one person in each high school who is a nerd trying to fit in with the in crowd.  Where the in crowd torments the living hell out of the nerd trying to fit in.  That is what Lucas is about.  A 14-year who meets a new girl and befriends her hoping to make her his girlfriend despite that she is 16 years old.  When school starts he quits band and decides to try out for football.  All the football players except for one,Cappie (Sheen) who is his protector) makes Lucas's life a living hell.  Soon the new girl, Maggie (Green) starts to fall in love with Cappie making his girlfriend really jealous.  They eventually break up and Cappie and Maggie start going out breaking Lucas's heart.  The next day he wants to play football game.  He gets hurt and needs to be rushed to the hospital.  They try to get a hold of his parents but can't since he is a drunk.  When Lucas returns to school he finds a jacket in his locker from the football team.  That part really made me cry. I seriously doubt that part would happen in a real school but oh well. 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"wish","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wish there's a film with a touch like this one again these days, teen movie nowadays just go downright DOWN, a few hahaha & hehehe, then off to the sink it goessigh*...this gem reminds me a lot of my own life. I just keep seeing Lucas as a sad movie though, and that survival of the fittest think is way out of wisdomNoni's first role is a little weak, but there's just that spark like in any other movie of hers. Way to go, Ms. Ryder GBWU "},{"Title":"Lucas Changed My Life!","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so, not really...  But of the countless hours I spent watching HBO growing up, this was one of my favorite movies.  About 3 years ago I found a copy on video and watch it once a month or so now, just to get transported back.  I mean, sure, this is as sappy as they come.  But I've seen every throwback movie since (Wedding Singer, Can't Hardly Wait, etc.) and none come close to capturing Lucas's magic.  What magic is that, praytell? Simple, uncluttered, sweet (at times bittersweet) human storytelling. That's it.  Oh, and Corey Haim sans the drug problem/bankruptcy. Honestly? For me, forget Rocky.  This is the undefeated champ of underdog stories, as far as I'm concerned.  I mean, little more happens than a breakdown of familiar jock/geek/princess-cheerleader stereotype dividing lines, but I've always felt there was a lot being said there, a lot of heart.  The ending is fantastic.  No feats of amazement, again, just of simple human compassion, interaction.  I can't help getting wistful (better than choked up, right?) when Maggie visits Lucas in the hospital and they ponder whether or not they will be friends later in life.  I think about that scene all the time, and wish it were as true in fiction as it is in real life.  This film is a testament to the power of friendship. "},{"Title":"utterly charming!","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  lucas is a good teen movie. it has a charm that you just can't overlook. it's pure heart and soul. it's also entertaining,and sometimes funny. it will win you over. i give this movie *** out of **** "}{"Title":"Good but not a classic","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just watched it on Disney and thought it good. Too bad Kerri Green didn't do more. As an adult who spends a lot of time at our local high school, I felt the movie was, as most are, unrealistic about high school life. The football scenes were ridiculous . . . but then again most movies require a suspension of disbelief in order to be tolerated. Dave Letterman has been making fun of the Corey's lately and the one in this movie was on last week for a cameo.   Has Courtney had a nose job since this movie? That's all. "},{"Title":"Insipid teen movie that can't work out whether it is a comedy or a drama","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" With a cast of future film stars like Charlie Sheen and Winona Ryder, you would imagine that a teen comedy like Lucas might have a lot of things going for it. Nothing could be further from the truth. The films main problem is that it can't work out exactly what it wants to be - It starts out as a comedy, then becomes a coming of age drama then resorts to slapstick during the football game. Plot pointers are opened up and explored only to be promptly disregarded at a later date - there is no closure in this film. Corey Haim could have had star potential but after doing films like this his fate was firmly established in direct to video movies - which is what he deserves! "},{"Title":"Feel Good Film","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great feel-good, teen dream flick about a high school misfit.  Cop-out ending ruins the otherwise enjoyable storyline.  Charlie Sheen, Courtney Thorne Smith, Winona Ryder and Jeremy Piven all launched their careers with this one.  Corey Haim went on to do lots of forgettable teen flicks.  "},{"Title":"Great Film with Lots of DEEP INNER FEELINGS!","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"                   Greatly enjoyed this film which delves into the personal lives of a young geek looking guy named Corey Haim(Lucas),Busted,'96, who pretends to be an entirely different person and falls deeply in love with Kerri Green (Maggie),Three for the Road and is the new girl in town who happens to run into Lucas on a tennis court. Charlie Sheen,(Cappie), No Code of Conduct,'98, is a close friend to Lucas and tries to protect him from all the BULLIES who love to pester him on a daily basis.  Courtney Thorne Smith, (Alise),Side Out,'90, is Cappie's girlfriend who is very attractive and becomes jealous of Maggie.  Winona Ryder(Rina),Lost Souls,2000, is very pretty and is very much in love with Lucas, but he just does not seem to feel the same way towards her.   There is lots of comedy and dramatic scenes and fantastic acting which tells a cute story and has some very deep feelings which teenagers encounter in real life! "},{"Title":"Cheesy but excellent cast and great acting","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Corey Haim is acting genius in this movie about falling in love and fitting in. The story is a bit cliché but it overcomes Hollywood mediocrity thanks to a great cast with superb performances. Look for a young Charlie Sheen in his sweetest role ever. Other standouts include Winona Ryder (adorable), Courtney Thorne Smith, and Keri Green (whatever happened to her?) This movie reminded me of a simpler time both with regards to the decade and the phase of life (80s and high school). Crushes, friendships, and the big game meant everything. It's impossible to watch this and not only feel nostalgic but also heartwarmed. Rent this and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Sweet","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lucas (Corey Haim) is a 14 years old nerdy boy who is teased by the bigger boys all the time.He becomes a friend with new girl in town, 16 years old Maggie (Kerri Green).The boy has deeper feelings for the girl but Maggie falls in love with a football player called Cappie (Charlie Sheen), who is going out with this Alise (Courtney Thorne-Smith).Lucas from 1986 is sweet drama movie.Corey Haim does great job playing Lucas, the boy who never gives up.Charlie Sheen is a nice add for the movie.And this was before he became a big star.Then you can also see Winona Ryder in her debut role playing Rina, a friend of Lucas.She  also became a big star later in her life. The movie is enjoyable from the beginning to the end.It has a great ending.It gives hope for us all.Watch the movie and enjoy. "},{"Title":"A winner","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not a classic but it is one sweet little film. Sure it is sappy, but it is more true to life than many teen flicks.Corey Haim was good as was Sheen, who not long after made Platoon. This movie made me feel good, and is worth a rent on video. "},{"Title":"A Better Than Average Teen Movie","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A fine film with splendid performances from Corey Haim and Charlie Sheen.More truthful and honest than any teen movie of the 90's.For once a teen movie doesn't paint it's characters in black and white only.A truly romantic film. "},{"Title":"A True Gem from the 80s","Date":"14 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lucas (1986) **** (out of 4) Marvelous coming of age film has Corey Haim playing the title character, a 14-year-old dork who finds himself in high school due to his brains. During the summer he meets a new girl (Kerri Green) who he falls in love with but she ends up with the popular quarterback (Charlie Sheen), which Lucas doesn't quite understand. This comedy/drama is without question one of the best of the 80s as it features a terrific story, a great young cast and some down to Earth real moments that make it an easy classic. The screenplay by writer/director Seltzer makes the right decision to have the characters we're watching to be realistic and smart to the situation going on. I think the script makes the right choice to have Lucas know he's a dork and know that in the real world things don't always go his way. The fact that Lucas falls in love with someone he obviously can't have makes for a lot of movies like this but this film takes it to the next level because Lucas is someone we can all identify with and the supporting players are likely people we know as well. We get the popular character, the dorky character, the popular one and the mean one. All of the characters are given enough time to fully develop where we can connect with all of them and that's why this film works so well. Most films just give us one-note characters but all of the ones here change over time and full develop as the movie unfolds. The film is smart enough to make us understand why some might not take a liking to Lucas and we even turn on him a little as his attitude towards the Green character changes. The performances are also a major plus here as we get a very talent cast and many future famous faces. Haim was born to play this role and he does a terrific job with it as he's able to capture every emotion that his character has and really nails all of them. Be it comedy, drama or romance, Haim hits all the right notes and delivers one of the more memorable performances of the decade. Both Green and Sheen are excellent and really deliver on all their scenes. We even have Jeremy Piven and Winona Ryder delivering good supporting performances. The movie follows a somewhat familiar storyline but it takes a few different spins on the familiar plot and in the end really becomes one of the more memorable films from this genre. It seems there was a different teen movie being released each and every week during the 80s and God knows there are some really bad ones out there but this one here is certainly at the top of the class in terms of heart and entertainment. "},{"Title":"Warm and welcoming","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You'll find that with most high school films, they exaggerate too much and scurry away from the reality of high school life. However, in 'Lucas', it's almost 100% true to the typical life of high school drama. All the elements are in play for a truly delightful and realistic depiction of one fourteen year old boy's experiences as a high school freshman.While there are other characters in the film, who share equal amounts of screen time, and they too have their own stories, Lucas' are the most entertaining and most anticipated. Kerrie Green and Charlie Sheen co-star as Cory Haim (Lucas)'s friends, and Wynona Ryder makes her film as one of Lucas' friends, who secretly has a crush on him.Although this is from the mid-1980's, it still has enough charm and realism, that is enjoyable for generations to come.It's heartwarming, sad, funny, and thoroughly entertaining. It's one of the best teen films ever made, and you find another like it. It's a very unique piece, that will have people in love with it, for years and years to come. "}{"Title":"Bad day at School?","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lucas is one of those movies that can warm a person's heart after a nasty day at work or school. Haim's perfomance was great along with ryder in her first movie, however Green's performance was rather corny in some parts.When I first viewed the movie I thought it was great and added to my favorite 80's movies list.This movie would be even better if both Coreys stared in it. "}]