[{"Title":"Kentucky Fried Movie-Redux","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm sure this is the last time we will see this kind of Cuisinart comedy collection directed by, at the time (1987), some of the cinema's top comedy directors. And that's a shame. Because Amazon Women On The Moon, although not perfect by any cinematic measuring stick, represents a small victory for loopy, silly comedy anarchy. Look at this line up of comedy vets John Landis (The Blues Brothers, Trading Places, Animal House among so many others), Joe Dante (Gremlins, Innerspace, Matinee), Robert Weiss (TV's Police Squad!), Carl Gottlieb (co-writer of Jaws AND The Jerk) as well as newby Peter Horton (of thirtysomething fame). This anthology features some real groaners to be sure, but surprisingly hits more times, and with more genuine laughs, than would be expected. Cobbled together as a de facto follow up to Landis's 1977's Kentucky Fried Movie (the picture that boasted the first unspooling of the Zucker-Abraham-Zucker genius that would soon launch Airplane! three years later) on a low-low indie budget way outside his usual 80's big-budget Universal stomping ground, Amazon Women... manages to both successfully surpass AND fail to reach the dizzy, laff-a-minute, rat-a-tat-tat of the 70's midnight circuit fave. This picture has several clinkers of flat comedy (Landis's opener nearly stops the film dead with the always-unfunny Arsenio Hall), but hits with so many other vignettes that it's easy to get into the groove of this short-but-sweet skewer of 80's late-late-night TV. The standout segments in this comedic buffet are abundant, but the best of them belong to Dante, Weiss & Gottlieb the Universal-International Invisible Man short with Ed Begley Jr.; his hilarious run at the Leonard Nimoy In Search Of chestnut as Bullshit Or Not? with pitch-perfect host Henry Silva; the stay-for-the-end-credits 1930's Reefer Madness health scare jewel starring the late, great Paul Bartel and Carrie Fisher; or the crossed-circuit tributes to BOTH the Siskel & Ebert show AND the old Dean Martin Celebrity Roasts, featuring a dream cast of vaudeville and 50's Vegas comics that has to be seen to be believed. Landis's standouts include a no soul infomercial featuring David Alan Grier and BB King, a funny hospital sketch featuring Landis players Griffin (American Werewolf) Dunne and Michelle (Into The Night) Pfeiffer (!) and a respectful nod to the earlier Kentucky Fried Movie wrap-up featuring an interactive video that stars Marc McClure, UltraVixens cult director Russ Meyer and Andrew Dice Clay. Highest marks, though, go to the running-gag Amazon Women On The Moon, which lovingly - hilariously - mocks everything from This Island Earth to Robot Monster complete with film splices and gorgeous, over-saturated Eastmancolor. If you have ever loved crappy TV, the Universal Studios backlot or any of the directors who have contributed to this dog's breakfast of SNL-inspired skits (written by two ex Carson-era Tonight Show writers), take a look at this one. Plus, it's only 85 minutes of your life that you'll never get back. Bullshit, or not. "},{"Title":"A Funny Parody On Everything!","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cross a 1950's B-Movie with Saturday Night Live skits popping in every 15 minutes and you have something like this.  Great cast selection and an ingenious put together of skits as commercials and sitcoms.  The writers here have created a 25 minute mock B-movie 'Amazon Women On The Moon, missing more than half of its essential plot.  Interspersed are hilarious commercials, infomercials, and filler shows that take up the slack as the original movie reel breaks, burns through, or just simply comes to a commercial stop in the baseline movie. Some of the skits are side splitting funny.  This film was not intended to have a very straight forward plot or screenplay, but finds itself quite interesting.  You'll find yourself trying to guess all of the actors spotting cameos and appearances throughout the film.This movie is great to add to a video collection or definitely worth renting a few times with friends.  This has all the makings of a comedic cult classic. "},{"Title":"An homage to late-night television surfing","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Greetings, one and all! Amazon Women on the Moon is one of my all-time favorite movies, not because it is perfect, but because it effectively yet respectfully lampoons so many genres, including 50s movies, late-night television of all sorts, and even different styles of literature available throughout a good portion of the 20th century. Find a trend in literature of the 40s and 50s, movies of the 50s and 60s, or television of the 50s through the 70s, and it is somehow made fun of in this movie.Another reason that I like this film is the fact that everyone involved, and there are many, many recognizable names involved with this project, seems to be having so much fun doing it. Several of the best moments for me are those when actors are playing, tongue-in-cheek, the same types of roles for which they were famous in other serious movies.The movie is incredibly funny if you are in the right mood, and with the right crowd. Even if not, however, there are enough funny moments to make this worth watching. The pacing and style are sometimes uneven, which I found worked toward a purpose, but that may make it hard for some to watch the movie straight through. If that is the case, watch it in two sittings; it's worth the extra effort.One game you can play, if you know the times or are old enough to remember first-hand, is to find how many books, TV shows/icons, and movies are good-naturedly ridiculed throughout the movie. "},{"Title":"super","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie says that it stars lots of actors and they aren't kidding! A cast of thousands and these are actually actors that you know!There are various comedy vignettes surrounding the satire of a 1950's Sci-Fi movie called Amazon Women on the Moon. If you have ever had insomnia and watched an incredibly bad movie in the middle of the night, then you can relate. Movies til Sunrise!!! These astronauts sit in computer chairs with seatbelts. No matter how you cut it...these chairs have wheels. No matter how many times that the booth announcer says that there will be no further interruptions...get ready for another interruption. If you listen carefully, the year of the movie and the name of the movie changes.If you think that you have had a bad day, watch what Arsenio Hall goes through. Splat! Don't point the remote at your face as you may be sucked into the TV as Murray (Lou Jacobi) is! This is ongoing throughout the movie as Murray appears on every channel. Unfortunately, his wife won't let him stay on the Playboy Channel. One of the funniest sketches include the scenes in the hospital after Brenda (Michelle Pheiffer) and Harry (Peter Horton) give birth to a son and their doctor (Griffin Dunne) loses him! Henry Silva does an extremely funny rip-off of Fact or Fiction (could Jack the Ripper and the Loch Ness Monster be one and the same?). There is a funeral roast involving Steve Allen, Rip Taylor, Slappy White, Henny Youngman, Charlie Callas and Jackie Vernon. One of the funniest bits is Son of the Invisible Man. Griffin (Ed Begley, Jr.) believes that he is truly invisible and flits about in a bar (wearing nothing)! Trust me...the nudity is integral to the plot.The faux commercials are hysterical. How about hair looming? You can actually have a literal rug stapled to the top of your head (in complete privacy). Don Simmons (David Alan Grier) is a black singer without soul. Want to liven up a party? How about serving Silly Paté? It tastes great and bounces high! Don't bail out during the first credits as the best is yet to come! Carrie Fisher and Paul Bartel participate in an unclean PSA! This is produced by Miracle Pictures whose motto is If it's a good picture, it's a miracle. "},{"Title":"A Fun Niche Movie!","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" While most people will think this film is plain silly, which it is, it is really quite fun too.With a few exceptions, the film is about your typical late night television and the crazy ads that used to permeate the airwaves before all the infomercials started taking over in the 90's. In this film, they make fun of those crazy ads and programming by doing outrageous spoof ads interspersed with an old 1950's B movie with a lot of projection problems.Any couch potato with a good sense of humor and a memory of the 70's & 80's television programming should enjoy this one! This is why I call it a niche movie. "},{"Title":"A feel-good, light-headed pleasure","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not a great film by any means, but there are some really hilarious, unforgettable sketches in this movie. There's the Playboy bunny who goes grocery shopping naked, goes to church naked and everyone else acts like its normal. The Amazon Women on the Moon sketch is a scream. David Alan Grier is fantastic as the man without soul. There's the Siskel and Ebert-style critique of a man's life. There's also Andrew Dice Clay's finest moment (not like he's had any others) as he screams from a TV set at someone watching his girlfriend's porn video. A very silly movie, but with lots of great moments. "},{"Title":"A hilarious collection of comedy sketches.  Highly recommended!","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like its predecessor KENTUCKY FRIED MOVIE, AMAZON WOMEN ON THE MOON is simply a 90-minute assortment of short sketches, gags, and spoofs.  All of the segments star multiple big-name actors, but they each vary in style, technique, and content.  Some rely on humorous dialogue while others (specifically Mondo Condo) depend solely on slapstick physical comedy.  Some (like Video Date) are pretty risque and could even be considered questionable in taste, while others are 100% family-friendly.  Each of the approximately 20 skits do have one thing in common with one another, though they are all unbelievably hilarious.Admittedly, there are some jokes that miss the mark and one or two short sketches that are pretty corny, but these dull moments are easily forgiven since the rest of the movie is just so damn funny.  My suggestion grab a friend, a bowl of popcorn, and watch AMAZON WOMEN ON THE MOON today!  Be prepared to laugh yourself to tears, and don't forget order the latest album from Don 'No Soul' Simmons when you're done! "},{"Title":"one of my favorite comedies!","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Boy, do i love this movie! Im not saying it didnt have any flaws. Id say about 80% of it was very funny. My absolute favorite sketches are the Harvey Pitnik critics corner/funeral sketches. The critics really tore Harvey a new one (LOL)! All the roasters (comedians) were great, but my favorite was Rip Taylor, especially when he says you know the old saying in show business, get off quick, like Harvey on his wedding night! When i heard that, I laughed so hard, that i probably have an uncured hernia to this day from it. Of course i cant leave out the blacks without soul/ Don no soul Simmons albums (my second favorite), Arnesio Hall, bs or not, pirates, titans, and every Vangoe must go, and the Amazon Women movie itself. These were all very funny. I cant wait to get this on dvd one day. 8 STARS OUT OF 10.  "},{"Title":"Donate your money to Don Simmons - Black without a soul )","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After I saw this film I was positively surprised of the varied amount of excellent little surprises this film offered in form of little jokes. The film itself is in a way a sequel to the Kentucky Fried Movie so if you have seen it, you might know what to expect. The movie itself is built around a 50's b-movie Amazon women on the moon which has some serious troubles while showing and the jokes are then presented as commercials etc. One of the most memorable moments IMO in this film include The blacks without the soul, Petmate of the month and several others. I'll give this 9 out of 10. RECOMMENDED  "},{"Title":"Very funny, especially David Greer","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie is funny in general. Several segments are good, and they are smart enough to know when their welcome is worn out.The highlight for me is Don No Soul Simmons, the unhippest black guy ever born, and poster boy for the charitable campaign to aid black people born without soul.David Greer singing Blame it on the Bossa Nova over the closing credits is worth the price of the rental. "}{"Title":"Funny, Broad Farce","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not subtle comedy.  This is not a thought-provoking parody of everyday life.What it IS is a broad, in-your-face farce that goes anywhere and everywhere to grab your funny bone.  And in most instances it works.The movie is loosely constructed around the premise of late night television, complete with a grade B 50's style sci-fi film providing the central nexus around which the movie is built.  Skit changes are presented as channel switching or commercial breaks.  Because of the skit nature of the movie, the changes between set pieces can be abrupt, and each piece will succeed or fail on it's own merits.  Amazon Women on the Moon hits, fortunately, far more times than it misses.*** POSSIBLE SPOILERS ***One of the funniest pieces of the film is the initial segment featuring a very physical performance by a young Arsenio Hall.  My sides hurt from laughing during this segment, and helped set the mood for the rest of the film.A pre- In Living Color David Allen Greir turns in a hilarious performance as Don No-Soul Simmons.  His facial expressions and physical mannerisms are perfect for the role.  You almost feel as if you should find your wallet to donate to the Blacks Without Soul foundation.  (I also got a great chuckle out of watching a 70's era pimp, in full Huggie-Bear outfit, touting the benefits of driving a Volvo Station Wagon.)The Two forms of ID skit is both funny and prophetic, considering this movie was made in 1987.  Anyone who is familiar with googling a potential date will see more than just a hint of irony here.Carrie (Princess Leia) Fisher and Paul (Eating Raul) Martel also turn in all too accurate performances spoofing the old educational films of the 50's. Anyone who has seen Reefer Madness will get a kick out of this.Overall, this movie is fun to watch, especially with a larger group of friends when you want to sit around and just have a hearty, mindless laugh. There's something here for everyone, and it's just plain fun. "},{"Title":"Uneven spoof","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this movie fairly soon after it was released. I didn't enjoy very much of it other than the segment at the beginning with Arsenio Hall. In the meantime I've become quite a big fan of B movies and a lot of the people in this film are now near and dear to my heart. I think I have a better understanding of what they were trying to do in this film now, but I don't think on the whole it was very successful. The film remains fun for fans of B movies but not nearly as funny as I think it tried to be.It's certainly watchable, as it is fast-moving and features many memorable faces from not only B movie lore but popular culture at large. For example in the same segment you can see legendary exploitation director Russ Meyer (Faster Pussycat, Kill Kill!) and stand-up star Andrew Dice Clay. The film's epilogue features Carrie Fisher of Star Wars fame and director/character actor Paul Bartel (Eating Raoul) in a funny spoof on educational style exploitation films. Monster movie fandom icon Forrest Ackerman appears as the President in the extended sci-fi sequences, Phil Hartman does a sports announcer voice, Arsenio Hall is a man terrorized by his own apartment, Lana Clarkson (now famous for very undesireable reasons in connection to Phil Spector) is an amazon woman, B.B. King urges tolerance and sympathy towards Blacks without Soul, Henry Silva appears as himself to spoof Jack Palance's television gig in Bullsh** or not, and so on and so forth. You could have a pretty good time watching this movie just trying to spot random celebs who came from the B movie world and others who became big stars later (Michelle Pfeiffer for example).But the bits and pieces don't add up to a good film, and the film fatally fails to walk the tight line required for a B type movie, even an expensive one with big stars, between its camp and its serious side. The sci-fi segments in particular fall pretty flat and I have to imagine would fail to amuse anyone but geeks like myself who recognize some of the inside jokes. Surely the outer space scenario being depicted is ridiculous, but it actually looks and feels quite a bit like an older sci-fi film (specifically the late 50s Queen of Outer Space) without having much of its charm or the sense of innocence about it. With something like the Zuckers' Airplane you can see how cheezy the disaster movies they were spoofing were but at the same time the film itself was more outrageously campy and silly than any real disaster film. But with this film, it feels like the film-makers felt the source material was goofy enough that the laughs should follow from simply a reproduction of some of the genre's original camp elements -- they failed to take it to another level where it would become funny in its own right.A lot of the other segments fail to take off as well, or overstay their welcome. The bit in the hospital, the bit about Two IDs.... a lot of these parts just take a long time and end up having no punch line. The majority of the sketches are basically funny premises beaten into the ground and done in a self-serious style that wastes the opportunities for humor. I just do not feel this movie's conviction -- it seems like they were afraid to be too zany but they were also trying really hard to seem irreverent while in fact the film rarely strays into controversial territory. "},{"Title":"Gratefulness to AWOTM","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" AWOTM is a strictly confidential delight, a comedy with a surrealist and _absurdist twist ;seldom spoken of. Now cinema has such treats&#x97;I mean, wonderful Bs little spoken or extremely badly spoken of&#x97;the Rourke comedy&#x97;HARLEY DAVIDSON &#x85;--is one such treat, and SAVE ME with L. Anthony and Ironside, and POSSESSED BY THE NIGHT with the gorgeous Mrs. Tweed, and a sexy comedy with Tanya Roberts and Joan Severance, and some others &#x85;. Make no mistake&#x97;acknowledging them requires true sophistication. Then by the middle of the '90s the B passed out. Most parodies are mean, and meant to insult and criticize sourly, while AMAZON &#x85; is essentially and fundamentally friendly and cheerful and nice&#x97;to the viewer as well as to the shows it pastiches ceaselessly. I can casually enjoy a parody, there are some I have liked indeed; but AMAZON &#x85; is so much more than that. It's wonderful spirit makes one sad as well as glad&#x97;sad, because its example was not matched afterward. It is made by people who like the shows they lampoon, while the regular parodies lampoon recent successful movies&#x97;not movies particularly enjoyed by the parodists. I liked AMAZON &#x85; so much that the next evening I needed to see it once more.It's not a parody, how could it be one, but a strangely affectionate entry into the wacky movies' genre. The endearing ingenuity is the feature I enjoyed most. It is rather long since I have delighted so much in a comedy; I have found it crassly, wonderfully and hysterically inspirational, an anthology comedy featuring an awesome battery of movie stars; I liked Mrs. Pfeiffer's sketch the best. I had the vague impression that Mrs. Tweed should pop in somewhere in this flick, and I think she did not, perhaps I was mainly misinformed&#x97;but guess what, dear fellow buff&#x97;Mrs. Pfeiffer, Carrie Fisher, one of the wonderful Arquette sisters &#x85;. AWOTM was half&#x97;sad, nearly heart&#x97;rending&#x97;half&#x97;stupid and half&#x97;bitter, and unselfconscious enough &#x85;. An addictive comedy, better than the flicks it spoofs, merry and sometimes truly funny &#x85;. The '80s still had this kind of ingenuity and inoffensive comedy &#x85;. The almanac&#x97;format allowed for a host of persons to be assembled such as to turn the movie into a celebration of a B world. Afterwards the B became prosaic, dull and trite&#x97;I know the flicks made by Rourke, Eric Roberts, and Don Johnson and Madsen and Hopper &#x85;.AWOTM was doubtlessly very good, better than, say, the Monty Python similar formats&#x97;more cheery and mindless and affable; it cheered me, while most American comedies do not. It is a cult movie? I wish it were. But it's also good that such movies remain our secret and, as it were, our password. It was directed by several known names from the genre movies; this kind of trivia you will get from IMDb. Nowadays even this kind of extravaganza is forbidden to us B flicks buffs. Perhaps this also makes AWOTM so sad; so cheering and sad&#x97;a lost continent. They smashed those B movies; some of us needed them. Now being given all liberality of taste, if you indeed disliked AWOTM, I do not know what kind of a person you are; I would rather not meet you. "},{"Title":"highly uneven comedy with multiple versions","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's really hard to give a score to this movie, as I have seen two or three different versions of the film. The original version appears to have been re-edited to remove some of the dirtier skits (and there were quite a few). Then, less funny skits that were apparently left on the editing room floor were substituted--with less than glowing results.When the movie is funny, it is side-splittingly funny (especially the teenager buying condoms, the funeral, and Lou Jacobi re-appearing throughout the movie after he is sucked into the television set) but it also tends to fall flat from time to time. This unevenness is probably due to the fact that this movie had MANY different directors--each directing their own skits and then the movie was pieced back together. The end result is highly reminiscent of a better version of Kentucky Fried Movie.My advice is, see the original un-edited version--but WITHOUT the kids! The edited version just isn't all that funny. "},{"Title":"Sketchy Comedy","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Collection of sketches, essentially _The Kentucky Fried Movie_ updated for the 1980s and ported from film to late night tv/video. Slow, perplexingly un-funny and intensely dated in many parts, it still manages to provide a few fairly good amusements as it twitches along. The central feature of this collection - the titular _Amazon Women on the Moon_ movie-within-movie is a fairly amusing if obvious spoof of the cheap, brash sci-fi movies of the 1950s. Yeah, easy subject matter to spoof, but some of the attention to detail indicates at least some measure of fondness for the material. Fun fact the astronauts are dressed in the uniforms from _Forbidden Planet_. The rest is 'filler', little vignettes and fake commercials and so forth which vary in quality from funny to passable to containing steve gutenberg. "},{"Title":"Amazing Film on the TV!","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is, so far, the most entertaining film I've ever seen. YOu can't get bored because gags pop up on your screen at any moment. And the only storyline that goes along the whole movie (the B-film Amazon Women on the Moon inside the film) is as hilarious as the rest of the stories.Don't miss the opportunity to watch this movie if it's on your local cable or local video store. You'll be surprised to see the bunch of actors casted here, from Arsenio Hall to Joe Pantoliano, Rosanna Arquette to Michelle Pfeiffer... As the opening credits say Lots of actors, instead of everybody's name.Sure this is a movie for SNL fans. Who's your favorite SNL star you would like to work in this movie? Will Ferrel, I guess...Grab your popcorn, don't get choke on the laughs... Enjoy! "},{"Title":"An authentic parody on late-night telly that works despite some forced and silly side-skits.","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I guess it was perfect timing that I watch this late last night, because it goes hand-to-hand with its overall context and what it's trying to come across as. This star-studded production with the likes of John Landis and Joe Dante directing some of these gags and segments, come up with a compilation comedy that lampoons late-night American TV. The main focus is on a Z-grade 1950's Sci-fi film called 'Amazon woman on the moon', but it's the small comedy sketches of info-commercials that flooded proceedings. The majority of the film is filled with these comical ads and pointless interruptions and breaks, with the z-grade feature more so in the background. Which is quite sad as from what get out of this flick is a correct parody on late-night telly and some of it is mildly entertaining. It's just sometimes the one idea gimmick had me smiling while other times it had me rolling my eyes. Some skits worked with their ingenious side gags and self-referential humour, while others totally missed the point by overplaying its hand, or they were rather thin. Some of my favourite segments would be the Video date, Don 'no soul' Simmons, Murray in videoland, critics corner and bullsh!t or not. Plus the z-grade mocking of 'Amazon woman on the moon' is neatly setup and done with great effect, with its dodgy sets, awful dialog, wooden acting, women in skimpy outfits (with Sybil Danning appearing), choppy editing and the many pointless interruptions that go through the flick. They just nailed it! The whole parody is interesting and it works in small slabs, but the whole execution was rather uneven and downright hectic. Maybe too many directors spoil the brew? As some segments and gags just don't fit in with others, that being the context or that of the humour. The narration is all over the place, but that was intended by mocking these type of productions and the clever script is done with enough panache and wit. You'll notice a lot of familiar faces popping up throughout, like Rosanna Arquette, Griffin Dunne, Michelle Pfeiffer, Steve Guttenberg, Dick Millar, Ralph Bellamy, Arsenio Hall, Phil Hartman and many more. But just don't think it's finish when the credits start rolling, as there's another send-up following involving Carrie Fisher called reckless youth. Pocking fun of the 30's when there was movie/TV propaganda about foolishness of teens and how your youth can destroy you by taking reckless temptations.The feature did kinda remind me of Monty Python gags and definitely in the way the format was presented. These Python's films are 'And Now For Something Completely Different' and 'The Meaning of Life'. Although a friend of mine told me that this idea for this film is similar to 'The Kentucky Fried Movie' (1977), the same people who went on to create the spoof 'Airplane'. It supposedly was a catalyst for this type of picture.Basically it's a fairly entertaining watch and true to its sources, but still rather forgettable when it came to shove. "},{"Title":"Silly Fun","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anybody that remembers late night television in the 70's and 80's will surely get a kick out of this. A couple of the skits are cringe-worthy,but most are spot on when it comes to what they are parodying.**Spoiler Alert**Some hilarious spoofs of commercials for instance,like the old K-Tel records ads features a singer, Don No Soul Simmons doing renditions of pop songs that make Pat Boone look hip by comparison. The Hair Club for Men send up features a man literally having carpeting installed on his head. The 50's sci-fi film being shown, Amazon Women on the Moon, is appropriately cheesy and low-budget with a chimp,no less.Plus,I swear I actually saw a film like this with Zsa Zsa Gabor, of all people.The spoof of all those supposed true story shows(Believe It or Not,Fact or Fiction,Beyond Belief,etc.)is called Bullshit or Not here and it's hilarious.The film critics review of an ordinary guy's life was good,but the Celebrity Roast Funeral that followed went on a little long. The date night and hospital skits fell flat,but the opening sequence with the apartment that attacks a man returning home from work,is a slapstick gem.There are some very familiar faces here Arsenio Hall,Michelle Pfieffer,The old-time comedians,as well as Ed Begley,Jr.,Howard Hessman and Rosanna Arquette. But the stand outs are clearly David Alan Grier as the aforementioned soulless singer and Carrie Fisher in her hilarious turn as the victim of a social disease in a PSA that clearly used Reefer Madness as it's inspiration. Because of the nudity,it isn't recommended for kids,but adults, especially those of us that remember this stuff actually being on at 2;00 a.m. should enjoy this silly,fun movie. "},{"Title":"You'd better believe it, buster!","Date":"22 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Amazon Women on the Moon, directed by a group of directors and starring (literally) a bunch of actors, knows exactly what kind of movie it is unabashedly silly. It's an 85-minute celebration of all things slapstick, unafraid to do anything that it wants. And very funny, I might add. Unlike The Kentucky Fried Movie, this one has a central theme a 1950s sci-fi flick with the same title as the main movie. But more than anything the entire movie is an excuse for the bunch of actors to show off their goofy side (some doing so in a deadpan style). It's everything that makes life worth living, and I have no doubt that the people involved had a lot of fun in production. You're sure to love it!So just remember to guard against becoming impure. "},{"Title":"This film is the very reason DVD players have the chapter skip button!","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don't get me wrong; I really like this movie...most of the time. It amazes me how in only 20 years the modern scenes highlighting the wonders of the VCR age are almost carbon-dated; the VIDEO RENT-A-DATE scene, or the Computer-Background-Dating-Check bit (which you can pretty much DO nowadays!) have fossilized! The old Jewish guy sucked into his high-tech TV (circa 1987) is a little dumb; and the baby Mr. Potato Head joke is not very good. There, got all that out of the way! Now, despite these shortcomings, there are enough truly hysterical scenes to make this film worth the rental/purchase. The titular sketch (spoofing '50s sci-fi space films) is spot-on perfect!. Another good one is the IN SEARCH OF parody (called B.S. OR NOT?) w. Henry Silva. It names the Loch Ness monster as Jack the Ripper (using as yet undiscovered evidence). It is pretty funny (especially the salacious gaze the monster gives the prostitute as she walks away). One of my favorite sketches (which I always chapter skip to if I'm in a hurry) is the VIDEO PIRATES sketch, with William Marshall (Blacula himself) as the leader of a band of old-world pirates boarding a ship full of videotapes and discs. The pirates mocking the FBI warning at the beginning of the tapes (Oooh, I'm soooo scared!) is classic! And the SON OF THE INVISIBLE MAN sketch with Ed Begley Jr. (in a full-throttle performance) as an all-too visible invisible man (Ever see a shirt make a phone call?) is hysterical. It has a bit of a YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN vibe about it (as both capture the look of those '30s Universal monster films EXACTLY). Carrie Fisher's sex-ed, VD film parody is also wickedly funny (and only a slight exaggeration of films like REEFER MADNESS). The BLACKS WITHOUT SOUL/DON SIMMONS sketches (w. B.B. King, and a perfectly cast David Alan Grier) are like the glory days of Saturday Night Live in their subversive humor (Chim-chimeny, chim-chimeny...). Yes, this film is the very definition of uneven; but the highlights ARE worth the trouble. The film works even better if you're old enough to REMEMBER cheesy, late-night, local TV station programming. And if you DO remember the parody origins as fondly as I do, then the film's highlights will really hit their mark; making the other, filler segments a perfect time to use the old chapter skip button (or go to the kitchen for a snack). Just don't miss the aforementioned sketches and a few other bits in between. And if you can't sleep, it's perfect counter-programming to those crappy paid programming/infomercials clogging up all the late-night time slots that used to be the haven of wonderfully bad, cheesy movies! AMAZON WOMEN lets viewers re-visit some of that cheesy nostalgia of late-night TV past! "}{"Title":"A hit-and-miss parody... one of mostly hits","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is a compilation of short skits... mostly representing what one might find on American late-night television(at least a few decades ago). Having not grown up neither in the right decade nor country, there may be a few jokes that I didn't get. The sketches vary in length, and some are more social commentary and satire than spoofs on commercials and 50's sci-fi/horror. Some of the comedy is pretty dark, but all of it is silly. There is some slapstick, but the majority of it seems to be parodying of commercials, shows and movies. From what I can tell, they hit the mark on most of the stuff pretty good. The R-rating seems like it could have been very, very easily avoided, so I would guess that the directors went for that because there wasn't really anything stopping them. For the benefit of both those seeking it and those trying to avoid it; there is some nudity in this(not an awful lot, but it seemed to last for a long time when it was there), and some swearing(little of it, but it's relatively strong when it's there). The humor varies... most of the material works, though there's the occasional dud. Some gags go on for too long, and there was at least one joke that I saw coming about a minute before it was made. The guest stars were pretty good, those of them I knew. One needs only to check the cast list to see that they got some good names on this production. Hartman, I'm sorry to say, is severely underused. The pacing was fair, for a 80 minute long series of comedy sketches. Technically well-produced(except for when it's not supposed to be). All in all, fine parody. I recommend it to fans of the type of movies spoofed(space/sci-fi horror of the 50's) and fans of spoofs. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Nonstop laughs for this television and movie parody.","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Starring Steve Forrest, Robert Colbert, Joey Travolta, David Allen Grier, Sybil Danning, Belinda Balaski, Archie Hahn, Henry Silva, Steve Allen, Rip Taylor, Slappy White, Charlie Callas, Henry Youngman, Jackie Vernon, Michelle Pfieffer, Peter Horton, Griffin Dunne, Steve Guttenberg, Rosanna Arquette, Carrie Fisher, Paul Bartel, Arsenio Hall, Lana Clarkson, Ed Begley Jr., Robert Picardo, William Marshall, Matt Adler, Ralph Bellamy, Monique Gabrielle, Joe Pantoliano, Forrest J Ackerman, BB King, John Ingle, Kelly Preston, Phil Hartman, Steve Cropper, Howard Hesseman, Andrew Dice Clay, Corinnie Wahl, Marc McClure, Russ Meyer and others.This is what sketch comedy is made of. This is a theatrical release motion picture that features 25 sketches, some connecting, some totally random. It's supposed to give you the feel of channel surfing through old movies, commercials for stupid products and just some funny random stuff. It's presented by John Landis and he also directed several of the segments, in this sequel (?) to 1977's Kentucky Fried Movie.The main stories are Amazon Women on the Moon, which is a cheap 1950's sci-fi movie that is purposely as cheesy as possible. Blacks With No Souls is another storyline that comes in several times in the movie, about Don Simmons who is a souless black singer that's just all to stupid. Bullsh*t or Not? is a reinacment fact or fiction type show hosted by Henry Silva. In the episode in this film he ponders if Jack the Ripper was really the Loch Ness monster and if the Titanic was real or not.Murray in TV Land is about old man Murray getting trapped in his TV and getting changed from channel to channel and is a running gag in the film.The other sketches include Arsenio Hall having a bad day when he gets totally massacred in his apartment by freak accidents. A sketch about a Playhouse Plaything and he she survives in life...fully naked. An invisible man that's not so invisible. Joe Pantalino as a hair loss victim. It's pretty easy to get into the sketches. It just feels good for some reason to channel flip through a bunch of random and stupid stuff. Some say it's not funny, because the stuff on their is actually the kind of lame junk you would fin on TV, but the humor is there, and it's funny. I totally recommend this especially with friends.My rating 3/4 stars. 84 mins. rated R for full frontal nudity, sexuality, some violence and brief language. "},{"Title":"Some Hits, Some Miss, But Otherwise Pretty Good","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Amazon Women On The Moon is like an unofficial sequel to Kentucky Fried Movie. However, this film isn't as funny.Directors John Landis, Carl Gottlieb, Peter Horton, and Robert K. Weiss take on different segments of the film. As a whole, the film is a bit messy. Some of the film has some good spots such as 1) Mondo Condo As Arsenio Hall is getting attacked by his apartment and constant calls for someone named Thelma.2) Amazon Women On The Moon The constant thread through the movie. You never get to see the whole film because the film is always interrupted in one form or another. At least you see how it ends. A tribute to incredibly bad SciFi films of the 50's.3)Blacks Without Soul Just for the seriousness of B.B.King.4) Son Of The Invisible Man The guy has injected himself with so many chemicals that he thinks he's invisible. And the town people just let him roam around naked! 5) Video Pirates In this day and age of internet downloads and the passing of VHS, watching this is pretty funny.6) Bulls*** or Not? The Loch Ness Monster is REALLY Jack The Ripper? Did I do this gig for a quick buck? We may never know.Some of the other segments just fall sort of flat (Especially the Titan Condom and Hospital sketch). However, it still makes for some fun viewing. "},{"Title":"So Funny!","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just saw this movie early this morning, October 20, 2005, on the Sundance Channel. Today is the first time I've seen this movie, and I laughed my head off! This is one I'm going to have to buy for fun movie nights. Additionally because the movie is from 1987 even makes it more laughable because it looks so dated and makes it even hokier (is that a word? ha ha ha!). I recommend it for anyone who wants a bunch of big belly laughs!! My husband completely cracked up too. We rarely like the same movies, so this was a big treat. I'm calling my kids to get this movie to watch soon. Ha ha ha ha ha! I wonder what I was doing in 1987 to miss this movie! I wish these people would do another one. It takes a lot to make me giggle. The only reason I made it a 9 instead of 10 is that I wanted it to be longer. "},{"Title":"An Classic thats needs to be seen...","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movies years ago on a a big box rental from my local Video store.There was and still is nothing quite like this little Gem.With a cast of 1000's and more than the odd familiar face, you have a unique and highly watchable movie with a little bit of humour to suit all tastes.Basically the film is a series of sketches based on the premise of someone flicking through TV channels while watching the main feature Amazon Women on the Moon (a b-movie parody that is scary in its authenticity). Now to be fair thats about it...dont look for plots, subplots, character traits or cinematography, this is pure visual humour.If you dont find something to laugh at in this feature you need help..! Be it a chuckle or an out and out belly laugh, theres something for you in here.Its a crime that this movie is now out of print. It deserves a relaunch on DVD.Its a underappreciated classic with some seriously classic moments (the invisible man for one..!)10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A few skits make it all worthwhile!","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay-- overall, the movie does tend to drag sometimes. However-- the first skit, with Arsenio Hall, is REQUIRED WATCHING for anyone who dares to enter our house!  The entire family has this skit memorized, step by step, we anticipate each move while trying not to roll on the floor laughing in tears, it's like Rocky Horror Picture Show around here!  This skit alone should have won tons of awards. The No Soul Simmons skits are fabulous!  Another classic from this movie! There are a few others, and some are rather annoying at best.  However, overall this movie is a great one to watch. "},{"Title":"if you like sketch comedy...","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some friends I've showed this to either sat there stonefaced or laughed constantly, so I guess it all depends on what you think of sketch comedy.  This is sort of a Saturday Night Live for the movies as about 10 or so skits are presented and like any variety show, some are great, some bomb.  Highlights for me were Mondo Condo (with a then hardly known Arsenio Hall), Video Date, and maybe my fave, the one where a dead man is verbally abused by a group of veteran comics at a funeral.  Some middling bits are the teenage condom customer who suffers a humiliating milestone and Begley Jr.'s invisible man routine.  Totally flat spots include the video pirates or the tiresome (not to mention laughless) installments of a movie with this films title.  Some big name directors and actors were involved here and it came off pretty good, much better than the highly hailed Kentucky Fried Movie, which I didnt smile once at.  So give this one a shot, cuz ya never know. "},{"Title":"Probably the funniest 5 minutes of any movie I've watched in a long time.","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first 5 minutes of this movie (with Arsenio Hall) are great.  After that, it gets a bit over-board on the humor... but it is still worth renting to catch that first 5 minutes. "},{"Title":"THE BI*^H DON'T LIVE HERE!!!   -Mondo Condo segment.","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Amazon Women on the Moon (1987) is a strange little low-budget comic offering,a bizarre and often hilarious(yet ALMOST as frequently dull) collection of slapstick sketches with only the thinnest of a connecting thread. I suppose it is based on the idea of simultaneously simulating and spoofing the feel of an insomniac's late-night channel surfing. The result is an almost randomly mixed series of syndicated TV,low budget films of the past,and commercials parodies.While it is truly a mixed bag in both theme and quality,and it is far from great, Amazon does turn out to be an altogether unique and memorable comedy experience...just begging for the perfect cult audience. Another tip,pop this baby into the VCR after midnight,it works best when the night is full,the moon is out and the drowsiness of the viewer is for real(and can work in it's favor).The sketches ***POTENTIAL SPOILERS*** Mondo Condo-  The opening segment features Arsenio Hall in what may always remain his greatest performance. Innovative and hilarious. John Landis directed this beauty.   ****  out of ****Pethouse Video-  Penthouse spoof features loads of nudity. Like I like it. ***Murray in Videoland- Old man gets stuck in his own TV set,wanders through the programming. Decent.   **1/2Hospital- Is Mr.Potato Head really Michelle Pheiffer's baby? Well,kind of... Weird sketch.   **Hairlooming- Commercial spoof has Joe Pantoliano hawking a wig that won't come off.  Fitfully funny.   **1/2Amazon Women on the Moon- The recurring sketch(s) of the title is an almost painfully unfunny spoof of 1950's sci-fi fare and brings the movie to a halt whenever it appears.   *1/2Blacks Without Soul/Don No Soul Simmons-  'Ya gotta admit that David Alan Greer is simply the man here. No sweat,these shorts are good. ***Two ID's-  Rosanna Arquette,Steve Guttenberg and a relationship background check. None more 80's,none more funny.  ***1/2Bulls*^t or not- On TV,it's baloney or not. Sheesh! I dig that Lochness Ripper!   ***1/2Critics Corner- Siskel and Ebert like critics turn their disparaging comments on a man's sorry-a## life.   ***Silly Pate- Not much of a joke to build on,even for a short commercial segment.   **Roast Your Loved One- That sorry-a## guy is back,and even a funeral cannot stop the laughs(or Rip Taylor's ghastly hairpiece).   ***Video Pirates-  Let me get this straight...those are real pirates stealing videocassetts? Um,Ok. Ho Ho. Robert Weiss is responsible for this dreck. *Son of the Invisible Man-  WARNING!!! Ed Bagley Jr. is butt-naked in this one.   **Art Sale-  Try and guess what this one is about...damn! Okay,it's an Old joke,but skillfully timed.   ***First Lady of the Evening- Some kind of Sidney Sheldon spoof. Nearly as dreary as the real Sheldon.   *1/2Titan Man-  A my-first-condom-kind of sketch...and a serious embarrasment for Mr. Bailey.   **1/2Video Date- Now we're talking!! A Russ Meyer cameo,t^ts galore and a brief,top-of-form appearance by the Diceman himself elevate this one to brilliant status.   ****Reckless Youth- Stay tuned post(false)credits for this funny spoof of 30's Youth Beware films with Paul Bartel and Carrie Fisher. ***OVERALL FILM  QUALITY=  *** out of 4 stars.  "},{"Title":"wow!","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this is one of the funniest movies i have ever seen.  Blacks without Soul is one of best (especially the Black Republicans).  The Titan's is also very funny.  (wow thats a grammatical error).  The Amazon women on the moon is just awful.  I love the jumpy cuts.  And of couse Bulls**t or Not! where jack the ripper is really the loch ness monster....But the best, the pinnacle of this movie comes after the credits.  I cannot stop laughing at the memory of this skit.The funniest part goes like thisCarrie Fisher is talking to her doctor, and tells him about this party she goes to Carrie  it was a wild party... Scene shifts from Fisher to a small room with five people sitting in chairs bouncing balloons around.Then of course when her husband ken gets the social disease and suddenly loses his eyesight while driving....Oh god.Anyways some of the skits do drag a bit.  The critics corner is kind of dull.  The man in the tv, while probably very very funny when it was made (remotes being pretty new stuff at that point) falls kinda flat now.  The hospital scene is funny in theory but the actors kind of drag it out.However, the movie in whole is hilarious, great for people with very low attention spans and perfect for parties (especially parties so wild you toss balloons around).8 out of 10 "}{"Title":"A fun romp worth visiting yearly. Possible Spoilers","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a supposed sequel to a John Landis movie I've never seen called Kentucky Fried Movie. I will say that this movie is a heck of a lot better than the spoof of T.V. movies that I've seen such as Tunnelvision or The Groove Tube.The film has some weaknesses. Due to the presence of 5 directors, who all came up with their own material, the film lurches through different types of situations. From hilarious commercials, to spoofing T.V. shows, to SNL style sketch comedy, to even making old black and white short films, as well as the title film, it changes without any rhyme or reason. There are some cruel sketches as well. Still, the film is a classic because of the memorable characters created. In particular, David Alan Grier's Don No Soul Simmons, who appears in the Blacks With No Soul and a segment where you can buy his albums are hilarious. I'd love to get those albums, especially Don No Soul Simmons Gets Down And Funky. I feel that Alfonso Ribeiro's character of Carleton Banks from The Fresh Prince Of Bel Air was derived from him; they look, dress, talk, sing, dance, and have the same interests in music. Joey Travolta's attempt to ape his brother John's Barbarino character in the Amazon Woman segment is pretty hilarious, too. Of course Mondo Condo featuring Arsenio Hall in an apartment cursed with Murphy's Law is still hilarious, as is the two segments featuring Archie Hahn Real Life Movie Review and Roasting A Loved One (actually based on a show that existed, where comedians got roasted on T.V.). Some great lines from those segmentsI'm sorry, but I have to give Harvey Pitnik a big thumbs downWe're here to put two things to rest Harvey and the fact that Charlie Callas is funny!We've got two pieces of bad news Milton Berle couldn't be here and Rip Taylor is.Even the two black-and-white featurettes are interesting. Ever wanted to see Ed Begley Jr. naked. Here you go. Ever wanted to see a glimpse of what a message film from the 30's about the evils of sexual diseases was like? It's here.The commercials are alright. Other than the No Soul commercials, the Silly Pate (I'm eating Popeye.) comes close, the rest are weak, although the Irving Sidney novel commercial should have given Sidney Sheldon a good idea for a future novel.The SNL skits are a mixed bag. Mondo Condo is a classic. The one with the then married couple of Michelle Pfeiffer and Peter Horton trying to get their delivered baby from a doctor played by Griffin Dunne is great for one line uttered by HortonThat's not our son! That's a Mister Potato Head!The cruel skit involves Matt Adler, Kelly Preston, Steve Cropper, Howard Hesseman, and Ralph Bellamy and it's about a teenager buying condoms for the first time and finding out that he was the billionth man to buy them and is paraded around in embarrassing fashion. The Video Date one is pretty good, until it gets a bit nasty in the end, but since it features Russ Meyer (and Andrew Dice Clay), it wouldn't surprise me if Meyer came up with the plot for this one, as a lot of his movies are like this. The Two I.D.'s skit with Steve Guttenberg and Rosanna Arquette is a frightening portent of today's fears of your private life being available for the public to know about. Video Pirates is weak, why this one was made is beyond me, as well as seeing Lou Jacobi in a running joke of being trapped on T.V.The movie says it has a lot of actors in it's opening credits. You'll see old-movie stars, established actors, up and comers, bluesman B.B. King, comedians and cult movie directors such as Meyer and Paul Bartel. As well, one of the most beautiful array of female talent ever assembled. A female cast with Michelle Pfeiffer, Rosanna Arquette, Kelly Preston, Sybil Danning (in the Amazon Women segments), Lana Clarkson (Amazon Women), Angel Tompkins (Irving Sidney), Carrie Fisher (you Star Wars fans loved her outfit in Return Of The Jedi), former Playboy Playmate Monique Gabrielle (an honourable mention in my tops list for beauty) and former Penthouse Pet Corrinne Wahl (nee Alphen). You can't beat that.Put it all together, and you have a film that must be seen once a year at least. An ambitious project, and even though it has a few flaws, it's great. I wish they'd make something like this today. "},{"Title":"A wacky send-up of late-night TV movies, celebrity roasts, etc.","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like Monty Python stuff, this uneven collection of comedy tidbits with several different directors and a huge cast will receive mixed reactions some will love almost all of it; some will like some parts and loath others; and there will be those who find the whole thing to be sophomoric, humorless idiocy. For me, the best parts were the title skit, an almost too real parody of a 'fifties space movie, the concluding social disease sketch (you have to have experienced the 'thirties and 'forties to get it, though), and some of the commercials, especially the ones by Don (The Man With No Soul) Simmons. And if you want to know who Jack the Ripper REALLY was, YOU CANT AFFORD TO MISS THIS IMPORTANT CINEMATIC MASTERPIECE!!! Anyway, worth a look. "},{"Title":"A must see for anyone who enjoys movies.","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those movies that you see, put on a shelf, and get back out a few years later for belly laugh after belly laugh.  Something else fun about this movie is seeing how many actors made it big after this movie came out. SO many NOW name talent and then they were just trying to get work in a city full of people trying to get work.  The pure fun that the movie pokes at itself makes this a MUST see! "},{"Title":"Big 80s Goes Python","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Somewhere, in the used-music store of my dreams, lies a stack of vintage Don No Soul Simmons vinyl, next to Spinal Tap's Shark Sandwich and the debut disc by the Wonders.One of the easier-to-miss comedy showcases of the 1980s was this collection of sketches that narrowly made it to theaters in 1987 before finding a friendlier home on cable and video. It's catch-as- catch- can comedy, often puerile or obvious in intent, yet consistently enjoyable for its inventiveness and lack of pretense.A man watches his life get panned by two Siskel-and-Ebert-style movie critics on TV. He didn't like 'Gandhi,' either, his wife offers consolingly. A video rental goes from seduction to double- homicide, with Andrew Dice Clay as triggerman. Steve Guttenberg's hot date with Roseanna Arquette turns into a credit check from hell when she looks into his past dating history and discovers he lies about liking Meryl Streep movies.I don't want to say you have to have lived through the 1980s to enjoy Amazon Women On The Moon, but it definitely helps.The only two bits that seem to have weathered the years is Don No Soul Simmons (David Alan Grier as a black Pat Boone singing white- bread classics like Chim-Chim-Cher-ee and Tie A Yellow Ribbon) and a mystery-documentary spoof where Jack the Ripper is revealed as the Loch Ness Monster, complete with deerstalker cape and bowler hat. They seem to show up on YouTube, anyway.The rest of the sketches may not be as lasting, though an opening bit with Arsenio Hall getting attacked by home appliances makes for a memorable showcase for Hall's physical humor. But most are good for some chuckles.I even enjoyed sketches no one else writing reviews here did, like the one where insufferable yuppie parents Michelle Pfeiffer and Peter Horton are introduced to their baby, a Mr. Potato Head, by absent-minded doctor Griffin Dunne.Sure, just jump all over me, Dr. Dunne whines after his ruse is called out. What about the nine kids I DIDN'T lose this week!There's a lot of invention on display, in the big concepts and in the small jokes, too. Lead director John Landis was also the guy behind Kentucky Fried Movie, which this was an unofficial sequel, and a lot of the same goofball energy feeds this film, even if the writers are different.Sketch comedy is always a hit-and-miss thing in theaters; even Monty Python had problems with it. The aim is lower here (there's even a long bit featuring a beautiful woman where her nakedness is the whole joke), but the attitude is right. It actually reminded me more of a 1982 ABC-TV sitcom, No Soap, Radio, which starred Guttenberg. There, as here, a few running plot threads (like Don Simmons and a spoof of a 1950s space adventure which provides the film's title) are interwoven with blackout sketches. Like No Soap, Radio, the device of television-watching is used to move from sketch to sketch.I enjoyed No Soap, Radio in its day, and I found this similarly entertaining in its low-key, off-kilter way. Even if Amazon Women is as much of a time capsule now as the various films it spoofs, it still offers plenty of good fun; maybe some misty nostalgia, too. "},{"Title":"Saturday Night Live Unbound...","Date":"3 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" While it's not as outrageously over-the-top as KENTUCKY FRIED MOVIE, AMAZON WOMEN ON THE MOON indeed has its moments. It's a minor thing, but the opening credit sequence had me smiling (Starring Lots of people...). Unfortunately, the opening skit is easily the least of the offerings this time around- but, if you can make it through it, there are rewards to be had. Henry Silva's deadpan delivery makes BULLSHIT- OR NOT? one of my favorite segments finding out the truth about Jack the Ripper is worth the price of admission. It was great to see the late William Marshall (BLACULA himself) as the leader of a band of VIDEO PIRATES (who Tape and Pillage) and the black and white sequel to THE INVISIBLE MAN, SON OF THE INVISIBLE MAN, was as inspired as YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN. Another highlight was seeing the late Forrest J. Ackerman as The President in AMAZON WOMEN ON/OF THE MOON. The roast of the dead man was chock full of classic comedians who were still capable of killin' 'em even that late in the day. Miracle Pictures If it's GOOD, it's a Miracle! "},{"Title":"Better than it gets credit for","Date":"27 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" At the time this movie came out I was a serious insomniac spending much time watching late night TV, so I could relate.The concept -- seen through the eyes of a late night TV watcher flipping channels, but always returning to 1 movie is terrific and then add the wonderful cast and laugh out loud skits and you get a movie that is much better than a 6.? rating.I'm not going to start listing cast members as you can read that right here, but don't just read the first few. Because of the nature of the skits, there are well known actors/actresses from top to bottom, some well before they became household names. How about David Allen Grier long before In Living Color or Arsenio Hall in his first movie.OK, I know I said I wasn't going to list and then I did. I've been looking to buy or rent a copy of this movie for years, so I got excited writing about it.To conclude -- if you get the chance don't miss out. "},{"Title":"Well I Liked It","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a mostly funny sketch comedy movie with some hits and some misses that obviously will divide the audience. The two sketches that are total stinkers - Rosanna Arquette and Steve Guttenberg sketch about a woman running a different kind of credit check on a blind date. This was my least favorite sketch. Up until this point, I was laughing steadily at the movie but here I didn't laugh once. Really derailed the movie's momentum. - The comedy roast funeral with a lot of old comics like Steve Allen and Rip Taylor. Terribly unfunny and it goes on forever. Very painful to sit through.The funniest sketches - Opening sketch with Arsenio Hall as an accident-prone man having the worst day ever in his apartment. Lots of old school slapstick comedy that won't be to everyone's tastes but I laughed out loud through the whole thing. - The Pethouse Video sketch mocking vacuous centerfolds. In addition to being funny, it features the gorgeous Monique Gabrielle walking around naked the whole sketch. - Henry Silva sketch mocking In Search Of type shows - A man has his life reviewed like a movie by two Siskel & Ebert-type critics - Son of the Invisible Man - Teenager trying to buy condoms with frustrating results - Video date sketch with Marc McClure - Amazon Women on the Moon sketch that lovingly mocks 50s sci-fi. This one runs throughout the film and is very amusing, particularly if you're a fan of those types of films. - Another running gag Lou Jacobi as a man zapped into his television and appears in various sketches throughout the movie looking for helpAs you can see, there's more good than bad. The rest of the sketches in the film are brief but chuckle-worthy. The only two that are absolutely terrible are the ones I listed above. Make sure you sit through the credits for the Reefer Madness spoof with Carrie Fisher and Paul Bartel. It's worth it. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Amazon Women on the Moon The worst part of watching commercials on TV is they're always interrupted by an annoying movie.However, it's not only commercials disrupting the feature film in this comedy, it's everything.Chanel 8 is showing a late-night 1950s sci-fi film called Amazon Women on the Moon, which stars Sybil Danning as the Queen of the Moon and Steve Forrest as a wayward astronaut.However, the film is constantly cut short by an array of movie and television promos, public service announcements and infomercials starring Michelle Pfeiffer, David Alan Grier, Rosanna Arquette, Steve Guttenberg and Ed Begley, Jr.Meanwhile, the lunar love story culminates in a daring escape.With sketches directed by established filmmakers (Joe Dante, John Landis) that range from the sublime to the silly, this anthology is a hilarious ode to night owl entertainment.Thankfully, movies today aren't interrupted by commercials; products are just strategically placed in every scene.Yellow Light vidiotreviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Thesaurus of Destiny","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a crazy skit movie, you can't really try to find a common thread. Finding the same actor in two skits, yes. But the same story? Nope. Not unless your television explodes and your garbage disposal eats your tie.The segments were pretty good. I enjoyed the Amazon Women on the Moon which was constantly interrupted by commercials (skits) and pointed to an great amount of amusement. The Video Pirates, while outdated, were funny. And so was the film critics judging that man's life.Some of the comedians in the film weren't as funny as I would hope. But the overall experience was good. So have at it. If you like 70s and 80s nonsensical humor, you will enjoy it. B+ "},{"Title":"Anarchist Comedy At Its Best","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many have compared this to the Kentucky Fried Movie, and while that IS an apt comparison, this runs more like the Grindhouse version of comedy. Also, there are so many versions of this particular work out there, I'm finding it difficult to rate the work. There is a sexier (and subsequently naughtier) version, which appears to be more a theatrical release, while the cleaner version includes skits left out of the racier version, which are not as funny as the adult skits they replace.Whichever version you watch, however, there is a ton of entertainment to be found. Whether you're in the market for a condom or trying to watch the nonexistent movie through numerous breaks, this is entertaining.I like it, though once you've seen it, you've seen it.It rates a 6.4/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"Funny compilation of shorts mostly masterminded by comedy director John Landis...","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1st watched 2/25/2007 - 7 out of 10(Dir-Joe Dante, Carl Gottleib, Peter Horton, John Landis & Robert K. Weiss) Funny compilation of shorts mostly masterminded by comedy director John Landis with a few other directors getting involved as well. The focus of these parodies are mostly television and old movies with the title being one of the bits parodying a science fiction movie of the 50's that is interrupted throughout the movie for commercials and other small funny scenes. One of my favorites is an un-cool black performer singing various non-funky toons with B.B. King asking for donations to help the cause of this afflicted black man without soul. Don't run away when the titles come at the end because it's interrupted by a very dead-on funny bit copying the 30's exploitation movies warning the viewer about the dreaded social diseases with Carrie Fisher playing the title woman character. One of the least funny bits is a funeral where it's played out like a celebrity roast with various schtick comedians doing one-liners about the deceased. I could go on and on, but the bottom line is that this is a very funny escapism movie setup similar to Woody Allen's Everything You Wanted to Know about Sex and The Kentucky Fried Movie without as much sick humor and a few more running gags to keep the movie flowing despite it being a group of disconnected bits otherwise. If you want to laugh, watch this one. "},{"Title":"A lot funnier than might be expected","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)The opening skit Apartment Victim with Arsenio Hall is pure slapstick--not my favorite comedy type but for some reason I found it hilarious. I just cracked up on all the mishaps and the great timing by Arsenio and the cameras. The way the video cassette shoots back out of the player and hits him and knocks him over was just so funny; and the way the TV blows up when he hits the remote was a crack up. Which reminds me, Confucius says Woman who flies upside down has hairy crack up. (Sorry about that.) Anyway, I also liked David Alan Grier as Don (No Soul) Simmons in the segment Blacks without Soul. The Laurence Welk way he sang the Broadway show type tunes was just a riot. I also liked the skit featuring Rosanna Arquette, Two I.D.'s in which she takes the prospective date's credit cards and two forms of ID to investigate what kind of guy he is on a date.I also kind of liked the comedic roast at the wake in Roast your loved one. Kind of. The jokes ranged from funny but old to lame-o.The overall shtick of this being a TV late night movie show was also good--the idea, anyway. The featured movie Amazon Women on the Moon (actually this was a skit too; no such movie exists although one wonders why), which spoofs 50s cheapo sci-fi flicks was so, so very bad as to almost be campy--but not quite. It was frankly just bad bad, and a little on the very cognitively challenged side, that is to say, dumb.Overall this was a lot funnier than might be expected, at least for me, but then again I have actually watched most of the episodes of Married with Children although I would never admit it. "},{"Title":"This movie will play better on TV.","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The various sketches with a large assortment of personalties is a real hit or miss affair. The BB King segment is definitely the best. The other parts are funny or boring depending on the viewers tastes. The interruptions of the space voyage add little to the movie. Yes the space voyage interrupts the various sketches although the intent is to have it the other way around. Arsenio Hall's segment and the seductive women segment are also fairly entertaining. But as with the awful  Tunnelvision and the fairly acceptable Groove Tube one has to pick and choose what they like. The space voyage segments should have been funnier to complement the sketches. "},{"Title":"A satiric movie about TV and Sci-Fi classics","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Amazon Women on the Moon (1987 - 91 minutes), is a very funny comedy written by Michael Barrie and Jim Mulholland who has a simulation of a Sci-Fi classic movie as a link to the stories. The movie is divided in 23 sketches directed by the movie makers Joe Dante (Hairlooming, Bullshit or Not, Critic's Corner, Roast Your Loved One, French Ventiloquist's Dummy and Reckless Youth); Carl Gottlieb (Pethouse Video, Sound of the Invisible Man and Art Sale); Peter Horton (Two I.D.'s and The Unknown Soldier); John Landis (Mondo Condo, Hospital, Blacks Without Souls, Don 'No Soul' Simmons and Video Date);and Robert K. Weiss (Murray in Videoland, Amazon Women on the Moon, Silly Paté, Video Pirates, First Lady of the Evening and Titan Man). A hilarious satire to the TV advertisements, to the low budget movies and to the cine maniacs, this movie congregates a constellation of stars as Rosanna Arquette, Ralph Bellamy, Griffin Dunne, Carrie Fisher, Steve Guttenberg, Arsenio Hall, B. B. King, Joe Pantoliano, Michelle Pfeiffer, Kelly Preston, Henry Silva, and others. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The sequel-cum-remake.","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Amazon Women on the Moon (1987) was a funny collection of skits and stories that were loosely strung together, Sort of like THE KENTUCKY FRIED MOVIE except with more directors and better actors. Keep your eyes open more many cameo appearances from an abundance of celebrates. The commercials were hilarious and witty. The stories are linked together by an elderly man named Murray (Lou Jacobi) who's watching t.v. and is enjoying himself until his wife joins him. Depressed, he starts to mess around with the remote. A freak occurrence of nature causes Murray yo be transported into T.V. Land. His travels take him everywhere. While Murray's in the idiot box, his wife tries in vain to get him back safely. Will Murray be able to return home? How did he wind up there? When will they ever air the scheduled showing of AMAZON WOMEN ON THE MOON?A funny film that has a lot of hit-or-miss comedy. This is a pseudo-sequel to the cult classic KENTUCKY FRIED MOVIE. The television version of this movie has a lot of alternate footage. It even has several scenes that were never in the theatrical release. I hope a special edition of this movie is released on D.V.D. so we can see the definitive version of this sadly neglected classic.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"lame","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  the only part in this movie that was funny, was the Don (no soul) Simmons scene. most of others were a total bore. the amazon women scene itself, had a lame ending. i expected this movie to be hilarious, but i was disappointed. "},{"Title":"Funny, Offbeat, '80's humor","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie makes fun of 50's sci-fi, 80's infomercials and safe sex, among other things.  If you're old enough to have had to worry about safe sex in 1987, you'll likely enjoy this movie.  Lots of stars, past present and future grace this tale.  Kind of skit comedy. "},{"Title":"Not good, not bad","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like all comedy sketch type movies, this one was hit or miss in the joke department. There were some extremely hysterical segments and some that fell extremely flat.I like these types of movies, but often find myself feeling how I did with this one hit or miss....Not as good as The Groove Tube but better than Kentucky Fried Movie "},{"Title":"Lottery Of Humour","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An acquired sense of humour is needed if you are to enjoy this production. I found only maybe 50% of the skits of this humouress, the rest a bit of a bore.Worth a risk. "},{"Title":"Don 'No Soul' Simmons is God!","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's not a brilliant movie - any kind of sketch compilation is going to be variable at best (look at Monty Python's And Now for Something Completely Different and The Meaning of Life) but this has more standout moments than Kentucky Fried Movie (with which it's often unfavourably compared).Highlights for me include the Great Mysteries Of Our Time documentary show, Bullshit or Not? The revelation that Jack the Ripper was actually the Loch Ness Monster makes more sense than some theories I've heard. ..Monique Gabrielle is gorgeous as the Pethouse Video Pet trying to appear intelligent by going to art galleries (but doing it naked because that's what people are watching the tape for).If there's one let-down it's the framing film which gives the compilation it's name - the movie it parodies, Queen of Outer Space featuring Zsa-Zsa Gabor, is simultaneously better AND worse and a lot funnier!By the way, Don has his own Usenet newsgroup, alt.fan.don.no.soul.simmons. No-one posts to it, which seems fitting somehow. "}{"Title":"Mixed bag of lunacy","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  AMAZON WOMEN ON THE MOON (1987) ** Michelle Pfeiffer, Rosanna Arquette, Griffin Dunne, Ed Begley, Jr., Steve Guttenberg, Steve Allen, Ralph Bellamy, Howard Hesseman, Lou Jacobi, Arsenio Hall, Carrie Fisher, Andrew Dice Clay.  Sporadically funny series of satirical skits, spoofs and other forms of comedy with an all-star cast trying to do the best in this decidedly mixed bag of lunacy. "},{"Title":"The people who made this movie had to be comic geniuses.","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Every second of this movie is absolutely hilarious. Before i saw Amazon Woman on the Moon when someone asked what my favourite move was i had to list 5 because i was unsure of wich one was my most favourite. But now when somone asks my favourite movie i yell amazon woman on the moon and explain it's not a porn like it seems it would be because of the kinky sounding title. I tell people picture saturday night live 1000 times funnier. However it does take a good sense of humour and i know most of my friends wouldn't like it because you have to have a master mind of humour to understand it which only few of us were blessed with  )  "},{"Title":"Extremely uneven","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This loosely connected collection of gags reminded me of And Now For Something Completely Different and, like that film, it's extremely uneven. Opening five minutes, Critic's Corner and Video Date are among highlights, but long stretches (like Video Pirates and Son of the Invisible Man, whose joke had been used in a 1972 Disney comedy) are just terrible. "},{"Title":"Push STOP after the first 10 minutes","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is half review and half advice.The opening scene of this film is a sketch loosely known as The Apartment. This was tremendous comedy.Once this sketch is over, the only advice i can give you is to push the STOP button. Beyond the opening scene, there is nothing even remotely funny about this film.I don't actually know anyone who has sat the whole way through this film and whenever it came up as a topic on conversation, The Apartment was the only thing people looked back on and laughed. In fact, everything after the apartment is not only unfunny; it's actually downright boring.Some people say that this has some connection (or is some sort of unofficial sequel) to Kentucky Fried Movie. Kentucky was one of the best comedies of its time, but Amazon does not even come close to reaching the same heights. Furthermore, in case you didn't know, Amazon had completely different writers. And it shows! Overall woeful, but if you happen to see it listed on some cable TV channel, I recommend tuning in for the Apartment sketch. Just have something else to watch once that sketch is over. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Non-cliché humour, probably not suitable for majority of the audience, especially not in the present time. Highly recommended for Monty Python fans, since it's actually a series of rather unconnected sketches. I must say I really miss this kind of movies nowadays. Some may say making a schizophrenic cocktail of short skits is way easier than developing a complex story with strong characters, but I say it's the effect that counts. And Amazon Women on the Moon or Monty Python's Flying Circus may have some weak moments, but their genre allows them to switch to something completely different at once. In the mainstream movies, it usually takes ages to get from one mood into another, boring you to death in between. "},{"Title":"Not outstanding but..","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this comedy spoof of classic science fiction B-films and late-night programming does have its moments. The best bits involve Carrie Fisher in a parody of warning to youth educational films and the running parody of CAT WOMEN OF THE MOON, which is done with a little bit of affection I felt. Of course, CAT WOMEN OF THE MOON is actually better than this movie. "},{"Title":"Some one has the remote and they won't let go!","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"   This is no earth shattering satire, but it was fun. And it has some real  good laughs. Great for a Saturday afternoon light one.  "},{"Title":"Recommended if you found 'Kentucky Fried Movie' to be funny.","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Save maybe one or two skits, I didn't like 'The Kentucky Fried Movie,' to which 'Amazon Women on the Moon' is the unofficial sequel. One skit after another of moderately funny pokes at tv commercials, television shows, and old 50s sci-fi movies. And a movie with a huge cast of familiar faces doesn't help when the writing is only average to begin with.There are some good skits like the one with Rosanna Arquette as the girlfriend who has all of the background info on her blind date (Steve Guttenberg) (including pick up lines and break up lines); the apartment sequence with Arsenio Hall; the sequence with Matt Adler as the young man trying to quietly buy a box of condoms; and the one with Griffin Dunne as the doctor who can't find the new mother's baby. But most of them are pretty corny and very stupid jokes such as the Invisible Man's Son sequence with Ed Begley Jr. who only thinks he is invisible (p.s. you can see his body suit).Overall, there are more mediocre skits than good ones, and they come off like a stand up comic with some poor humor who keeps flipping through his index cards and reading off jokes that he thinks will get a laugh after so many previous jokes have failed a reaction. I think if you liked 'Kentucky Fried Movie,' to which this is essentially an extension, then you'll probably enjoy this one.  "},{"Title":"Weak","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not very funny. Tries to be a spoof of channel surfing and TV, but the jokes are kind of cliched and generic. Don't be fooled by the box. which says tons of stars. Granted, there are a few people in there, but mostly they are stars of the like of Rip Taylor, Steve Allen, whatever. Not really big stars, just known. I'll list the big stars - Michelle Pfeiffer, Carrie Fisher, Arsenio Hall, Ed Begley Jr., Howard Hesseman. And they appear only for a few minutes each in very sporadically funny sketches. SNL is, in general, much funnier sketch comedy than this movie. I give it one * out of four. "},{"Title":"It's not funny.","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved KENTUCKY FRIED MOVIE, but this film is so excruciating it gave me nightmares. Just about everything on offer here is painfully bad, and when an interesting idea does come up (the real-life reviews, with a Siskel and Ebert-type pair of bumptious critics discussing a loser's uneventful existence) it's either mishandled or overworked to the point of tedium. The level of humour is mostly childish or banal, and the running thread - a parody of zero-budget fifties science fiction - isn't nearly as clever or as knowing as it would like to be. The only bright spots are Ed Begley's inept Invisible Man parody, Don 'no soul' Simmonds (his rendition of 'Close To You' is both funny and touching) and the Video Date skit with Russ Meyer and Corrine Wahl, who would certainly be my dream date! On the whole, however, this isn't worth your time and I doubt if a few beers would improve matters. A waste of talent, if that word can be used in conjunction with Steve Guttenberg and Sybil Danning. "}{"Title":"Amazon Women on the Moon","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bizarre off the wall comedy that attacks contemporary life and mass media. Some humorous moments, but overall a dud! "},{"Title":"No, I don't think so....","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All those great directors, all those great actors, all those potentially funny situations and none of them made me laugh.I guess it was too much to hope for Landis, et al, to equal the lofty heights attained by The Kentucky Fried Movie.  But in every sketch perpetrated here, there was writing so hopelessly bad that every attempt falls flat without hope of recovery.  No, not even the sight of Sybil Danning matters much.  As much as it pains me to say it.  Sorry, Sybil.It's no wonder Landis has failed to get his act together after the first Blues Brothers movie.  Nothing he's made since seems to have the same level of urgency.  And since he's the main contributor here, it's his shoulders that have to take the load.I guess we knew after this that the ZAZ boys (Zucker, Abrahams, Zucker) are what made The Kentucky Fried Movie so funny.  So much for a revival.One star.  For the attempt.   "}]