[{"Title":"looks cheap but so damn funny","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hate to say it guys, but I liked this one better.  One was good, but this one is so silly, so comical at times, that I just loved it.  If you're unfamiliar with the format, there are 3 short stories featured here.  Up first is a wooden indian that adorns the front of a general store, coming to life to kill the goons who gunned down his owners.  Holt McCallany is very strong as the foul mouthed leader of the gang.  And the way he gets his...hoo boy.  Number two has a man-eating oil slick(?) snacking on teens on a wooden raft.  And most people are right when they say it looks like a big hefty bag.  And a moment that will have you rolling, and that will give teenage boys ideas and have men remembering fondly when they may have done it, is where the surviving guy takes a peek under the surviving girls sweater.  Good to see where this dudes priorities are; two of his friends are dead, he's nearly been killed, and he decides its a good time to look at boobies.  I loved it.  But my absolute favorite of both Creepshow films is the hitchhiker story.  It's so hysterically unrealistic that it still makes me laugh all these years later.  With Lois Chiles mind-losing dialogue, and the dead guys constant thanks for the ride, lady! I can't imagine a funnier, more exciting short story than that.  In a perfect world Tom Wright, who played the hitchhiker, wouldda been nominated for an Oscar. Also a high five to the campy look of the film, with all three films set in the middle of nowhere, one at sea, one (mostly) in the woods.  A lot of fun I say, though most hated this one. "},{"Title":"A worthy but flawed sequel","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow 2 was released in 1987 and was directed by George Romero's regular cinematographer Michael Gornick. Gornick, who was a late replacement for the original director FX maestro Tiom Savini, cut his directorial teeth on several episodes of Laurel's Tales From The Darkside and was a natural choice to make the film. He does a commendable job with what is clearly a modest budget and three stories that are not as engaging, gripping and frightening as those available to Romero in his original 1982 film.Only one of the three stories has been previously published, the other two being originals devised for the film by Stephen King and scripted by Romero. The first story is called Old Chief Woodenhead and stars Hollywood veterans George Kennedy and Dorothy Lamour. It concerns a wooden storefront statue of an old Indian chief that comes to life to avenge the death of two elderly people by a gang of youths. It is the least impressive of the three tales but retains a certain ghoulish charm.The second story is The Raft. Originally published in King's 1985 short story collection Skeleton Crew (with a slightly different ending). The segment is about four scantily-clad teenagers who arrive at a deserted lake, late one summer, for an afternoon swim but find that something thoroughly unpleasant is waiting for them. The special effects are well below par with King himself commenting that the monster in the lake looks something like a dirty old man's raincoat. However, this episodes's grim punchline would make The Cryptkeeper himself chuckle with approval.The third and probably best story is The Hitchhiker and stars Louis (Moonraker) Chiles as a bored, rich housewife who regularly enjoys the services of a handsome gigolo. On her way home from such an encounter she accidentally runs over a young Hitchhiker (played by stuntman Tom Wright) killing him instantly. Terrrified by the consequences of her actions she quickly leaves the scene of the accident. However, a few miles down the road she sees the Hitchhiker, bloodied and amazingly returned to life, limping towards her. To reveal any more would be to dampen this segment's sick delights but I will say that it features a neat cameo by King himself as a foul-mouthed truck driver.A fourth story called Pinfall was planned for the movie but later dropped due to the faltering budget. It concerned an overweight band of beer-chugging bowlers that are murdered by a rival bowling team and come back from the dead for revenge in true EC style. Its a shame we will never get to see this story but it is very close in theme and structure to both Oldf Chief Woodenhead and The Hitchhiker.All in all, Creepshow 2 is worth a look and remains a guilty pleasure of mine that I have enjoyed with alarming regularity over the years. It may not be up to the standards set by the first Creepshow but there are more painful ways to spend an evening. Ask The Hitchhiker... "},{"Title":"Thanks for the Ride, Lady!","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Masters of Horror Stephen King and George A. Romero return to deliver more comic book style thrills in Creepshow 2. With original Creepshow cinematographer Michael Gornick stepping in as director, the film is not only slimmer on content (three stories instead of five) but on budget and star-power as well. That doesn't mean that horror fans aren't in for a heaping serving of campy carnage candy, though. In tradition with the original, Creepshow is hellbent on making its viewers laugh and squirm in their seats simultaneously.While Gornick is no George A. Romero, he certainly brings a touch of style to the film that serves it well. Animated segments aside, the look and tone of the original is carried over into its sequel, with some surprisingly flashy moments that make one wonder why the director fell off the face of the Earth (you know, aside from the fact that this flick flopped). The script, penned by Romero, has its ups and downs, with some stories being more effective and more competent than others. Variety, however, is the key to the film's success. If one thing can be said about this affair, it is that it never bores and it certainly goes by quickly enough. In fact, some would say the fun ends far too early.The three stories are a mixed bag of creepy and goofy, with the first concerning a wooden Indian propped outside of a small-town general store. When local punks rob its kindly owners, the statue comes to life seeking revenge. This bit is rather slow moving and sets the movie off on the wrong foot. Although not terrible by any means, it is in sharp contrast to the two that follow. Next up, we follow a foursome of guys and gals going for a swim in a secluded lake. Soon they find themselves being feasted upon by what can only be described as an oil slick surrounded by a Hefty bag. Of the three, this is probably the strongest, with some genuinely creepy moments and terrific special effects. Then, to wrap things up, we find a woman of questionable morals being stalked on the highway by a drifter she accidentally hit. While his insistence on thanking her for the ride makes him seem harmless enough, the woman quickly slips into madness as she tries to rid herself of the passenger to no avail. This is the one segment most likely to induce a few unintentional chuckles for its ridiculously over-the-top premise and execution.Overall, there's a noticeable drop in quality from the first, but the sense of dread and humor is still intact. Creepshow 2 is certainly a worthy sequel with a few moments of brilliance that may have panned out better in feature length films. The Raft, in particular, would have been a great 80's teen monster movie in the vein of the remake of The Blob that would roll into theaters a year later. Taken for what it is, though, this sequel is like a bag of Halloween candy -- some hits, some misses, but certainly worth the time regardless. "},{"Title":"***** POSSIBLE SPOILERS ***** Scary fun from Stephen King based on three of his stories...","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You have to be in the mood to watch this sort of thing late at night and I was definitely in the mood although I was about to turn the film off after the first story about the wooden Indian. I just wanted to watch that to see what DOROTHY LAMOUR was doing in a horror film. I notice she won a Saturn award for the role but I was underwhelmed by her performance.However, if you stay with it, CREEPSHOW 2 improves with each story. There are no real touches of originality in any of them except for the clever use of animation used quite extensively and very effectively to bridge the gap between stories.CHIEF WOODEN HEAD gets the film off to a start about a couple running a store in the middle of the desert without paying customers who are left some valuables by an Indian who owes them a debt. What they don't know is that their store is about to be invaded by a trio of ruthless thugs led by an Indian lad who is willing to kill in order to grab whatever loot he can. Their death is avenged by--well, guess who? Some clever touches here, but nothing that really stands out. Nice performance by GEORGE KENNEDY gives the whole tale some much needed class.THE RAFT is compulsively watchable once you see the set-up wherein four attractive young couples decide to swim out to a raft where they are all about to meet their grisly deaths. PAUL SATTERFIELD in his yellow speedos is the standout among these and his demise is particularly chilling. It's got all the requisite suspense and horror you'd expect from King and the special effects are particularly gruesome. DANIEL BEER as Satterfield's worried pal does a nice job, especially in the scene where he almost takes advantage of the sleeping gal.THE HITCHHIKER could easily have been the one that steals the show, but it becomes a little too repetitious and fond of its own dark sense of humor to be taken seriously. Howevere, LOIS CHILES is very convincing as the distraught woman at the wheel who does everything she can to get rid of a dead man who keeps coming back for more.Summing up Give it a chance and it becomes compulsively watchable in the old tradition of horror king Stephen. "},{"Title":"Great sequel with plenty of gore and laughs.","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"21 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow 2 is a pretty enjoyable horror anthology that features some gruesome surprises.The first tale Old Chief Woodenhead is about a wooden Indian statue outside a small general store which comes to life when some local youths kill the elderly couple during the robbery. This story plays like a routine slasher flick with the statue as the killer.The special effects are excellent and there is a good amount of gore.Unfortunately the script is predictable and the acting from the younger cast is unconvincing.The second tale The Raft is about some teenagers who,whilst hanging out on the raft,are slowly eaten by a blob-like creature which lives in the lake.This story is fast-paced and appropriately gruesome with truly satisfying climax.The third tale The Hitchhiker is about a woman who does a hit-and-run on a hitchhiker and thinks she's got away with it,only to be confronted with the dead hitchhiker numerous times down the road.This story offers plenty of scares and the hitchhiker is hilarious with his incredibly funny line 'thanks for a ride,lady'.All in all if you enjoyed the first Creepshow give its sequel a look.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Creepshow 2 takes the scary route, instead of the first one's tongue-in-cheek tone. Not a mistake.","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As sequels go, quite good. The three (Not five, budgetary reason) tales are fun (and surprisingly scary). The acting is okay, including a few good performances. The tales, which I will now rate, all have gore, fun, and scares. The first segment Old Chief Wooden-head is an old-fashion revenge story. It has a slow and mysterious build, but with enough action to keep things interesting. Acting-wise this episode does okay, nothing too great, but pretty good. The effects in this episode are a little wooden (no pun intended) but capture the essence of the menacing but slow-moving monsters of 50s media. The second episode, The Raft Again, okay acting but nothing great. But the blob monster ranges from looking real enough to looking kinda horrible (mostly in the earlier shots). Stephen King was at least somewhat right when he described the monster as an old rug. Despite that, this episode still dishes out some good scares and creepy gore. The third installment is the scariest one. Good acting, scary scenes, and scary gore. In all Creepshow 2 is worthy (but not equal to) the original. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first one...","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Creepshow 2 isn't as great as the first one. Fans of the first one will probably have the sense of have I just been ripped off here?. In the shortest terms, yes you have.Instead of 5 short stories, you're introduced with three not-so-short stories. Yet, it's still a good movie. The stories are worth watching it especially The Raft and The Hitchhiker which were the reasons why I bought the movie.And it's not just two missing stories, but you're also missing the wonderful direction from George A Romero. Instead of directing, George co-wrote Creepshow 2. So your missing that comic book-like direction. Too bad. I loved George's direction in the first film. It made me feel like I was watching an interactive Tales from the Crypt comic book.An ok sequel. Creepshow fans might be disappointed with this sequel because of the lack of 5 short stories in total and George Romero not directing this time around. Other than that, it's a fairly descent sequel.Rating 7 out of 10.I would like to see George Romero and Stephen King sit together once again for another Creepshow movie. At least, one last time. "},{"Title":"Thank You for the Ride","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow 2 is divided in three stories, conducted by a leading segment where a boy that loves the horror comic book Creepshow buys seeds of carnivorous plant and is bullied by four teenagers. Meanwhile the Creep tells the tales of Creepshow(1) Old Chief Wood'nhead &#x96; The elders Ray (George Kennedy) and Martha Spruce (Dorothy Lamour) have lived their whole life and raised their family with their small store in an Arizona town. Now the town is economically decadent and Ray gives credit to his costumers including the Indians of Ben Whitemoon's tribe. When Ray is repairing the wooden statue of an old chief in the front door, Ben (Frank Salsedo) arrives and asks him to keep the jewels of his tribe as a guarantee for their debts. However, Ben's nephew Sam (Holt McCallany) unexpectedly arrives with two other punks to steal Ray, and he kills the elders. They expect to travel to Hollywood, but the Old Chief Wood'nhead will not let them go.This segment is the best one, with a heartbreaking and gore tale of justice and revenge. My vote is eight.(2) The Raft &#x96; The teenagers Deke (Paul Satterfield) and Randy (Daniel Beer) travel with Laverne (Jeremy Green) and Rachel (Page Hannah) to a lake expecting to smoke weed, swim and get laid. They swim to a raft that is floating in the middle of the lake, but they discover a carnivorous blob in the lake that is hungry.This segment is silly but the conclusion is very funny. Daryl Hannah's red haired sister is gorgeous but has a minor participation in the story. My vote is six.(3) The Hitchhiker &#x96; In Maine, the unfaithful Annie Lansing (Lois Chiles) stays too long having sex with her escort and is late to meet her husband in the airport. She drives her Mercedes Bens in a hurry and loses control on the road. Annie runs over a hitchhiker, but she does not help the man and hit-and-run, questioning whether she can live with the situation. She discovers that the hitchhiker will not leave her.This is the creepiest segment, with a cameo of Stephen King in the role of a truck driver. Would Annie's conscience or the hitchhiker haunting Annie? My vote is seven. I regret that only three films have been released for this entertaining series. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Creepshow 2 "},{"Title":"Three More Twisted Tales","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As good as the first Creepshow - almost. These three twisted tales are fun but scary too. If you enjoyed the first film then you should enjoy Creepshow II as well.Chief Wooden Head is by far a more of a drama or serious story to me. It's just a good horror story. The Raft is good but my least favorite of the trilogy. It's good, but typical young kids out for a good time that end up dead - the twist is it's not a slasher. The Hitchhiker is my favorite as far as comedy goes. This one had me laughing very hard. Thanks for the ride lady still rings in my head and I laugh every time.Anyway, Creepshow II is worth watching if you like a bit of comedy with your horror.9/10 "},{"Title":"A fine collection on its own merit","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1982, legendary director George Romero directed a horror anthology of short stories based on tales by Stephen King; the result was Creepshow, and it gave Romero another success among horror fans. Five years later both minds teamed up again, with the difference that Romero limited his participation to adapt King's stories, leaving the director's chair to fellow Michael Gornick.Creepshow 2 features three stories by Lucille Fletcher and Stephen King, in a manner similar to its predecessor. While the result is inferior to the first one, it still packs good entertainment and surely will please horror fans due to it's 80s vibe and imaginative stories. With the comic book style so characteristic of its predecessor, Creepshow 2 keeps the tone of the previous movie and the host, the aptly named Creep, is as funny as creepy.The first segment deals with the ancient spirit of an Indian Chief looking for revenge. It has very good special effects but the story is quite typical. The sub-par acting doesn't help but it is lovely the rusty old western look it has. A huge improvement is the second segment, named The Raft, which revolves around a group of friends trapped in a raft by a mysterious creature who lives in a lake. Suspense and horror are the main characteristics of this tale and it easily is the best of the three.However, the third segment, The Hitchhiker has quickly become a fan favorite due to it's imaginative and unpredictable nature. A woman runs over a hitchhiker in the middle of the night; after she runs away from the accident, she begins to loose her mind as the killed man seems to return to haunt her. While not as scary as The Raft, this segment is very entertaining and really funny.Director Michael Gornick had mastered the genre with his TV series Tales from the Darkside, so he was not a bad choice for this film and does the job very well. The three segments are very well constructed, particularly the second one, which despite being set in a limited space manage to keep the suspense and the tension to the max. The Raft is an amazing display of how the only thing needed for a good movie is imagination.The acting is quite average for the most part, but I was really surprised by the cast of The Raft, who put out truly believable performances that really transmit the horror of the tale. The special effects are quite good too, specially in the last segment. Gerg Nicotero shows why he is now one of the most recognizable names in the make-up department and one of the founders of KNB. His work in the movie is remarkably good.While definitely not a great movie, Creepshow 2 is a very entertaining flick that is great to watch with friends. Despite its comic book style, it's not a horror movie for kids, as it contains a good amount of gore. This is a fine collection of stories that any horror fan would enjoy. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Forget the other reviews. This movie is NOT disappointing.","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow 2 is an outstanding horror film. I seen this on Pay Per View when I was either 8 or 9 years old. It is an anthology film with three short stories. The first tale, Old Chief Woodenhead, is about three trouble makers that commit a horrible crime against a store owner and his wife, then pay the price for it from a wooden Indian. This story gave me several nightmares, and I even imagined seeing the wooden Indian while I was awake. So for me, this was the scariest story of the bunch. The second story, The Raft, centers around four teenagers who drive out to a lake in the country, only to discover that they are NOT alone. Their companion wants to make a meal of them and they must survive its wrath. The third and last segment The Hitchhiker, is about a woman who cheats on her husband by sleeping with some guy to get higher up in the work field, maybe her boss? I can't remember. She is in bed with him, and she is late for work, so she drives to work, and THIS is where the horror begins She accidentally hits a man who was hitching a ride. Soon after this, you will see a guest appearance by Stephen King. Be sure to look out for this. Not only is the woman all shooken up with killing a man, not only does she worry about not getting arrested for it, but the hitchhiker WILL NOT STAY DOWN. Furthermore, he delivers sarcasm with probably the only line quoted from the movie THANKS FOR THE RIDE, LADY! as if to say Thanks for the ride, lady! Gee, all I wanted was a simple ride and you kill me!. The overall movie is wrapped around by a story involving Billy, a boy wants the new Creepshow comic very much. He buys Venus Fly Trap seeds, which come in handy for the bullies that keep following him around. ;) Definitely check out this movie. I strongly recommend you buy it. Its a MUST OWN. ) "},{"Title":"A Great Sequel And A Great Anthology, However If Only For That Excrutatingly Awful 1st Story!","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a great sequel, and a great anthology, however if only for that excruciatingly awful 1st story!, this could have been as good as the original!. Most of the characters are great, and The Raft is truly frightening, plus the ending was amusing. The Opening monologue was kinda weak, and they could have picked a way better 1st story, however i enjoyed this sequel very much, and i highly recommend this one!.1st Story Old Chief Wood'nhead, this is absolute garbage, in all aspects, i was literally bored to tears, with this story, A couple of the actors looked embarrassed to be here, and the story is completely dull and predictable, plus most of the characters were irritating! Grade F2nd Story The Raft, This is one of the best stories ever, as it's scary, suspenseful, well acted, and all around just damn cool!, this story is worth the price of the movie alone, and it has lots of great gore effects, plus the ending was awesome!. Grade A+ 3rd Story The Hitchhiker this is a fantastic story, with some hilarious lines (Thanks For The Ride Lady), and it's actually rather suspenseful at times,and there is also a nice touch of humor in it as well plus the ending was amusing and the gore effects were great!. Grade AThere is quite a bit of blood and gore. We get bloody gunshot wounds,3 bloody gunshot wounds to the head,gory arrow hits, arrow in the head,someone is chopped with an Axe (off screen),ripped of scalp,gory effects from the Raft story(fun times),gory car accident victim,gory walking corpse,a guy gets run over graphically quite a number of times, and lots of blood!.The Acting is good for the most part. George Kennedy is an awesome actor, but here he is not convincing, and is totally miscast, plus he had no chemistry with Dorothy Lamour what so ever!. Dorothy Lamour is also miscast here and looks bored, and her chemistry with Kennedy was off. Holt McCallany annoyed me here as the bad ass, he talked about his looks and hair too much and it grated my nerves. David Holbrook annoyed the crap out of me, he is just a fat slob and played that well. Paul Satterfield is hilarious here, he had me cracking up throughout i liked him lots. Daniel Beer is good here as the science nerd i liked him. Jeremey Green and Page Hannah both do what they have to do well. Lois Chiles is decent here, and did her job adequately, and found it amusing when she talked to herself. Tom Wright is awesome as the hitchhiker, he had some awesome lines, and was fun to watch!. Rest of the cast are fine.Overall i highly recommend this one!, if only not for that awful 1st story, this would have been almost as good as the original!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A respectable anthology horror film. just don't compare to the original","Date":"30 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Three stories are featured this time, two down from the original which might have been one too long. A cheap animated wraparound surrounds the stories and is a far cry from the original. 'Old Chief Wood'nhead' has an elderly couple (Kennedy & Dorothy Lamour) running a small town grocery store that is nearly bankrupt like the town. Outside the store is a life-size wooden Indian statue that comes to life to seek revenge on a gang of idiots who kill the old couple. The second story is 'The Raft' that tells of four teenagers who swim out to a barge in the middle of a lake and get trapped on it because of a black ooze floating in the water. The ooze graphically swallows and devours the group one by one. The final story is 'The Hitchhiker' which features cheating wife Anne Lansing (Chiles) returning home one night where she runs over a derelict (Wright) in the road killing him. She panics and leaves the scene battling with her conscience. Soon the dead hitchhiker begins appearing on the road and then everywhere she looks. This terror filled ride home has the hitchhiker attempting revenge on Anne until the very end. The stories are from Stephen King again and George A. Romero wrote the screenplays but directing chores went to Michael Gornick Romero's cinematographer on the original and other Romero films. Gornick does a decent job but the stories just aren't as good this time around. Where the original could have lost a story, this one could have added one. The three stories seem one shy of a full load. The cheap wraparound animation and simple sets make you wonder if there were budget issues because the production is surly lacking a big feel. The gore is decent and the stories are certainly watchable if not entirely compelling. As an anthology movie, Creepshow 2 can hold its own, but compared to the original it is a bit of a letdown. "},{"Title":"Creepshow 2!","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Creepshow 2 is a good multi segment horror movie that is a sequel to Creepshow!I don't want to spoil any thing for you but My favorite story of the film is The Hitchhiker.It really is a good story and I even found it funny!If you like horror films especially ones with several stories then you'll love the horror fest that is known as Creepshow 2!! "},{"Title":"Creepy, But Lacking The Quality Of The First","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'd have to say one of the first mistakes of Creepshow 2 is that there are only 3 stories. What was Romero & King thinking? After being served up 5 wholesome stories in the first Creepshow, I was excepting a lot more from the sequel. At least 5 or 6 stories would have been perfect. Of course this would have made the budget a little bigger and we can't have that, now can we? In any case, Creepshow 2 offers 3 stories named Old Chief Woodenhead, The Hitchhiker & The Raft.  We start with Old Chief Woodenhead which centers around some punk Indian boys who rob a convenience store owner and kills him. What the boys aren't aware of is the wooden Indian statue outside the store. This thing comes to life to take revenge for the old man. The story is pretty lame. Yes, this is fictional horror, but this is ridiculous. There's nothing in the story that tells us WHY or HOW this statue comes to life. Did someone sprinkle pixie dust on it? Was it possessed by the old man? What gives?The second story, which seems to be everyones favorite, is The Raft.This was one of the creepiest tales I've ever seen. Even both versions of the Blob didn't creep me out as much. I think the key element that makes this story work in the music and sound effects. It's extremely creepy and keeps you senses on the edge as you wait to see what happens next. The story focuses on four teenagers who travel way, way out to a secluded lake to take a swim onto a bolted raft. The story never says WHY they would travel this far just for a swim in this lake. Apparently is was a favorite place of choice at one time. In the opening scene you seen them driving along a deserted road, so you know they aren't no where near any civilization. Once they get there, they strip down to their swim suits and head out to the raft, unaware of the black, stringy oil slick that's moving slowing toward them. This thing is HUGE, and I'm curious as to how deep the oil slick travels downward, as we are only shown the top of the water. As you can guess, this thing is alive and hungry. What happens next is pretty gruesome. Nuff said.The final story is called, The Hitchhiker and it's about a prostitute that cheats on her boyfriend and then travels home, but accidently hits a Hitchhiker on the way. Not wanting to stop because the boyfriend may find out she's been cheating or she may end up in jail for murder, she flees the scene only to encounter the Hitchhiker again and again and again. This story is pretty gruesome as you watch her run the Hitchhiker over and over again. Each times she sees him again, all the blood, broken bones, and disfigurement can be seen It's a bit funny at times as he continues to ask her for a ride every time she drives into him. The story isn't bad, but it's nothing special either. The ending it pretty much what you would expect.Overall, Creepshow 2 is a good rental. I'd say rent Creepshow  and Creepshow 2, but watch the second one first and then view the much better first one. Will there every be a Creepshow 3? At this point it doesn't look good. Steven King looks like a sick man these days and Romero is working on other projects. Maybe someone else will take the reigns and run with this one. We can only hope.   "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original, but a treat and fun entertainment for any horror anthology fan!","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Once again the two legendary masters teamed up again that being Stephen King and George A. Romero for another edition of Creepshow, rightfully titled Creepshow 2. The sequel isn't as good as the 1982 original, because it's made cheaper you can tell that by the cinematography, and the film is shorter only three segments instead of five and star power is missing. Yet still the film thrills, chills, and brings justice and revenge style terror that any horror fan will cherish and consider a classic to watch over and over.First story is a good old western justice tale of revenge titled Old Chief WoodenHead which is set in a rural desert small Arizona town. And the theme centered around the town is it's dealing with hard times a bad socially depressed economy and George Kennedy(Airplane and Cool Hand Luke) stars as a generous and do easy storekeeper who's too generous to customers by letting them have items on credit. And yet the only hope that he puts in return and what he lives for is a stature of a wooden Indian outside his store. One day he receives a gift of worthy stone from an Indian man named Ben Whitemoon who says this is payback for his people's debts. Only the episode turns to a violent and tragic end with the store getting robbed and destroyed by modern day punks in search of money so they can flee to Los Angeles to start a new life. After the tragic end, it's payback time and justice Indian style with warpaint and all! Overall good segment that was well done and I love the justice and revenge it shows.Next tale is The Raft about a group of weed smoking and sex driven teens that being two males and two females who take a trip to a lake to do some supposed harmless swimming. Only the plans turn to a sinking river type nightmare. Upon entering the lake one by one they notice a slime like chemical spill or substance of some type that seems to travel and move around the lake fast and at ease. One by one each discover the blood sucking nightmare is a sinking reality. Watch as the segment ends it's slick and clever as a no swimming sign is shown hidden behind trees and brush! Last but not least a classic tale The Hitchhiker staring beauty queen Lois Chiles as Annie Lansing a wealthy and attractive and elegant woman who's living in upstate Maine and she's having her fun and entertainment from the services of a male escort. After getting up one night from her affair she finds she's gonna be late and she doesn't want to end up in divorce court! So while speeding back on the interstate when exited onto the I-395 Maine ramp she hits a hitchhiker. And it shocks her, now it's hit and run. And it's a reality nightmare that will not end, as Annie finds this is a highway of terror! Just like in the horror film the villain never dies no matter how many times you kill them. Also look for Stephen King who has a small cameo as a truck driver in this one. Really a good way to end the film.Sure it lacks the star power and budget and length of the original yet the stories are entertaining, fun, and revenge filled enough for any horror buff to cherish as a classic especially due to the work of King and Romero and the geography settings for this film was nice. "},{"Title":"one out of three","Date":"3 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's the sequel to the anthology series by Stephen King and George A. Romero. There are three main stories with animation in between. The first has Ray Spruce (George Kennedy) and wife Martha (Dorothy Lamour) as the owners of a tiny general store in the middle of nowhere. The wooden Indian has been out front for some 30 years. When the Spruces are killed in a robbery, the wooden Indian comes alive to right the wrong. It's a slow start. The tension isn't high. The Indian isn't that scary. He looks like a guy in makeup. There is no drama.The second story has four young people driving to an isolated lake. The water is cold and there's a blackish blob. It looks like an oil slick and the foursome gets stranded on the wooden raft in the middle of the lake. It is very simple and very effective. The special effects aren't that sophisticated but are also very effective. This is a much better section.Annie Lansing (Lois Chiles) is cheating on her husband. She's rushing to drive home late at night when she hits a hitchhiker (Tom Wright). She takes off but gets haunted by him. Stephen King does some over-acting. Annie is not an appealing character and nobody should care what happens to her. The tone should be moody but it overplays its hand. The music cues are too loud. It doesn't work. This is basically one out of three. The animated connecting scene don't work either. The middle section is very memorable even after many years since I last saw it. That's not enough. "},{"Title":"3 Great Stories","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King novellas transformed very well onto screen by George A Romero. Let's face it, Stephen isn't known for logic, but that's also why we usually love his twists. OLD CHIEF WOOD'N'HEAD sets up some likable characters, and suddenly introduces some unlikable young punks who seem to embody all the 7 deadly sins, with their leader caught up in vanity. The Chief sorts them out. THE RAFT has a school jock and nerd going to a lake and getting stoned. There are of course 2 chicks with them. It has possibly the cheapest SFX by way of a black floating blob resembling a garbage bag floating on a lake that eats its prey in mere seconds. Through clever tension, it is somehow terrifying, and our 4 characters don't have many options as it surrounds their small raft. THE HITCHHIKER is interesting as our main female character talks to herself through this entire story. A necessity of letting us in on her internal dialogue. This woman is cheating on her guy, and obviously self absorbed, but soon becomes the victim of a relentless hitchhiker that just will not die. Intense music drives this story through the best parts. All up, as our hitch-hiker says best Thanks for the ride lady! "},{"Title":"I let nostalgia get the best of me, but hear me out will ya?","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I was little, I used to get up super early and watch television. Back in the day there was a channel in Norway that only sent movies. And the good thing was that they often sent R-rated goodness in the mornings. (don't ask me how this could be) Anyway, one time I remember there was a movie that really scared me. I was a tiny little kid at the time, and I actually turned the TV off. (this is probably the only time I have done that, for that reason)Years and years I wondered what kind of movie this could have been. For all I knew, it could have been a television show, a short, anything. A dream? Endless possibilities.Then some time in the future (seen from my younger self) I would get the answer. It was Creepshow 2, and the segment in question was The Hitchhiker.Plus, I think I must have seen The Raft at some point in my life too, because I get that nostalgic, strange feeling you get when you see something again, that fascinated you a long time ago.So, the movie. I can't anything but love it, because of the reasons I just mentioned. But the real winner here, for me, is The Raft. It has this incredible eerie Stephen King feel to it, that I just absolutely love. It is such an awesome little tale, and this atmosphere, I can't really explain it, it gets under my skin.Yes, it can be argued that Creepshow 2 is weaker than Creepshow, and yes, the first two segments aren't super great, but something about it just appeals to me, nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Great stuff!","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Have you ever seen a movie where you feel the great atmosphere, music, be totally thrilled the whole time and where you just sit really satisfied after watching it? Well this movie is definitely just that. You will just feel completely thrilled and entertained for the whole movie. I can recommend this movie to anyone who likes to be amazed and likes horror movies. A friend of mine, Josh he has seen this movie too. And he told me all about how the stories were linked with beautiful cartoons, drawn perfectly, exciting violent scenes, cool 80's style, great atmosphere and great acting. He found out that you just have to love this great flick. "}{"Title":"Possible spoilers below (nothing that really gives anything away though, this movie doesn't have that many original ideas)... Oh, and Paul Satterfield is 'mm 'mmm good.","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Creepshow 2 isn't as good as the first one, but I personally thought it was a lot scarier. The first time I watched it, I was alone in my house, in the dark, watching it on DVD with my surround sound. So, maybe that is why it scared me so badly. The first episode, Chief Woodenhead, wasn't frightening, but it was pretty amusing. The second one is what got me hooked. At first I was like, Wow. Boring. BUT than Paul Satterfield got down to his speedo and I was like, Oh Dear GOD this is the best movie ever! Until he died. That sucked.The third episode freaked me out so bad I had a difficult time getting back to sleep. I know it's cliche, I know it's unoriginal. But the unrelenting DEAD HITCH-HIKER. ACK! Every time he disappeared, I kept thinking Oh god, don't let him come back! PLEEEASE! But of course, he always did, much to my dismay.Overall, it's a 3 out of 5 skulls. "},{"Title":"creepshow2=classic","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let me first say that this is one of my all time favorite movies. How could you not be amused on the hitchhiker when the the dead guy is pounding on the window of the car screaming thanks for the ride lady!!? The film also contains a tale taken from steven kings book(the skeleton crew) called The Raft..which is very cool. The funniest tale has to be Old chief woodenhead where three people rob a gas station. My favorite character of the film has to be fat stuff-one of sams friends.I even call one of my friends in real life fat stuff cause he resembles him. It's pretty funny when sam kills the old folks-although most of you who were watching were probably hoping that they would live,i found it hilarious.This is one awesome movie,i highly suggest you see it. "},{"Title":"Looocooo looocoooo","Date":"5 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is among the best of classic movies that are light and fun to watch. This movie shouldn't be taken too seriously by our modern standards since it lacks the graphic qualities of modern movies.But that alone takes nothing away from this movie at all. Although its made of only 3 films, the plots are simple, direct and appealing. The humor is spot on coupled with a few gore here and there.I personally does not see any difference between this one and the part 1, I thought they were both okay. You can watch this one even if you have not yet seen the first one.Like i said earlier this is a light movie which shouldn't be taken too seriously, and anyone trying to watch it should just relax keep an open mind and just enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"DOVER Pales when compared to the original classic, but just about does the trick as a companion piece and sequel.","Date":"19 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's extremely apparent as soon as those distinctly revolting eighties tunes are heard that, Creepshow the first, this freakin' ain't! Very cheesy and in-your-face music.. Something that greatly lowers the quality for me is the fairly weak calibre of the first two stories. I've always felt that there should have been at least one more. The other main problem is the unbearably corny and irritating animated wraparound story. The hideously poor animation feels completely out of place and just plain deters from the fun and brings the whole concept down. Things generally come off as being on the cheap side compared to before. Like it's Creepshow lite. I got the strong impression that there weren't nearly as many resources available. The first story comes off more as a melancholy drama with tinges of horror. It's a bit of a depressing lacklustre start with the dusty dead town, and the prolonged demise of the kindly old couple is unpleasant, but I suppose the slow build-up and seeing what they're going through does serve the purpose of making you feel worse when they're done in, and in turn enjoy it all the more when justice is served. Frank Salsedo gives a sweet old performance as Chief Whitemoon. I liked his use of the Native American dialect. It gave me such a chill as a kid, the barely perceptible nod Chief Woodenhead gives him as he leaves the store. And his reaction is interesting, like he may have his suspicions about the statue's secret. I love the poignant end scene with him, but is it the right kind of ending for what's supposed to be a terror tale? People complain there's not enough action from the Chief, but he's supposed to be made of ancient wood! How much could he be moving without spoiling the illusion? Holt Mccallany as the psycho narcissist was great and is the most memorable thing about the story. Nice bit of poetic horror irony how he pays for his evil deed with the hair that was his crowning glory. They skimped on his death scene - if anybody's end deserved to be relished it was that guy's!  The second tale is good because you can imagine the horror of the predicament of the icy lake-hell in which the hapless young souls are entrapped. You get the idea that the thing can wait forever if it has to. I like the monster, reminds me of The Blob, which I love. (eighties one only!) Yeah it looks a little crummy, but then again it doesn't exactly look like anything, just good old-fashioned mysterious killer sea-squirm... To me Stephen King's short story isn't his best, although he's generally a genius when it comes to that. Anyone reading it hoping to learn more will likely be disappointed. A novella called Slime, by Joseph Payne Brennan is much better. The most gruesomely effective scene is when Randy's feeling up the sleeping Laverne and it gives the impression that she's moaning in pleasure, but it's soon revealed that it's because the sneaky ooze is eating into her face as the gentle scene switches to full-blown horror and things get really nasty as she tries to get it off, but only smears it around like some kind of nightmare mascara! It goes to show that no matter the situation libido will always win out over all reason and fear! The ending is such a bummer... Poor dumb-ass Randy would have gotten away if he hadn't stopped to rub it in! I don't need to know exactly what it is. The No Swimming sign pretty much sums it up. Was it contained, or placed there on purpose to guard something? It must have been there a very long time for all the plant life to cover the sign. I do love that sign, it's very E.C. Too late...  To me they saved the best till last in what I think is at the end of the day a fun but rather lame sequel to the masterful original. It's a classic, with great suspense all the way through. The open road is such a prime setting for all kinds of horror. The idea of being alone in the dead of night on an unknown deserted highway is already pretty surreal and eerie without the supernatural thrown in. Lois Chiles is brilliant as a cheater/hit-and-run perpetrator who eventually gets her comeuppance. She stars out looking fairly attractive, but ends up a bit of a monster herself as she gets all banged up. I love her cool classy voice when she's trying to rationalise everything to herself. I also dig the rocking music that sounds like it came straight out of some old 70s exploitation movie! Tom Wright's performance and progressively gross makeup effects are fantastic. No matter how mangled he becomes, he keeps coming back. He's both funny and frightening. Not a solemn kind of ghost with any special powers, more just a terminally f****d-up guy who slowly grinds her down with his relentless pursuit. And the car is no protection or escape at all, he is everywhere... A damn chilling moments to me is when she spots him comically hobbling towards her in the rear-view mirror - still creeps me out to this day! It has its problems, but it's a faithful enough sequel that entertains. Give it a go and have yourself some creeptacular twisted fun! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable anthology","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The horror story lends itself to the short story format as readily - more readily, perhaps - as it does to the novel. Hence the fact that we see more anthology films featuring horror stories than any other genre.Stephen King writes doorstop sized novels, many of which have been filmed he has also written many short stories, and it is pleasing to note that a number of them have been collected into anthology movies.The second movie to wear the Creepshow badge (emulating the EC horror comics of the 50s) anthologises 3 short stories from the Skeleton Crew era. They are perfectly enjoyable short stories, filmed perfectly well. This is one of the better movies to adapt King's horror works, maybe because it keeps the light touch and tongue in cheek humour of the originals in mind. "},{"Title":"Great way to end a fantastic series","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ***Contains Massive Spoilers*** This is by far one of the best sequels I've seen in a long time.Micheal Gornick,the director of CS2,and also a crew member for the original,brings us three tales of horror with Stephen King and George Romero cease to keep us entertained and terrified.The stories are so wonderful made and written.The first story is Old Chief Wooden Head.We have a couple,senior citizens probably in their 50s or 60s that run an old Indian or general store out in a pretty dead town.The store owner,Ray has a strong connection to Chief Woodenhead,a wooden Indian statue that is outside the store.Ray's friend Benjamin,who is an Indian,probably the chief of his tribe gives Ray and his wife about $10,000 worth of jewelry and treasures to help pay off their debt.Later,Ben's nephew,Sam,who is obsessed with his hair and looks raids the store,with his two friends.One is a rich kid and the other is a fat slob.Eventually,they kill Ray and his wife and take the jewels.But,they don't get away with it.In an attempt for revenge,the wooden Indian statue comes to life and kills the three in violent ways,and the treasure is safely returned to Benjamin.My rating 7/10 The second story is entitled,The Raft and it is by far my favorite story in the series.We have four young adults that go to a secluded lake for a swim,before Halloween.Out on the lake is a raft,or some sort of dock,and they decide to swim out to it.Eventually,Randy,probably the protagonist in this story seems some weird oil slick,and gets freaked by it.His three other friends think nothing of it,until it attacks.Racheal,probably Randy's girlfriend falls in and gets eaten pretty much.Snapping back to reality,Randy's two other friends,Lavirne and Deke try to think of some way to get away from it.But,our blob doesn't stop there.It eventually gets under the raft and kills Deke in a violent fashion...pulled through the raft,also breaking his leg in the attempt.(here is the rest of the raft in a nutshell)So the night passes by and its morning.Randy gets horny and tries to have sex with Lavirne,while she is sleeping.She wakes up screaming,to find the blob has been eating at her face.Two seconds later her face and body is covered with the blob and blood,then is drug to her death into the water.In the 'Every man for themselves' moment, and to save his sorry ass,Randy swims to shore,just in the nick of time.Being the idiot he is,he yells the famous last words,I beat you!,then gets eaten.Our hungry killer goes back into the lake,then it cuts to a sign that says,No swimming hidden by a large bush.My rating 10/10 The last story is entitled,The Hitchhiker.Here it is in a nutshell.We have a lady,probably a secretary in her 40s,cheating on her husband.She has an obsession with wealthy and money,and also likes to talk to herself as well.Late for work,she rushes out to get to work on time.On the drive,she gets distracted and accidentally runs a hitchhiker over.Being the idiot she was,the drove off,without seeing is he was alive,thus being a hit and run.On her drive,we think she is going insane,because she is seeing the hitchhiker everywhere.Every time we see him,he looks worse and worse,due to her running him over and shooting him so much.And all our hitchhiker says is,Thanks for the ride lady!In the end(she either commits suicide,or he kills her in revenge)Our main star's husband shows up in shock to find her dead in her car,with a sign that says Dover,the same sign that the hitchhiker had throughout the story.My rating 9/10 The music was amazing and the animation was fairly good as well,it was like Disney animation gone evil.If there is a fourth,Romero,Gornick,Savini and King must be involved!For your safety,please DO NOT watch Creepshow 3.It will make your eyes bleed form the terrible site.The movie is god awful,and wasn't directed by either Romero or Gornick.CS3 was brought to you by the idiots that made Day of the Dead 2Contagium and Horror 101 and Horror 102. "},{"Title":"Not As Good As Part 1, But Way Better That Part 3","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ah Yes, The Sequel To The Horror Opus CREEPSHOW. Again, George A. Romero and Stephen King Team Up Again Along With Make Up Guru Tom Savini To Bring Us Three Terror Tales of The Horror and The Macabre. Like The Previous Movie There Is A Wrap Around Story Involving Young Billy and His Adventures Dodging Bullies; The First Story Is OLD Chief WOOD'NHEAD About An Old Shop Keeper and His Wife Robbed and Killed by Hoodlums, So It's Up To The Old Wooden Indian To Get Revenge and Take Back The Treasures Stolen; The Second Story Is THE RAFT About Four Teenagers Going On A Road Trip To The Local Lake and Go For A Swim, Little Do They Know An Oil-Slick Like Creature Is Out There and Kills Them All One By One; Finally We Give You THE HITCHHIKER About A Cheating Wife Leaving Her Lover's House and Running Down A HitchHiker Asking For A Ride, The Ghost of The Hitchhiker Keeps Haunting The Woman Until The End When He Gets Even.The Movie Runs At About 90 Minutes and Yes Is A Cult Favorite Among Horror Genre Fans. Be Sure To Keep An Eye Out For KING Himself in The Third Story of The Hitchhiker. Personally, My Favorite Of The Stories Has To Be OLD Chief WOOD'NHEAD. This Horror Fan Gives This Movie A 8/10. "},{"Title":"A lot of fun!","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you saw the first Creepshow, then you should know what Creepshow 2 is. And they pull no punches about making the movie as fun as possible, as the Creep (Tom Savini) spins three comically horrific tales.The first segment sort of turns the tables on the old westerns. It begins when the owner (George Kennedy) of a general store and his wife (Dorothy Lamour) are painting their statue of an Indian chief, when their Indian friend donates to them some jewels that his people have passed down for generations. Just then, the Indian man's grandson arrives, murders the owners, and steals the jewels. However, the statue isn't going to let him get off so easily! The second segment features some horny teenagers - there's no evidence that they're actually having sex, but you know that young people in horror movies are doing it! - go to a lake and swim out to the raft in the middle...only to discover the lake's deadly secret.But the last segment is the highlight. When a woman (Lois Chiles) accidentally kills a hitchhiker and drives away, she literally can't get away from him...to a deadly degree. Watch for Stephen King as another motorist.The point is that you're sure to have fun with this movie. There isn't a dull moment in it. And remember, be careful with those plants! So Barbara Eden was originally going to play the hit-and-run driver. I would have liked to have seen that. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original but still solid entertainment. *** out of 5","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow 2 makes the mistake of drastically changing the look of 'The Creep' from the first movie. He's not quite as creepy and he rambles on quite a bit.Also, the music isn't nearly as good. The first story (not the book end story) isn't quite as good as the following three. And unfortunately, a lot of the comic book style of film-making seems to have been done away with (use of lighting and the colorful backgrounds when people are in shock in the first film for example).With that out of the way I will say that everything else is pretty good. The animated book end story is really cool. I like the type of animation that was used. It has a good eighties vibe to it.The Raft and the Hitchhiker stories are the best and creepy to the extreme. The image of the guy being attacked by that black muck stuck with me all through my childhood. Not to mention the ugly hitchhiker sticking out his tongue and licking that lady while saying 'Thanks for the Ride Lady!' I mean cripes almighty, that's just messed up.Regardless of some of my quibbles I do recommend it. "},{"Title":"Sticking up for good 'ole horror!!","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After reviewing a series of negative comments on IMDb on this collection of short horror stories. I decided I had to write my own comment to stick up for what I call good 'ole horror. I've gotta admit I haven't seen the film recently, but remembering it from childhood is enough for me to still give it a worthy review...Although I can definitely leave the story on the revengeful Indian Chief out. It was too clich and too simple, nothing out of the ordinary horror.... I have to admit that The Raft and The Hitchhiker stands out as being original and memorable. OK, now maybe the acting could be much better and the script may have been too haphazardly put together. But don't forget, original horror stories that leave you with goosebumps... the lurch in your stomach of brushing against something alien in the lake in the swim at night ... or the absolute horror of never being able to get rid of someone or something no matter how many times you run it over.........it is so memorable as King takes what seems an innocent and everyday situation that you or I could have been in ... a swim by a group of 'randy kids' to a floating platform in the middle of a lake to have some fun...a drive late at night by a wife on a lonely empty road... and then turns it into a nightmare that just doesn't go away..again, a good sequel to the first Creepshow which sticks in my mind as a childhood horror favorite and keeps me still drawn to horror movies for the hope that they will churn out something original and downright spooky... "}{"Title":"This Film is All About Segment Two ie., The Raft","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a weak sequel to the early 1980s minor classic, Creepshow. Unlike the original, it features no direct input from Stephen King (with the one notable exception of his story, The Raft, taken from 1982's Skeleton Crew collection). The original Creepshow was directed by George Romero, and the script was authored by Stephen King, so its perhaps no surprise that the only truly good (great, actually) segment in this three-part film, is the one based on a King story, with a script authored by George Romero.In any event, the first segment, Old Chief Woodenhead, is just plain stupid, and arguably even a little offensive (and I'm no PC monger, to be sure). Its just kinda...unpleasant. It isn't scary, and it isn't interesting. On a ten-scale, I give it a 3.The second segment, The Raft, is the only reason to see this movie, frankly. The Raft is an AMAZING short story, and this cinematic adaptation is really quite good. I give it a 9.The third segment, which I believe is entitled The Hitchhiker, or something very similar, is OK. I mean, it doesn't suck or anything, but it feels VERY derivative of some 1960s episode(s) of The Twilight Zone, and otherwise just isn't very memorable (or original, needless to say). Its...mediocre. I give it a 6, which is somewhat generous, and enables me to average out the three ratings as a 6 overall, for the film in its entirety.Really, the only reason to see this is in order to view The Raft. If you're feeling bored, what the Hell, watch The Hitchhiker too. I adamantly recommend skipping Old Chief Woodenhead, unless you're one of those people who likes bad cinema in and of itself...and I am not such a person. I prefer quality to crap. "},{"Title":"much better than the original creepshow","Date":"10 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It was with fear that I watched the second movie. But was I happy to see that this one was worth watching. It has all ingredients needed for a good show. The lack of gore in the first one is solved here. Gory and bloody shots are available. The movie only contains 3 stories, much better. Again Romero was involved and Savini and King. Here Savini showed his skills. Again, it's really bloody and sometimes it even crossed the border to become gory as in the second feature. What also is included is the nudity. The only thing that better was left out is The Creep himself. He opens the show and ends it but it's laughable. The cartoon version is much better. It's weird that people are liking the first movie more than this flick. Not for me, I really enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Thanks for the ride, lady.","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hello kiddies...Stephen King and George A. Romero continue the tradition of celebrating E.C. comics with another entry in the Creepshow series.  In this sequel, longtime Romero collaborator Michael Gornick steps in as director and Tom Savini stars as the Creep, cracking morbid jokes at the end of each terror tale (much like the Cryptkeeper).  I enjoyed the original Creepshow quite a bit, and it may be a better film, but I absolutely love this one.  It reminds me of childhood.  I can remember the first time watching it (before I saw the original, which probably explains why I like it better).  We ran around quoting it for weeks (Loco!  Loco!).  It has a certain feel to it that some movies lack.  It's a great anthology and more should be made.  All three yarns are very comical and equally dark.  They all succeed in creating tense moments but the second story, The Raft, is the strongest.  Most people refer to Romero as the king of the zombies.  Well, I think he deserves another title as well  king of the anthology, with Creepshow 1 and 2 as well as Tales From the Darkside under his belt.  Creepshow 2 is an excellent trio of unapologetic campiness.  So, to Stephen King, George Romero, and Michael Gornick, I would like to say thanks for the ride.Note for genre buffs  King himself cameos as a truck driver.  Also, stay tuned after the credits for an important message. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror films ever made.","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Nevermind what the guy above me wrote... after all, he did actually complain that leslie nielsen wasn't in it. Makes me wonder if he thought he was commenting on Spaceballs.The original Creepshow was a landmark in horror film history, and the second installment only adds to the glory of the first. It had 3 stories instead of 5 like the first one, but that's probably because they are longer tales. When I look back at the history of horror films, this one is always one of the first that I think of. This is a must have for any collector or film lover.One last thing... Thanks for the ride, lady! "},{"Title":"Not on par with the first, but still enjoyable.","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow 2 was not on par with the original, with only three stories, and without George A. Romero's directing. That being said, it's still enjoyable if you're a fan of the original. The first difference in this story is instead of having the creep in the original, you have the bogeyman telling the stories. He's not as creepy as the creep, mostly because of his talking part. It was enjoyable to listen to him, but sometimes quiet is creepier. The comic book style was a little overused, having several scenes of cartoon animation, which makes it a little overused. But let's talk about the stories. In the first one, an elderly couple are running a store that is having less and less customers, and a Native American brings artifacts to pay off a debt his people have to the couple. The old man has a wooden model of an Indian Chief, which is creepy unto itself, and when the store is robbed and the couple killed by a couple of thugs who take the artifacts, the statue comes to life, and hunts down the three killers to get revenge. The second story features a group of friends that swim to a raft in the middle of a lake, and a strange organism that looks like an oil slick comes and attacks them. The special effects for this are well done, and make for a creepy story. The third story would be the unquestionable highlight, however it's repetitive dark humor makes it less enjoyable. It focuses on a lady, who driving home late at night, hits and kills a hitchhiker. His ghost returns to torment and kill her, and all he says is Thanks for the ride lady. It gets annoying after a while, but is still enjoyable. Overall this movie is enjoyable but not as good as the first. Check it out if you're a fan. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Nothing to do, I do not agree with the opinions expressed in narrowing site. The Votic is too small for a film genre, is a comic film but good for the 80s. Funny the atsmosfere, is a fair translation of comics, can be fine. The first episode has its charm. I am not a big fan of horror movies because I find most sadistic enough but this film is good and that's OK. It 'a movie I saw a lot as a child together with a poltergeist trip to the borders of reality is unpleasant, it may be fine even if the special effects were those who were. The first episode is mythical, the film has its charm. It reminds me of the very films that do not know the stories of the crypt films are sympathetic to laugh. I prefer pi These films rather than those of squalid dario silver. "},{"Title":"Hmmmm?","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" YaY at last a sequel that is as good as the first! I Just bought this video from ebay for 2.50. What price can you put on a piece of history? Not only do you get a class movie, but also a reminiscent of past movie history via the trailers! I love these old movies from the 80's they are so much fun. I love to sit down with a bag of peanut m+m's and have a laugh watching the corny acting and the low budget monsters bouncing about, Its ace and this movie is a real popcorn killer thriller, this is what horror movies should be like,comedy and scares. A definite one to watch but best watched on video rather than a DVD! "},{"Title":"This movie is pretty decent...","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I haven't seen this movie for years, but I do know that it was better than the original. It had more interesting stories. At least one of them anyway. A certain water-bound segment, which I thought was very original. I mean, I wouldn't go so far as to call this movie scary, its more, I don't know, funny, or interesting or something. I mean, if you saw the first, it's along the same lines. Its a shame this movie is so much harder to find on DVD than the original. But, I would recommend renting it. Then again, its not exactly the most expensive DVD, so might as well buy it. I got the first one for 8 dollars Canadian. So, if you look around, in a place like Best Buy, or Future Shop, you may find it. It wouldn't be worth the hassle to order it on-line.  "},{"Title":"memorable","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Much like the original Creepshow Where's my cake, Bedelia?  I WANT MY CAKE!!!, Creepshow 2 provides us with memorable quotes such as I feel the need... THE NEED FOR WEED!, LOCO!  LOCO!!!, and THANKS FOR THE RIDE, LADY!!.  This trilogy of horror shorts however does not live up to its predecessor in acting quality, plots, and overall ambience.  The first story in the trilogy is an embarrassing detriment to the film and is probably the reason for most of its harsh criticism.  The second has its moments but lack of plot makes it just an average horror short.  The third segment is the best of the three, with its feelings of paranoia and unrelentlessness. "},{"Title":"Humor and horror - not to be taken too seriously","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is divided in four parts; one main story and three substories. The main story is strangely enough animated, like in its predecessor, Creepshow. The use of animated sequences in this movie is quite strange, and is little more than an annoying pause between the substories. Another incomprehensible thing is the constant referring to children during the pauses, as if the movie was intended for an infantile audience. In my opinion, the adult-oriented content in the substories should rule out that completely. That said, the three substories are actually quite entertaining. Sure, they're exaggerated, but they are after all intended as a blend of humor and horror. They're colorful and quite entertaining, but don't expect too much. However, I think most people who have seen this movie and has an even remote sense of morbid humor will smile at the phrase thanks for the ride, lady! afterwards. "}{"Title":"A second slice of perfection.","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Once again, the leaders in directing and literature team up again to bring you three more glimpses of terror.  Lacking in stories and cast, Creepshow 2 still has enough plot to keep you glued to the television.  No major stars in this one except George Kennedy and Tom Savini as The Creep.  First, you have Ol' Chief Woodenhead to start it off.  This tale is all about a group of misfit teens destined to make it big in Hollywood.  This group will stop at nothing to be living large in the cinema industry.  They decide to stop by the general store in town for a quick score before heading out.  They shoot George Kennedy and try to make off with what little goods they can scoop up.  Then comes the Chief to exact his revenge.  He takes matters into his own hands and sets the group straight.  Lack of gore in this one, but a decent plot.  Next, you have The Raft.  This one is all about a group of teenagers having some summer fun while spending some time on an abandoned raft.  Everything is going great until they notice something wrong with the water.  There is something inside it that is haunting them and won't let them get back to shore.  Everyone starts to panic and make very stupid mistakes.  Come to find out, this sludge can eat through human skin like butter.  Just when the last one thinks he is home free, he is sucked back in by the force, with no one to pass on the knowledge.  Guess they should have paid more attention to the No Swimming sign.  Last, and my favorite, The Hitchhiker.  This one is the goriest and has the funniest moments.  All about a woman who mows down a hitcher that is Dover bound or bust.  At least that's what his cardboard sign says.  She plows him and leaves him for dead, not giving a second though about it.  Until she travels for a bit and spots him standing there again.  Seems that she can't shake this vagrant.  She starts to get desperate, and stupid.  Plows her Mercedes into a pine tree trying to shake this menace.  She awakens and thinks she is home free.  Until she reaches her garage and gets out.  Thanks for the ride lady.  This is pure dark comedy at its best.  But don't laugh too hard.  This one happened in real life about a month ago.  Once again you have Tom Savini on special fx, so you are really in for a treat.  I give this one 3/5 for being a little on the dull side, and lack of gore.  Maybe if they had added one more story.  But Romero and King are still the best.  Be sure to pick this one up.  Usually less than ten bucks.   "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had to watch this movie at least three times to influence myself that this movie was good, but not better than its original.  My favorite story is The Hitchiker, and my next favorite is Old Chief Woodenhead.  I think The Hitchiker is so funny.  My rating 4 stars out 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first but still good","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  True this isn't as good as the first one but it is still a good movie. The first story was my least favorite but I still loved it. It's about a couple living in a town that is dead and own a store. There is an indian statue in the front of their store. An  Indian guy comes into town to give the guy some jewels to pay his debt.  4 dudes (one related to the guy who gave the store keeper the jewels) come to rob the store and killed them both. The Indian in the front comes to life and kills the 4 guys. The second one is from my Stephen King called the Raft. Two boys and two girls are in a car (Pass the joint, pass the joint) to drive to a deserted place that has a pond with a raft in the middle. The kids swim out to the raft waking up the oil slick. One by one the oil slick eats them.While the third one was getting eaten the fourth one dove into the water and swam to shore followed by the oil slick. The guy makes it just in time claiming, I beat you, I bet you.  All of a sudden the oil slick turns into a tidal wave and eats the last of the stupid kids. The third and final was the scariest and best called The Hitcher.  A lady has an affair while her husband is at work.  She wakes up and notices the time. She figures she has to beat her husband home before he finds out. She rushes home on the highway. While making a turn onto an exit ramp she hits a hitchhiker.  Figuring that she can't stop or she will get caught she keeps driving off thinking it was done and over. All of a sudden you see this dead guy all creepy still holding his sign. She loses control of her car and runs off the road. Then she kept running over him again and again.  She runs into a tree and loses conscious.  When she wakes up she figured that she fell asleep. She rushes home and discovers her husband still wasn't home. When she opens the car door the dead guy says thanks for the ride and kills her. A very good movie. 10 stars. "},{"Title":"i liked it","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I remember seeing this when i was fairly young about 10 years ago or so.  I didn't like it as much as the first one although i thought it was pretty good anyway.  I feel that i have to write this to comment on one of the short stories in the movie and that was The Raft.  Easily the best out of the 3 of stories, this one focuses on a group of kids that go to a secluded lake and take a swim, out to some floating raft.   They notice a huge oil slick floating around them.  It turns out that this thing eats anything and will eventually eat them all.  What i liked best about this one was the ending, totally surprised me.  No one gets out alive! "},{"Title":"Not as good as other anthologies","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I rented this a few days before viewing Scary Tales and Dark Dealer. Both of those anthologies where much cheaper...and better. The first story with a wooden Indian is a bore. Only the lake segment is worth watching. Definately Stephen King's poorest effort. I was disappointed after the fantastic original. Sometimes, cheaper flicks have more imagination. Love the wraparound with Savini, though...3/10 "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original Creepshow, but not a disappointment and a must cherish to any horror fan.","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I know many give bad reviews to Creepshow 2 and I will admit that it's not as good as the first Creepshow. Several reasons must be looked at for the drop first the second Creepshow does not have the star quality which the first had. Second the film was cheap made and the stories appear rushed and not having the support from a big studio remember the first Creepshow was a Warner Bros. picture and had great success the second film needed a big studio. Each of the three stories are interesting and provide enough gore for any horror fan to watch over and over. So I will break each one down and discuss.The first story Old Chief Wood'nhead is enjoyable a great way to start a horror/anthology off. A poor and dead economy in which mostly Indians live in a small Arizona town still the town has one old honest storekeeper left (George Kennedy) who along with his wife (Dorothy Lamour) are later murdered at the hands of three modern day punks who rob their store. Never worry revenge in the form of Old Chief Wood'nhead as after the murders the trio receive an evil dose of frontier justice. Plenty of blood and gore and Creepshow proves once again that revenge goes around and bad people receive comeuppance.The Raft a short story by Stephen King is liked if you enjoy a good time. It has four hormone driven teens who drive up to a lake for some harmless swimming only to have the party to turn horrible and bloody. It's a shame innocent people have to die.Last and worst is The Hitchhiker this segment is far overstated and unreasonable. After (Lois Chiles) who after having an affair, tries to rush home to her husband, but on interstate road she by accident hits a black man who's a hitchhiker only not to kill him but to have to continue battling him until finally he wins the bloody battle! The worst segment it's just to overstated.And the wrap up story is a cartoon and not color like the first Creepshow wrap around. And to childish as a young boy's planted garden turns to eating terror against his bullies.Creepshow 2 is a must watch for any horror film fan. I know that it doesn't have the star quality like Leslie Nielsen, Ted Danson, and Adrienne Barbeau it's hard for the likes of George Kennedy, Dorothy Lamour, and Lois Chiles to match the original cast. The location for filming the segments are less a lake with unknown teens just doesn't match the star power of Leslie Nielsen and Ted Danson being at The Jersey Shore in Something To Tide You Over. Poor cinematography hurt the second Creepshow just pay attention to the background, but that comes from not having a big studio like Warner Bros. Maybe the money just wasn't around hey remember the poor economy in 1987 it even plagues film. Many people didn't respond to the second Creepshow because of the excessive gore they felt that everything must be laughs like the first Creepshow, but I disagree learn to like a little blood and terror. You don't see Creepshow 2 aired much on TV we know it's because of the poor popularity and lack of name stars present don't worry a real horror fan will find the video and watch it many times and put it away in the video library. Another great tribute to the masters of macabre Stephen King and George A. Romero. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original Creepshow, but not a disappointment and a must cherish to any horror fan.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I know many give bad reviews to Creepshow 2 and I will admit that it's not as good as the first Creepshow. Several reasons must be looked at for the drop first the second Creepshow does not have the star quality which the first had. Second the film was cheap made and the stories appear rushed and not having the support from a big studio remember the first Creepshow was a Warner Bros. picture and had great success the second film needed a big studio. Each of the three stories are interesting and provide enough gore for any horror fan to watch over and over. So I will break each one down and discuss.The first story Old Chief Wood'nhead is enjoyable a great way to start a horror/anthology off. A poor and dead economy in which mostly Indians live in a small Arizona town still has one old honest storekeeper left (George Kennedy) who along with his wife (Dorothy Lamour) are later murdered at the hands of three modern day punks who rob their store. Never worry revenge in the form of Old Chief Wood'nhead as after the murders the trio receive an evil dose of frontier justice. Plenty of blood and gore and Creepshow proves once again that revenge goes around and bad people receive comeuppance.The Raft a short story by Stephen King is liked if you enjoy a good time. It has four hormone driven teens who drive up to a lake for some harmless swimming only to have the party to turn horrible and bloody. It's a shame innocent people have to die.Last and worst is The Hitchhiker this segment is far overstated and unreasonable. After (Lois Chiles) who rushes home to her husband after having an affair, on the interstate road she by accident hits a black man who's a hitchhiker only not to kill him but to have to continue battling him until finally he wins the bloody battle! The worst segment it's just to overstated.And the wrap up story is a cartoon and not color like the first Creepshow wrap around. And to childish as a young boy's planted garden turns to eating terror against his bullies.A must watch for any horror film fan. I know that it doesn't have the star quality like Leslie Nielsen, Ted Danson, and Adrienne Barbeau it's hard for the likes of George Kennedy, Dorothy Lamour, and Lois Chiles to match the original cast. The location for filming the segments are less a lake with unknown teens just doesn't match the star power of Leslie Nielsen and Ted Danson in Something To Tide You Over. Poor cinematography hurt the second Creepshow just pay attention to the background, but that comes from not having a big studio like Warner Bros. Maybe the money just wasn't around hey remember the poor economy in 1987 it even plagues film. Many people didn't respond to the second Creepshow because of the excessive gore they felt it must be laughs like the first but I disagree learn to like a little blood and terror.You don't see Creepshow 2 aired much on TV like the first we know it's because of the poor popularity and lack of name stars present don't worry a real horror will find the video and watch it many times and put it away in the video library. Another great tribute to the masters of macabre Stephen King and George A. Romero. "},{"Title":"Could have been worse.","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The best way to enjoy this sequel, just as other sequels, is to look at it as a separate movie. It fails in comparison to the first movie.If i did have to mention it's weak spots (besides the low budget and not-so-talented-director) it's that there are less stories than in part 1, the horror is at times gory, but nowhere near as gory as in the first. There is much less dark humor except maybe in the hitchhiker story.The first story about a wooden Indian exacting revenge for it's murdered owners on some robbing scum is pretty tame, and pretty dull to boot.The second about a group of young people spending the day on a wooden raft in a calm lake is a major improvement. It's got more suspense and a couple of real shocks, like when one of the guys tries to have sex to a sleeping girl. What starts out as soft moaning rapidly becomes loud screaming and those who have seen the movie know why. The third story is the best, and the goriest about a snobbish woman who hits and runs on a hitchhiker, only to be terrorized by the dead man. Each time she violently rids herself of the ghoul, he still keeps coming back in a worse physical shape.Not exactly great, but entertaining and it could have been a lot worse.  "},{"Title":"Obscure for a reason.","Date":"23 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well since there is three stories of a fair length I'll split this into three sections. I didn't even know this film existed until I saw it on this site, the anthology sub-genre being few and far between I thought I'd check it out. Note I have seen the first one. And the only story I was familiar with was the raft.The film opens with a great looking rainy street and Tom Savini as the creep. I have to say I wasn't a big fan of the animated segments, but it doesn't bother me that much.Old chief wood'en head This section starts pretty slow, but once it picks up it is over before you know it. This is the only segment where I thought the acting was somewhat decent, George Kennedy did his part well enough. In my opinion this is the strongest story in the film, and that isn't saying much.The Raft I have read the short story of this before, and it was what sparked my interest in the film. Well I was disappointed. The guy who played Randy was just awful, terrible acting at it's finest. And I don't remember him trying to rape Laverne either, it looked like he was but I don't know. And the biggest slap in the face goes to Deke's death. In the story it is explained in over the top graphic detail, but here it is a soft pg-13, come on that should have been the best part, what a joke. This segment was a let down, but I don't know why I was expecting something better, it is only a short story.The hitchhiker I have to admit this one confused me, did she kill the guy or not, judging by the way the car changes it would appear not, but he comes back. I honestly thought this would be the best story, but I was wrong. It lacked suspense and didn't make any sense. Maybe I missed something, but I think it sucks.I now know why this film is more obscure, it was half-ass-ed with stories that didn't offer much. I more in likely will never watch this movie again, not really worth the ten dollars I spent. I don't recommend it. "},{"Title":"Not as good as part 1, but still worth a watch...","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" People give this sequel a lot of heat, but I have to say something in it's defense... it was made by New World Pictures. Not Warner Bros. It didn't have nearly the budget of the first one and still captured half the cheesiness/charm. In the first one we were treated to Ted Danson, Hal Holbrook, Adrienne Barbeau, Leslie Nielsen, E. G. Marshall and Stephen King in an over-the-top extended cameo. Here's the good news Stephen King is back! Bad news Only for a few moments. As with any anthology horror film, the first segment is practically skip-worthy. Segment 1 - Old Chief Wood'nhead - George Kennedy & Dorothy Lamour are an old couple trying to make their business work in a deserted ghost town, gets threatened by Hollywood-bound Indians (paid and laid for their hair, no I am not making this up), cigar-selling Indian statue comes to life and avenges via gore and slaughter. Yawn.Segment 2 - The Raft - Four kids (2 girls, 2 guys, natch) ditch school to spend the afternoon on a floating log raft in the middle of nowhere in order to get stoned -- and why would the cool couple hang out with the nerd couple? Everything is fine until this huge floating Hefty garbage bag starts to eat ducks near the raft. The nerd girl is intrigued by it so she investigates (curiosity kills, bitch). At least this one has a slight notion of a shock ending after finally showing some much-needed horror boobage.Segment 3 - The Hitchhiker - Long story short -- lady hits and kills? a hitchhiker. Thanks for the ride, Lady! Thanks for the ride. Equal parts comedy as horror, it's not THAT bad. Laid out perfectly, each story gets better and better as the movie progresses. Upon viewing, I'm, guessing that the last segment is the one that people will and/or still talk about. It's fun, it's gory and just the right amount of cheesy. Thanks for the ride, Creepshow. Thanks for the ride.More reviews at www.soveryterry.comFinal Grade C "}{"Title":"Creepshow 2","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow 2 is the second horror anthology from George Romero and Stephen King. In the original, there were five stories, this time there are only three. I read that a fourth was going to be made, but it was scrapped before production. The three in this one aren't as fun or well done as in the first Creepshow. But here goes The first story is the weakest of the three. It's about a couple (George Kennedy and Dorothy Lamour) who are murdered during a robbery by a bunch of local kids. A wooden Native statue outside the store comes to life seeking revenge against the killers. Pretty dull story and not very interesting at all. The best part of the entire thing is when the robbers face justice by a wooden native statue that comes to life.The second story is a good one. I think it's called The Raft and it's about a group of friends hanging out a the lake. The go out swimming to a raft in the middle of the lake only to discover a strange goo following them in the water. We quickly find out the goo burns and it can grab people into the water. The acting in it is hilariously bad, but the special effects are great.The last story is the best one, and it's called The Hitchhiker. A married woman driving home after having an affair hits a man, but drives off leaving him to die on the road. Bad mistake! The man becomes somewhat of a zombie or spirit and latches onto her car as she drives home, terrorizing her the entire way. Lois Chiles plays a sinister yet hilarious character. She really helps make the story the best of the three.Creepshow 2 isn't as clever as part one, but it's a great addition to the series. Definitely buy it! 7/10 "},{"Title":"Not as Good as the Original But Still Pretty Rad","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While this sequel to the mighty CREEPSHOW definitely lacks compared to the original (as many sequels do) it still provides a lot of fun! It delivers some decent gore, a little female nudity, and even more of that cool animation than the original. This time there are only three terror tales and there's not as much cool special effects. The Creep in CREEPSHOW 2 looks more like the old skool Crypt Keeper from the comics is not near as cool looking as the original skeleton with skin Creep of the original movie but oh well. Luckily there is still a strong comic book feel like in the first movie which which i totally dig. The first story (the lame one) involves a wooden statue of an Indian, i'm so scared! But don't worry the other two are rad; especially the last one! The second story involves partyin teenagers and deadly slime which is always good in my book. the third is about a hitchhiker and even if you hate the rest of the movie this one is a must see for any horror fan. The Hitcher is not only super funny but is also pretty damn freaky. Then to top it off there's a great cartoon ending which wins major points for the flick. All in all it's a great little 80s horror flick just don't expect it to be as cool as the original masterpiece. "},{"Title":"not good","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Warning spoilersThis has to be the worst horror movie I have ever seen. None of them were written well, it didn't have a good plot, and not scary at all. A dumb cartoon, a boring one about an indian. I guess the best one which did suck also was the last one. If you havent seen this one yet don't watch it and just watch the classic original.4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A great trio","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'll review these short movies in order. First we have Old Chief Woodenhead in which an old convenience store clerk is robbed and killed by thugs. His wooden statue of a Native American warrior comes to life and takes them down. It's a little slow and doesn't have a lot going on but it still cool and well directed.The second part is The Raft and is surely my favorite and the scariest. 4 teenagers enjoy a carefree Indian summer at a secluded lake where there is a large raft stuck in the middle. Once they swim out of the raft a huge blob of carnivorous, organic sludge comes along eats one of them up. It seems to have the ability to dissolve human flesh pretty quickly and wont go away until it's eaten the other 3. We never know what the blob is or where it came from but I reckon that you'll find this one to be more involving than the others. The final story is The Hitchhiker in which Mrs Lansing, a neurotic upper class woman runs, over a man, trying to hitch a ride, completely by accident. She thinks it best to simply drive away from the scene and leave him be. But then she begins to have hallucinations (?) of him coming back to get her. And no matter how many times she runs him over and smashes him to pieces he seems to continue coming back and coming back despite the fact he becomes more and more disintegrated. It's not scary but it's fun to watch her become increasingly deranged, as she cannot get rid of him.In between all of these little movies there is an ongoing animated story of a kid buying the Creepshow comic book and ordering killer plants to eat up his enemies. The Creep (Tom Savini under heavy make-up) introduces each story to us in much the same manner as The Crypt Keeper in Tales from the Crypt. Even the comic book to film fades resemble the Crypt TV series.But is there actually a Creepshow and Tales from the Crypt comic book? I would appreciate it if someone gave me an answer to this. It's bugged me for a long time. Look out for Stephen King as a trucker in The Hitchhiker. "},{"Title":"This movie could of been better.","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Creepshow 2 had a lot of potential, they just didn't put enough time in perfecting it.  The stories were pretty cool and creepy enough, but it was lacking.  It's a good movie, but after you've seen it once, you might want to see it again.  This movie could of been better. "},{"Title":"A big step down from the original.","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A good way to describe this film would be saying that it is to Creepshow what Caddyshack II is to Caddyshack. It's that bad. The late 1980s saw a period of lazy film-making, and Creepshow 2 is the epitome of such artistic malaise. Usually when so many years pass between an original and a sequel, it means that the filmmakers are really trying to outdo themselves. Terminator 2 would come to mind. But with Stephen King and George Romero again behind the creative process, this film is a huge disappointment. Perhaps it was the no-name director that doomed things, but its Romero's name on the stale script.Creepshow 2 is divided into three short segments as opposed to five in the original. All three have an interesting premise to start with, but the execution is very pedestrian. The first story deals with a wooden Indian statue coming to life to avenge the robbery and murder of an elderly couple who run a small general store. The Indian looks pretty neat, but he comes alive too late to help the couple. Why did he wait until they were dead? Maybe it was the red pain that got spilled on him that finally woke him up. Anyway, the segment is horribly written and wastes the talents of George Kennedy and Dorothy Lamour. The second segment deals with four teenagers who swim out to a wooden raft at a secluded lake, only to be devoured by what looks like a bunch of trash bags sewn together. The acting is the worst part about this one, though. All four characters are not likable. Actor Daniel Beer who plays one of the kids gives the worst performance in the film. You could not give less life to lines in a script if you were in a coma. How bad were his first takes, I wonder? Anyway, this segment does have a nice and ironic ending. The final segment is the most memorable by far. A wealthy wife sneaking home from a roll in the sack with a gigolo hits a hitchhiker with her car and kills him. She then drives away before helping him since nobody saw her. Trouble is, he doesn't seem to want to stay dead. He keeps popping up wherever she drives and getting run over or shot repeatedly as she tries to escape. The gore is pretty heavy here as the guy gets turned into pulp while he keeps repeating, Thanks for the ride, lady! It's kind of a neat idea. Just not scary enough. And Stephen King makes what amounts to a throwaway cameo as a truck driver.Missing from the original is the great cast, humor, and above all the scares! Nothing in this one is scary at all. Nothing! In between the three segments is a poorly drawn animated bit about a kid getting revenge on the bullies in his neighborhood. This animation is so weak that it would have looked antiquated in the 1960s. Tom Savini seems wasted in this film as well. He has a worthless role as a masked man who throws a bunch of comic books out of a truck at the end. (trust me) He is listed as a makeup effects consultant in the credits. Here's a thought. Why not let him actually DO the effects? That way they might not have looked so cheap.If you see this film come on, don't bother with it. And from what I'm told, Creepshow 3 is even worse. A fourth one is reportedly in the works. Let's hope they remember what worked in this series and what didn't. Part 2 does not work. 3 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Garbage.","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Maybe it's because I liked the original Creepshow a lot, but I thought that this movie was really trashy. Compared to the original, this one is definitely a let down, but even on its own, this movie has a lot of problems.For example, I think the movie really could have done without the gratuitous sex scenes. Honestly, if the dude in The Raft was really that scared for his life, he probably wouldn't have made the time to molest his friend's girlfriend while she was asleep. Wasn't really digging that part. And in the last story, I'm not sure exactly why the woman had to be cheating on her husband with a gigolo, but apparently the writers of Creepshow 2 found it integral to the story. These are minor details in the stories, but when they seem so pointless in any other way besides a cheap nod to the audience, it really takes away from the storytelling in my eyes.That being said, I can't say I didn't laugh at this movie, although I don't know if it was always for the right reasons. I was cracking up during The Raft when one of the guys threatens to punch one of the frightened girls in the face when she can't contain herself. I think the line was ...I swear to God, I'll smoke you! Well, I guess the writers give teenagers in the late 80s a lot of credit with that one. There are lots of ridiculous lines in this movie, and honestly, I can't deny that I was laughing my ass off at them.Long story short, the movie was a huge letdown to me, just because I was expecting at least something fairly similar to the original. This movie let me down in a lot of ways, and besides that, has a lot of flaws on its own. Still, it's funny in its own ways, so I can't knock it for that. Maybe it's not garbage, but it's not one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I remembered.","Date":"21 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Issue 2 of Creepshow is delivered hot off the press by The Creep himself (played by Tom Savini), straight into the hands of eager young comic fan Billy. As Billy proceeds to the post office to collect a parcel and does his best to escape a trio of school bullies, the stories within his comic begin to unfold before our eyes first up is Old Chief Wood'nhead, in which the murder of a shopkeeper and his wife is avenged by the wooden statue that stands outside their store; the second tale is The Raft, which features four teens trapped in the middle of a lake by a flesh eating blob; the last story, The Hitchhiker, sees a woman haunted by the bloody corpse of the hitchhiker she accidentally runs down with her car.I've long considered Creepshow 2 a disappointment, but having just given it another watch&#x97;the first in many years&#x97;I've changed my opinion somewhat the film has its flaws, for sure, but the positives definitely outweigh the negatives, and although it may be a long way from the greatness of the original, its heaps better than Creepshow 3, and in my humble pinion, preferable to recent over-hyped anthology Trick 'r Treat.The film's weaknesses lie primarily in the lacklustre wraparound tale that turns from live action into horrendous animation (in a style reminiscent of The Care Bears TV series), and the feeble first story, which suffers from an overdose of Spielbergian sentiment and a weak payoff; the remaining two stories, however are much more satisfying, and as Meatloaf would say 'two out of three ain't bad'.The Raft's simple plot (based on a Stephen King short story) provides plenty of shocks and suspense, some eye-candy for both sexes (I found Jeremy 'I'm a girl despite my name' Green to be particularly hot), and an excellent surprise ending, whilst The Hitchhiker is non-stop heart pounding stuff thanks to a great performance from Lois Chiles and a very memorable relentless and mangled 'monster'.Two out of three decent stories equals a rating of 6.5 out of 10, which gets rounded up to 7 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Not worth the effort","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Creepshow 2 is little more than a pale imitation of the original, designed with little purpose other than to cash in on the name of the previous film. It even amplifies the flaws of its predecessor, which was often predictable and heavy-handed. Still, the first time around, there were enough thrills to make up for it's periodic lulls, resulting in an uneven but overall fairly entertaining effort. The sequel has few worthwhile moments, so the transparency of the stories are even more apparent. Once in a while, it delivers, but most of the time, it just lingers there.As in the original, all the stories revolve around the common theme of revenge and just desserts. A wooden Indian comes to life, wreaking vengeance upon the killers of its owner. Teenagers are devoured by an aquatic monster. A hitchhiker returns from the dead to pursue a careless motorist. None of these premises are inherently bad in themselves, but they are utterly lacking in inspiration. There are few surprises and no scares. This a textbook example of unmotivated, by-the-numbers filmmaking. It doesn't help that this cheap-looking movie suffers from a flat directorial style, although to be honest, there wasn't much to work with. In the end, the second story comes off best, but not by much. For the most part, the performances are okay at best. George Kennedy, as the ill-fated general store owner, does an adequate, if not particularly inspired job. Dorothy Lamour, on the other hand, is quite good as the guilt-ridden motorist, evoking sympathy for her plight despite the predictable, redundant material. However, most of the characters are pretty thin overall. One would think that Creepshow 2 would have turned out better. George Romero, who directed the original, returned to pen the screenplay, based on more of Stephen King's stories. Makeup effects artist Tom Savini turns in some good, gory work. So why is the film a letdown? I guess Romero didn't really want to make a second film, but was forced to do so for financial reasons. It was a decade of horror sequels, clones, rip-offs, and whatnot, so this one was certainly inevitable. I can imagine the guy writing the script in a hurry, picking up his paycheck, and running off. I guess he had to do what was necessary to get his own projects financed; we can't blame him.Rating *1/2 (out of ****)Released by New World Pictures "},{"Title":"Half-way decent with some large nagging problems","Date":"8 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Waiting to see the new Creepshow comic book, a young boy arrives when The Creep drops them off and begins leafing through the book, reading three stories.The Good Stor(ies) Old Chief Wood'nhead-Running a general store in a drying up town, a man and his wife are presented with a special gift for their services. Immediately afterward, a group of punks decide to rob the store, leaving the couple for dead. The Indian sculpture in front of their store, Old Chief Wood'nhead, comes to life and tracks them down one-by-one. This wasn't bad, and is overall pretty decent. The special effects for the statue are excellent, applying a 'wooden' body-suit to make it move and act just like a wooden statue coming to life, having the stiffness that comes with a moving statue. It steals all the best scenes, especially the assault in the garage and inside the trailer park which are both quite suspenseful due to its presence. The kill scenes also show some verve, as we get attacks by a volley of arrows, a swipe to the head with an axe, and a pretty nasty scalping. On the downside, the story is predictable which ruins the experience a little as you know exactly what's going to happen exactly as it would be expected, playing out basically a routine slasher film with the statue as the killer. It's quite obviously going this route, though, and it makes for a fun time overall.The Raft-Heading out to an abandoned lake, a group of friends swim out to a raft floating in the middle for some relaxation. When a floating mass nearby takes an interest in them, they have to find a way to get away before it kills them all. The biggest thing with this one is that the blob in the lake is really cool. There is a lot of mystery surrounding it and you can't really tell how it's going to end. As great as the mystery is, the creature just looks like a black tarp floating in the water. The deaths are wildly over-the-top, as the blob eats through their flesh, leaving a mound of bloody bones and melted skin. It has a lot of great suspense, and the tension in the second half, where the creature begins to break through the holes in the wood is really creepy. The story moves along at a sharp pace, hardly ever slowing down and being really entertaining once it gets started. This is the segment that features the most satisfying ending and everyone gets their just desserts, featuring a twist that is the nearest the film ever gets to capturing any of the black humor that ran through the original. It's a really good story.The Hitchhiker-Running late from a tryst, a woman hits a hitchhiker accidentally with her car, but fearing the repercussions she takes off. As she struggles with herself for doing the deed, she encounters him repeatedly as she continues on looking for revenge for her actions. The most interesting thing here is how hard the woman fights against the hitchhiker. She runs him over with her car, runs over him and crushes him against trees continually. She does practically everything a human would really do in a similar situation, and it's quite fun to see them. The special effects in here did a very good job on the hitchhiker as every time you see him he's gradually gotten more and more mashed to pieces thanks to Louis Chiles repeatedly driving over him with her car until there is but a skeleton left. The longer it goes on, the more it becomes distorted and the more gruesome it becomes. However, the segment becomes so ludicrously overblown in the escalating wrecking of the car in attempts to dispose of the hitcher that it earns far more on the laugh scale than ever does for its scares. It might have been more interesting if they played up how the mangled hitchhiker could have been a figment of her imagination. That really could've been played up more rather than a few passing hints at it. Its biggest problem, though, is that it gets repetitive after a while and they could have cut this segment down to keep it fresh. It feels like it's doing the same thing over and over, and could've been trimmed down.The Bad Stor(ies) While all have their little problems, as a whole this one is decent enough. The biggest thing that these suffer from is an overall bored feeling. They aren't that original either, as there's been tons of stories out there with the same general plot as these and do it much better. Also quite hard to sit through is the wraparound segments, which are quite terrible, have nothing to do with the features being presented afterward, and have none of the style and wit of the previous entry. That also applies to the stories, but this one mainly suffers from the lack of creativity.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Nudity and drug use. "}{"Title":"Creepshow 2, Viewers 0","Date":"22 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While I was aware of this movie and the King stories it contained, I'd never actually seen it until today. Certainly Mr. King has some stinkers attached to his name, but I have to say that Creepshow 2 has to be the absolute worst. Dreadfully executed and ineptly casted it was a real chore to sit through.Story the First, Chief Wood'nhead, has George Kennedy and Dorothy Lamour in it, which is sad considering they've been in much better films. From the get go there's no doubt in your mind that the damn Indian statue is gonna come to life because they have it moving in the first shots. No suspense at all. So much of the opening is devoted to setting up the couple as nice old people that when revenge time comes around it's rushed through way too fast. The shotgun guy acts well and it's a shame he isn't given much more to do. Really lame. Also, they should have called the Indian Chief Rubberhead.Story the Second, the Raft, a genuinely unsettling and creepy King story is turned into....something. HORRIBLY acted. Line delivery is so bad you don't want to pay attention to what they're saying. In the setup they say how the raft is left on the lake, which means people DO swim in it, and it's not some other lake or raft they're talking about. So it makes the whole NO SWIMMING ending kind of stupid. I guess the monster has the summers off. The trash bag on the water monster effects brought me back to the Creeping Terror. The characters are really unlikable, and i can't tell if that's intentional or just really bad acting. By the time the kids have been whittled down to two, they decide to go soft-core for no reason. It makes no sense at the time or for the characters to do that.Story the Third, the Hitchhiker. The lady driver's constant monologue is so bland and flatly delivered it refused to go into long term memory. The rest of it is so-so for a horror short, less to gripe about than the previous two, but still not free from the flick's many flaws.Then there's the animation. Uncle scrotum-chin (if the animation is any indication) gives some kid the comic book version of Creepshow 2, it's probably better than the movie version. I know it's Creepshow, but the animation is just ugly and off-putting. When the Uncle Scrotor character turns real it makes you wonder why they bothered making Tom Savini up like that in the first place. It adds nothing to the film. It ends with him throwing a bunch of comics off the back of a truck and driving away (much like the creators of the movie did with a good story and technical expertise). The closing music is very odd and out of place for a horror film. It made me wonder if they had stock closing credit music in the public domain that they could just use for free. Cutting down the production costs on this to negative dollars.Kind of upset I watched it finally, but I guess the stories are still there. AVOID. "},{"Title":"Not Bad, But Should've Had More Tales!","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" George Kennedy, Lois Chiles and Tom Savini star in this 1987 horror anthology sequel. Savini (From Dusk Till Dawn) plays The Creep and tells 3 eerie tales to the boy, Billy from the original film. Old Chief Wood'nhead features a dime store couple who get robbed & murdered, but are avenged by a Native American statue. The Raft features a group of teens who get terrorized by an oily substance craving human flesh. The Hitchhiker features an unfaithful woman (Chiles) who gets haunted by an undead hitcher she accidentally hits with her car. Old Chief Wood'nhead is my favorite tale which features Kennedy, but there should've been more. Though the original is better, this isn't bad and I still recommend it for horror fans. "},{"Title":"disappointing sequel","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I liked the first creepshow it was scary had dark humor,and had ironic moments.My friend told me that there was a sequel and he said don't watch it it's not worth your time.I didn't listen to him and I still watched it but I hate to say he was right.the first few problems with this movie is that they ignored almost the entire concept it's a children comic book it was a little sick but it was because boys have a tendency to like those sort of things at that age of the continuing protagonist they like reading things based on monsters.they including far too many adulatory scenes like taking drugs,and even a few breast shots little boys would be smart enough not to read comic books that contain pornography while riding around on their bikes.the animated sequences were to serve little purpose to the stories the reason why they had made it to a cartoon form unlike what the original did was to imply that it took place in the comics and that why it was all extended because they couldn't afford no big time actors.although it looks rather nice it doesn't fit in with the overall tone of these stories,the subplot is not interesting and it tones down the content unbelievably.As a sequel to the first movie it's very disappointing the acting was dreadful the 3 stories were nicely written i thought.but this wasn't as strong as the original. "},{"Title":"Confusing at times, but still enjoyable!","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I bought this recently and never really gotten into the Creepshow films, but the sequel is pretty good. It only has three stories, but the fourth story is in between stories, and the fifth story is you watching it! So the first story is entitled 'Old Chief Woodn'head' which is actually my least favorite of the three, but it's pretty well done. It's about a homeless couple in the desert haven't had a miracle for their store in awhile, and the owner has a Chief statue outside his store. So a relative to the Chief is offering rare necklaces to the couple. So they keep hold of the item until the relative's nephew comes to the store and robs them. The nephew has hair that will get him to Hollywood, paid, and laid. The rest of the story is to yourself, and I wouldn't consider it scary until the last part of the story.The second story is more enjoyable. Its titled 'The Raft' which is about four high school teens are out to have a little fun, until very suddenly one of the men sees a long and wide piece of moss floating on the water. What could it be? What would it do? The third and final story is almost my favorite entitled 'The Hitchhiker' which a very confusing story about a mid-aged woman on her way home with a nice mercades. So she by mistake hits a black hitchhiker. So people arrive at the scene and all of the sudden down the road, she encounters him again, and the man will not die! About the fourth story. The fourth one is in between the other stories about a young boy who orders a book with a Venus Flytrap story and it eats meat. So he rides on his bike and encounters bullies and they chase him to where the boy get's revenge on the bullies. They eat meat... The next story is that you sit and the movie, and make the story....A Creepshow! "},{"Title":"Good, but not great","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was a really hit&miss from the first. Many people do not like Creepshow 2 for the fact that there are sex scenes in the movie, which I will agree to. Sex scenes are unnecessary in Creepshow for the reason that Creepshow is meant to be a children's comic. Another thing I didn't like were the animated segments in between stories. They were way too corny and unnecessary. Also what I didn't like was that this movie only had 3 stories where the first had 5. However, the stories were good. The first segment, Old Chief Wood'n'Head Was a personal favorite. I loved the story, the characters, everything. Sure there was tragedy in it, but if there wasn't then there'd be no reason for Chief Wood'n'Head. The second segment, The Raft was more of a basic story about teens being attacked by some supernatural creature. The teens were like ones you'd find in Friday the 13th or something, which I liked. The 3rd story, The Hitchhiker was more of a torture film. However, I felt no sympathy for Annie Lansing. This was a pretty good movie, not as good as the original but probably way better than the 3rd. 7/10. "},{"Title":"First story good, but the others are boring.","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sequels have a nasty habit of being disappointing, and the best credit I can give this is that it maintains that old tradition. These three tales aren't anything as good as any from the original Creepshow.By far the best of the trio involves a wooden idol which comes to life to take revenge on the thugs who killed its owners. The second story is about a lake monster which seems to be nothing more than a lot of floating slop, makes you wonder how anybody could possibly be scared of it. The third story includes a cameo from Stephen King as a truck driver, but other than that is a pretty unmemorable tale concerning the victim of a road traffic accident who comes back from the dead for the person who knocked him down.Watch the original Creepshow instead, or if you already have done then be happy with that. "},{"Title":"why the hell did i just rent this?","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I rented it because the second segment traumatized me as a little kid.  I snuck downstairs  really early one morning, started watching HBO, and The Raft (segment 2) terrorized me  good.  This time around, I still enjoyed The Raft, although I couldn't tell whether it was for  nostalgic reasons or if it was actually a good short.  The other two segments were complete  trash.  I can't believe a producer somewhere payed to make this junk.  All I've accomplished  by watching this was to ruin one more childhood memory.  Creepshow 2 will now join Rad  among my list of tainted childhood classics.  4/10 "},{"Title":"This movie is funny","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Raft is one of the funniest thing I've seen in my life.  I could probally watch it every day and still laugh.  It looks like a large pool solar cover and you better swim fast or you'll be eaten alive!Old Chief Woodenhead is unique.  George Kennedy owns a general store and after he gets killed, his wooden Indian comes alive to seek revenge!The Hitchhiker is fun, but not overly satisfying.Creepshow 1 was better made but 2 is still mindless fun.**/**** "},{"Title":"It's Creepshow 2 . . .","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Like it's predecessor, Creepshow 2 reminds me of Tales from the Crypt in its narration and its overall style of quirky horror.  It's never really scary, usually over the top, cliche, a bit humorous, and gory, but not stirring.  Like Creepshow, since the film is comprised of numerous smaller pieces, no real depth can be attained; therefor, no real scares (hence the over the top performances).  In terms of music, acting, and style nothing really stands out enough to warrant comment.  It's not *bad* but it's not very good either.  It's just there.  So, like Tales from the Crypt and Creepshow 1 . . . Creepshow 2 is nothing fantastic by any stretch of the imagination, but it's all right so long as you don't take it too seriously.               "},{"Title":"Ahhhh! All fear the dreaded tarp of doom!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Now, I know this was the 80s and technology wasn't up to snuff with today's standards, but the graphics truly were horrible. The raft scene was by far the worst of the stories involved in this movie. I don't know about you, but seeing a raft surrounded by a black tarp that looks like it was lit on fire isn't very frightening. And what's with the mix of animation and real footage? By 1987 that really should have been old by now. Why would Stephen King allow his name to be included in this? I first thought they were just stealing his ideas and giving credit to him, but then he made a guest appearance in one of the skits. Bah. On my scale of 1 to 2, this gets a 1, right down there with Bones. "}{"Title":"Could have and SHOULD HAVE been much, much better...","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** This film is, of course, the sequel to CREEPSHOW. It includes three stories this time, the first story of which is the worst of both films. It revolves around some young hooligans who brutally murder an elderly storekeeping couple, only to be served a dose of frontier justice by none other than the cigar-store wooden indian which stands outside. How can he move? What gave him the power? Who knows, the movie didn't explain. Perhaps if this segment had been a bit shorter, and perhaps had a bit of history telling where the indian got his power from(perhaps it was possessed by the spirit of a vengeful indian god?) it would have been more entertaining. As it stands it was quite dull, but the final scenes where the indian takes his revenge was fairly entertaining by itself. It didn't seem to have that EC comics twist like the other parts did- that is, some little bite in the rear end to jolt you. The original movie had some of these, like the scene in the Father's Day tale where it was revealed exactly what the undead father had on his silver platter- his father's day cake. I won't give it away, because I hope you will see the first one and be surprised.The second story, called The Raft, is pretty good but encounters one of the problems that this segment and the next encounters- sex. No, I am not opposed to sex in movies, but in this series it is uncalled for. These stories are supposed to be in a comic book a young kid is reading, and I find it doubtful that the store would sell a kid this young something with such nudity and explicit adult material. That's not the worst of it- the sex in this segment was completely stupid and needless. The story was about several teens who go out for a swimming party- and get trapped on a wooden raft in the middle of the water, surrounded by a black mass that reminds me of another one of my favorite movies, The Blob(the remake). The sexual scene happens after all but the main character and one girl are dead, and she is sleeping as he stands guard. For no apparent reason other than he was a teenager, he decides to take a peek at her breasts by lifting her shirt up. It wasn't just a quick look, which may have been acceptable- it was quite a stare and in fact was a bit more than a look(but for the sake of keeping my review PG rated I will not proceed any further). Still, despite this flaw, the story is entertaining and has an ending quite like the original film's tales. Like most of these stories, the hero gets it in the end and of course, also like these stories, he deserved what he got.The third and final story is one that is actually a bit chilling. A woman leaving a male prostitute's house hits a hitch-hiker on the way home. She had told her husband she was over a friend's house, so of course if she called the police he would find out she lied. So she leaves the man there to die and takes off. As can be expected, the hitch-hiker returns from the dead and seeks revenge. The main problem with this story is not the sexual aspect(even though, again, I find it hard to believe this was in a comic book, at least it made sense storywise and wasn't thrown in just because the director wanted to see some breasts) but the ending. Yeah, she gets killed, but so what? There was nothing spectacular or bloodcurdling, or indeed shocking about her death. Her husband simply finds her corpse. Now, maybe if she had been run over a few dozen times, that would have been something. Actually, there was a slight variation on the death which did very little to add shock, which was that she was holding the hitch-hiker's sign(you know, the sign they hold up to show where they are going).Between each story is the continuing adventures of Billy. I don't know if this is supposed to be the same loveable Billy who tortured his dad in the first movie, or if they simply forgot there were kids' names other than Billy, I don't know. It is a different actor when he's there, but most of the time he is a cartoon, as is the rest of the between-story segments. I think the major problem with the film was that Stephen King and George Romero wanted to make it but simply didn't feel like putting any effort into it. It almost looks like an unfinished project- if the film had a little bit more effort put into the first story(as I mentioned above) and had two more stories, maybe they would have balanced out the first story. In addition, the first film was written by Stephen King and directed by George Romero. This film was written by George Romero(but based on stories by King) and directed by someone new. Perhaps if it had been written by King and directed by Romero, and had two more stories, perhaps we would be on Creepshow 4 or 5 by now. But instead, the series was ended prematurely with this film. I really would have loved to see a new film every few years, with more delightful stories by the master of horror, Stephen King. As a side note, Tales From the Darkside The Movie had one story written by George Romero and based on a story by King, just like Creepshow 2. Interestingly enough, it was the only story worth seeing in TFtDTM. Perhaps if it had been included in THIS film along with one other story(maybe the legendary killer roller coaster story?)... but alas, if is a bad word, especially when depressed about what a great movie something could have been. Still, the movie is enjoyable if you can wade through the first story and try not to get too upset watching the cartoon interludes.I give it ** and 1/2 out of *****. If the first story had been better it would be ****. "},{"Title":"Romero and King fail...","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Creepshow 2 comes nowhere close to the first film.  This time the budget is cheap, King doesn't write, and Romero fails at directing.  It seems that the film was put together in a week.  The acting is terrible too.The film is not that bad if you can get past the bad animation and the first story about the wooden indian, a terrible, cheesy mess of a story not worthy of King or Romero.  You would expect better from the two.  I guess the Creepshow saga ended with this dud. RATING = 5 of 10  "},{"Title":"The main problem is the low-budget","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Unfortunately Creepshow 2 isn't half as good as the original Creepshow from 1982, which is one of my very favorites. The main problem is the low-budget of course, but also the script not written by King but by Romero (who directed the first one from King's script). Not that Romero's script for Creepshow 2 is bad but if King had done it it would have been better, I'm sure. This film is based on three King-stories and a wraparound story (which I'm not quite sure has anything to do with King). Only one of them, the second tale The Raft, has been published in a Kingbook before (Skeleton Crew)but the other two, Old Chief Wood'nhead & The Hitchhiker are unpublished stories or more like storylines provided by King. The funny thing is that the last tale The Hitchhiker is the best one, the most frightening and most gory one. Wood'nhead is slow but not boring as it gets pretty exciting all of a sudden and the effects on the wooden indian coming to life is very well done. The Raft is one of King's very fine and chilling short stories but on screen it doesn't work the same way. It's not bad but not as good at it could be. The wrap-around story is somehow tame and childish and not even superdrawn. But it's kind of fun. I think that's Romero's very own little tale. But this sequel do have some scary and worth-seeing moments but it never gets so perfect as the first one. I hope they make Creepshow 3 (that is actually planned)better. "},{"Title":"Good direction can't save bad script...","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Michael Gornick shows a lot of promise with CREEPSHOW 2; unfortunately, it's not enough to overcome a very bad script. The first episode in this three-part anthology, OL' WOODEN HEAD, is the best written, but that's not really saying a whole lot. The second episode, THE RAFT, seems rushed very little time is spent building anything even remotely resembling suspense. This may well have had something to do with the weather where this one was shot everybody in this segment seems to be on the verge of freezing to death. At any rate, Today's audience(s) can ascribe it all to the BP oil spill... The final episode, THE HITCH-HIKER, is the least interesting because it's been done to death (most notably as an episode of the original TWILIGHT ZONE); Stephen King simply has nothing to add. Like Tom Savini with the 1990 remake of NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD, Gornick rose to the occasion when he got a chance to direct; unfortunately, like Savini, it didn't pan out. More's the pity both the 1990 NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD and CREEPSHOW 2 have one thing in common both are very well directed. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as creative as the first movie but still a passable film","Date":"29 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Episode #8 of Lionheart490's IMDb Movie ReviewsI am a fan of the original 1982 horror anthology film, Creepshow. It was a very enjoyable and creative film that paid homage to the classic EC comics like Tales from the Crypt and The Vault of Horror. It had some great people working on it such as George Romero, Stephen King, and Tom Savini. While I greatly enjoyed Creepshow, I found Creepshow 2 to be just OK.There were many things that stroke Creepshow 2 as less superior to Creepshow. They were less anthology segments. While the first one had five segments and one segment that were used to frame it all together, the second one had only three segments and another segment that framed it all together. Also, the first Creepshow tried very hard to have a unique comic-book feel to make it even more of an EC Comic homage. Creepshow 2 significantly lacks that unique comic-book style for the most part. However, I could easily excuse the fewer segments and less attempts to have that comic-book style due to the lower budget that Creepshow 2 had. However, the thing that really makes Creepshow 2 not as good as the original Creepshow is the fact that the stories in Creepshow 2 are not as nearly as interesting as in the first film. In the first movie, every segment was an interesting mix of horror and comedic elements that made each story interesting and entertaining to watch. Not every segment worked but each one managed to be incredibly memorable. In comparison, the segments in Creepshow 2 are just not as interesting. None of the segments are outright terrible but most of them aren't good enough to provide a really entertaining experience. My favorite segment is the first one, Old Chief Wood 'N Head, because it has biggest feel of an EC comic storyline with its ideas of supernatural elements being used to provide a cruel yet hilariously ironic sense of karma. I think this is a good story that starts the movie off on a good note. The next segment, The Raft, is just some generic slasher-movie junk involving killer sewage. The characters are your usual teenage douche-bags whose immense stupidity ends up causing their downfall. I admit there are some good things in this segment. I wasn't really afraid of the antagonistic mud but I admit the way it killed its victims was pretty disturbing. Also, I admit I found the last shot of this segment to be pretty funny. However, the final segment is what I believe to be the worst segment of the film. It is the generic hitchhiker story that is pretty much a long supernatural chase with the same scares repeated over and over that makes you just wish the segment was over already. It isn't terrible but I found this last segment to be the most boring. I wasn't really that scared by the hitchhiker and I really didn't care whether the main character survived or not. Even the ending of the segment wasn't really that special and just made me just say Eh. Also, I found the second film's framing story not nearly as good as the first one's framing story. The first movie's framing story was short and simple that easily set up the tale would used to transition into the main story segments and provided a cruel but funny twist at the end. The second movie's framing story is longer and uses animation. I admit I found the animation to be really weirdly done at certain points. The story is just overall not as entertaining with the cruel twist at the end being just sub-par. That being said I don't think Creepshow 2 is a terrible movie. While not being as great as the original, I found it to be a pretty passable film. If you're feeling bored, I think Creepshow 2 is a good way of wasting an hour and a half. Still this movie is MILES better than the absolutely terrible Creepshow 3. Overall, I give this movie a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Thanks for the ride lady....","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creep tells the tales Old Chief Wood'nhead Ray and Martha have lived their whole life and raised their family with their small store in an Arizona town. Now the town is economically decadent and Ray gives credit to his costumers including Ben Whitemoon. Ben asks him to keep the jewels of his tribe as a guarantee for their debts. However, Ben's nephew Sam arrives with two other punks to steal, and he kills the couple. They expect to travel to Hollywood, but the Old Chief Wood'nhead will not let them go.The Raft - Deke and Randy travel with Laverne and Rachel to a lake. They swim to a raft that is floating in the middle of the lake, but they discover a carnivorous blob in the lake that is hungry. The Hitchhiker - Annie stays too with her escort and is late to meet her husband. She loses control and runs over a hitchhiker, but she does not stop to help the man. She soon discovers that the hitchhiker will not leave her....Having never seen the first movie, I did not know what to expect, and while the film isn't scary, and neither do any of the stories have a devilish twist come the end, they passed the time amiably enough and didn't irritate.And here lies my main problem, I wanted to be scared, and I wanted a devilish twist at the end of each story, but they were predictable and each in diminishing quality.The first story was great though, the kind of old school story Stephen King can do in his sleep, and the performances were sensational. The second one was okay but the characters were were annoying, but the final story just plodded on and seemed to go on forever.All in all, if you like anthology movies, this is okay, but it could have been scarier. "},{"Title":"Good but cheap sequel to the terrific original.","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In this sequel to the cult classic Creepshow. FilmmakerGeorge A. Romero (The Dead Series, The Crazies, Martin) wrote the screenplay to present three short stories from novelist Stephen King.In the first tale Ol'Chief Wooden Head is about a store senior owner (Oscar-WinnerGeorge Kennedy) and his wife (Dorothy Lamour) are living in a dying desert town. They found themselves robbed and murder by a group of punks (Holt McCallany, Don Harvey and David Holbrook). The owner's wooden Indian comes back to life for revenge.In the second tale The Raft is about a group of young college kids (Paul Satterfield, Page Hannah, Daniel Beer and Jeremy Green) decides to take an vacation at a secluded lake that turns into a living nightmare.In the third tale The Hitchhiker is about a cheating wife (Lois Chiles), who's late from going home. When she decides to travel fast on the road. She accidental hit a traveling hitchhiker (Tom Wright) on the road. Instead of getting help, she leaves the dead man on the highway. But soon... she finds herself stalked by the dead hitchhiker.Directed by Michael Gornick (Who's best know for shooting some of Romero's best films like Dawn of the Dead, Creepshow and Knightriders) made an watchable sequel to the cult classic 1982 original. Gornick works hard with the limited budget of the feature, he tries to match somewhat the quality of the first one. Which it was an bigger movie. Creepshow 2 is two-thirds of a good cheaper horror film. I enjoyed the first and third stories best but i was never an fan of the second story (Although there's plenty of people loved it). Best performances goes from the first tale. Chiles and Wright are certainly an hoot in the third tale.The Original DVD has an good anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an decent Dolby 2.0 Mono Sound. DVD's only special features are the original theatrical trailer and behind the scenes production photo gallery. There's an Special Edition DVD of this sequel... packed with bonus features like Commentary track by the filmmaker and Featurettes. Too Bad, there's no Region 1 Special Edition DVD of Creepshow. I wonder... when Warner Bros knows, there's an major fan base of the original. At least, Anchor Bay Entertainment cared about the sequel.Creepshow 2 is simply an guilty pleasure, it was one of the last theatrical movies from New World Pictures before it got shut down. It's a decent sequel with some good moments from each stories but nothing near as strong from the original. Tom Savini plays The Creep under heavy Make-Up. King appears briefly as a trucker. Followed by a Direct to DVD Sequel without Romero's or King's involvement. (*** 1/2 out of *****). "},{"Title":"Slightly below average horror","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  CREEPSHOW 2 is the ill-fated sequel to the George Romero's (overrated) original, CREEPSHOW. Any sequel following a Romero film that's not directed by Romero himself has got some large shoes to fill, mostly because of the Romero fans out there who think he's God. I didn't care much for the first film and funny enough, I didn't care much for the sequel. The film series had so much potential but it was short-lived because both films were less than stellar. The biggest problem with CREEPSHOW 2 was that it only had three stories (excluding the in-between story), and because the first story sucked beyond belief, it only left the chance for almost half of the movie to be *really* good. I saw CS 2 at the movies and the first segment was a real groaner. Anything dramatic with George 'I can't act' Kennedy is automatically doomed and the Indian Statue story was too hokey and simply didn't belong in this sequel. So after a really trite and dull start, there were only two other stories left to reverse the fiasco of the aborted beginning and unfortunately the two other stories weren't great enough for me to forget the first story. THE RAFT and THE HITCHHIKER are moderately successful, moderately because though the two other segments have their moments, they still sorta fall flat. The two last stories are basically stretched out for too long. It's not that I wanted the stories to happen at a dizzying pace and end fast, but both good ideas found within those stories were sorta nullified by the fact that they were slow and padded and eventually fell flat when the segments needed to be more energized, more erratic and with punchier endings. Also, if the two last stories hadn't been stretched out to pad the movie or had all three segments been more brief with better editing and direction, they could have added a much needed fourth story to the bunch. Having only three padded segments made for a boring feast.The acting and writing in both THE RAFT and THE HITCHHIKER segments are from awful to good. I like Lois Chiles in the last segment. It's probably her best moment on screen aside from her role as Bond Girl Holly Goodhead in MOONRAKER and in DEATH ON THE NILE. But even her role is difficult to understand at times because of the serviceable direction and the unfocused story. Are we supposed to hate her or sympathize with her? Are we supposed to sympathize with the annoying hitchhiker? If the hitchhiker's body was found by other people on the road, what was he when he attacked Chiles? Was he a ghost or a zombie or what? How did the body eventually left the presence of the other people who found him dead in order to attack Chiles? The whole thing is not very clear, even for a supernatural story. And the ending is rather dull and uneventful.As for the infamous THE RAFT story, well, the acting is mostly on the awful side and none of the characters are sympathetic or interesting. The characters would have been more interesting had the actors played themselves. None of the actors are convincing in their specific roles. Paul Satterfield looks smarter than the dumb jock he's playing and the actress who plays his girlfriend is not very convincing as the typical bitchy slut. She seems too timid. The same could be said with the two others who play the plain teens. The idea of the killer oil slick is interesting and creepy but not well executed. There should have been a fifth character to the story, maybe a homeless man or a ranger who lurks around the lake and knows about the oil slick and could have been the watery monster's alter ego of sorts. As creepy as the oil slick is, it doesn't make for a compelling character. And the way the story ends, everything seems pointless. No punch to it whatsoever.Except for the few titillating aspects which always seems to make boring things worthwhile, seeing CREEPSHOW 2 at a theater was basically a waste of money and time. CS 2 is more rental material than something you pay to see on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Creepshow without the Style","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Five years after the original Creepshow, we're treated to a new anthology of horror tales, though there are some notable differences between the original and it's sequel. There are only three stories in this film, all based on stories by Stephen King a wooden Indian statue seeks revenge for the death of his owners, four college students are terrorized in the middle of a lake by a mysterious black ooze, and a woman is tormented when she kills a hitchhiker in an accident. While the stories are entertaining, this movie isn't quite as good as the original.While all three stories are based on tales by Stephen King, the actual screenplay was written by George Romero (who gave up directing duties this time around), and it shows. There is a lot less humor this time around and horror has become the centerpiece. This film is missing all of the campiness that gave the original film it's style. Director Michael Gornick took a much more serious tone for his film and drops the colored lighting and odd camera angles in favor of a more realistic feel. In this case, that's one of the film's weaknesses because that is what made the original as fun as it was.My biggest problem with the film it bored me. Not the whole movie, but a good amount of it. The first and third tales (Old Chief Wood'nhead and The Hitchhiker) felt so long! I was bored halfway through their segments. The second segment (The Raft) was the only highlight to this movie; it had scares, some decent dialogue, and some nice gore effects. Another difference in the sequel was the lack of any real highlight performances from the cast. Lois Chiles was decent as Annie Lansing in the third segment, but it wasn't enough to keep the tale interesting. I thought the four college kids in the second segment felt genuine enough that the audience could root for them.Most of the performances, unfortunately, were less than entertaining; God, I hated the character of Fatso Gribbens (David Holbrook)...his voice/acting grated on my nerves. I couldn't stand the new Creep either. He was a second-rate Cryptkeeper rip-off who popped in between stories for lame puns we all could've done without. All of these factors lead up to a mediocre sequel with some strong spots. Entertaining? Sure, a bit...if you can sit through the whole thing without nodding off. "},{"Title":"Terrific sequel!","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In a small town in Maine, a young boy named Billy is eagerly awaiting the arrival of a new issue to his favorite comic book Creepshow. The Creep (Played by Tom Savini and voiced by Joe Silver) arrives with his truck as he magically gives him his comic and tells the viewer three ghastly stories. The first story is called Old Chief Wooden'head tells a modern supernatural western revenge tale in which two old small town general store owners named Ray and Martha Spruce (George Kennedy and Dorothy Lamour) are offered a deal by a rich Native American of special jewelery which can offer them a good future if his tribe can pay back, unfortunately three hoodlums murder them and the store's wooden Indian comes alive as it seeks revenge. The second story The Raft has four college students having some fun in a forbidden lake get terrorized by a bizarre flesh-eating black goo as they must find a way to escape from it's wrath on a lake of blood. And finally The Hitchhiker has a cheating rich wife (Lois Chiles) driving her way home from scoring with a gigolo accidentally hits a hitchhiker as he won't stay dead until he avenges his death.Very entertaining sequel to the brilliant George A. Romero/Stephen King cult masterpiece Creepshow! Sure Romero didn't direct this one but luckily he wrote the screenplay with stories that were originally intended for the first movie from Stephen King but never got made. The Raft is easily the creepiest and most intense of the stories cause of it's bloody special effects and idea of being trapped by a hideous man-eating goo like in The Blob (1958), there's some high tension in the story and is faithful to the Stephen King short story of the same name even though there is no explanation of the creature of where it came from. Cheif Woodenhead is good but predictable and weak despite it's rubbery non-realistic wooden Indian and The Hitcher is an unforgettable story especially for it's evil Hitchhiker zombie or ghost that speaks it's memorable quote Thanks for the Ride Lady. Sure some of the animated sequences are cheesy but this is a fun and nice sequel to the popular Creepshow as it's worth watching for any anthology fan. "}{"Title":"The first one was better.","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is yet another anthology film from Stephen King and George A. Romero, except this one has three stories and an animated wraparound, unlike the first which has 5 stories and an opening and closing. Also in this one we have the Creep(Tom Savini) instead of the skeleton host in the first. Anyway, the first story is, Old Chief Woodenhead about two shopkeepers(Dorothy Lamour and George Kennedy) getting murdered by three mean guys. The two shopkeeps had a large Indian statue in front of their place and it comes to life to seek revenge. The second story is, The Raft which is about four pot-smoking teens swimming to a raft in the middle of a lake, but unfortunately for them, there is a man eating blob in the water. The second is my personal favorite in this movie. The third and final one, The Hitch-hiker is about a woman (Lois Chiles) who has been cheating on her husband every night accidentally hits a hobo with her car and kills him. She's then haunted while driving by his animated corpse which can only say, Thanks for the ride lady! This one is repetitive but fun and funny. The wraparound is a poorly animated story about a boy who buys Venus Flytrap pods, but bullies step on them and the kid seeks revenge.my review-C-76%. rated R for strong violence, breast nudity in every segment and some language. 86 minutes. "},{"Title":"Very Poor Except For The Third Tale","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The original Creepshow had five tales of which two were very good. Creepshow 2 has three tales and only the last one is good in my opinion.The first tale is about a wooden Indian that resides inside a store where some thugs come calling. Totally unmemorable tale.The second tale is about an oil slick heading for some youngsters who are stuck on a raft. I don't suppose it was too bad but nothing really special.The third tale more than makes up for the first two mediocre tales. It is the famous hitchhiker tale which is still talked about nowadays. If you rent Creepshow 2, I would recommend giving the first two tales a miss and watching the third tale only.Thanks for the ride lady! "},{"Title":"When garbage bags attack...","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This sequel to George Romero's five-part homage to horror comics comes off as a cheap imitation of the original. It offers only three stories (scripted by Romero from three more Stephen King shorts) instead of five, and while the outrageous elements of the original are still there, what's missing is a sense of style. The film looks dull and lifeless, as opposed to the garishly-colored original which featured a color palette that really did resemble an old comic book at times. Creepshow 2 is also lacking in spirit, offering only a few chuckles and even fewer scares.Part of the problem is that the film gets off to a really bad start with a stupid story about a wooden Indian statue that stands on the porch of a small general store. A trio of extremely unpleasant teen delinquents visit the store and attack the elderly proprietors. The Indian eventually comes to life and exacts revenge with a tomahawk. It's completely unscary, and what's worse I was wondering the whole time why the heck the Indian didn't animate itself when the old couple needed help. Mean-spirited, and not amusingly so, the story is also boring, and it's an awful beginning.The second story is the best of the three, concerning a group of young people who unwisely decide to make an off-season trip to a remote lake to go swimming. Wouldn't ya know it, they are trapped on one of those stationary wooden rafts when a floating puddle of slime makes its presence known by sucking one of the kids into the water and digesting her in a matter of minutes. The thing, which looks a lot like a floating garbage bag covered in vomit, is a revolting sight, even if it's a little silly, and this part works on a visceral level.The third and final tale finds a wealthy woman finishing up a tryst with her male prostitute lover and trying to make it back home before her husband suspects anything. Things take a turn for the worst when she accidentally kills a hitch hiker with her car. After she leaves him for dead, she then keeps seeing him everywhere she drives, chasing after her shrieking Thanks for the ride, lady! The final story does seem like it could have come from the first film, with an idea that's both spooky and goofy at the same time. The Raft is great for the gross-out element, but that stupid wooden Indian tale nearly drags the whole film down. There's also a lackluster animated wraparound story that takes a little too long to resolve itself, too. "},{"Title":"End result befits the budget afforded it.","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow 2 is the sequel to the popular Creepshow anthology movie released in 1982. It's directed by Michael Gornick, with a screenplay written by George A. Romero (who directed the original movie) that is based on stories written by Stephen King. The film features 3 stories Old Chief Wooden Head , The Raft & The Hitchhiker. Starring are George Kennedy, Dorothy Lamour, Holt McCallany, Don Harvey & Lois Chiles.The horror anthology movie is notoriously hard to get right. Quite simply it's impossible to appease all horror fans given the wide number of sub-genres linked to horror. There's also the question of time afforded to each segment, consequently most sections of such film's are short sharp shockers without much character detail to get involved with; well that's what the makers intend them to be. Creepshow 2 is not a good film, and not because of the problems that come with horror anthology based movies.The first film was backed by a Warner Brothers budget and had the considerable talent of Romero in the director's chair. A cult hit, that film didn't make enough money to get Warner's interested in a sequel. In came New World Pictures with a low budget that saw the film cut from 5 stories to three. What remains are three decent enough tales that carry the EC Comics charm, but production is sloppy and the scares are few and far between. There's some nice gore in there, with The Raft particularly coming up with some fun slimy deaths. And with The Hitchhiker segment dealing in acerbic wit as the excellent Lois Chiles battles conscience and the undead, it's an easy enough film to enjoy for the horror faithful. But all told none of it's memorable enough to warrant a revisit some where down the line. 4/10 "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Three more tales of terror about a hit and run driver being haunted by her victim, a wooden statue of an Indian killing teens who robbed his owners store, and a group of teens trapped on a raft in the middle of nowhere by a giant blob. Effective with the requisite number of thrills & chills and humor needed to entertain, but nowhere near as polished as the original.Rated R; Nudity, Graphic Violence, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Another Inferior Horror Sequel","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Five years after the original Creepshow, another inferior horror sequel is penned by George A. Romero and Stephen King Creepshow 2. This time there are only three stories instead of five. None of the three stories is really original or distinguished either. The first story is a horror staple, formulaic story about a wooden Indian statue seeking revenge against the killers of its owners. The effects are really neat in this story, but it's just too familiar to be compelling enough. George Kennedy and Dorothy Lamour play the elderly store owners. The second story, The Raft, is a Stephen King story. It's about four teenagers that unwittingly spend the day on a wooden pallet in the middle of an isolated lake. Soon the kids are screaming for their lives as a watery blob does each of them in for no apparent reason. However, instead of being suspenseful, the kids are saddled with bad dialog and dopey-headed behavior, preventing us from really caring about what happens next. There is also some unintentional humor in this segment. The third and final story is The Hitch-hiker, which is actually a retread re-adapted for Creepshow 2. The original story, by Lucille Fletcher, was filmed in 1953 as a film noir suspense film. Then it was adapted for a famous Twilight Zone episode featuring Inger Stevens. The Hitch-hiker works the best out of these three offerings, but it's not without its problems either. Lois Chiles plays a cheating spouse, who ends up running over a hitch-hiker, or so she thinks. However, we don't know whether to sympathize with her or condemn her. As in many average stories of this type, the characters exist merely to tell the stories with their twists and turns. The wrap around story with the bullies seems a bit out of place. Tom Savini appears as the creep in this installment. The good thing is there haven't been any more sequels. *1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"This film sure knows how to waste our time...","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The only reason I wanted to see this movie is because it looked like a fun, old horror flick that had a lot of cheesy gore in it. Well, that it all has and is. But, I was also hoping for a story in the film as well. Instead, we have a bunch of stories that are about twenty minutes long each written by Stephen King and George A. Romero, two of the greatest horror writers of all time. Well, they are some pretty good shorts, but they just don't make that good of a movie.The animated sequences were something that made me want to kill whoever thought they would be a good idea, and the movie just annoyed me with the cast of characters always making the dumbest decisions, and with the stupid dialogue. The last story had me and my friend laughing so hard at the stupid zombie guy attacking a woman while screaming Thanks for the ride, lady!. That was just the dumbest thing I had ever seen. The first two stories were okay, but there is no origin to the stories and there isn't a real ending. We just have a movie that looks like a bad Goosebumps episode. The beginning especially, when we see Tom Savini dressed up in a rubber mask talking in a voice that really DOES sound like it is from an R.L. Stine Goosebumps episode. Think of it that way, as a Goosebumps for adults. So, if you like gore and a mindless movie that you can just sit back and watch people die, pop in this. CREEPSHOW 2 gets 2/5. "},{"Title":"Trash","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is an incredible waste of talent.  What were Romero & King thinking?, these stories are weak and certainly not in the least but scary.  Where was the style?, it was very B-Grade.  The Hitch-hiker must be one of the worst, unoriginal and poorly executed short films I have ever seen.  The others were O.K, but they made the first Creepshow instalment look like a stroke of genius.  Was that the best they could come up with?, it was just atrocious and unappealing.  Even if you like good/bad horror films - still stay away.  It was a total waste of time. The Raft was like a anemic imitation of a Friday 13th film, it would have been O.K if it had been tongue in cheek, but it was fairly obvious it wasn't.  The First part is probably the best of the three, but the story linking the three together was better than the short films itself...Not Good. "},{"Title":"what the?","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  now! what is this. i bet you a million dollars that the book was probably 1 trillion times better then this movie. this was the worst movie that i have ever seen in my life. guess what!...i have a new WORST movie. common what is this. im telling you, never in your life see this, after i seen the movie i can feel my brain banging on the side of my skull trying to forget this movie. i would rather look at the wall for an hour and a half. at least that would be more thrilling. "},{"Title":"Thanks for the ride, lady!","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok, this movie sucks. I'll be gracious enough to start with that. It's one of those movies that you saw really young and you loved it that first time you saw it and you screamed in all the right places and... you get the picture. But like most movies of the sort, it doesn't age too well. Here's what brings the movie down in my opinion A) Only three stories instead of five, which the first one had. B) Only one of the stories is actually any good (The Raft). The other two suck. More on that later, though. C) Came at a time when horror movies just plain sucked and were being mass produced. And too much of anything is never a good thing, right? D) Just doesn't have what the first one did which was class. I still find the original Creepshow to be very entertaining. The performances in this are of dime store value and maybe it's just me but it's almost as this movie was trying to compete with the Friday the 13th and Elm St. series that were so popular at the time and falls into the same hole that those same films eventually croaked in. This film isn't a complete bust though; if you have to watch it, it's for the Raft chapter. It's one of my fave King short stories and it's actually pretty faithful to the source. It's not as creepy as the original short story but I think they got the casting good on this one. The other two chapters suck, especially Old Chief Woodenhead. It's material like this that gives the viewing public negative ideas about King's abilities as a writer. The Hitchhiker chapter is really shallow but contains some laughs if bodily abuse is your thing. Look for King in a cameo here. Check it out but only if you must. Rating *1/2 out of *****. "}{"Title":"REALLY wanted this to be better.","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The original Creepshow was quite the well done horror anthology film. Great acting, clever cinematography, and spooky short stories made it a winner.Creepshow 2 has none of these qualities. The acting is mediocre, and mostly unknowns litter the cast. The cinematography is nothing to get excited about, and the stories simply aren't short!Well, that is, they began life as short PRINTED stories, but when translated for the big screen, they had to be fleshed out with long drawn out scenes that seem to crawl by. The original Creepshow gave us five stories that grabbed us immediately and didn't let up, but this movie has three tales that seem to drag on forever. Check your watch. It's really a shame. Done properly, I could've easily envisioned a new Creepshow movie every three summers or so, filled only with the best new stories, filmed tightly and attracting the major names in Hollywood to portray the creepy plots. It never happened. (Unless you think of HBO's Tales From the Crypt series, which was essentially a TV version of Creepshow)One question... why did they replace the creepy, silent, three-dimensional host of the first film, with the goofy, blabbermouth, cartoon host of the second? The original movies' host was even pictured on Creepshow 2's promo poster, but is nowhere in this film. Perhaps he crawled back into his grave when he saw how inferior this sequel is.  "},{"Title":"Did we need a sequel?","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, this isn't really a sequel.  But you wonder why they bothered?  None of the stories are as good as the majority of the first movie, although there are some chilling moments in all of the segments.  Basically enjoyable, but just nothing special.  The performances are not nearly as hammy, over the top as in the first movie either  the actors are much less enthusiastic, which tends to dim the proceedings.  There's no Leslie Nielsen, Adrienne Barbeau or E.G. Marshall to liven up the proceedings.  Sorry, but George Kennedy and Lois Chiles just don't stack up in comparison. "},{"Title":"Thanks For the Ride, Lady!","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A weak sequel directed by the first film's cinematographer and written by George Romero, based on stories by Stephen King. This anthology features three stories plus a linking story. The first story is Old Chief Woodenhead. It's about a kindly old couple (George Kennedy and Dorothy Lamour) who run a general store and are murdered by a long-haired Native American (Holt McCallany) and his friends. As they get ready to leave town, the wooden Indian outside the old couple's store comes to life and seeks revenge. This is an overlong, despicable mess of a story. What kind of sick person wants to see two old people, played by amiable veteran screen actors, murdered by some overacting punks? In addition to the disturbing subject matter, the piece is poorly written with some of the most inane dialogue ever and it just goes on for ages. That this was Lamour's final screen role is truly sad.The second segment is called The Raft, about four teenagers who party at a remote lake. Some kind of blob monster traps them on a raft in the middle of the lake. This segment is probably the most famous of the three, if only for the unintended comedy that comes from the cheap-looking blob creature. It looks like the teens are stranded in the middle of this lake in fear for their lives from a tarp or trash bag. The kids are particularly unlikeable, by the way, so you look forward to seeing them all die.The third story is The Hitchhiker, about a married woman (Lois Chiles) hurrying home after having banged some stud. She runs down a hitchhiker and does not stop to help him. However, it appears the hitchhiker will not stay dead as he continues to come after her all the way home. This is easily the best segment in the movie. Chiles' performance is great but again, the unintended laughs come into play. The way this guy keeps popping up and the damage that is inflicted to her car as she tries to get away from him is hilarious.The wraparound/linking segment is about a kid chased by bullies but he gets help from some giant flytrap plants he ordered from ads in Creepshow comics. It's a rather stupid story that is animated (poorly) because, one suspects, they wanted to save money. All in all, it's a watchable sequel that falls far short from matching the first film. The three segments have more unintended laughs going for them than anything else but that's better than nothing. "},{"Title":"Creepshow 2a bad choice","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" actually,I'm amazed. Not by the film,- which was an exercise in tedium that I don't care to repeat again in this lifetime-,but by the fact that so many people are willing to give it a chance! This is a very bad film! The director, Mr.Gorlick, did a fine job as the cinematographer on Dawn of the Dead,but as director,he makes all the wrong choices. What are the wrong choices he makes? 1. No idea how to arrange his films.Its a rule of show business that you start strong and work to your best material. Gorlick begins with the best story and works to the most mediocre.The Wooden Indian episode was great,and should have been the last episode in the film.It was worth seeing if for no other reason then George Kennedy's most restrained performance in years(by the way,why isn't the comment the American Indian thief makes about Samson & Delilah to Dorothy Lamour mentioned in the trivia section?). 2. Bad choices in actors.Except for the first( & best ) episode, the performances are more wooden the title character in the first piece.Lois Chiles has never given anything more than an by-the-numbers performance, but at least we got to see her tits.The 'actors' in the 2nd episode,'The Raft',are SO high school that you can't wait for the floating monster to eat them. 3. Bad choices in animation.Does anyone else find the animated vignettes in this film as annoying as I do? And was anyone really 'surprized' by Billy's giant sized pet Venus flytraps at the end? 4. Bad script choices.Was there one line in this film worth remembering?Can anyone who saw the film more than 2 weeks ago remember any of the character's names or occupations? and,finally, 5. Bad music choices.The really crummy use of music is nowhere more evident then during the closing credits. Unable to settle on one genre of music,Gorlich and company decide to play as many as they can.Rock,classical,adult contemporary,-they're all hear.It sort of sounds like a Time/Life muzak collection. ( yes, I'm aware that these are all the tunes that played during the movie.But would it be asking too much for one leitmotif? Creepshow had one. In closing,this film is full of bad choices. The worst,however,is renting it. "},{"Title":"Not quiet as good as the original.","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Three more horror stories are served to us in this sequel to the fantastic original anthology directed by horror director GEORGE ROMERO. This time Romero serves only as Writer/Producer, with directing chores turned over to his D.P. from the first film MICHAEL GORNICK, who would also later helm some episodes of his TALES FROM THE DARKSIDE TV series. CREEPSHOW 2 would remain (at least thus far) Gornicks only feature film directorial credit. With practically all of the returning crew of the first film on board, one would think CREEPSHOW 2 would be an equally successful, if not more successful film than the first, but no such luck, if anything the film falls far below the first! The stories are mediocre this time around & nowhere near as fun as the first. Jettisoning everything that made the first so special, such as the fantastic monster & zombie make-up, over the top kills & even a sense of morbid fun that plagued the original film & it's fun comic book banners that surrounded some frames of the film that panned between each take, as well as adding title cards that read The Next Day or Later On...CREEPSHOW 2 winds up a somewhat less fun film to sit through. The first tale called OLD CHIEF WOODENHEAD, which wasn't too bad, tells the tale of an elderly gentlemen & his wife living in a dead town, where business is slow & he spends most of his time fixing up a wooden Indian statue that is situated in front of his store. One day he is given a small amount of jewels by a native leader that is a dear friend of his. This sits none to well with the native leaders scumbag nephew, a wannabe Hollywood actor, who sees that obtaining the jewels is his ticket out of the crumbling town & into his dreams of Hollywood stardom. So he recruits two of his equally loathsome pals to bump the couple off in cold blood, which proves to be a big mistake when the Wooden Indian comes alive & brutally hunts them down in an act of revenge. This tale was somewhat decent & had an odd creepy feel. The second & arguably best story of the bunch, THE RAFT (Based on a STEPHEN KING short story) sees four teens stranded on a raft in the middle of nowhere & cannot swim back to shore to get help, in fear of a giant sticky blob that circles them & is slowly but surely picking them off one by one. This tale has some pretty good moments, the characters were annoying, but the payoff at the end was pretty decent & the film many suspenseful moments on hand. While the third & weakest entry titled THE HITCH-HIKER, features an adulterous wife who accidentally runs over a hitchhiker on a dark stretch of highway & kills him. To avoid being caught & risk the chance her husband will find out about the affair, she speeds away without even calling for help, only for the man's corpse to frequently haunt her time & time again on the desolate stretch of dark, eerie, wintry back road, no matter how hard she tries to re-kill him & of course like the original film, there's a wrap around story, only this time rather than being set with real people, it's a cartoon, where a young boy whom is taunted & beat up by school bullies, feeds them to giant plant monsters in the middle of nowhere. The Creeper narrates the stories as well & is played by special effects wizard TOM SAVINI when the film is set in the real world. There's still lots of gore, but the acting for the most part is mediocre & the direction is leaden. Plus the films tales are nowhere near as fun as in the first, each lacking that special something that the original exhibited. Without the comic book look & feel of the old EC comics that the original film embodied & it's many spectacular gore effects & great twist endings, the film winds up being no different than the million or so other horror anthologies languishing on the shelf. Not a complete loss, but you're not missing anything if you don't see this one. STEPHEN KING who helped write the first & played the lead character of Jody Verrill in the second tale of the original has a cameo here as a trucker. Followed by the disastrous, CREEPSHOW 3**1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Total letdown but only because it lacks star power","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first Creepshow had a bunch of very good actors including Hal Holbrook, Ted Danson and Leslie Nielson.  This movie is worth catching if you like horror movies and aren't expecting too much.  Oh yeah, and if it's very late, and there are no sports on, no other movies on, etc...  The only good segment is the hitchhiker who won't die.   "},{"Title":"Still Quite Enjoyably Demented","Date":"9 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've always had a soft spot for CREEPSHOW 2, a disreputable, cheap, sleazy little movie that I caught quite by accident one evening on a Magical Mystery Tour trip (ahem), never even having seen the first CREEPSHOW movie. At the time I confused it with garden variety mainstream commercial teen oriented pop horror, not understanding the Stephen King & George A. Romero connection. All that I knew was that it was kind of cool, somewhat kinky, and appealed to me on an adolescent level very much in keeping with the concept of a ghoulish, cartoony graphic novel brought to life, complete with some twistedly dark Heavy Metal-ish animated sequences.George Kennedy is a treasure, he actually made some very daring little low budget horror movie appearances in the 1980s that critics regard with disdain (check out a little sickie called DEMONWARP if you ever get a chance). He was an actor and he lived to perform even if the standards of the projects weren't up to the critics approval, and graced those films with a presence that elevated them from the usual teen oriented fare of the era, my favorite being the incomparable DEATH SHIP from 1980. He's in full Grandpa mode here as a tottering seasoned citizen shopkeeper terrorized by a sadistic psychopathic Native American & his crew of dirtbag buddies in the opening Chief Woodin' Head story of the 3 part anthology. Yeah its kind of a shame to see him reduced to such roles, not to mention poor Dorothy Lamour looking positively baffled as his wife. What can you do.The standout segment is of course #2, The Raft from Mr. King's Skeleton Crew collection of short stories. Its a very engaging premise that works on a number of basic levels We are all afraid of huge globs of flesh eating goo that inhabit unknown bodies of water, and we all probably have recollections of summer camp intrigue where you always wanted to be stuck out on the swimming raft with that little hottie from a few cottages up. Its a wonderfully simplistic modern urban legend monster story that's actually been backed up as of recent with a real world report about an eerily similar looking glob of viscous goo that floated into a harbor in Alaska in 2008, then mysteriously disappeared a few days later. Creepy!! Though sadly the filmmakers changed some of the elements of King's original story for a gratuitous T&A thrill that looks like felony sexual battery to me rather than the consensual sex in the book. Then again the point was just to bait us into cheering as the bastard gets devoured at the end. He had it coming, and an interesting theory is that he was deliberately setting her up as a distraction to make a getaway ... who knows??The big laugh out loud conclusion is the infamous THANKS FOR THE RIDE, LADY! show-stopper, an adaptation of King's story The Hitcher about a clearly psychotic wealthy housewife (Bond actress Lois Chiles, showing her chest briefly) who runs over a hitchhiker while rushing home from a dalliance. And runs him over, and over, and over, and over again. The poor guy's mangled body keeps coming back in even greater degrees of disfigurement & mutilation, which becomes almost comic while at the same time being one of the most disgusting things ever filmed. That the poor hitcher is played by an African American male adds to the film's warped sense of moral off-centeredness. Even in 1987 the racial undertone of the scene was wince inducing, in 2010 era terms its openly problematic. Yet that's how King wrote the story and it helps to place the film in the pre-politically correct social context of when it was made.Which is perhaps the film's greatest charm It is a gleefully lurid little celebration of bad taste that resorts to lowest common denominators, made at a time when nobody gave a damn. CREEPSHOW 2 shoots straight for the gutter and succeeds marvelously, with my main criticism of the film being that it's over too quickly. A fourth segment really should have been included, but the movie gets in there, gets the job done and is out of there before you know it. Only the Chief Woodin' Head opener drags as it sets up its scenario, but once you're in the car with the kids smoking weed the film never lets up. And features some very interesting musical themes composed & performed by Yes keyboardist Rick Wakeman -- if you listen closely you can hear his signature Mellotron during The Raft.Ultimately CREEPSHOW 2 is just a cheap, tacky horror film from the 1980s, made and marketed as mainstream entertainment for 14 year olds of all ages who like horror movies. If you can set aside pre-conceptions about the CREEPSHOW legacy and just enjoy it on those standards it still delivers the goods, even without the acid.7/10 "},{"Title":"Undeserving of a Feature Film... But Thanks For the Ride, Lady","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow 2 packs three 20-minute episodes into one feature-length movie. Raising the question, why make a movie at all if you plan to just put three easily dividable pieces together? The three stories could have appeared on Tales From the Crypt or Tales From the Darkside, since they seem to be taken from there with the same quality of film and acting and no respectable soundtrack. Also, the wraparound cartoon was poorly animated and not very interesting. I was really very bored with it. The Creep? Horrible mask! The first story was the worst, involving a wooden Indian statue getting revenge on some thieves who steal the tribe's treasure. The plot was so weak and predictable and whoever did the gore ought to be fired from film because shotguns do more than make people fall over and the old shadow on the wall while a spray of blood hits the shadow routine is fun but not scary.The second story, The Raft, had been recommended to me by a friend who is a horror aficionado and grew up with this movie. And yes, it was better. Some drug references and some nudity, which is really needed in a horror film (especially if you want to make it a film you can't show on TV). Was I scared of the tarp or garbage bag sitting in the water? No. But at least the effort was better, with a little gore. And you learn how to swim without getting your dope wet.The last story, The Hitch-Hiker, was almost more funny than scary although it was easily the most violent and bloody. I really enjoyed this one, as it just wouldn't end and reminded me somewhat of Cannibal! The Musical in a good way. If the second and third stories were kept and the first one removed, this would have been a stronger film. Though, it would then be much shorter...I guess I shouldn't expect much from Stephen King, but in some ways I do (although his acting was great in this). George Romero? Well, he's good with zombies, but have you seen the original The Crazies or Season of the Witch? He's no panacea. Tom Savini I also have a high opinion of, but he was left playing a goofy masked non-speaking role, making his contribution basically worthless. Oh well.If they had cast Barbara Eden in this like they first planned, maybe I'd give it a better rating, but overall I was let down by what I hoped would be a fun and naughty film. I had for a while believed this was better than the original Creepshow, but after re-watching both of them in the last month, I was quite wrong... the stories here have potential, but do not add up to the overall decency of the original. Worth a watch, but the film as a whole leaves much to be desired. "},{"Title":"I can't get worried about it, no matter how hard I try I just can't get worried about it. Not as good as the first but I still liked it.","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow 2 starts with a young boy named Billy (Domenick John) picking up the latest issue of his favourite comic Creepshow handed to him by a freaky looking guy called the 'Creep' (Tom Savini). As Billy cycles off the Creep decides to share some of the frightening tales...First up is a story called 'Old Chief Wood'nhead' which features a kind elderly couple Ray (George Kennedy) & Martha Spruce (Dorothy Lamour) who run a general store in the outback town of Dead River. They are both good people & are helping the local Indian community through hard times. However three punks, Sam (Holt McCallany), Fatso (David Holbrook) & Andy (Don Harvey) rob the store & kill Ray & Martha. They think they have gotten away with it but the spirits want their revenge...Next up is a tale entitled 'The Raft' where four teenagers, Randy (Daniel Beer), Deke (Paul Satterfield), Rachel (Page Hannah) & Laverne (Jeremy Green) drive out to a remote river for some swimming & fun. They all swim out to a raft moored in the middle of the river when Randy spots a strange black 'thing' floating on the surface heading towards them...The third & final segment is called 'The Hitchhiker' & has cheating wife Annie Lansing (Lois Chiles) trying to make 20 miles in 7 minutes to get home before her husband (Richard Parks) after sleeping with a male prostitute (!). However on the way she runs down a Hitchhiker (Tom Wright) & kills him. She drives away but the Hitchhiker has a nasty habit of reappearing...Directed by Michael Gornick I really rather liked Creepshow 2, it's not as good as the original Creepshow (1982) but I liked it. The script by George A. Romero & Stephen King who has a small cameo as a truck driver in The Hitchhiker, produces two cool stories out of three, which in percentage terms isn't too bad is it? Creepshow 2 gets the duff story out of the way first with Old Chief Wood'nhead not being that good, it's OK but I though it went on a little bit too long & was a bit predictable. The Raft is generally regarded as the best segment & I have to agree, it's a nice little tale & has a cool surprise ending. Finally I quite liked The Hitchhiker as well, I thought it was a cool idea & could have made a really great story had the end been a bit stronger because as it is it ends on a whimper rather than a bang. Each story moves along at a fair pace although I did notice each one went on for longer than most individual stories in these horror anthology films at about 30 minutes rather than a 20 to 25 minute range. I also really liked the wraparound story & the simple yet strangely effective animation.Director Gornick does OK & Creepshow 2 has a few nice scares & jump out of your seat type moments. Disappointingly the violence & gore doesn't add up to much but there's some nice stuff here all the same, someone shot with arrows, a scalp, some melted flesh, & a body in various states of mutilation.With a supposed budget of about $3,500,000 Creepshow 2 looks good & is well made throughout. The special effects are good, the music is fine & the production values nice. The acting is OK & I have no real complaints.I liked Creepshow 2 but then I like horror anthologies in general so maybe I'm being a bit lenient on it. Anyway I don't care as I enjoyed it & that's all that matters to me, personally I think it's well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"two out of three are worth seeing...a better score than the first Creepshow","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" To say the least, I'm not a fan of the original 'Creepshow'. There were many elements that constituted to it being a load of rubbish, chief among them were the facts that it featured too many stories, and worse still; they were all under imaginative and boring. I wasn't expecting anything more than more of the same from the sequel, so you can imagine my surprise when it turned out that, unlike it's dreary predecessor, Creepshow 2 is the fun time that you expect this sort of film to be! George A. Romero and Stephen King are on screenplay writing duty, while someone called Michael Gornick has taken over the directing duties. This time, the film has an animated wraparound story, which is actually quite nice. It's clearly aimed at the American comic book crowd, which I am not a part of, but even so; it gives the film a nice campy feel. The first story makes all that I've said seem false, but don't let that fool you; it gets a lot better. In this tale, we see a wooden Indian get revenge on the kids that killed his owners. This mundane plot is topped off by a plethora of rubbish performances, and while it isn't completely terrible; it's not very good either.Things start to look up after that, as we enter the second tale of the trio. Tale two is easily the best, and it sees a bunch of dope-smoking teenagers getting their kicks aboard a raft in the middle of a neglected lake. Unbeknown to them, the lake is also the home of a strange blob-like creature, and it's hungry! This tale isn't a horror master class or anything, but it's good because it stays true to the eighties silly horror style, and also because the entire thing is shrouded in mystery. We're never given any clue as to what the creature is, and this allows the short to concentrate on the more important story elements. I also liked the way that the tale was set up, as it's easy to put yourself in the situation that these teens find themselves in...even if it is very silly. The third and final story features a woman involved in a hit and run accident. Only she didn't kill the man that she hit, and he wants his revenge! This story rounds off the trilogy nicely as it's simple, relentless stuff and while, like the rest of the film, it lacks anything resembling intellect, this stuff is obviously just meant to be fun; so it doesn't matter. Overall, this isn't one of the best horror omnibuses - but it's better than the first film, and offers two good tales out of three. "}{"Title":"This movie was absolutely awful; unworthy of its namesake","Date":"1 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've read way too many good reviews of this movie to let this go. It has to be said this movie was freaking terrible. I am a big fan of the original Creepshow and this movie has none of what made the first one great. The vignettes here are hackneyed and lame. They're completely unoriginal and the characters are flat. The dialogue was awful, as was the acting for the most part. The make-up and effects are forgettable. Part of the problem here is there are no cool monsters or zombies like in the first one. All we've got is a wooden Indian, what appears to be a tarp floating in a lake, and a zombie a la a guy who's been repeatedly run over and shot. And what was up with the chase scene in the hitchhiker? The movie suddenly turned into an episode of TJ Hooker. Which brings me to my next point, the directing is miserable. Finally, the music was embarrassingly bad; very cheesy. As I've said, I am a big fan of the original and I suspect many people are giving this movie the benefit of the doubt because of its name and the fact that many of the same people involved in the first one are involved with this one.However, I was just angry watching such a weak and poorly executed attempt to cash in on the franchise. "},{"Title":"Overall good but mostly recommended for a younger audience.","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A very popular Horror anthology that covers three different sub-genres. The first segment is a slasher type that deals with a wooden Indian figure that comes to life to take revenge after a trio of rednecks murder a kind old couple. Nice performance by George Kennedy and the wooden figure looked very creepy. Not gory or suspenseful at all, in fact, it could be watched by children. Still, an entertaining segment.The second one is more strong on the visual aspect. We get female nudity and good gore. The story is about two young couples that decide to take a swim in a lake and then go to a dock in the middle of the lake. Little to they know that an evil blob/mud thing or substance is waiting for them just to suck them into it and rip the flesh out of them. Nice gore and decent performances. This segment kept me thinking about Cabin Fever.Finally, the third segment is about a rich cheating housewife that his a hitchhiker while driving. Without showing mercy, she drives away as fast as she can but the hitchhiker follows her all night long until she crashes with a tree. But, is there where it ends? Thrilling but somewhat comical segment that fails to impress but manages to entertain. Minimal but decent gore and nice performances. The hitch hiker had a groovy personality.Overall Creepshow 2 is a decent mix of horror and humor but fails to become an effective horror movie as a whole. At some points I thought I was watching episodes from Are You Afraid Of The Dark? or something like that. But still, it's a recommended movie for those who like horror but don't want to take it to extreme levels. I'd say it's a very toned down movie for starters in the genre. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The sequel!","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow 2 (1987) was a follow up to the Romero and King classic. The tight budget and the lack of input from the two creators of the first film doomed the project from the start. The problem was that it wasn't a total failure but it's just not thatentertaining (especially when compared to the first film). It had potential but the uninspired acting, the mediocre writing and the tight budget kept this one from being a classic. The only tale that was interesting was the last story The Hitch Hiker.I had high hopes for this movie and I was absolutely stoked when I heard it was being made. But I was extremely disappointed when I saw the finished product. Too bad because the movie has potential. Oh well, maybe they could make another one and do the series right. A shame they couldn't produce a fourth or fifth story (like The Cat From Hell). Don't skimp on the budget next time people.For completists or fans of low budget horror. A big must for fans of 80's films. Others need not bother.C-x "},{"Title":"Who's up for lousy seconds?","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I might not be a huge admirer of the original Creepshow, but its trashy sequel makes that anthology look like perfection! And to think I was going into this expecting to like this one more. Five years after its predecessor, George Romero gets back on board the EC Comic style trail and on this outing pens the screenplay for Steve King's three stories. Though, the direction is handed off to Michael Gornick. The film mostly falters in that aspect with uneven brushes by Gornick. But most of the blame would have to go to Romero's dreadfully static and unbearably cringe-like script (especially in those dialogues streaming through the first and final story). Moralistic messages (that came from mostly a sour bunch of characters) simply took over the black humour. Oh it was painful and the same can be said about the lively rotten music score accompanying the picture. Loosely linking the three tales (Old Chief Woodenhead, The Raft and The Hitchhiker) together is a mildly curious and effective wraparound story done in nostalgia (80s) animation form. I rather liked this segment and the wisecracking Creep character was a glowing light. # The first story Old Chief Woodenhead sees two elderly proprietors (George Kennedy & Dorothy Lamour) of a general store in a dying native community, Dead River. Get robbed and eventually killed by a couple of punks dying to live it up in Hollywood. In front of the store is a wooden statue of an Indian Chief that comes to live to avenge their deaths. -Listen to George Kennedy waffle.. And waffle on for 10 minutes about how he's committed to his 'great' community. What a nice touchy feely time. Well, just like Kennedy's speeches, this is one monotonously colourless and overdrawn item that never makes good of a fine premise. The overbearing script is plain inane and the performances are suitably so. These two factors really added to my headache. When the Indian comes alive and turns avenger, the goons meet a very quick (though grisly) death in the proper fashion. The effects were commendably done, but what about that free flowing hair. How could Hollywood knock that lock of hair back? Ugh! # Second story The Raft follows a group of dope smoking and yahoo teens heading up to a secluded lake. After swimming to the raft in the middle of the lake, they get trapped on the platform because of an ominous looking creature lurking in the water. -Now this is much better, MUCH better. What starts of as your basic teens run afoul turns into a mysteriously creepy set-up that's full of tight and claustrophobic tension. And it doesn't even cop out on the flashes of nudity or spiteful splatter. Quite morbid it is and that goes for its sense of humour too. The surprisingly ironic ending has a beautiful touch to it. The performances from the nobodies are acceptable without making a huge mark. Gornick's direction sticks to the nasty and rather gooey side. While, the alarming music score on this occasion pressed the right chords. The sludge-like creature in the lake (like many have mentioned) looks like an icky black tarpaulin (yeah you're reading that right!) floating on the water. # Finally number three concludes with The Hitchhiker. A wealthy, but sexually lacking woman is on her way back home after being with her male gigolo, but she's is running late. Thinking of some ideas to explain for her lateness if needed, she skids off the road and accidentally hit's a hitchhiker. Instead of checking or getting help, she drives off in the hope getting home before her husband. Soon enough she's being terrorised by the mangled corpse of the dead hitchhiker.-Not awful, but I really didn't get into this laughably ludicrous exercise at all. Compared to the first two this one was so different in tone and tried to tickle the funny bone instead. Lois Chiles was okay in the lead role, but that constant assuring and the little conversations she has with herself became pitifully aggravating and downright tired. The vivid make-up effects are well-displayed and dripping with vision. When she hit's the hitchhiker that's when it becomes hectic, cheesy and over-the-top in its execution. From there onwards we endlessly hear our supposedly dead hitchhiker repeat and repeat&#133; and repeat the line, Thanks for the ride lady! This happens every time she decides to run over him. Have a little courtesy for the dead darling. In all, the second short story The Raft and the unpleasantly, well-conceived effects is what lifts this extremely inferior sequel. "},{"Title":"This movie sucks","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First off, I am a huge horror movie fan. I have loved them since I was a kid, admiring the really cool boxes some of them had. I remember the Creepshow boxes as a kid, and I remember them being really cool. This movie was far from cool though.I don't really like a TV show disguised as a movie. Stick it on TV and leave room in the theaters for movies that are really movies. Anthology horror sounds like a mini-series on prime-time television.All this movie showed was a bunch of idiots running around, doing stupid stuff, and leaving questions as to what the heck just happened. The slasher movies aren't even this lame. Trying to get across a viable story in a crammed amount of space only makes for a convoluted plot. I keep asking myself, What's with the.... during the whole movie.What's with the Creep? Who the hell is this weird looking guy? Where's the bonehead guy from the first one? And if he's nowhere in the movie, why is he on the movie poster? Personally, I was pretty ticked about that. I happened to like Mr. Bonehead. Skeletons always work, period. I want Mr. Bonehead.What ghastly title music for this thing! Who in their right mind thought that sounded scary? You're trying to create an atmosphere for a horror movie, not a peppy dark comedy (although this would certainly pass for one).And to Stephen King You don't scare me! His stories are anything but scary. Weird and possibly creepy, yes, but scary??!! Give me a break! I've seen Creepshow 1 and 2, I've seen It, I've seen The Tommyknockers (tried to read it, it sucked), and I've seen The Shining. Weird, but not scary. Perhaps he's a good writer in the way he crafts his stories or whatever. I'll never know because I won't pick up his books. His stories are too simple and only asks for you, the reader, to be taken in my the weirdest thing any one story produces. Seems to keep working for him though.Lame movie. Lame, lame, laaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaame. I'll give it a 1 only because of the boob shot in the second segment. Other than that, it should get a 0 for complete lack of effort. Unfortunately the ratings don't go that low. Quit buying into Stephen King for scares. He's not scary! "},{"Title":"Show Me the Way to the Exit Creep.","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Worthless sequel to the somewhat entertaining original of 1982 struggles with tales that are not too scary and end up being more sick than interesting. The dark humor of the first is gone and so are the huge names that made the first an average work. George Kennedy is the only real name of record here as the anthology series struggles the whole way to generate any momentum. George A. Romero and Stephen King tried, unsuccessfully, to fright with a would-be wicked screenplay that plays more like whacked skits on a bad variety show. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Half-way decent with some large nagging problems","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow 2 is a decent enough anthology series that's got it's own set of flaws.**SPOILERS**Waiting to see the new Creepshow comic book, young Billy, (Domenick John) arrives when The Creep, (Tom Savini) drops them off and begins leafing through the book, reading three stories.The Good Stor(ies) Old Chief Wood'nhead-Running a general store in a drying up town, Ray Spruce, (George Kennedy) and Martha Spruce, (Dorothy Lamour) are presented with a special gift for their services. Immediately afterward, Sam Whitemoon, (Holt McCallany) Fatso Gribbens, (David Holbrook) and Andy Cavanaugh, (Don Harvey) decide to rob the store, leaving the couple for dead. The Indian sculpture in front of their store, Old Chief Wood'nhead, comes to life and tracks them down one-by-one. This wasn't bad, and is overall pretty decent. The special effects for the statue are excellent, applying a wooden body-suit to make it move and act just like a wooden statue coming to life. It even creaks, too. It steals all the best scenes, especially the assault in the garage and inside the trailer park, which are both quite suspenseful due to it's presence. The kill scenes also show some verve, as we gets attacks by a volley of arrows, a swipe to the head with an axe, and a pretty nasty scalping. On the downside, the story is kinda predictable, which ruins the experience a little as you know exactly what's gonna happen. It's basically a routine slasher film with the statue as the killer, and it plays out exactly as it would be expected.The Raft-Heading out to an abandoned lake, Randy, (Daniel Beer) Deke, (Paul Scatterfield) Laverne, (Jeremy Green) and Rachel, (Page Hannah) swim out to a raft floating in the middle for some relaxation. When a floating mass nearby takes an interest in them, they have to find a way to get away before it kills them all. The blob in the lake is kinda cool. There is a lot of mystery surrounding it and you can't really tell how it's gonna end. As great as the mystery is, the creature just looks like a black tarpaulin floating in the water. The deaths are wildly over-the-top, as the blob eats through their flesh, leaving a mound of bloody bones and melted skin. It has a lot of great suspense, and the tension in the second half, where the creature begins to break through the holes in the wood is really creepy. The story moves along at a sharp pace, hardly ever slowing down and being really entertaining once it gets started. This is the segment that features the most satisfying ending and everyone gets their just desserts, featuring a twist that is the nearest the film ever gets to capturing any of the black humor that ran through the original. It's a really good story.The Hitchhiker-Running late from a tryst, Annie Lansing, (Lois Chiles) hits a hitchhiker, (Tom Wright) accidentally with her car, but fearing the repercussions, she takes off. As she struggles with herself for doing the deed, she encounters him repeatedly as she continues on. The most interesting thing here is how hard the woman fights against the hitchhiker. She runs him over with her car, runs over him and crushes him against trees continually. She does practically everything a human would really do in a similar situation, and it's quite fun to see them. The special effects in here did a very good job on the hitchhiker. Every time you see him, he's gradually got more and more mashed to pieces thanks to Louis Chiles repeatedly driving over him with her car until there is but a skeleton left. The longer it goes on, the more it becomes distorted and the more gruesome it becomes. However, the segment becomes so ludicrously overblown in the escalating wrecking of the car in attempts to dispose of the hitcher that it earns far more on the laugh scale than ever does for its scares. It might have been more interesting if they played up how the mangled hitchhiker could have been a figment of her imagination. That really could've been played up more rather than a few passing hints at it. It's biggest problem, though, is that it gets repetitive after a while and they could have cut this segment down to keep it fresh. It feels like it's doing the same thing over and over, and it could've been trimmed down.The Bad Stor(ies) While all have their little problems, as a whole this one is decent enough. The biggest thing that these suffer from is an overall bored feeling. They aren't that original either, as there's been tons of stories out there with the same general plot as these and do it much better. Also quite hard to sit through is the wraparound segments, which are quite terrible, have nothing to do with the features being presented afterward, and have none of the style and wit of the previous entry. That also applies to the stories, but this one mainly suffers from the lack of creativity.The Final Verdict While suffering from creativity and the lack of style from the others, this is still a lot of fun and an overall decent enough film. It's not as great as the first one, but there's enough good stuff to give it a look if it appeals to you.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Nudity and drug use "},{"Title":"pathetic sequel","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Here's a riddle  What do you get when you cross bottom-drawer Stephen King stories with a bottom-drawer adaptation by the usually-reliable George A. Romero?  The answer  A bottom-drawer anthology.  Three overlong tales, weak in character in story, intercut with annoying animated sequences, waste 90 minutes of the viewer's life.  Stick with the original.zero/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointing sequel to Creepshow.","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I actually saw this one at the theater as a kid. I was expecting a lot considering how much I enjoyed the first one, but I was bitterly disappointed in this sequel. First off, there are only 3 stories instead of the 5 we got with the original. If that isn't bad enough we get these stupid cartoon sequences that play between the shorts that makes you say who came up with that? I want to see the shorts, not cartoons. Then there is the lack of any stars aside from George Kennedy. The first one had quite a few people you would recognize, but not this one. The stories themselves were just OK. The first one is the weakest as it has Kennedy owning a store on an Indian reservation. Some kids rob the place and kill the couple and what follows is fairly predictable. The next tale is by far the strongest of this lot. Called The Raft, this one is actually a short story King wrote and found in one of his books of short stories. It has these teens going out for a swim. It is nearly fall so it is rather cold, but they swim out to the platform in the middle of a lake. There is this mysterious slime on the lake though and it seems to almost alive. Then the final tale is OK, but nothing great as it has a lady hitting a hitchhiker and driving away from the scene. The hitchhiker though stalks her, even though he is dead. The stories are watchable, but all in all this movie isn't as good as the first one. "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An improvement on the first movie, this one rustles up a creepy atmosphere despite some flat direction. First up is is the decent 'Old Chief Wood'nhead', in which the deaths of shopkeepers George Kennedy and Dorothy Lamour are avenged by their cigar store Indian. Next is 'The Raft' teenagers swimming in a lake find themselves followed by what looks like a gooey tarpaulin intent on eating them. Dodgy effects, then, but it's pleasingly close to the spirit of King's short stories. Last is 'The Hitchhiker', a spooky segment with driver Lois Chiles terrorised by the dead victim of a hit-and-run incident. In contrast to the original film, the live action sections are more enjoyable than the lousy animated bookends. Still, it's all pretty mediocre stuff. "}{"Title":"Yeah!","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Yes! YES!! I wish they would make more creepshow films, more anthologies. I love this kind of film- lots of bite (or Chomp in this case) size stories pieced together by an exterior character, plot, or situation. It's like getting a 10p mix from your mum, and each sweet story has a scary taste all of its own. Some are soft and chewy, others are hard and crunchy, some are sour and you have to spit them down the sink, and occasionally you get a long lace. The best ones are when you get two stuck together so you get one for free! Even though it was your mum who paid for it. I like horrors and actions, films where lots of things happen. In these films the stories are so short they have to keep the plot small, the action fast, and everything is quick and exciting. If any of these stories were turned into a two hour film they wouldn't have the same impact and I would probably fall asleep or cry. I think all films in the future should be made like this. No-one can be expected to stay awake for longer than 2 hours at a time- we all watch MTV, and even American Idol has adverts in it so that we can have a quick nap before the next instalment. Films like Lord Of The Rings go on FOREVER, I felt like I'd aged 84 years after watching the first one. If they'd done all the LOTR films as one 90 minute anthology like Creepshow, it could have been the best film ever Story One. 'There's a bad ring, and a bad man wants it' 'I'm a good guy but it might make me evil, so I'll give it to this wee chump, no-one will expect that. The wee chump and his friends can go to the volcano and throw the ring in'. The wee chump sets off with his friends, meets a fairy, tramp, beardo, and a midget along the way, one of them is eaten, another killed, and they all get separated. Part 2 A monster helps the wee chump to escape, but it really wants to steal the ring. Meanwhile the bad guy sends his armies across the land and the rest of the gang have to hide in a castle and save the children. Part 3 The monster leads the chump into a spider web and steals the ring. It turns out the tramp is actually The King and he rallies the rest of the gang to prepare for the worst. The chumps' friend Brian wakes him up from Spider sleep, they beat up the monster and throw the ring into the volcano. The world is saved, the end. Awesome! Creepshow 2 features 3 stories written by Stevie King (directed by Romeo) during his drunk period. He claims he doesn't remember writing these, and to be honest, I don't remember watching them. The first is about an Indian Zombie getting revenge on the descendants of the cowboys who stole his buffalo. He chases round with a sword, eventually poking their eyes out. The second story features friends going white water rafting. They get chased by the Blob which eats them and pokes their eyes out with a canoe. The last story is about a demon driver who likes to pick up hitch hikers and gives them a terrifying journey. He also wants to poke their eyes out with his hand brake. Linking these stories is a little boy called Billy who likes reading comics. This is the same as the first film, and some of the same footage Is used. Overall, an excellent film about horrors.Best Scene The shock ending of Billy falling on the edge of his comic which pokes his eyes out. "},{"Title":"So Bad It Killed The Franchise","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am a big fan of old horror movies, and since I am middle aged, old to me is a movie made before 1970 with most being made in the 1920's to 1960's period. I am not a big fan of more modern horror movies, with one exception being Creepshow 1, which I thought was great. I could reminisce about the stories there but I really really enjoyed the monster in the box story with Hal Holbrook, and also the one about the really clean guy was a great ending. All the stories were great though. So why did I like them so much? The characters had some decent development, the lines were very plain about who was good and who was bad, the horror bits were heightened with a close up of a face aghast with fear, and the funny bits were really funny! This sequel is either greatly lacking of these elements or they are totally absent! I am writing this only having watched it partially because the movie was a complete waste of time and I turned it off to do other things like write movie reviews on IMDb.com, lol. When George Kennedy and an old Dorothy Lamoure get top billing it's telling you something.....4 of 10. Also, Romero's expertise is hard to find here, they must had told him to tone it down to a PG standard (I don't know what this was rated at but it looks PG to me), and that's not a good thing for a movie with nothing else going on. It's shown on the Encore cable channel if your dieing (yuck yuck) to see it. "},{"Title":"More creeps and more gore! What horror fan could ask for more?","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A couple years ago, my mom bought me Creepshow from the five dollar bin at a store and I guess I didn't realize how big of a deal it was to many horror fans. I loved the original, it was a great start to Tales from the Crypt. I loved the second installment, it had more scary stories and the great thing was that everyone who got killed in these stories totally deserved to die! OK, that sounded bad, but you'll understand what I mean when you see it.First installment is about an old man and lady who own an Idian store and have been given some valuable jewels, but unfortunately are robbed and brutally murdered, but what the killers don't know is that maybe they should take a closer look at that statue out front. Second installment is about a group of teens who are stranded on a raft in the middle of a pond with a monster oil-looking eating machine that's killing them off one by one. And the third installment is about the consequences, even if they are super natural, involving a hit and run.Despite some cheesy moments and questionable one's, I thought that Creepshow 2 had some great moments and some very scary ones as well. I think other horror fans will enjoy this movie as well. Creepshow is a great series of stories and I really wish there were more, but I guess that's what the show Tales from the Crypt was for.6/10 "},{"Title":"Luckily Creepshow 3 never came.","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, this film certainly isn't the worst thing I ever saw&#133;but it's a long way from being good, let alone frightening. Stephen King delivers three new and inept stories (not one of them looks really finished) and George A. Romero tried to bound them into a screenplay as good as he could. The second story is the best and looks like `The Blob' on a lake with a few neat and gory make-up effects. No logic at all, but a nice attitude and the dope-smoking teenage girls look pretty. The other forgettable stories include a life-sized wooden Indian coming to life (story n1) and an indestructible hitch-hiker (story n3)&#133;The wraparound story is completely animated and aims exclusively on the comic/horror fans. Perhaps that's why I wasn't too enchanted by the wholesome&#133;I missed the whole magic of the 50's horror comics. But I do know good horror when I see it, and this is not it.  "},{"Title":"Oh, The Horror! THE HORROR!","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" And by that I don't mean the nightmares you'll get from watching this - I mean the nightmares you'll have from imagining the possibility of a CREEPSHOW 3! (Wait a minute...They WHAT??? Never mind...)The way you can tell a director has a definite style and a sure-handed touch, is when that quality is missing from an attempt to capitalize upon what's been done before, and you can sure tell from this sequel! One of Romero's frequent collaborators, editor Michael Gornick, takes the helm this time around, and sorry, dude...nice college try, but George you ain't! I don't know how much it has to do with the fact that none of the stories here are originals, as they were in the first CREEPSHOW. But Stephen King has squeezed the last drop out of so many ideas, can haunted shower curtains and lethal laundry lists be too far away?If you don't mind batting one out of three stories in terms of quality, you won't mind watching CREEPSHOW 2 a bit.We won't even DISCUSS PART 3. Anyway, this time around, our host The Creep actually talks, and for some reason that takes a lot of the starch out of his spookiness. Played by Tom Savini, natch, and voiced by Joe (SHIVERS) Silver, he introduces the following three tales of (low to middling) terrorTHE RAFT Darryl Hannah's pretty sis Page is one of four stupid teens who decide to take a dip in a lake that's clearly marked No SWIMMING. Now this is ironic, especially now something that resembles a living oil-slick decides that these kids should star in a real- life sequel to THE BLOB...as entres on the menu. More of a gross-out than a scream-fest, the makeup effects are still pretty good. Nice ending, too, if a little predictable.OL' CHIEF WOOD'NHEAD Where George was able to get a 'cruise ship'-load of acting vets on board for the first cruise, now we're just joined by George (NAKED GUN) Kennedy and Dorothy Lamour. (Dorothy WHO? Don't worry about it, kidz...you're too young to know who she was, anyway.) Here they star as the kindly proprietors of a general store guarded by the title character, who has a lot more life in him than you'd think. Especially when the owners are threatened by sadistic thugs. Nice idea, but you have to wonder if it would've come off better if George had directed it...THE HITCHHIKER The most superior story of the three, and a lot of it works thanks to the boffo makeup effects, and some great acting from former Bond Girl Lois Chiles (Moonraker) and veteran stuntman/TV actor Tom Wright. Chiles is a spoiled rich-bitch hurrying home so her hubby doesn't know that she's been out knockin' da boots with her latest boy-toy. A hit-and-run incident changes everything for the worst, but hey, it's CREEPSHOW, remember? Translation THE TWILIGHT ZONE with more guts. Her unfortunate vic not only doesn't get a ride, but also DIES in the process? Oh, HELL, NO! He's not about to let her get away with that crap!You will never hear the line Thanks for the ride, lady! without snorting laughter to yourself ever again.If you don't mind batting one-out-of-three stories in terms of quality, then you won't mind watching CREEPSHOW 2 a bit.We won't even DISCUSS PART 3. "},{"Title":"Nice Horror Stories","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow 2 (1987) *** (out of 4) Sequel to the George Romero film seems to get mostly negative reviews but I've always found it to be entertaining even if it's nothing overly special. Once again we're given three stories, each from a story by Stephen King and written for the screen by Romero. Up first is Old Chief Wood'nhead, which tells the story of a couple elderly folks (George Kennedy, Dorothy Lamour) who helped out local tribe by giving them food and other goods. They're repaid with some valuable jewelry but both are killed by three thugs but the wooden Indian in front of the store goes out for revenge. In The Raft four teens go out to a lake to get high and fool around on a raft but soon they come under attack by some sort of blob=like thing. The final film, The Hitch-Hiker has a rich woman running over a man but leaving the scene but soon the dead man is everywhere she goes. I'm not a die-hard fan of the original film, although I do give it credit for being rather dark and moody but I still think the film ran way too long (and just think that one story was cut). This movie here isn't anything ground breaking but I thought the stories were fairly good even if Romero's screenplay lets some of the stuff run on way too long. The first story takes a while to get started but I'm going to guess this is due to the filmmakers giving a little more screen time to Kennedy and Lamour. When the revenge finally does happen it's pretty good if, once again, nothing overly special. The third film is also a revenge tale but I think there's some nice black humor thrown in here even though the King cameo was pretty lame. To me The Raft is the best story and one of the best from either film. I found all four characters to be very likable and one can't help but enjoy the situation they find themselves in. The blob creature isn't anything overly great and you can tell that the budget didn't leave too much for special effects but it's still great fun and will remind you of countless drive-in flicks from the 50s and 60s. The wrap-around animated stuff isn't the greatest and I'm not sure why they'd hire Tom Savini to appear as The Creep and give him very little screen time. Either way, this film isn't a masterpiece and it wasn't robbed at the Oscar's but it's still fun for the genre and doesn't deserve the reputation it has. "},{"Title":"Creepshow 2","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Trio of tales based on Stephen King stories within an anthology which doesn't hold a candle to the first film which not only featured more stories, but more entertaining, gory ones. The first is titles OLD CHIEF WOOD'NHEAD and is about three bastards who decide to pillage a kind husband and wife(George Kennedy and Dorothy Lamour)who run a department store. It ends in both being murdered by Native American heel Sam Whitemoon(Holt McCallany)who wanted the family jewelry given to the couple by his father Ben in accordance to owing them borrowed moneys during poverty-stricken times. A tall wooden Native American named Old Chief Wood'nhead comes to life to destroy them. The second tale is about four teens who decide to drive to a river spot holding a raft in the center. These kids realize that some massive form of sludge is coming towards them as they make their way onto the raft. One by one, the sludgy oil slick eats them until there's little choice but to try and swim for the shore where their car is parked(the radio was left on). But, will anyone be left to take that swim? The third is about a successful lawyer(Lois Chile)who is returning home after a tryst with a male prostitute. She accidentally hits a hitchhiker, and yet leaves the scene of the crime. What she doesn't expect is the hitchhiker's ghost who keeps returning for his ride.To be honest, this anthology is very mediocre and features decent, if uncomplicated, gore effects which expose how cheaply made this was. The cast isn't as lively as the previous film and the wraparound is made in weak animation one might expect to see on NBC in the 80's Cartoon Age. Just disappointing. The stories themselves also lack bite or true scares which also hurts. THE RAFT comes the closest to creating blood-curdling terror because of the difficult situation the young characters face against a blob that has you when it grabs hold.Stephen King has a small role in the segment THE HITCHHIKER as a truck driver and make-up extrordinaire Tom Savini is The Creep our guide through the tales. "},{"Title":"Lousy sequel","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow was a hit when in came out in 1982 so it was inevitable that there would be a sequel. Too bad it's so terrible. It tells three horror stories with a animated sequences attaching them together. The first is Old Chief Wood'nhead. It's about an elderly couple (George Kennedy and Dorothy Lamour in her last role) killed by a gang of thugs. An old wooden Indian Chief comes to life and avenges them. The second is The Raft with a bunch of brainless teens on a raft in the middle of a lake and being killed by something. It's supposed to look like an oil slick but looksa more like a huge Hefty bag! The last is The Hitch-Hiker where a woman (Lois Chiles) accidentally runs down a hitchhiker and drives away...but the corpse of the hitchhiker keeps coming back and trying to kill her.The stories are all written by George Romero from stories by Stephen King. King does a cameo as a truck driver and makeup master Tom Savini appears briefly as the Creep. You think with all this talent behind the camera you'd get a great movie. Sadly that's not the case. The stories are heavy-handed, boring, not even remotely scary and obvious at every turn. The acting ranges from OK to terrible--only Chiles gives a good performance. The animated wrap around segment contains some of the worst animation I've ever seen (even by 1987 standards). It wouldn't even pass muster with Hanna-Barbera. Add to that boring and badly done gore and you got a real dog. The only bright spots are a pretty good score, Chiles and a guy in bed at the beginning of The Hitch-Hiker segment (David Beecroft) who is absolutely stunning. I saw this film originally back in 1987 and his body and face has never left me. There's also an amusing little quote from Colliers magazine back in 1949 that points out that comic books are NOT damaging to kids! Still this is basically another worthless horror movie sequel. It bombed so we (thankfully) never got Creepshow 3. "}]