[{"Title":"Weird sleeper sci-fi B-movie an unintentional work of genius.","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"49 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I will not attempt to describe this movie. It would be fruitless. You may at first be frustrated by the seemingly inept invocation of all the tried and true cliches of the genre - from Mad Max to its weirder post-apocalyptic cousins. But this is not Circuitry Man in reverse - it is much, much stranger. By the time the polka-dotted bikini-wearing ex-girlfriend of the hero is playing hostess at the disney-esque bubble-dome camp of the desert-dwelling homicidal outlaw gang... oh, never mind. By the way, Melanie Griffith was much better looking before lip surgery. Almost hot, in fact. But rest assured, this is a work of genius, exposing a deep understanding of the rift between genders during the height of the supposedly post-sexual-liberation 1980's, an almost sublime sense of humor about sexual alienation and most of all, the erotic link between women and cars in American culture is finally completely laid bare.In fact, this movie is so profoundly subversive that it could only be made under cover of shlock. Do not be fooled by what seems like coke-addled acting and tourette-syndrome editing. This film is high art. Especially the part where the robot says is that your hand? Stay up late and watch it on TBS tonight! And take notes! "},{"Title":"Man Meets Robot, Ditches Robot for Hot Babe with Gun","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"44 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Cherry 2k is a low budget one-off adaptation of the Mad Max concept mixed in with futurist technology ideas and a very cool love story. The male star goes on a quest to replace his lost robot sex android. That's the basic plot.What's unusual is that this movie succeeds in mixing these elements without screwing up. The Sci-fi perspective doesn't overwhelm the overall plot, and vice versa.Very few B grade movies from this time period were watchable, much less worth keeping in one's collection. Fortunately, Cherry 2000 bucked this trend and deserves a spot on the shelf of any cult classic and/or Sci-fi movie collector.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly fantastic...a real treat","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"37 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, Cherry 2000 has finally achieved cult film status. But unlike many other cult movies, it actually deserves the title.There are many things to like about this flick. The nuanced, likeable Ben Johnson has a good role that even delivers some tragedy (how often do you get that in a b-movie?). The charismatic Griffith is alternately contemplative and kick-ass. Of course, Tim Thomerson as Lester nearly steals the show, providing a truly strange, ruthless villain.The effects are cheesy, sure, but they never look fake, unlike a lot of the CGI films coming out today. When you see E. Johnson's Ford being dangled over the Hoover Dam, that is an ACTUAL car, not some stupid digital effect.The movie does lay its message on thick, but considering the obvious budget constraints they were working with, that's a perfectly excuseable flaw. The satire is at times hilarious (watch for Larry Fishburne's turn as a lawyer with Morpheus-esque reflecting sunglasses, and the final exit of the villain is truly visually ironic). I bought this on DVD (having never seen it on TV) and really liked it...maybe you will, too. "},{"Title":"Some dull parts, but still an effortlessly likable movie.","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"37 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Cherry 2000 was a huge commercial failure and it's hardly ever mentioned today, but I found it surprisingly entertaining. Sure, the script is unimaginative and the film has no real vision and the action scenes are strictly routine, but the two leads are enormously, effortlessly likable. They make a deeply sweet pair. Maybe the film should have concentrated more on their love story and less on the familiar action aspects of the story. And the violence of a couple of scenes seems rather out of place. But even with its weaknesses, this movie is, fitfully, absorbing and very entertaining. "},{"Title":"I thought high camp died in the '60's","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  until I saw this film. It's absolutely hilarious.  And Ben Johnson was just a treat.  Melanie was never so pouty and sexy, but that Mustang she drove steals the show.  A really underrated film with lots of very wicked things to say. This relates to Mad Max about like 007 related to spies or (Chief) Inspector Clousseau related to detectives. Well, it's not in the same class, but it takes a stab at camping the Road Warrior.  "},{"Title":"Vastly under-rated obscure sci-fi.","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This little-known, under-rated, obscure little film packs a lot of entertainment value.A 1987 production, directed by Steve De Jarnatt, and starring Melanie Griffith, David Andrews, and Pamela Gidley, Cherry 2000 goes highly unnoticed and unsung in the sci/fi field. However; I cannot say why, as this movie is extremely well written and extraordinarily entertaining.When Sam Treadwell's robotic companion breaks down, he goes in search of an exact duplicate in which to install her memory chip, and continue his life. He hires Edith E Johnson (Griffith) as a tracker to find her, and together they begin their journey into The Zone; a danger-filled jungle of a city in which Treadwell finds the ideal replacement for his Cherry model 2000 love.It is not just a science fiction classic, but it is a tremendous love story, and a marvelous work of writing. The acting left a bit to be desired, but this little-known work of art is definitely more than worth seeing.It rates a 7.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Absolutely wild movie. A Classic must see.","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I was hooked. I watched it many times and I still find new things. It grows on you. Really good cast and storyline. Watch it! Pamely Gidley is just superduper and the settings are like the Wild Wild West! "},{"Title":"What makes cherry special?","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Imagination.. Heart..Very few sci-fi's have this much heart and this much story packed into a beautiful movie.. So how can I describe Cherry?Cherry starts out like every good story and builds up to it, by first establishing the universe.. a post-apocalyptic world (or sum such) where recycling is important, new fashions are in play and sex robots are possible and people (at least from the characters point of view) have to have contracts to date/copulateCherry then shows us one of the first *real* female action hero's (basically Tomb Raiders Laura Croft v1.0) and some great desert and action sequences that are widely unpredictable and done wellAll the while this stories carries on with credibility and imagination, Cherry 2000 is one of the most successful B movie sci-fi's ever accomplished it's these kinds of movies that give me hope to see more.. I personally love and still love a lot of 80's movies and 80's style we have yet to recapture in our let's make it all more real setting.. I'm not saying that gems aren't still made today they are; they've just been rarer to find as of late..Since Cherry is a special vein of movies all its own it's important we list e'm - Mad Max - The Road Warrior (this one is very special) - Dead-End Drive In What I can say about Cherry after multiple viewing maybe 5-7 now in my lifetime since I first caught in cinemax or one of the movie channels one night.. is that's its very, very special.. That the story is so good that it can play catch-up or compliment movies like A.I. another one of Kubrick's unfigured out masterpieces..Normally I would say this movie is 7/10 but I'm upping my vote to 8/10 for now do to shear appreciation of this movie vs. some of the crap we have been getting these past 2 decades.. (note of course sci-fi had a great few years from about 1997 to 2001)On my last viewing this time I noticed again how good Basil Poledouris score compliments the movie.. (and there is some noticeable re-use of Conan in there but all composers even the great John Williams seem to re-use in part some of their stuff) "},{"Title":"Urbanite hires crusty lady tracker to find sexy robot","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the kind of film that gets under your skin. One of a small subgenre of Sci-Fi Westerns, its small flashes of inspired writing make it worth watching some night when there's nothing else to do. Cameron Milzer is particularly notable as a blackly comedic psycho-girlfriend, but Tim Thomerson and Melanie Griffith are no slouches themselves. Pleasant bleak visuals and an interesting score from Basil Poledouris (Robocop, Hunt For Red October, & the Conan films, as well as 60 other movies) make for a modest repeat viewability factor. Fun and stupid!  "},{"Title":"A fun movie that never takes itself too seriously","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A lightweight love story underpins a fun story with a range of eccentric characters in a world that has lost it.  At no point in time does the movie try to be anything other an entertaining comedy with short bursts of action, and as such, it is a success.  "}{"Title":"Weird and Entertaining Sci-Fi","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In 2017, Sam Treadwell (David Andrews) is in love with his android Cherry 2000 (Pamela Gidley). When he accidentally damages her, he unsuccessfully tried to find another Cherry 2000 to input her chip with basic memories. He travels to the border of the Zone 7 to hire the tracker Six Fingered Jake (Ben Johnson) to get another one from the dangerous cemetery of robot controlled by the insane criminal Lester (Tim Thomerson). However he learns that Jake is dead and he accepts the offer of the sexy tracker E. Johnson (Melanie Griffith). Along their journey, Sam discovers that a perfect woman is not a robot.Cherry 2000 is a weird and entertaining sci-fi with a funny story and lots of action. Pamela Gidley is a beautiful woman and is hilarious in the role of a robot programmed to please men. But how could Sam Treadwell resist to E. Johnson, performed by thirty years old Melanie Griffith, one of the most beautiful women of the planet? My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Cherry 2000 "},{"Title":"Pretty decent time waster...","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've always been a really hardcore sci-fi/fantasy fan, so of course, I did really enjoy Cherry 2000. David Andrews and Melanie Griffith had great chemistry together, and this pre-Data android Cherry 2000 (albeit an intelligent sex toy), gave the plot an amusing and very human twist. Basically, when Sam Treadwell's (Andrews) robotic playmate/best/only female friend 'dies', he desperately needs a replacement. An exact replacement. He braves the wilds out in the desert to reclaim his lost love. How will he find his dream girl? (Spoiler!) By finding another one! Sam hires a Tracker, Edith Johnson, also known as E.. E is a sexy, capable, hard woman (Griffith). Although E is the antithesis of everything Sam held dear, he finds love eventually....just not in the arms he expected. A classic love story with a futuristic twist, this isn't exactly fodder for an academy award, however, the acting was decent, the story was well written, and overall the experience stays with you. (These are pretty much the things I look out for when I'm rating a movie). Since most of the story is set a world very reminiscent of Mad Max and Waterworld, fans of the post-apocalyptic type of fantasy should really enjoy this movie. Heck, give it a chance. I'd rate it as being about 2 points above Waterworld on a scale of 1-10. The effects were remarkably good for it's time. Not much (if anything actually....) was fake or CG'ed. Even though the story is set in 2007, most people I know are able to make the leap to suspend their disbelief and enjoy this ride. Give this one a try, if you like sci-fi!Fans of less subtle movies, true dramas, regular romances will probably dislike this movie. Either they won't get the subtle jabs at society and the human condition or they won't enjoy the setting. Overly analytical, philosophical types probably won't enjoy this film either. It does take a long time to get the main point across.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have loved this movie since it first appeared, Melanie Griffith is tough and sassy. I liked Pamela Gidley in the beginning of the movie, but she seemed not to be a factor in the end. I liked the part at the dam the most, if you ever come to Las Vegas you must go to the Hoover Dam on the Az. side and you can look down the tunnel where they lowered the car. Good film should be a cult classic. I liked to say that when I first saw this film I never knew it would stick in my head like it did. I have two sons and told them of this film over and over since we moved here in Las Vegas. I would show them places where the movie was filmed and now that I own it on DVD they go and see just what I was telling them about. I think that is really, COOL. "},{"Title":"I love B movie casting, even when it's wrong.","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Melanie Griffith may look like a redhead, but she talks and behaves like a blonde. She would have been much more suited to play the robot as she is not tough enough to be the fiery redhead. Griffith does manage to be attractive enough to steer Andrews from his toys. David Andrews is convincing as the uptight executive who needs a real woman. Ben Johnson plays the charming cowboy as good as always. Tim Tomerson steals the movie as the 80's desert wasteland villain. Brion James, Lawrence Fishburne, and Jennifer Balgobin have roles that are too small for their talent. The movie is an amusing little trifle that deserves it's cult status and should please fans of the broken civilization genre of the 80's. "},{"Title":"IMDb's rating is too low for this movie. It's more like a 7+","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is one I ALMOST skipped entirely because in my mind 5.3 is an abysmal score to give ANY movie. I once saw Talledega Nights with a girl I was very much in love with-it was a time when NO good movies were being released and Snakes on a Plane was out at the same time so those were our choices. Let me tell you that Talledega Nights was the worse movie I ever paid for and had to suffer through. Terrible film. But the reason why I bring it up is that a piece of junk movie like that was still well received by a few airheads and they thought it was funny- the girl i liked being one of the few airheads who liked it. That movie scores higher on IMDb than this movie does and that is a down right shame because I would give TN a 1 out of 10 or 4 out of 10 if I were being more fair, but I would give THIS move Cherry 2000 a 7 out of 10 at least. What does this all prove? That movie ratings can sometimes be misleading. That someone can tell you a movie is awful and you would find that same movie great, and vice versa. So what this ultimately means then is that you have to watch this movie yourself and come to your own conclusion. As for myself I was pleasantly surprised. I had low expectations and found this entertaining enough and it moved right along smoothly. The movie has a good pace. "},{"Title":"Bone machine","Date":"24 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Cherry 2OOO is a little flick out of 1987 about a guy named Sam Treadwell who bears a striking resemblance to Don Johnson who's out to pick up some chick named Cherry in a robot graveyard out in zone 7. Melanie Griffith is a tracker, who's job it is to find things in wasteland America after some kind of nuke attack. Steve De Jarnatt directed this epic and another a year later called Miracle Mile. Both films deal with the fallout of human life after a worldwide disaster that puts 90% of humanity back into serfdom. The movie is expertly cast, and the shooting locations throughout are awe inspiring. My first taste to this sweet truffle came as many great viewings do, on Cinemax. The movie is laced with B-movie royalty, Brion James, Robert Z'dar, Tim Thomerson and Pamela Gidley round out the stacked cast in this truly invigorating thrill ride. Lots of stuff gets blown up, plenty of costly stunts performed, and in the end the bot gets got. The story is about a guy with an expensive Cherry 2000 sex bot played by the always sensational Pamela Gidley. She breaks down after a heavy night of dishes and Sam goes on a crusade to get her back online. Tim Thomerson plays one of the figure-heads of the post world, he kills the role of Lester who must have read a lot of self-help books before the blast as he's always reminding his guys to be themselves. Lester's crew is made up of other psycho survivors who enjoy bingo and dancing and killing and wearing cool outfits. The movie addresses some interesting ideas about the future of courtship, with all the diseases now it seems like a robot girlfriend is probably the way to go, but their not human, their just cold machines. Its a fast paced, very scenic, colorful, explosion filled movie thats both pleasing to the eyes as is to the mind. So check this one out and remember BE YOURSELF. "},{"Title":"Tim Thomerson again steals the show in 'Cherry 2000'!!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It is the future on earth where anything is possible even robots that look, act and perform like humans and can do almost any task. High powered businessman Sam Treadwell (David Andrews) has a problem his android model Cherry 2000 short circuited during some heavier than expected foreplay. After a brief trip to the repair shop; seeing some newer models he doesn't like and realizing that there is no hope of fixing his current model, he embarks on a treacherous trip into 'The Zone' to find an identical model. He hires the tough, very pretty and VERY heavily armed E. Johnson (Melanie Griffith) as his guide. She along with her trusty modified Ford Mustang adapt themselves to the task. Tim Thomerson absolutely STEALS the show as the criminally insane, antagonistic, would-be crazy gang leader of the future who leads a rag-tag group of Rambo wannabees in various acts of military mayhem in his pursuit of these two protagonists.  This one is not to be missed and should be added to everyone's library of classic B movies in DVD or video tape format!!!! "},{"Title":"Very Strange Movie...Somehow Quite Watchable","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Curious futuristic sci-fi offering has a sexy performance from Griffith and likable work by Thomerson, plus an intriguing high concept premise. It doesn't totally come off, but there's definitely some interesting stuff going on amidst the flaws. Scifi movies about the future often don't date well and this one is no different, but it's not without its charms.Some action sequences are jarring and out of place; perhaps they should have concentrated more on romancing the two leads, who have nice chemistry. This is grade-c stuff, but somehow whenever I see it on the tube I pause for a while and check it out. Despite flopping when released, this movie has taken on a formidable cult status since. Might be worth a look, especially if you enjoy post-apocalyptic stories like ROAD WARRIOR or WATERWORLD. "},{"Title":"Just Can't Bring Myself To Dislike It","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can't fathom it.I don't like either lead actor.  The effects are cheesy and below The A Team.  The film doesn't paint in broad strokes; its message is slopped on with push brooms.  But doggone, I get a kick out of this thing everytime it airs. Maybe it's the handful of stars and almost stars and the games of Holy Cow!  That's where they were then.  Marshall Bell, Pamela Gidley, Griffith herself.  Maybe it's the camp, as if the producers knew that a Bruckheimeran picture was beyond them, so they reveled in their low budget and milked everything to the point that teenage boys (my age when I first saw it) can't quite be sure if this is straight or tongue-in-cheek.  (The Self-Actualized Nazis of Zone 7, with their proto-New Age totalitarianism are a hoot.  Give them more lines!)It defies explanation, and I suppose it's the mystery that keeps me tuning in. "},{"Title":"Cherry 2000 Location","Date":"20 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Cherry 2000 was interesting for many reasons, not least for the unusual location for part of it. The name Sky Ranch was used, and this represents a place that actually exists. The headquarters of the bad guys, which was called Sky Ranch in the film, was actually what remained of Ash Meadows Sky Ranch, a permanently closed Nevada brothel. Until it closed in 1973 or 1974, Ash Meadows was considered one of the best of Nevada's legal brothels. The closest town was Death Valley Junction, which is in California. A dirt and gravel road was all there was to connect to Ash Meadows, and a billboard marked the turn, advertising free coffee.The brothel itself featured a small motel, a pool (seen in the movie), a 9-hole golf course, and an air strip, which might still appear on civilian aviation charts.Some time after the brothel closed, the State of Nevada made it a landmark of some sort, and I believe it takes special permission to enter.If not for Cherry 2000, I would never have been able to see this place. Thousands of people have seen the movie Cherry 2000 without knowing that they were seeing an historic place. "}{"Title":"Fun B Movie about Sexbots","Date":"21 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Cherry 2000 is a nifty B movie that takes place in a not too distant future where some unexplained apocalypse has occurred and made items that were once plentiful scarce. Human relationships have broken down so much that every interaction has to be arranged by lawyers and hooking up at a bar involves a lengthy legal contract. It's no wonder then that our protagonist Sam prefers to stay at home with his sexbot, a vintage Cherry 2000 model who is essentially a traditional subservient housewife. Unfortunately, during a frothy romp in front of the dishwasher his Cherry malfunctions, leaving him no alternative but to hire a guide to take him to the dangerous zone to find a replacement model at the robot junkyard. This guide turns out to be a spunky, independent woman (played by Melanie Griffith!) and...you can probably guess the rest but that doesn't mean it isn't fun getting there. While it's true that several plot points wouldn't hold up under close scrutiny this is a B movie so that sort of adds to the charm. No real complaints here and it was interesting seeing Griffith in that role. "},{"Title":"Great parody","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Now we've all seen the Mad Max movies and their clones. The punk rockers living in the post nuclear desert terrorizing everyone. But in Cherry 2000 the bands of outlaws in the desert look more like Young Republicans than punk rockers and they prefer to have cook outs. This parody of Mad Max type movies is a fun way to spend an evening in front of the tv. Melanie Griffith is great as E Johnson, a tracker hired to find a memory chip for a robot. Seems the robot's owner broke it while having sex with it. Now the only replacement is out in the wastelands where bands of yuppies roam and they don't like visitors. You'll be surprised at how good a film this is.  "},{"Title":"The Real Desperate Housewives of Orange County","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The first time I saw Cherry 2000, I saw it on the Los Angeles area Z Channel and if I remember correctly when they showed this film, it was not scheduled for theatrical release. I think they were showing movies of Melanie Griffith because Working Girl had become so popular at the time, and they were showing what a range this actress had from action-adventure to abused secretary. And Melanie Griffith does have that range.Cherry 2000 didn't look finished when I saw it, but what I loved about ti was it's story. I've all but forgotten about it until recently when one of the premiere movie channels showed it. In looking at it now, it could easily be renamed The Real Desperate Housewives of Orange County - this film was really perceptive for 1987 - and it's only 20 years later! There is a running joke in the film that makes me review Cherry 2000 this way - back then, I didn't catch it. Today, it's really funny.The joke They ask the man looking to replace his robot where is he from? He replies Anaheim. That's in Orange County. Why is it a joke? Well...Cherry 2000 was a female robot that was made as a companion for men. She was blonde, pretty, perfect breasts, perfect hips, very attentive to her man, had an A.I. chip of all the right things to say, all the right things to do.Cherry 2000 was perfect for coming home to when he had such a long day at work. This man was used to his Cherry 2000 and his A.I. Cherry 2000 program that was programmed to look, sound and do whatever he wanted. Unfortunately, Cherry 2000 short circuited and he needed to get a new one. In trying to replace his Cherry 2000, he found that it was obsolete. The body, but not the chip. Newer models of female robots were available but he was really into his Cherry 2000 (Another running joke is the line Ah, yes, a Cherry 2000! Great hip action!) so it was suggested that there might be a Cherry 2000 model out in the wastelands of robots. He could take his pre programmed chip and insert it into one of those Cherry's. Only way to get there was to find a 'tracker' to take him in to the Wasteland and get one.The only sane and semi-honest tracker he could find was a woman - gasp - a real woman, Played by Melanie Griffith. Melanie was skilled, tough and also...feminine. So, this man had to go into dangerous robotic wasteland territory with a real flesh and blood woman to find a Cherry 2000 robot that he thought was the only woman that could make him happy.As I pointed out, the story was a good story, the acting was fine, the production and post production values were light which took away from a lot for me as I watched it. It was kinda on the Mad Max level of production but for this story it needed more production values to succeed.It is a cautionary tale - and it looks as though it was perceptive. We are there, especially in Orange County with the pre-fabricated, programmed woman. This is not a Stepford Wife, per ce. But it is an ideal and a manipulation of what some men think a woman should be, say and do all by the flick of a control - easy to control as flipping on a light switch. That is, until - you re-insert yourself among real humans, real women, non altered flesh and blood and find out what you're really missing, which our male does.A funny, nice, low-key production, cautionary tale, action, love story film. "},{"Title":"The perspective of someone who saw this movie in 1988","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" An entertaining, competently made film.What may not be immediately apparent to those who were not immersed in the zeitgeist of the mid-1980s is that this film is not purely satirical science fiction. In 1987, both of this movie's main future premises &#150; that autonomous, artificially intelligent robotic perfect companions would exist as consumer products by about 2000, and that America would suffer a partial political collapse in the same decade &#150; were not particularly outlandish.While Cherry 2000 is presently achieving cult film status, it was originally received as a much more conventional SF movie. "},{"Title":"Gritty Underrated Post Apocalyptic Romp","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In an age of CG everything, Cherry 2000 shines even more now than it did in the eighties. Great story, gritty landscape, wonderful cast of characters, and a cave full of toaster ovens. Don't let the age of this flick put you off if you haven't seen it and have even a passing interest in post apocalyptic and/or sci-fi flicks.The special effects are live action which really stand out if you haven't watched an older movie without CG in awhile. The setting is thoroughly appropriate for the story and genre. Is any movie truly worth a 10 out of 10? They will all have flaws, but in my book if at the end of the flick you are thoroughly entertained and transported to another time or place and have a smile on your face then the crew succeeded in their mission in movie-making. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie, High on my Fun Shelf","Date":"26 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What's not to like about this film? Mindless action, great characters, dime-novel romance, wonderful scenes and scenery, ridiculous premise, even more ridiculous action sequences, gender confusion (from the DVD cover, She's your man).And more, no message (OK, a really weak and fun one, capped by my favorite quote having to do with a cola-based soft drink), creditable acting, Ben Johnson AND Harry Carey Jr. Most of all, this film is visually highly original/creative. I wonder sometimes how such a movie gets produced (like, how did Michael Nesmith get Repo Man out of the Hollywood grinder?).My DVD front cover lists Melanie Griffith and Ben Johnson but not David Andrews, who was excellent. A more well-known male lead would not have worked (in my opinion). Tim Thomerson's part is memorable. I enjoy the sci-fi back-references such as the cameo by the original GORT, a sci-fi tradition.I rate it a 7.5/10, I put it on the same shelf as Legally Blond, and I play it when I just want G-rated entertainment (and no CGI). I liked Melanie Griffith's portrayal/character a lot. "},{"Title":"Strange movie of the future.","Date":"2 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie has a most excellent device that if it were to be invented would most likely cause the demise of the human race. Yes, the female sex robot. You just know guys would happily forgo real women for the super sex starved droid that can not have children, does not have that time of month, and is always in the mood. Granted it can only make you a burger and fries for dinner, but that is more than most women know how to do these days anyway. They could probably make a male version for females, but their heads would probably explode because no matter how hard you try to program it to act perfectly, it will still somehow set a woman off by making her mad, or by making her cry the robot would then just short circuit because no matter what it tries it fails. Yes, this is going to get me into a lot of trouble if my girlfriend ever reads this, but my sense of humor is very strange and I am getting a good chuckle. Well on to the rest of the movie. Man and his robot chick start having sex and water gets into the droid and it short circuits. Kind of a flaw right there as you would think they could make these things waterproof. Well he finds out it is impossible to fix and the dealer tries to sell him a newer model, but our hero will not have none of that as he is sort of in love with his bot and so off he goes to a bizarre forbidden zone to find another Cherry 2000 (the name of the particular model of bot he covets). He gets some help from a very attractive Melanie Griffon character and there is a cool scene with a car and a tunnel of water and then our hero gets captured by this weird group in the desert/forbidden zone place. He gets help from a lady he knows, but the main guy in this place is a tad insane, though actually somewhat friendly too. The movie is kind of all over the place because at times it is seemingly trying to be a comedy and at other times a Mad Max type adventure. So not perfect at all and not great, but it passes the time. "},{"Title":"Take note of this one, B movie lovers.","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sure it's all too obviously influenced by Mad Max and The Road Warrior, but it's still consistently engaging entertainment for cult film enthusiasts. Credit has to go to production designer John Jay Moore and cinematographer Jacques Haitkin for giving it just the right slightly futuristic look, and it's got some gorgeous rural vistas to take in. It's a little episodic, but it's also got some energy, and some nifty moments.Melanie Griffith offers a delightful performance as female tracker E. Johnson (the E stands for Edith), hired by lonely man Sam Treadwell (a fairly stiff David Andrews) to take him to a dangerous area where he can find a replacement for his robot wife Cherry (Pamela Gidley). On their journey they run into colourful characters played by such wonderful acting veterans as Ben Johnson, who's endearing as Six Fingered Jake, and Harry Carey Jr., as Snappy Tom.You know you'll be in for a good time when you look over that supporting cast Marshall Bell, Laurence Fishburne, Michael C. Gwynne, Brion James, Jack Thibeau, and Robert Z'Dar. The always welcome Tim Thomerson has a particularly amusing role as an unconventional desert dwelling despot, whose followers have it in for people such as Edith. Overall the movie isn't overly flashy, but it's pretty exciting at times, especially the entire sequence with the crane and the water pipe. The soaring score composed by Basil Poledouris (Conan the Barbarian, RoboCop, etc.) is fine accompaniment.Although Thomerson as Lester shows himself to be a serious psycho, this never gets too, too unpleasant, with director Steve De Jarnatt keeping the action moving and having fun with the offbeat little details provided by screenwriter Michael Almereyda (story credit goes to executive producer Lloyd Fonvielle). Cherry 2000 does know how to send you away with a smile on your face. It may have gotten a limited release in theatres in the 1980s, but 26 years later it proves enjoyable enough to deserve a rediscovery.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Offbeat and enjoyable tongue-in-cheek 80's futuristic sci-fi/action winner","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Mild-mannered businessman Sam Treadwell (a likable portrayal by David Andrews) hires rough'n'tumble ace tracker E. Johnson (a delightfully feisty Melanie Griffith, who looks great with fiery red hair) to take him into a dangerous region known as the Zone in order to find a replacement model for his beloved Cherry 2000 android (the extremely cute, bubbly and enchanting Pamela Gidley) after the original blows a fuse. Director Steve De Jarnatt does a sound job of creating and sustaining an engaging lighthearted tone, offers a really funny and funky depiction of an oddball future where romance and intimacy have become exceedingly rare commodities, stages the action set pieces with considerable verve, further spruces things up with a fine line in amusing sarcastic humor (the group of blithely loopy and lethal happy health freaks Sam and E. encounter in the Neveda dessert are hilariously terrifying), and gives the picture a certain quirky quality that's impossible to either dislike or resist. Andrews and Griffith display a pleasant chemistry and make for attractive and appealing leads. Tim Thomerson almost steals the whole show with his marvelously batty turn as crazed and charismatic psychopathic cult leader Lester. Moreover, there are bang-up supporting contributions by Ben Johnson as amiable old-timer Six Fingered Jake, Harry Carey Jr. as doddery fuddy dud Snappy Tom, Michael C. Gwynne as sage robotics expert Slim, Brion James as no-count hood Stacy, and Robert Z'Dar as menacing behemoth Chet. Michael Almereyda's witty script delivers a trenchant critique of gender roles and sexual politics, with some interesting stuff about the lack of communication between both sexes and an inspired inversion of the standard action movie cliché with a tough chick protecting a wimpy guy. Jacques Haitkin's slick cinematography gives the film a bright look and makes nifty occasional use of vertical wipes. The lush and lively orchestral score by Basil Poledouris likewise hits the stirring spot. A cool little flick. "},{"Title":"great action movie","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is an interesting movie,I heard about it from the word on the soundtrack. The movie is known more it's soundtrack then the movie it self.the soundtrack has the record for the highest price paid for a compact disc, it sold on ebay a couple of years ago for $2000.00 for the compact disc,so when I heard that I had to see the movie. it's in the future where Melanie Griffith is a action type bounty hunter and this guy has an android lover which is his wife that dies and he has to do find another one like it.but she is kind of out of production.he can get a modern one but he wants the same one so he hires Melanie Griffith to go in to this war zone and track it down,there is only one place where he can get another.in the end he goes for the real thing and not the android.there is action and great music.it will entertain,I recommend if you like sci-fi and action movies. "}{"Title":"When your sex robot breaks down, parts are hard to find.","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Melanie Griffith, in a role unfairly shunned by the academy, is a bounty hunter in search of a replacement Cherry 2000, the spiffiest sex android on the wasteland market. Bright spots include Laurence Fishburne as a sleezy lawyer negotiating a one night stand between 2 bar-goers and a sweet '68 orange Mustang.  Thats about it. With dime store special effects, terrible acting, and a thin plot line, Cherry 2000 isn't worth the gas money to drive to the rental store, but if you happen to catch it on late-night, you should be in for a treat. "},{"Title":"It has to be seen to be believed","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I watch a lot of 'so-bad-they're-good' films, but 'Cherry 2000' was actually quite different. It was a 'so-bad-I-don't-know-if-it's-real' kind of film. I literally sat there unable to believe my eyes at what I was witnessing. It's set in some sort of weird future where men can buy robots shaped like beautiful women who will wait on their every needs. However, what one such man obviously never read in his 'wife's' instruction manual was that you should probably never get them wet.I won't go into the hows and whys of how he gets his 'Cherry 2000' model wet (there's a treat in store for you), but it totally blows a fuse and the local dealer seems to be out of stock in that particular make. Therefore, the only thing he can do is set out into a forbidden wasteland where there's &#x96; apparently &#x96; a robot graveyard full of perfectly-kept Cherrys waiting to be taken back to some lucky man's kitchen.So he does. Only he doesn't do it alone. He enlists the help of a 'tracker' &#x96; someone who's familiar with the dangerous world they're about to explore. This particular tracker is played by Melanie Griffith. And this is where the 'fun' starts. That is if you call 'fun' really bad acting. Melanie Griffith can't act. Or, to be fair, she can't act back in this particular film. I read online that she had just given birth weeks before filming, so perhaps I should cut her a bit of slack. But she really is bad. Every line is delivered like she's reading if from a children's comic (and not a very well-written comic either).You could almost say that she ruins the movie, but that would be a little unfair. The guy who's hired her tries to 'out-ruin' the movie, too. He's possibly the least charismatic leading man ever. Plus he doesn't seem able to close his mouth &#x96; ever. Therefore, with two such awful leads, you could imagine many people would have turned it off as soon as possible. But that's where its appeal lies &#x96; you have to watch it to see just how bad it gets.Plus there's the script itself. Robert DeNiro and Al Pacino would struggle to act well delivering these lines. It's like the writers were students who had a good idea for a film, but none of the talent to bring it to the big screen. The action scenes don't make sense. The dialogue doesn't make sense. The progression of the story from scene to scene doesn't make sense and, finally, the character motivation doesn't make sense either.Cherry 2000 is a disaster, but one of those car crash type disasters that you just have to watch. You need to know you are in for a bad experience when you sit down to watch this. It is bad, but it is so bad you really do have to see it to believe it. "},{"Title":"Really cheesy post apocalyptic goof","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I really wanted to like this film and I almost did, for reasons of Melanie Griffith looking really hot alone, but the truth is that this is a really goofy piece of cheese and there is nothing in the movie that really teaches anything. It has that 80's look which fascinates me, no matter how bad a story or acting, but other than that, just a really bad Mad Max.The idea is that this guy from the rich part of the world loses his beloved female robot to a short circuit. He hires a tracker to find the rare kind of robot that was his type (see what I did there?) in some god forsaken desert. A mad trek ensues, all around a desolate landscape where people don't have anything but machine guns, rocket launchers and gasoline powered vehicles. In the end, he realizes that killing people with grenades and high powered guns makes a real girl that looks like a porn Barbie doll be more lovable than a robot. The end.Notable moments Laurence Fishburne in a 5 second role as Larry Fishburne. It's worth remembering things like that if you ever meet the guy, right? ) "},{"Title":"A marketing migraine.","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Filmed in 1985, but shelved and not released on VHS until 1987, perhaps the most telling thing about Cherry 2000, is that it's producer, Edward R. Pressman, reportedly confessed that the films distributors, Orion Pictures, were stumped by the films confusion of genres, which led to the long delay in it's initial release.Seeing it for the first time, it's easy to see why it was such a marketing headache. For starters, it isn't really any good, however, in being a crazy mish-mash of bits of everything, and having the good sense to never take itself too seriously, it's hard to feel annoyed with it.The film is set in the year 2020. Mankind has progressed to the extent that it's now possible to own a fully functional, supermodel, stay at home girlfriend (Cherry) who knows exactly how to treat her man &#x96; we never see male model counterparts. In the first scene, our lead character, Sam Tredwell, ( David Andrews) has a soapy, after dinner mishap with his own Cherry 2000 doll, which kick-starts the plot of him having to travel the wastelands of 'Zone 7′, to find another one. Yes folks, it's as ridiculous as it sounds. Co-starring with Andrews is a jaunty looking Melanie Griffith, who seems to be playing a female 'Rambo', running and gunning her way through her scenes. Surprisingly, some of the stunt work, locations and set pieces are genuinely quite stunning, which makes it all the more a shame that the end result is such an elaborate mess.Cherry 2000 is like Mad Max, but madder. It doesn't really seem to know what it wants to be, and ends up being not much of anything. That said, there is fun to be salvaged amongst it's bonkers sense of humour, and the people in it seem to be having a good time. A guilty pleasure for some, perhaps. "},{"Title":"It was acceptable in the 80s","Date":"16 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this in the 80's and loved it. OK things have moved on and maybe I should take off these rose tinted spectacle, but I don't want to.If you were born after 1990 and are thinking of watching this then you should know, before parting with your cash, that sci-fi films from the period (unless someone threw a tower block sized wad of cash at them) tended to be a bit lame.The effects here are ludicrously bad (even for the 80s) at one point what appears to be Aires Rock is taken out with a rocket launcher.The editing and direction are very sloppy. The bad guys were obviously filmed by a separate crew as they never seem to fire in the direction of the good guys.If you are a child of the 90s+ you will wonder... Why is there no gore or sex? Why do the explosions look so lame? Why have they gone to such lengths to make the leading ladies arse look so huge? What the hell is with that cheesy music? But this is a piece of movie history gold. Where else do the bad guys (with no apparent sense of irony) do the hokey cokey? Where do you get such genius narrative as(when bad guy sends his henchmen off) 'Keep the sun out of your eyes and be yourself?'If you are not used to 80s budget films this will seem very poor indeed (especially when you consider 'Alien' and 'Star Wars' pre-date this) but if you can get into the spirit of the era you will love this. "},{"Title":"Bad Romance","Date":"16 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Plot Guy falls in love with a one-dimensional sex robot. Guy loses sex robot. Guy hires a woman to help him find sex robot. Guy falls in love with woman and realises that multi-dimensional women, warts and all, are better than one-dimensional sex fantasies.Interesting Film explodes female archetypes. Film's target audience is man, but film allows woman to perform all tasks better than man. Man loses shoe, cries for help, depends on woman for rescue etc. Woman, free from male chains, teaches man to love her liberation. Better to interact with a woman who has brains and a heart instead of a fantasy image with a microchip.Reality Man=lazy, Sex robot=impractical, Porn=global 6/10 &#x96; Mildly interesting rift on Weird Science. Surprisingly, the film makes quite a few references to Tarkovsky's Stalker. "},{"Title":"Cherry Bomb!","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A recent article in The Telegraph predicted that, by the year 2050, human-on-robot sex would have overtaken human-on-human sex; I reckon they could be right if the robots look anything like this film's titular model, the Cherry 2000, created to fulfil its owner's every desire. Blonde, beautiful and obedient, Cherry (Pamela Gidley) seems like the perfect match for Sam Treadwell (David Andrews), which is why he goes to such great lengths to find a replacement body for her memory chip when a frolic on the kitchen floor results in some serious blown circuits. With the only Cherries still in existence to be found in the robot graveyard of Zone 7, a desert wasteland inhabited by dangerous psychopaths, Sam hires the help of pretty 'tracker' E. Johnson (Melanie Griffith), and comes to realise that his ideal woman might not be battery powered after all.Director Steve De Jarnatt's other film, Miracle Mile, is an almost flawless example of '80s apocalyptic cinema&#x97;an extremely tense, darkly humorous, and touching example of low-budget film-making revolving around a compelling dilemma&#x97;what would you do if you discovered that WWIII was imminent?Cherry 2000, a post-apocalyptic adventure that takes place in the near future of 2017 (next year, as I type), also poses an interesting question&#x97;will sex with a machine ever be as satisfying as the real thing?&#x97;but despite a much bigger budget than Miracle Mile, the film proves far less successful, thanks to an awkward blend of genres, its clumsy, episodic nature, and questionable performances. Writer Michael Almereyda and rookie director De Jarnatt must shoulder much of the blame, the slapdash story and chaotic direction leading to some really disjointed sequences, including one spectacularly ill-conceived action set-piece in which our heroes cross an obstacle via electromagnet. Griffith is the film's other obvious weakness&#x97;she looks lovely (even with her bad hairdo and dubious wardrobe of tasselled post-apocalyptic attire), but fails to convince as a tough cookie who can handle almost any situation.Cult actors Robert Z'dar (Maniac Cop), Tim Thomerson (Trancers, Dollman), and Brion James (Bladerunner, Enemy Mine) join in the 'fun', but can do very little with the messy material (which might explain why Thomerson doesn't even seem to try). Also keep an eye out for an early appearance from The Matrix star Laurence Fishburne in a role that he'd most likely rather forget about. "},{"Title":"Gloriously awful and very bizarre","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's been a while since I had a lazy Sunday spent vegging out watching films. For a variety of reasons my life has been pretty hectic over the past few months, and I've not really had any spare time to watch bad movies or write reviews. Today however I treated myself to a day in joggers and, bag of Maltesers in hand, watched Cherry 2000.Essentially a film about a guy battling his way through a dystopian world in an attempt to replace his malfunctioning sex doll, Cherry 2000 is about as gloriously awful as 80s sci-fi films get. It also stars Melanie Griffith. Griffith plays E. Johnson - we never find out what the E. stands for - a 'tracker' employed by Kevin Costner- esque businessman Sam Treadwell to help him find a new Cherry 2000 doll in a deserted robot graveyard (formerly Las Vegas). As the film progresses, Sam realises that he doesn't need a new Cherry 2000 because - you guessed it - he falls in love with E., crazy hair and all.I don't know what to say about Cherry 2000 other than if, like me, the thought of watching 90 minutes of Melanie Griffith dressed mostly in moccasins and suede tassel jackets whilst badly wielding a bunch of unpredictable firearms floats your boat then get your fill. It's relentlessly bad and very bizarre. The bad guys always miss the target. Sam is kind of annoying. There's a scene where E. eats a toasted snake with some kind of side salad. It's not the best bad film I've watched, but it definitely ranks.www.naomisaffron.tumblr.com "},{"Title":"Have a drink and a Donut.....","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When successful businessman Sam Treadwell finds that his android wife, Cherry model 2000 has blown a fuse, he hires renegade tracker E. Johnson to find her exact duplicate. As their journey to replace his perfect mate leads them into the treacherous and lawless region of zone seven, Treadwell learns the hard way that the perfect woman is made not of computer chips and diodes, but of real flesh and blood......It's a really hard film to describe. It's not exactly an action movie, but a sort of apocalyptic Sci-fi campa-thon.Its Waterworld on dry land, Mad Maxine, and Tim Burton meets Joel Schumacher, in the desert.It's as bonkers as it sounds, and despite its a load of old cobblers, its quite fun to watch while it lasts. Griffith proves she's as versatile as a wet cloth, but its not about her or the dad from Terminator 3, with these apocalyptic movies, its the wealth of bizarre support that the ill has to offer.From Brion James, right up to a film stealing Tim Thomerson, its a film that's not going to break any genre boundaries, but if you a fan of those cheap films made in the eighties like Spacehunter, Land of Doom, or World Gone Wild, this is definitely for you.... "},{"Title":"A non-spoof spoofed movie","Date":"10 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A road-movie and science-fiction film, which has become a cult film, that is funny and entertaining despite the downs.The film has a great inventive and a good premise, and the characters are, a priori, quite attractive. However, the script is badly developed, the acting is pedestrian, and the special effects are very cheap, so you end laughing at he result, not getting engaged by a futuristic story. In other words this looks like a spoof movie, instead of a sci-fic one, which is what pretends to be. If the movie had been presented as a comedy, and not taken itself not so seriously, I would certainly have rated the film higher, as I laughed more than with many comedies.The cast counts with a very young Melanie Griffith in the role of the naive but daring E. Johnson, and with David Andrews as the sexy-hero Indiana-Jones of the future Sam Treadwell, who don't seem to have any chemistry on camera and do not shine in their performances. However, I found Pamela Gidley good and believable as robot Cherry 2000, and Jeniffer Mayo deadpan hilarious as Ronda.Sometimes we need to eat a gourmet dish and others we fancy a burger. Well, this would be the burger! "}{"Title":"Second Cousin to a Belisha Beacon","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Cherry 2000 is a sort of post-apocalyptic science fiction Western, a cross between Mad Max and The Stepford Wives. The year is 2017, thirty years in the future when the film was made in 1987. Following some unspecified apocalypse America is divided into at least two parts. In the big cities civilisation goes on much as before. The deserts of the American West, however, have become a lawless wilderness, dominated by violent gangs, similar to those in the Mad Max films, who roam the desert in cars or on motorbikes.The film does not dwell much on futuristic technology, with one exception. The central premise of the film is that, before the apocalypse, science managed to perfect humanoid robots. The main character is a young man named Sam Treadwell who owns a Stepford Wives type female robot who acts as his housekeeper and sexual partner. As these robots are programmed to have warm and affectionate personalities and never have a headache at bedtime Sam is very happy with this arrangement, until his beloved short circuits during a love-making session on his kitchen floor. This presents Sam with a problem. His lady-friend was an obsolete model, the Cherry 2000, no longer being manufactured, but he knows he will not be happy with a more modern replacement. (If the number 2000 was supposed to indicate the year in which Cherry was first manufactured, this is yet another in the long list of sci-fi predictions which have proved sadly premature- human colonies on Mars by 1987, and all that sort of thing).Sam discovers that there is a supply of Cherry 2000s in an abandoned warehouse, and decides to recover one and install the previous model's memory chip. There is, however, one further problem to be overcome. The warehouse is situated in the now lawless desert, beyond the pale of civilisation. He therefore enlists the help if Edith E Johnson, a tracker who makes a living through guiding people through the wasteland, but in order to reach the warehouse they have to avoid the attentions of Lester, the leaders of the gangsters who now control the desert. Sam also runs into his former girlfriend Elaine, now Lester's mistress, and the sort of neurotic, foul-tempered woman who could drive any man into the arms of a robotic substitute.The film is intended to be an action-adventure story, but it suffers from one fatal weakness; it stars Melanie Griffith. By playing a tough, sassy character Melanie was obviously hoping to get away from her bimbo image, but the inconvenient truth is that most of her best performances have come in films where she either plays a straightforward bimbo (as in The Bonfire of the Vanities) or a bimbo with hidden depths (as in Working Girl or Born Yesterday). Here as Edith she seems hopelessly miscast. Her normal blonde locks are hidden beneath a lurid red wig, making her look like the second cousin to a Belisha beacon, but she makes no attempt to disguise her high pitched, breathy, little-girl voice, hilariously inappropriate on the lips of a tough action heroine. She would probably have been better playing the robot Cherry, the girl with the artificial, carefully manufactured bimbo personality.There is occasionally some sharp dialogue; I liked, for example, the exchange when Elaine, told by Sam that her new boyfriend Lester is a psychopathic killer, snaps back Don't impose your values on me, Sam. (This does not, however, imply that Elaine is deeply in love with Lester; her only reaction to his death is Well, no sandwiches for him). The action sequences are not badly done, but as I pointed out when reviewing the original Mad Max there should be more to a film than the quality of its car crashes. None of the actors make much impression, other than Griffith who makes an impression for all the wrong reasons. Overall, Cherry 2000 is a rather dull bit of eighties sci-fi marred by miscasting. It is sometimes described as a cult film, but cults, whether cinematic or religious, are often mystifying to those who are not already True Believers. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Could have been a lot better...","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This turned out to be a surprisingly OK movie, after all the bad reviews I'd read. The big problem is that they start out setting up an interesting and unusual future society, and then quickly abandon it without much explanation for a sub-Max Max post-apocalypse plot which alternates between hilarious (though I'm still not entirely sure whether it was intended to be a comedy or just turned out that way) and making no sense whatsoever. That said, the biggest problem I had was the 'will they, won't they?' thing between the leads; now, I'm sorry, but given a choice between Pamela Gidley and Melanie Griffith, I'll take the robot any day.All in all though, if you like B-movies and fast forward through the hopelessly (non-)directed action sequences, it's worth watching; it could just have been much better if they'd decided what kind of movie they were making before they shot it.  "},{"Title":"Love-Robot movie could have gone somewhere but doesn't.","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Cherry 2000 is classic model of a love robot in the near future.  When Sam Treadwell's short circuits, he is devastated.He searched for a replacement Cherry (he kept the data chip to place in the new one) but finds that there are none.Finally he is tipped off that there is one in Zone 7 (a Mad Maxish Wasteland area of the USA).Sam hires a tracker (Melanie Griffith) to help him retrieve this Cherry model.  On his way are a bunch of confrontations with evil and wacko characters that try to stop them.While this movie has the elements that Mad Max had it comes nowhere near the excitement of the action scenes.  The Cherry 200 love robot is funny though.  "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There is little that can be said positive about the soundtrack, wardrobe, acting, directing, blocking, editing, cinematography, casting, sound, lighting, locations or writing regarding this B for bad movie. There are constant continuity problems. There is hardly any symmetry between the characters. All of the futuristic technology was last eighties products when the film was shot. The only futuristic or forward thinking thing about the movie was the 3 year leap in the title. The frightening thing about this movie is that the actors were probably not cheap and the producers wasted and or lost a ton of money. I realize now why it took me 24 years to watch 30 min of this movie.Charley Burch "},{"Title":"Woah, worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I know people say that phrase casually, but this is in no way casual. Up to this point in my life, ( I am 19 ) I note that the worst movie that I've ever seen is Cherry 2000 I don't know how people consider Melanie Griffith an actor.Her unenthusiastic tone doesn't fit her role as a bounty hunter. Maybe you could watch it as a joke or something, but I don't know how you could, the joke would ware off before the movie ended. It's just a bad try at making a futuristic movie. I don't know what producer would give money to have a movie like this made. But then again somehow all those movies like Roll Bounce, soul Plane and The Cookout keep getting made. In conclusion it feels like it never ends because it sucks so bad. "},{"Title":"Oh dear! Awful.","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Oh dear! Just a year before his superior black comedy-thriller Miracle Mile, director Steve De Jarnatt produced this awful sci/fi-adventure-comedy about a lonely LA suburbanite who's android lover melts down. Poor Sam Treadwell (David Andrews) decides he must locate a replica and enlists the services of one E. Johnson (Melanie Griffith), a hardened tracker who 'never says no'.Sounds terrible? Well it's not that Michael Almereyda's script is so unbelievable as it is bland. What is implausible though is the fact that De Jarnatt could have been the man behind the camera. Nineteen eighty-nine's Miracle Mile was everything that Cherry wasn't. A dark, razor sharp thriller with a cracking pace, top performances and some inspired editing. Certainly one of the best unsung thrillers of the eighties. In contrast, Cherry 2000 is one of the worst.The whole cast are more two dimensional than Cherry herself, and I'm sure this is one movie that Melanie Griffith would quickly like forgotten. The special effects are terrible and the art direction (John J. Moore) is a cheap imitation of infinitely better sci/fi flicks like Mad Max and Bladerunner. And then there's the story by executive producer Lloyd Fonvielle, in which most of the comedy misfires, the thrills are a complete yawn and the blatant predictability means the conclusion is obvious before half way through.Those video buffs among you will note that previews for Cherry 2000 rarely appeared before the end credits of other features, and its plainly clear why!Thursday, December 8, 1994 - T.V. "}]