[{"Title":"I like...","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" ...what Youngblood attempts, which is to tell the story of an up and coming star at a crucial point in his hockey career.  Of all the hockey movies I've seen, including Slap Shot, The Mighty Ducks movies, The Cutting Edge (which focuses on hockey for only the beginning of the film) and the Van-Damme action-film Sudden Death, (which in my opinion is the absolute worst hockey-related movie ever made) the plot of Youngblood is the most reasonable to me.  I have not seen Mystery Alaska, but from a friend of mine's description, it sounds quite far-fetched.  (although I suppose a group of Alaskans probably would have a chance against the Rangers )I was born late in 1979, and first saw Youngblood when I was quite young. In fact, it was the first hockey movie I ever saw, and to date the only one I own.  Part of my fascination with this film resulted from my passion for the sport of ice hockey, which I began playing at the age of 4 and maintained competitively through the collegiate level.What I like most about Youngblood is that the story is centered around one player (Dean) and his struggles to advance his career, despite his talent. The obstacles he faces in the film lack of toughness, and clashing with the coach, and knowing his chances to go pro are running slim, are typical themes hockey players share as they advance toward the ultimate goal of one day playing in the NHL.  While Slapshot is hockey's cult classic, it is more like Animal House on Ice than a realistic attempt to portray ice hockey, which Youngblood attempts, and quite honestly a film of such nature should be produced for the avid hockey fans around the world.Without a doubt, Youngblood fails to portray skillful hockey, and the off-ice action only mildly captures the life of a junior hockey player, but had the proper research been done and certain changes made pre-production, Youngblood could have joined Slapshot in hockey fans' movie collections. The games needed to be faster, the dialogue snappier, (especially the Keanu Reeves brainbusters) and the Rocky-ish training diminished the quality of the film, because not only would Dean not go from being the weakest in the league to kicking the toughest guy's butt in a week, but most wannabe professionals and junior teams have regimented training programs to follow on a regular basis, and do not begin two days before the championship game of the league they're in.Cutting that scene could have made room for a far more realistic side of the game, such as Dean being contacted by prospective coaches, agents and other interested parties to notify him they'd be coming to watch his games. (like most prospects with hopes of going pro have to deal with)Dean simply mentions that he wants to go pro and needs to play juniors if he's going to get a contract, but that is the last we hear about him playing pro, aside from mentioning it to Jessie, coach Chadwick's sexy daughter, and Dean's love interest.  From my experiences, any player in junior hockey who did not receive a fair amount of attention from scouts was quite likely not going anywhere, so there should have been some effort to include them to advance the plot of his odds of making it, because scouts would have certainly had more influence on Dean playing tougher than anyone in the film does, although in reality his teammates should have been getting on him too.As for character interplay, Dean's relationship with Chadwick's daughter is entertaining, if far-fetched.  Perhaps the most realistic relationship between characters in the film is the one between Sutton and Youngblood, as the top talents of hockey teams often have an appreciation for one another and pal-up off the ice.  Not to mention, the Hollywood impact on the film is the only logical explanation for Youngblood leaving the team after Sutton's injury.  In all my years as a player, I'd never heard of that one, although, I suppose it just explains Dean's irrational behavior resulting from his conflicts with coach Chadwick and his nemesis, Racki.On the whole, I appreciate this movie, but I certainly wish it had more of an advanced pace and that it better explored and explained some of the typical stereotypes of hockey players that it shows (star player chases and gets the girl everyone wants, the bar scene, the initiation, the opposing team's heckling fans, etc.)As a long-time hockey player and fan who now studies Scriptwriting at Ithaca College, I feel somewhat obligated to pen a true-to-life hockey film for the die-hard lovers of the game out there.  Somebody needs to!!  Youngblood, if nothing else, at least will make a decent reference. "},{"Title":"Great movie a must see!!","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I really cant see why people think this film isnt at least worthy of a 8-10 rating.This movie is in my top 10 mivies of all time along with Casino, T2, Aliens, Goodfellas, Die Hard, Braveheart, Pulp Fiction ,Reservoir Dogs and The Real McCoy which is a film about a bank robbery.Youngblood is such a great film. It is the best Ice Hockey movie i have ever seen and he also gets a hot babe in the film too. When he is taught how to fight u know its a  predictable ending but at the same time u just really want to see him kick that bad guys ass.My advice is watch it enjoy it and as long as u dont over hype it the film will be most enjoyable "},{"Title":"Very good representation...","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  While there have been many posts stating that this movie is a poor representation of what hockey is really like, I must disagree.  I have played hockey up to the college level, and I have had more than one occasion to tryout or play for junior teams in Canada.  While many specifics in the movie are exagerated, the parts that people seem to be most offended by are the parts that are true.  There is something to be said for rinks that have chain link fencing in stead of glass, every tryout has one or two guys that trip over the blue line untouched, fighting at tryouts, and yes, there are Canadian towns which are old and run down.  The social aspects of the movie are definately true the woman that every guy has been with, the initiating of the rookie, silly girls at the local bar, and of course, the unruley fans.  While the movie does take some creative liscence, it is an accurate representation of what life is like for a hockey player trying to make it in junior hockey.  I love this movie.  It is a must see for anyone who plays the game. "},{"Title":"I like it.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Maybe it's because I neither follow hockey nor care for it, or maybe it's because I'm a 15-year-old female teenager, but I liked this movie. Sure, it's nothing special or extraordinary, in fact its plot has been done a million times. But I just liked it. It's virtually impossible not to like Dean Youngblood (and it's got nothing to do with the fact that Rob Lowe is hot) and to cheer for him when he finally learns how to hit a guy. The romance between Dean and Jessie actually doesn't seem forced; the two of them have a certain chemistry that is quite obvious to viewers like myself. Cynthia Gibb is all-natural in her role as Jessie, and Patrick Swayze evokes empathy in the viewer as the high-school drop-out who is *this close* to being a pro hockey player. But it is Rob Lowe who basically carried the whole movie, and once again, it has got nothing to do with the fact that he is hot. Overall, this is a feel-good hockey movie that I liked. I usually can't stand sports movies, as I hate sports with an intense passion, but this one is just...well, it's just nice. And then there's Rob Lowe... "},{"Title":"Fire and Ice.","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I know nothing about hockey but managed to learn a few things from watching this formulaic sports story.One is that a goalie has to be extremely supple. He must be able to do splits comfortably. And there is an unsettling scene towards the end, just before Rob Lowe's penalty shot, when the goalie of the enemy team (that's the proper term) extends one ugly padded leg in one direction and kneels on the other, then slithers slowly back and forth in front of the net like a dangerous eel or serpent. He also apparently gets to wear a mask as threatening as he likes -- skulls, a mass of stitches, any design will do.Another thing I learned is that hockey isn't all speed and skill with the stick. The teams, the referees, the coaches, the fans, are all allowed to stand back and not interfere with two players who have decided to duke it out, first with sticks, like Medieval jousters, then with bare fists like kids in a junior high school playground. The fight can last a long time, until one of the combatants hits the dirt, or rather the ice.There's nothing much new about the plot. Lowe is a natural talent on the ice but must quit for a time during his rise to celebrity in order to overcome some personal demons and then return to become the star he was always destined to be.He's only seventeen years old and gets hazed when he joins the Mustangs. But he makes a friend too, Patrick Swayze, who tells him that nothing, absolutely nothing, compares to playing in the rink. I figured Swayze at once for a paralyzing C-spine injury that would turn him into a mummy from the neck down. I almost got it right.Then there's Racki, an ugly name for a gargantuan enemy player given to smashing members of the other team and playing dirty. I figured Lowe would wind up beating him to a pulp. Bingo.Then there's Cynthia Gibb as the daughter of Lowe's manager, Ed Lauter. Lauter doesn't like the team even looking at her. But how could anyone not? She was a model at fourteen and is now the cutest, cleanest face on the screen since Sandra Dee, but less debauched than Sandra Dee always appeared, what with her Bayonne accent.Gibbs' Dad and Gibbs' own reluctance to have her date a team member are soon overcome. The obstacle is perfunctory. We've already seen Lowe's manly chest and buns of steel, which are pretty revolting, but we get the merest glimpse of Cynthia Gibbs' far more graceful nudity. She can't act but it doesn't matter because Lowe can't act either. That doesn't stop them from being beautiful people.Patrick Swayze, on the other hand, gives a convincing performance as an experienced player. I've always admired Swayze, a dancer, singer-songwriter, horse breeder, who trained at the Joffrey Ballet -- and was from Texas. Died a way we don't want to die.Best performance award goes to -- envelope, please -- Eric Nesterenko as Lowe's Dad. It's not a bravura performance. It's a reassuring one. He has the same sympatico quality on screen that Richard Farnsworth once had, or that Werner Herzog has now. If I were to spill the beans to someone, I wouldn't mind if the listener were someone like Nesterenko. Of course that's his screen persona. In real life he may get his kicks pulling the wings off flies.This isn't any masterpiece of film making. You can pretty readily call the shots. But it's better than I'd expected it to be, which may or may not be saying much since my expectations were pretty low to begin with. "},{"Title":"adding to the mix","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  There are a lot of angry Canadian people expressing hatred for this movie. I can totally understand where they are coming from.  I play the game of hockey, and I find it hard to believe that every time a player touches the ice, he's scoring goals.  Added to that, how he learns to fight, and works out for a week, and all of a sudden beats up a guy that kicked his butt a couple of weeks before.  BUT.... You also have to understand something else. Since Slap Shot, an undoubtedly awesome classic to all hockey fans around the world, there had not been an attempt at a movie that mainly focused on hockey.  The makers of this movie had to be creative to attract attention for the sport.  For example, the stick fight, the constant beautiful goals, the way he won the fight.  It had some reality to it like the jokes played on the rookie in the bar and when they shave him, you know, down there. The way he was put up in someones house.  The most impressive thing about the movie, was the beginning and how it set up the rest of the movie.  It starts with a home video of Dean(Rob Lowe) when he was very young playing with his older brother and their friends.  It shows how clearly dominant he was and that leads into the present time with him saying, I've been offered a tryout with the Hamilton Mustangs.   And to Canadians who feel like this movie disrespected your great sport (yes, i mean GREAT sport), remember this.  When they are on their way to Canada, Deans older brother who is driving him says you are gonna have to learn, Oh, Canada and also when Dean says, They'll never catch me showing cockiness like he's superior to anyone in the league, his brother says, Oh, they'll catch you.  I love hockey, I loved this movie.  Did it have it's flaws?  Yeah, plenty of them. But if you're looking for an inspiring, action filled drama, give this movie a whirl. "},{"Title":"'Pretty boy' Lowe is as dull as a statue... very predictable, and despite it's bravado and odd, undeniable homosexual overtones, it's a very entertaining film","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" It's nothing new, it was done before this, and it has been done countless times since. The typical sport drama where the young athlete defies all the odds after gaining our sympathy and support and after coming close to defeat on occasions, overcomes the impossible to win dramatically... and win the heart of the girl he likes. Rocky did it... need I say more? Youngblood stars a very young Rob Lowe, a very young Patrick Swayze, Fionnula Flanagan as a nymphomaniac (huh?) and a cringing and very embarrassing performance from Keanu Reeves attempting a Quebecois accent, making him sound like he has some sort of mental retardation, added together with his caveman look in this. I swear, when I saw him in the middle of a hockey team p*ss up, I gaped in horror. This chap clearly had a long way to go before The Matrix. The story is simple, and indeed, very predictable. If you have even half a brain you'll be able to tell what happens after reading this Seventeen year-old pretty boy Dean Youngblood leaves his poverty-stricken farm life behind him and heads up north to Canada to try for National Hockey League fame, hoping to go pro in a few years. He is something special - very fast on the ice and skillful with the hockey stick, but when it comes to the physical side of the game, he is a complete wuss. He makes the team - the Mustangs, but not after being decked by the caveman Racki (George J. Finn - where did he disappear to? he was never in anything after it). Racki ends up on another team, and later on, when the Mustangs play Racki's team, Youngblood and the rest of the team are harassed by the psychopathic Racki, and the cock-of-the-walk Sutton (Patrick Swayze), the Mustang's top goal-scorer, ends up nearly in a coma after an off-the-puck challenge. Wussy Youngblood quits the team and returns home, where his brother beefs him up with some real physical boxing training... and at this stage it's looking like we've wandered onto the set of Rocky... and Youngblood returns to the Mustangs, and the girl he loves - the coaches daughter - to face Racki and his team again...Despite the fact it's technically a terrible film, I really enjoyed Youngblood. It's bravado and over-the-top heroics are typical and sad, but that makes it all the more enjoyable at the same time. It's inspirational... which is what these films always try to be, so it succeeds in what it obviously sets out to do. You may be wondering just what the hell I mean by homosexual overtones, well that I felt in a few scenes where Youngblood is walking (pretty much stark) naked down the corridor with the sweat shining off him in the dull lighting, and then, the biggest culprit, is when the rest of the team inexplicably hold him down and shave his pubic region. I first came across Rob Lowe in the film Bad Influence, which is a superb film, and Lowe, being the older and mature actor he is by this stage, is immense in it. Here, he is very young and as stale and plain as a statue. He is clearly just getting through this on his good looks, and then bring in Patrick Swayze, who believe it or not, actually acts in this. A decent performance from the Dirty Dancing star, it has to be said. Ed Lauter is in top form as the tough, hard to please Mustang coach, and his daughter - same as Lowe, she has nothing else to offer other than eye candy - is played by Cynthia Gibb. I quite liked Jim Youngs's performance as Kelly; Youngblood's older brother who shows him how to stop being a wuss and start sticking up for himself on the ice rig. Because of him, it all builds up to a very interesting, albeit, comical and predictable, conclusion, where Youngblood turns to face Racki at the final whistle... "},{"Title":"Rob Won't Mix It Up","Date":"24 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Rob Lowe is way too much the matinée idol type to ever be believable as a hockey player. In fact that's the story of Youngblood, that of a player who values his looks a lot more than mixing it up on the ice to help win a game.Try as I might I just can't see Rob Lowe as a hockey player, even one who won't get down and dirty. He's a speedy fellow on the ice and it's his speed that gets him a berth on a Canadian minor league hockey team, on which he has teammates like Patrick Swayze and Keanu Reeves. The best scene in the film is where Rob Lowe gets literally raped by the unofficial landlady of the team, Fionula Flannagan. Apparently she gets first dibs on all the new hockey players in helping them keep their equipment in working order. Considering before Lowe, she had both Swayze and Reeves, I'd say she's quite the mechanic.Rob has a more serious involvement with Cynthia Gibb who is the daughter of Coach Ed Lauter. But she's also daddy's little girl which doesn't help matters.Our Canadian reviewers say that Youngblood is a gross distortion of Canadian hockey. I'm in no position to comment, but I've seen enough to know that it's a sport where violence is the norm and if you can't mix it up and are not willing to risk your good looks, you won't last too long.Youngblood is now 23 years old and assuming Rob Lowe's character had a decent sized playing career, I guarantee that Rob today would not look like the fellow who worked for President Martin Sheen in the West Wing. "},{"Title":"Rob Lowe may act many things, but not tough. Never tough.","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Pretty tiresome dreck with a super young Rob Lowe playing at the ol' Ice Hockey picture. Actually, its not a very old genre. You never saw John Wayne hockeying on ice, nor James Dean. Rob Lowe is actually pretty good, and the film is made with the absolute maximum amount of seriousness available, which seems to be a lot. Everyone seems to be into Ice Hockey, its just that also assume their audience is too. There's not a single bit of effort put into making us like or appreciate the sport. Its more played as a human drama, with the sport and its coaches providing tension for the protagonist. Its like the real bad guy is the sport itself. Its pretty funny. I know I said Rob Lowe was pretty good, but the other funny thing about this movie is when Rob Lowe is called upon to act tough. Rob Lowe can be privileged, a pretty-boy, a flirt, witty, charming, maybe creepy or dangerous... But tough? I had to laugh. There's not a tough bone in his body, yet here he is getting physical with some dudes, and the second half of the movie is mainly concerned with him winning a physical fight. I just, you know, don't get it. Also, the movie is pretty of its time, very 80's soundtrack, so if that's what you're after, help yourself. "},{"Title":"good average coming-of-age movie","Date":"9 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Dean Youngblood (Rob Lowe) is a skilled teen hockey player in upstate New York. He gets a tryout for a junior league team in Hamilton. His father refuses but his older brother Kelly convinces him otherwise. Kelly had tried but got injured. Dean's speed beats out the brute Racki in the eyes of coach Chadwick. The team led by captain Derek Sutton (Patrick Swayze) hazes the rookie. The coach's daughter Jessie (Cynthia Gibb) is intrigued. His landlady Miss McGill (Fionnula Flanagan) has boarded and seduced many hockey players in the past.This is a pretty average coming-of-age movie. Rob Lowe is a charming young guy. Gibb is winsome. Swayze plays a good older mentor like he does in Dirty Dancing. Keanu Reeves gets a small role early in his career. It has a couple of memorable scenes like the hazing. It's not particularly outstanding but it does the job. "}{"Title":"Patrick Seayze Steals This Movie","Date":"13 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" It was with some trepidation that I watched this movie, I loved it as a kid, like I did Crocodile Dundee and it's sequel, both of which disappointed me, upon rewatching them recently. Plot In A Paragraph Dean Youngblood (Rob Lowe) a 17-year-old farmhand from New York, has dreams of playing in the National Hockey League. He is granted the chance to travel to Canada to try out for the Hamilton Mustangs. At the try-outs, Youngblood displays the talent which got him 92 goals in the New York League but also displays a lack of physical toughness that is so prized in Canadian hockey. This weakness is pounced upon by a brutish player, Carl Racki (George J. Finn), who is also trying out for the team and engages him in a fight. Youngblood quickly learns that flashiness and pure athletic ability will not be enough to be successful in this league. Despite being beat up by by Racki, the coach opts to select Youngblood for a spot on the team. He ingratiates himself to the other players and particularly Captain Derek Sutton (Patrick Swayze) and the coach's daughter Jessie (Cynthia Gibb), its not long before Racki reappears playing for a rival team. Rob Lowe is good as Dean Youngblood, he is pretty enough for the pretty boy tag and looks in good shape. Cynthia Gibb is very attractive as Jessie Chadwick, and what an ass she has!! I loved it!! Ed Lauter is a lot of fun as Coach Murray Chadwick and George J. Finn is imposing and does a good job as Carl Racki. However Patrick Swayze steals this movie (yes even away from Cynthia Gibb's wonderful ass) as Derek Sutton. He is brilliant, and a reminder of what a talent we have lost. Keanu Reeves had a small role as Heaver, one of Lowe and Swayze's team mates. "},{"Title":"Actually Quite Captivating","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" This film is well cast, and acted, there is a story, and the game of hockey is made clear even to those who are not fans. Some of the photography is way above average, for example the scene of puck shooting exercises by Youngblood. The relationships between two brothers, father son, and two friends Judd Lowe and Patrick Swayze are all well presented. There was not a dull moment in this film. But above all this was a good vehicle to show Judd Lowe's talent. He really held the movie. It is a shame that he lost the momentum of his career by becoming addicted to drugs and alcohol.Of course it did not hurt to have Patrick Swayze, Ed Lauter, Cynthia Gibb, and even Keanu Reeves. I am comparing it to another movie about young men whose dream is to join a professional sports team (Baseball) Sugar (2008) which was slow moving, Youngblood has a good pace, and flow of events. "},{"Title":"Definitely the top of my list","Date":"11 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" If your looking for a great movie and a movie that I myself find extremely inspiring you have searched the right placethis move is just excellent and should be rated a 10/10, i am pleased with the way it is set out, i myself play ice hockey and jut like this young man he is not the richest man on earth but he has the skill and determination to get there.I guarantee that you will love this movie if you love inspirational, motivational, romance, dramas or a sport movie.even with great fighting, every hockey fan loves a great fight and Youngblood has a great deal of it so stop reading this review and GO AND SEE IT!!!!really i think this should be rated 10/10 but others have their odds, go and watch it!!! "},{"Title":"Ice hockey, laughs and the lovely Swayze, Lowe and Reeves!","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I love this film. It's about Ice Hockey (alwasys a good start), and an up and coming US player who goes over the border to Canada to play having been scouted, in the hope of making a career for himself. Starring Rob Lowe as the titular Dean Youngblood, Patrick Swayze as Derek Sutton the Team Captain and Cythia Gibb as the love interest, it's a typical 80's star vehicle when Rob Lowe as a member of the Brat Pack and seemed to be in everything (The Outsiders, St Elmo's Fire, About Last Night etc). Everything about it screams 80s and I'm not entirely sure it's aged well, it's shot very simply but some nice set pieces such as Lowe working out or skate-training sessions. The chemistry between Lowe and Swayze is brotherly, a bromance, after the initiation at least, and they had played brothers only a few years before in The Outsiders - Darry and Sodapop Curtis.Whilst this is a an underdog-does-good sports film, it isn't so Hollywood and without drama and it's not a typical happy ending. The skating scenes are really good, Swayze throws himself into the physicality of the role in typical fashion. I'm sure some stunt skaters were used but possibly the actors were ice-familiar anyway. Keanu Reeves has a minor (comedic, and with some great one liners) role and was a goalie at school and he plays Heaver, the goalie with the Mustangs. Much of the story is predictable but there's also a few twists, and whilst the acting isn't stunning, Gibb is the weakest link, the skating and the comedy makes this a fab film - especially the bar scene when Dean first joins the team. The love scene is a little cringeworthy (more so when I first saw this) especially in connection with the wonderful Miss McGill (Fionnula Flanagan). I guarantee you'll never hear the phrase Room Service? without smiling, and you'll never look at a cup of tea the same way again. LOL. "},{"Title":"What does not kill you makes you better","Date":"22 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Why only 5.5?! This movie deserve much better... I say, there is many movies like this, but this movie have something what others don't have...2 excellent actors ( Patrick Swayze and Rob Lowe), make this movie so special...I like this kind of movie because they have good impact on young people.. Many Youngbloods have waiting for their chance, this movie talking them that If you believe in something, you will get that...My vote is 10, because i didn't seen movie like this years ago. This movie is for everyone... you must see this... "},{"Title":"real???","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" i see a few of the user comments referring to their playing days of college hockey and junior ice leagues or semi-pro hockey? (like the movie is) and got no problem with how the movie portrays the sport, few good moments (although don't think a 3 game series is played over a span of 3 weeks? (like movie makes it out to be? not playing football!) and believe me, i know those leagues are tough as nails! but i don't see how anyone who has played hockey at any level? can think that Racki would not have been suspended? ha ha? give me a break! almost killed Swayze! Patrick Roy goalie son goes and beats up other goalie fair an square and gets suspended for 7 games! and Patrick got 5! (junior hockey league) and you guys have no problem with Racki not getting suspended at all? cmon! and then the stick work in fighting? were the hell they come up with that? that is the fakest scene in a movie i have ever seen! they do not do that! at any level! best friend son plays for (OHL) Plymouth Whalers (Tyler Brown) and one of the toughest guys in league and he almost pee'd himself laughing when i showed him movie, felt like i was watching zorro? for some of the bloggers to have mentioned they played hockey their whole lives and not mentioned either one of these blunders? i find it hard to believe they ever even picked up a puck? if they didn't notice those 2 huge blunders or flat out fallacies! like certain parts of movie? but those 2 parts of movie were so fake? ruined whole movie! not too mention reeves acting! man he was bad!! "},{"Title":"An awesome Hockey film, that's exciting with a great story,Rob Lowe and Patrick Swayze were fantastic!","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Youngblood is an awesome Hockey film, that has a great message at the end, even if it is predictable, and I believe this is one of the most underrated sport films out there, plus I thought it was so sad with what happened to Swayze's character!. The Hockey action is exciting, and intense, and George J. Finn is fantastic as dirty goon Racki you will hate him for the stuff he pulls, plus I loved the opening with Youngblood(Lowe), strutting His stuff with Hockey skills and I loved all the neat tricks he did. Sure it may look a little cheap at times, but it didn't bother me a bit, and some people complained the story was dull and boring, but I found it to be very engaging and interesting, plus it has one funny moment where Ed Lauter (Coach Chadwick) catches Lowe with a Nympho Book. You will love the end, cause it's a great underdog story, and The Hockey scenes felt very realistic, plus watch out for Keanu Reeves who plays the Goalie!. Overall This is an awesome Hockey film and I say it's an absolute must see!. **** out of 5The Acting is great!. Rob Lowe does a terrific job here as Dean Youngblood, he had great Hockey skills, and while he may have looked a little stiff at times he really came through in most of the scenes, and you will especially feel for him near the end with what happened to Swayze's character, I feel this may be his best role!. Patrick Swayze is very good here in his role as Sutton he's cocky but lovable and cracked me up a couple of times I just wished he had more screen time. Cynthia Gibb is not bad as Chadwick's daughter she shared good chemistry with Lowe and was a Cutie to boot!. Ed Lauter is good as the strict yet likable coach he cracked me up as well. Jim Youngs does a good job as Lowe's brother. Eric Nesterenko does alright as the Father considering he was a famous Hockey player!. George J. Finn is fantastic as Racki, you will hate his guts as he actually made me think he was a despicable goon. Keanu Reeves is OK as the the goalie he was a bit goofy for my tastes I dig the guy but it's not one of his better roles loll. "},{"Title":"Hockey Movies ... no more please.","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  If you want to make a movie that involves a love story and sport, please pick a sport other than hockey. The people that write these stories and the people that make these movies don't have a clue about what hockey is really like. They have never played the game at all, or never played it at a high enough level to understand what it is like to get close the the NHL. eg. As if an arena full of people, coaches, trainers, managers, game officials, etc. are going to stand back and watch two players try to kill each other without stepping in, I don't think so...This movie would have worked just as well if the sport had been football. "},{"Title":"Lowe has no Slap Shot","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  The story is a little silly, but this is not a bad sports movie.  Rob Lowe can't play a hockey player that well, but his stand in does a nice job. They try to pull of a couple of Rocky work out scenes, but Lowe appears too scrawny to believe that he can fight a goon.Movie can't live up to Slap Shot, the best hockey movie that I have seen, but is not a bad rent.  "},{"Title":"If you don't like hockey movies, then don't bother...","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  There are other hockey movies that you can rent, buy, borrow, whatever, that have something involved other than the hockey.  Slap Shot and Mystery, Alaska are both great movies that happen to have hockey as the focal point, but also have other things happening to make it enjoyable.  Youngblood offers little besides the fact that it is a hockey movie.  Still, combine decent (though underused) hockey scenes with Cynthia Gibb's rear end and you have a watchable movie.  If you are a hockey nut, you should have already seen it, which means if you haven't seen it, you probably won't like it... "}{"Title":"Awful","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This movie is terrible. A true hockey fan would have to assume that the people that appeared in and produced this movie never played or watched a real hockey game.  I got this hoping that it would be a guy movie, but the only people that would probably enjoy this movie are females between the ages of 13-17. The hockey scenes are terrible, defensemen playing like they're 5 years old, goalies diving at shots that are 10 feet wide of the net, etc. It's so difficult to predict the end of this movie, though!! For those who have seen it, who would have guessed?? For those that haven't seen it, don't waste your time!I figured it out less than halfway through the movie. To call this movie a drama is ridiculous!! "},{"Title":"Good Hockey Movie, Bad Love Story","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  YOUNGBLOOD is a decent movie with great hockey scenes, but terrible love scenes. The story is predictable, but I think that is what some people want, especially in a movie like this. Patrick Swayze does a good job as the supporter of the rookie on the hockey team, Dean Youngblood (Rob Lowe).The movie does a good job portraying how young kids growing up, hop to make it to the NHL, and how if they don't, they will be forced to become a farmer, or a miner in their small towns.Keanu Reaves makes his screen debut as the goalie.Overall I give this show a 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Fairly generic if watchable hockey film","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Back in 1986 prior to the opening of this film, some press was spilt about the level of dedication pretty boy actor Rob Lowe was going to for the title role, such as bulking up a bit for the role and the extensive training to make the hockey scenes as authentic as possible. After all that preparation, it seems a shame that the end result is a predictable largely generic feel-good sports film set on the ice. Lowe is the title character, who in a whirlwind of activity becomes a force to be reckoned with on the ice. And I mean whirlwind - in the space of 24-48 hours Lowe leaves home, arrives in the city, is seduced by his mature landlady, gets on the wrong side of a brutal hockey player, wins a spot on the team, gets caught with his pants down by the coach's daughter Cynthia Gibb, subsequently starts a flirtation with her, is hazed by the team members in a rather humiliating fashion and wins the respect of veteran player Patrick Swayze. One can accuse the film of much, but being boring is certainly not one of them. There are things that work well in the film. The hockey scenes seem authentic and rousing, even though there is rarely ever any doubt about where the film is headed. Lowe and Gibb share a certain amount of chemistry and the camaraderie among the teammates (including an unknown at the time Keanu Reeves) feels accurate. Swayze is also fairly solid in a typical role of semi-mentor. Unfortunately, the film is hampered by its formula. There are certain steps that it needs to hit by rote and it is at best moderately enjoyable to see it hit them. Part of the problem rests with the leading man. At the time, Lowe was dismissed as little better than a Teen Beat sensation, which is a bit unfair. However, even his most ardent Fans must admit that Lowe fares much better in ensemble pieces (The West Wing, The Stand, Brothers and Sisters) where his shortcomings can be muted than he does as a leading man, where his lack of charisma starts to come into play. Despite his hard work, Lowe never seems completely believable or at ease in the central role, which has a tendency to throw the film off its stride. Yet there are still reasons to watch. Hockey fans will enjoy the on-ice action, romance fans will probably find something to like in the relationship between Lowe and Gibb, and Lowe fans will have the guilty pleasure of seeing him in what has become his essential nude scene - embarrassed and trapped in a public hallway in a filled to capacity jockstrap while being ogled by Gibb. Any of those aspects are certainly worth a painless couple of hours to take in the film. "},{"Title":"Rob shows his chest and his butt.... again","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Here comes Rob Lowe as a hockey dude. Rob is the fastest forward on a squad of hockey players who must defeat their nemesis - a 'zoo' of brawlers - in order to win the coveted trophy.... and they get 'what' out of this?.... Oh yeah, a shot at the pro's.... that's nice.Cindy Gibb is the questionable love interest (she's so freaking ugly); Jim Youngs plays Rob's cool older brother, and former real-life NHLer Eric Nesterenko appears as Rob's caring Dad. Not bad, really, especially if you're a chick who loves to glimpse Rob's cute cheeks - and not just the ones on his face.Rob's nickname here is 'Deaner' - which rhymes with 'Weiner'. "},{"Title":"Exciting hockey games, but pretty one dimensional","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" As a young hockey player growing up, this was one of the movies that I adored. There is a very dramatic 80s style soundtrack, lots of dramatic stickwork and the evil goaltender has a mask that looks like a skull.This is still a fun movie to put on, and if you've played hockey or ice skated, it is easy to relate to some of the scenes in the movie But once you watch it a lot, you realize EVERYONE is a one dimensional stereotype, from the aloof fathers who really love their kids, to the innocent young kid having to come of age, to the older brother figure, to the nothing-but-evil villain. It starts to wear thin.Still, the opening scene with skating in the barn captures the excitement of being on the ice better than any other scene I could think of. "},{"Title":"I found myself bored by this movie","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I found myself bored by this movie. Firstly, I did not like Rob Lowe or Cynthia Gibb in this movie. I found their characters predictable and cliché and their romance even more so. I did like Patrick Swayze, I though he gave a good performance. But I have to say in a movie like this it isn't good to judge performances as the material isn't very hard to act.My main problem was as I said, it doesn't capture your attention and i'm mostly talking about the hockey games. I felt like their wasn't even an effort to make the action interesting. I should have been cheering the characters on at that last hockey game but I bored. I guess my opinion is a bit biased after watching the Maurice Richard movie whose hockey sequences were rivaled by no one else in their excitement and joy.I certainly would not recommend this movie to hockey fans. Maybe the lingering Rob Lowe fans would enjoy it but i found this to be a boring and unmoving film even for a teen movie. "},{"Title":"An insult to our game.","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  As a Canadian, and a hockey fan, I was insulted by the style of this movie and how poorly our Canadian game was potrayed.  I don't want to ruin this movie for anyone, however it is 15 years old & fairly predictable. So, we have an American teenager who is a complete wuss playing in a nothing hocky league who goes to Canada to play junior.  He manages to play well, score with the coaches daughter, leave his team because his friend/teamate gets severely injured, comes back for the big game & scores a hat trick (3 goals) no less to win it.  Then, he fights the toughfest goon in the league in a stick fight???  And wins???  That whole scenario actually happening is as about as believable as Keanu Reeves French Canadian accent, and Patrick Swayze as some hard core hockey player.  Albeit, junior hockey is pretty rough, there are more fights, however, I do not believe there is such a thing as a stick fight, nor do you ever see a coach jump into the stands & fight with a fan,and it is a rarity to see a skilled player who is not a fighter, engage in a fight with a total goon and win.  Hockey wise, this movie blows.  And as for the love story, what can I say accept that it is fromage 80's.  This movie is watchable, but you can't help but feel embarassed for the people who are in this movie. "},{"Title":"Youngblood","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Being Canadian and playing competitive hockey for most of my life, I have to say there are a lot of realism's to the movie but the premise is one of the things that is lacking. In my experience Major Junior teams that are going into the league final do not have try-outs the week before. A player as skilled as Youngblood would most certainly have been noticed earlier and should already been playing, especially with an older brother that played before him. All in all this is probably my favorite all time movie and the little things that aren't realistic really don't matter. Rob Lowe, Patrick Swayze, Keanu Reeves and the rest of the cast did an excellent job learning and portraying hockey players. "},{"Title":"Inspiring","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I cannot imagine how anyone would think of this movie as a 'bad movie'. It showed just how much hockey players have to go through to become successful. The acting was not the best but it was still interesting to watch. It also did not hurt that Rob Lowe was really good looking. 2.5 out of 4 "},{"Title":"Crummy!!","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  To describe this movie in one word;  Crummy!!  It portrays Canadian Major-Junior hockey as goon hockey.It's obvious that the writers for this movie, knows very little or nothing about this level of hockey.  Granted, hockey was a bit rougher when the movie was released compared to today, but the stick fight at the end of the movie or one of Dean youngblood's teammates who was suspended jumps out on the ice in his streetclothes.  These are things that you no longer see in hockey or are very unrealistic portrayals. "}{"Title":"Pah-leez","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Okay, let's examine the facts first 1) Canadians are not a bunch of stereotypical goon-loving hockey nuts (Gretzky is a Canadian folks...when did he ever fight?) 2) Thunder Bay is a beautiful city populated by great people who do not wear, primarily, plaid shirts 3) If a fight breaks out on the ice, even in junior hockey, there would be serious disciplinary action taken if the benches are cleared, the coach attacks a spectator or sticks are used as a weapon 4) The game of hockey is an incredibly fast paced game and 90% of the hits and plays depicted in this laughable film would be penalizedThis movie is, in a word, ridiculous. These guys are painfully slow skaters and the actual game of hockey wasn't even remotely researched before shooting began. I'm going to avoid the obvious plot flaws in my review, for I think it goes without saying that this movie was written for the teenage mentality.But the most insulting thing about this film is it's depiction of we Canadians. The dingy streets. The rabid fans. The stupid girls in bars. Hollywood's version of Canada is a slap in the face. When the Hamilton team travels to Thunder Bay for a game, they give a 5 second flash of a bus traveling up a rural road to depict the trip. This, folks, is a 20 hour drive!!! Then, when the team's performance is questioned by the coach, he threatens to send them to (gasp!) Blind River (a beautiful waterfront town in Northern Ontario). I've travelled all over Canada and can assure you that we are far from perfect, but if we were the morons depicted in this trashy film, I'd move.Why should I be surprised? It's fine for Hollywood to depict Canada as a dump, yet when they need a place to make a film depicting an American city, Toronto is suddenly the most beautiful place in the world. Anyone seen Chicago? Guess what folks, it was shot in Canada.By the way, what's with Canada's own Keanu Reeves making an ass of himself doing what can only be deemed the worst French Canadian accent ever on screen? Hey Keanu! Haven't you ever travelled to Quebec? If I was French Canadian, I'd boycott all your films.   "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Give me a break. How can anyone say that this is a good hockey movie? I know that movies tend to do a pretty p***-poor job of portraying hockey to the general public. And yes, this was made back when the U.S. hadn't embraced our sport to the extent is has today, but really. I have played hockey all my life and have watched even more, and this my friends is sheer lunacy. The scenes on the ice were stupefyingly bizzare... the particular instance to which I am referring is the sword fight, er I mean the stick fight at the end of the film... during which everyone is just standing around and watching, not with fascination that this is actually happening, but in wonder as to who will win the duel between Youngblood and his nemesis Rakkie. Yes the story off the ice is a little better, I do stress LITTLE.I don't know, maybe there is no point in going on... I mean let's face it the film is right. Hockey is just one big battle on ice... oh yeah with a little piece of vulcanized rubber bouncing around- occasionally into what is loosely termed a goal. Youngblood is either appalling or hysterical, I can't figure out which... maybe someone else will have more luck.  "},{"Title":"I can't explain why, but I just like this film!","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Rob Lowe stars as a teenager who gets the call to go north of the border to play junior hockey for the Mustangs. Along the way, he's done everything to get on the bad side of the coach (Ed Lauter), which includes dating his daughter (Cynthia Gibb).This film has nothing but potential stars involved, featuring not only the stars mentioned above, but the likes of Patrick Swayze and the debut of Keanu Reeves. To me, it seems like Swayze and Lowe struggle through some of the scenes, and it just never seemed to find the chemistry that a movie like this should have (maybe it's just that some of the film was shot in Minnesota and passed off as Canadian territory, but maybe it's just me). I've never cared for Lowe, but this is one of his better roles and I'm happy to have this film in my collection.8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"shot of tequila to penalty shot - too inconsistent","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" The inconsistency was just too much for me to take.Sadly I must admit that one of the most realistic parts of the film was the tequila scene - been there / done that.For me, the whole film was spoiled by the refereeing decision at the end! When a penalty shooter plays the puck with his skate he has lost control - shot over - no goal!Caught between taking itself too seriously and not seriously enough this was just too disappointing. There was not enough humour (see Slapshot or Happy Gilmour), critique (The Deadliest Season or Net Worth), escapism (The Mighty Ducks or Mystery Alaska), documentary (Summit on Ice), realism (Gross Misconduct), romance (Love Story). "},{"Title":"Five for fighting.","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" How much you like this movie depends on two questions. Do you like hockey? What kind of hockey do you like? To the first, I give a resounding yes. To the second I say that hitting has always been and will always be a part of the game, but I have never been a fan of stick work or trying to knock good players out of the game. It's that idea that the movie tries to put forth, that Youngblood needs to fight to be a good hockey player, is simply not true. Hell, they could have put future NHL star Steve Stumpy Thomas out there to take care of hitting. He is the brick wall wearing number 12 that coach Ed Lauter tries to put on the ice. Anyway, this one of those fighting against the odds movies that just doesn't have enough going for it. They should have taken the movie out to the barn and taught it how to punch. "},{"Title":"Ahh No.","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" This movie had some redeeming qualities but was really just bad. I am sorry. And for these reasons 1. I hate when a the main character is supposed to be a super star and the actor playing him obviously sucks. Lucky they Peter Zezel for the cut away shots. This also happened with Michael Keaton and Emilio Estevez in their hockey movies. 2. Stick Fights at the end of Game 7? Especially when one guy was an enforcer? Come on. 3. The stupid acting of the Bomber's coach. 4. Rob Lowe is too much of a whining baby throughout the movie (puck in the garbage, walking out on the team, I should've hit Racki, I should have done something! Jeesh!) 5. Sutton's quote I never watched a game in my life. Huh? That's crap. "},{"Title":"Continuity....","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  In the very beginning of the movie, you see the home video of kids playing ice hockey on a lake or pond.  In the video Youngblood, as a kid, scores a goal, but he's a lefty.  Throughout the rest of the movie, Youngblood is a righty. hmmm?? "},{"Title":"A sport I love","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Another awful movie about hockey.  I if never watched hockey and saw Hollywoods version, I would hate the game.  This movie doesn't make Canada look that great either.  I can laugh at it and not take it too seriously. All the same this movie is awful, with every thing you can put in a 80's movie.  In the end don't even watch it on TV. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Lame. (spoilers)","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I should know better. I've seen too many of Rob Lowe's early work to expect anything good from this movie, even if it is about Hockey.Here we have, yet again, another tired sports theme. Kid has potential for greatness, has the apparent to go far if his cocky attitude doesn't screw things up. And, boom, he comes out of it as that helluva player kind of champion. Is that all that can be said of sports movies? Surely, there must be other feats that athletes undertake.Nonetheless, this movie has got to be one of the biggest cheeseballs. Everybody's interactions are just downright silly, and not in a stupid-funny kind of manner. And I can't think of any ancillary qualities that could enliven my position. Not the actors (certainly not Swayze who plays Lowe's reluctant mentor), not the story, not the music, and very little from the skating sequences. Normally, I'm a sucker for 80s movies, even if they do tend to be a little fishy (i.e. North Shore, the Karate Kid), but this doesn't even make for good 80s trash. For a good 80s sports movie, check elsewhere. There's plenty of them out there. "},{"Title":"Marado...Marado...","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Hockey is passion.  I know it even though I'm in the other side of the world.  I watched lots of games.  I like hockey.  That's why I wanted to see the movie.  Is it a good and realistic hockey film? I really don't know that so far.  But passion and personality is needed in order to play the game.  I really would like to know if this movie is accorded to the reality of hockey.  Times had passed. This movie was made 18 years ago and it was released here in Argentina.  Even though we shouldn't know what hockey is about.  When I find a hockey game in cable TV I want to see it. Rob Lowe portrays a hockey ace in advance.  His father is a farmer who works with his older brother (a former player).  Youngblood wants to play in New York but first he must increase his level of hockey and personality because hockey is a rude sport.  He falls in love with the coach's daughter and tries to get the friendship of the star of the team name is Derek Sutton (Patrick Swayze).   We are not naive, he'll be a star (I wonder if he'll play in Madison Square Garden) scoring a hat-trick in the final game.   I liked both performances (Lowe and Swayze) but I recognized a great work of Cinthia Gibb (as Youngblood's girl).  Like Maradona in soccer from a simple home to a star.  I liked this movie.  I really want to know why it doesn't portray hockey's reality.  I rate this movie 6 out of 10.  Andres.  "}{"Title":"Average but inspiring","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Dean Youngblood doesn't want to get stuck on the farm like his father Blane and his brother Kelly. He has the chance to make it in minor league hockey, and maybe go on to a major league team such as New York. But to make it with the Hamilton Mustangs, he has to compete with a big tough guy named Racki who enjoys knocking people down.Dean is not tough, but he has speed, so he does get to be a Mustang. He goes through the usual hazing that the new guy gets, and he must persevere every step of the way or risk either going back to the farm or ending up in Medicine Hat or some other remote place that I'm sure the longtime residents like.Dean does make one good friend on the team, Derek Sutton. But there is much to learn about being a competitor, especially in a league where violence is accepted as a fact of life (now, correct me if I'm wrong, but if bench-clearing brawls are frowned on in American baseball, how can they actually be encouraged by even the hockey coaches?). Dean must make important moral choices, and then he must think about what his future will be with each possible option.Dean also has a chance at romance. Jessie Chadwick is the adorable but feisty coach's daughter. And his landlady is Miss McGill (think Bull Durham). Which one do you think he'll choose? Or will one of them choose him?I know little about hockey. I have seen the Mighty Ducks series, and I was watching when a team from my state won the Stanley Cup. So I don't know enough to evaluate the on-ice action. I do know the finale was exciting if somewhat formulaic, with effective use of slow-motion.As for performances, I thought there were some really good moments. Cynthia Gibb did the best job overall, in my opinion. Ed Lauter also had some good scenes as the coach, and a couple of scenes with Dean and Sutton were really good. Jim Youngs and Eric Nesterenko, as Dean's brother and father, both had several scenes alone with Dean which were quite good.This wasn't a comedy, but I liked the humor in several scenes with Jessie. The funniest part of the whole movie Jessie sneaking a portable radio into school to listen to Dean's game. Close behind was a scene where the public was skating in what I thought was a rink, but it may have been the arena where the Mustangs' games were played.I couldn't shake the feeling that this was another one of those average movies with the usual formula. But it had enough to make me reasonably happy, even if it wasn't a classic. "},{"Title":"One of the three best hockey movies","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" ...next to Slapshot and Mystery, Alaska. And, all with Rob Lowe and Patrick Swayze in their prime and at their athletic best. A movie you want to cheer for and a finale' worth the wait. Check it out 8/10. "},{"Title":"A classic hockey flick","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Youngblood is a classic hockey movie.  The love story could be a little more developed, but the friendship between Lowe and Swayze makes the movie. "},{"Title":"Gets a 6 for Lowe","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Dean Youngblood (Rob Lowe) wants to join a Canadian ice hockey team...BUT he has to prove he can fight back when challenged on the ice. Naturally he falls in love with the coach's daughter (Cynthia Gibb). And Keanu Reeves and Patrick Swayze are guys on the team!Totally predictable and pretty dull in terms of story but this film has some redeeming moments. The scenes on the ice are well done and filmed--I heard they actually consulted a retired ice hockey player on how to shot them. They DO work. Also Swayze has a few good moments too. Reeves never could act and this movie doesn't change my opinion. But my reason for seeing this was Rob Lowe. He never was much of an actor but I think he was one of the best-looking men I've ever seen. He pumped up for the movie (it shows) and there's a sequence which is just in there to show Lowe in a jockstrap. Nice to see a guy being the sexual object and not the women. Gibb is cute too.But, unless you're interested in seeing Lowe practically nude or have a huge interest in ice hockey, you'll probably be bored. I give it a 6. "},{"Title":"Just Skate Away From This One","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  The game of hockey I play and watch has something called speed which the actual hockey scenes in this limp movie never even come close to capturing.  Add to that a storyline that is cliché, predictable and stupider than stupid with some of the lamest '80s music numbing your senses in every scene and you have Youngblood. Oh, Keanu as a French Canadian, yeah, whatever. Gimme Dunlop, Braden and the Hansons anytime... ONE out of TEN. "},{"Title":"I gave this film a 1, because there is no 0.","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This film goes into my Worst Films Ever Made file. I have a copy of this film which I watch when I want a good laugh, and this isn't even a comedy. I am disappointed that such great actors agreed to be in such a piece of garbage. This film is inaccurate (in its portrayal of hockey), offensive (to Canadians), and I wasn't even all that impressed with the acting. Even the story was a bit weak. If you have never seen this film, you're lucky. If you have, I'm sorry. "}]