[{"Title":"Perhaps it was made in the wrong decade...","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"36 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Blake Edwards once again turned to his bread-and-butter genre, and kept things nice and simple. However, for whatever reason, this downplayed treat was and is often panned by critics left and right. I submit to you that this is because most of us just don't get it.I'll use the plot portent to tell you what this movie isn't, first of all. Despite appearances, it's not about up-and-coming, wannabe yuppie Walter Davis (Bruce Willis), not really about his blind date of the title with the beautiful and potentially deadly Nadia Gates (Kim Basinger), not about psychotic defense lawyer and jealous ex David Bedford's (John Laroquette) attempts to break the two up and steal back his first love, and not about the punches and rolls with which these people, along with their families and acquaintances, must deal.It's just my theory, but I think most of us didn't get this movie because it was a humorous commentary on the time during which it was made. This movie is all about the '80s; the yuppie culture, the self-absorption, the repeated attempts of folks to find solace in getting and having things, and our near-tragic couple's struggle to be who they are, even if it doesn't fit with '80s yuppie culture, and embrace what's important. Consider it--during her drunken binge, Nadia assaults everything that could make Walter a yuppie as if it were a well-organized plan. Walter, in turn, tries his hand at the same thing, mostly upon David and car salesman brother Ted (late, great Phil Hartman). Sure the details give a chuckle or two, but there's an almost cerebral humor going on under the surface of the film, right at the core, which pokes fun at a cornerstone of life in the '80s.This led to the movie's downfall in favor, since the very people at which the movie so heavily pokes fun were probably among the first ones to see it premiere in the '80s. Even if they got it, they probably didn't appreciate the joke. Essemtially, Edwards had spoofed the '80s DURING the '80s. A gutsy move, and witting or unwitting, this gave it a kind of staying power. It really is about more than you think.So, if you're one of the lonely soldiers who likes the movie, try to view it in this context and see what you think of it. If you hated it, please try to observe this point of view, and again, see what you think. Blind Date is one of the most different comedies to emerge from this decade. No matter where you sit on the quality issue, perhaps it deserves a second look. "},{"Title":"One of those movies that makes you laugh","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love this film. This was Bruce Willis' first box office film in a leading role. It's a nice little film that has its funny moments. Blind Date is not Citizen Kane, but it's sure a good film to watch on a day off. When Kim Basinger gets drunk, that's where the funny moments start. She goes from being a sweet southern belle to the date from hell. She embarrasses him at a business dinner, goes ga-ga at a club, gets his car lifted, and drives him to the point of insanity. Meanwhile, ex-boyfriend Larroquette is stalking them around the town driving them nuts. His character isn't given much depth, but he works with it. All in all, it's a funny, innocent film that will make you laugh. "},{"Title":"I never understood why this film was criticised so much","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this film when it first came out and I laughed out loud at quite a few scenes and thoroughly enjoyed it. Both Bruce Willis and Kim Basinger are excellent and there was obvious comic chemistry between them. There also plenty of great lines and performances from the supporting cast too, especially from John Larroquette (Basinger's psychotically obsessed erstwhile boyfriend). It was a complete mystery to me why it was so panned on release, but reading some of the comments here I am glad to see that this minor gem is finally getting the recognition it deserves. All I'll add is dobermans, golf balls, moonwalking and an abject lesson in why you should never get your new girlfriend drunk. "},{"Title":"Blake Edwards at his best!","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've always loved Blake Edwards films and although this may not have been regarded as his best work, I feel it was highly underrated.  Though thoroughly implausible in many ways, I have to say that this movie made me laugh harder than any movie I've ever seen.  My sides literally hurt after watching it.  Although I've only seen it a few times since it came out because none of the networks other than FX ever show it.  Why I don't know because it's really great!!The main reason I'd have to say was John Laroquette as Nadia's psychotic ex-boyfriend.  I was cracking up in every single scene he was in with his standard line (I'll kill you).  His physical comedy is totally brilliant. I don't know why he didn't end up with a film career of his own.  But my favorite scene has to be at the end when Nadia sees David hanging from the balcony of the house and squeals as they both dive into the pool and meet at the bottom in a kiss as they come up for air, with David yelling; Nadia, get your mouth off of him!!The movie is flawed in places though.  What are the odds that a house moving company would be moving a house at the exact moment that Nadia decides to knock on the door.  And it is never explained why Walter is facing 2 years in prison for his night on the town, yet David completely escapes any legal obligations for plowing his car into 3 seperate businesses.Kim Basinger and Bruce Willis were great as well.  Though I didn't understand why they dyed her gorgeous blonde hair brown.  Maybe because her image was supposed to be that of a sweet girl looking for love and Edwards thought she'd look too much the vamp and would lack credibility without the dye job.  It's also a good chance to see the late Phil Hartman early in his career.  I also loved the love song played at the end by Gary Morris and Jennifer Warnes.All in all, a fun ride from beginning to end.  If you haven't seen it yet, go out and rent it now.  You won't be disapointed, it's a 10+++!  "},{"Title":"Bruce and Kim make a couple to remember","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bruce Willis plays a workaholic Walter Davis, whose brother Ted (Phil Hartman) sets him up with this gorgeous woman Nadia Gates (Kim Basinger).There's one thing about Nadia you should know, though.If she has even a little bit of alcohol, she loses control and becomes wild. The legendary director Blake Edwards directed Blind Date in 1987.It has a brilliant cast.Bruce and Kim shine together at the time they were both oh so young.Bruce turned 50 on Saturday and you could say he now has the legend value.In this movie he takes the lead for the first time. The next year, in 1988, he had an action classic called Die Hard coming. Next year there should be coming Die Hard 4.0, so can't wait to see that.Other actors do a great job too.There are John Larroquette as David Bedford, Nadia's ex, who's doing an excellent job and William Daniels, who's known as the voice of KITT in Knight Rider and George Feeny in Boy Meets World is marvelous.Phil Hartman, who is sadly gone now after his wife shot him in 1998, is wonderful.There certainly is a cast to remember.I remember the first time I saw this movie back in 1994.I was the biggest Bruce Willis fan at the time and I enjoyed this movie very much.These days it doesn't work quite as good, but it's still pretty enjoyable flick.It offers some great comedic moments that bring a grin on your face. "},{"Title":"Good Fun","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of my favorite 80's comedies.  Many very funny and memorable scenes. It's a fun, light-hearted film about a blind date gone awry. Of course, everything that can happen DOES happen on this particular date, and many laughs are the result. The best scene is when Walter and Nadia go to a restaurant after Nadia has had too much to drink. Apparently, she has some sort of chemical imbalance to liquor, and things go haywire in front of Walter's business associates. "},{"Title":"Inconsistent and weak","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Blake Edwards, one of the masters of slapstick, once again seems to indicate that he has had his day with this inconsistent, weak story about a corporate exec. who goes on a blind date from hell with an uncontrollable but gorgeous young woman. You see Nadia is fine until she gets a hold of any form of alcohol, and needless to say, Walter Davis (Bruce Willis) allows this to happen despite all the warnings. Absolute pandemonium immediately breaks out, but sadly absolute hilarity does not.Most of the humour based around this premise doesn't work because it's too predictable, over the top and because the two lead characters are so frustratingly stupid. In fact the funniest scenes belong to John Laroquette as an obsessive lawyer and William Daniels as his county court judge father who would like nothing better than to see his son practising law in an entirely different state, or even country. The two play off each other well and create some truly comic moments.Screenwriter Dale Launer's idea was good and it's unfortunate that it turned out to be a one joke film, with a reasonable sub-plot that probably saved the whole thing from oblivion. Funny man Bruce Willis is okay, but stick to the Moonlighting series for his best. Kim Basinger may be a looker, but she's not much more, while for Blake Edwards fans its back to the Pink Panther series and Peter Sellers.Friday, August 26, 1994 - Video "},{"Title":"A Pretty Enjoyable Comedy","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Walter Davis (Bruce Willis) is a dedicated, hard-working employee for a company that is pulling out all the stops to impress a possible new client. As a result he desperately needs a new date for the office dinner party. As luck would have it his brother Ted Davis (Phil Hartman) just happens to know of someone named Nadia Gates (Kim Basinger) who recently arrived in Los Angeles and so Walter takes a chance and calls her on the phone. When he gets to her apartment he is surprised at how attractive she is and wanting to loosen her up a bit he gives her some champagne even though his brother warned him not to give her any alcohol. Big mistake. Anyway, rather than reveal any more of this movie and risk spoiling it for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this was a pretty enjoyable comedy for the most. Admittedly there were some slow scenes here and there but after the first 15 minutes or so it really got going. I especially liked Kim Basinger who performed quite well and looked absolutely gorgeous. Be that as it may I rate this movie as above average. "},{"Title":"Great Performance from many cast members","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this film for the first time last night and I thought it was really funny and the performances were very good overall. (I missed it when it was released because it I was unemployed when it was released theatrically.) This film was panned by writers left and right and I'm really sorry that I took their word and didn't check it out for myself. Excellent comedic set-ups by director Edwards. It has terrific performances by Willis and Basinger. They have great on-screen chemistry and both handled the physicality of their roles in an outstanding manner. I hope that this movie gets rediscovered someday in the future. There appears that there was some heavy handed editing, because the cause and effect of the supporting characters behaviors isn't spelled out with some of the supporting cast. "},{"Title":"A proper comedy from the eighties","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is an easy-going one. Light atmosphere, nice gags, good and not-so-good joking all the way, young Kim and Bruce, and fine urban/suburban scenery. It's kind of a very warm family movie that can suit nearly every evening when there is nothing to do (though some humour is rather adult). My opinion is that they could not handle the script better than this.Don't know how about others, but to me this movie is very neat and quite funny. Though they shouldn't have called the dog Rambo, while First Blood is one of my absolute favourites. How dare they! Solid 7 out of 10. Thanks for attention. "}{"Title":"Funny choas from Blake Edwards","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bruce Willis (in his pre-action hero days)is perfect as the hapless Walter Davis who finds his whole life crashing down on him after just one night with his sister-in-law's cousin, Nadia (Kim Basigner).  The reliable Blake Edwards is in the director's chair so there are many funny moments in store. A winning romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"Sometimes Successful Farce.","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" An enjoyable piece of fluff, built solely around the notion that Kim Basinger has some kind of metabolic disorder that renders her a reckless drunk if she takes the slightest bit of alcohol. Workaholic Bruce Willis is talked into taking her to dinner at a fancy French restaurant in LA but has underestimated the magnitude of her problem and sees to it that she has a bit of champagne.What follows is an amusing concoction of slapstick, insane dialog, embarrassing situations, and character development in which Bruce Willis turns from a pragmatist into a Dionysian fool.These are well-off people we're talking about. They live in the kind of Southern California milieu in which everyone is expected to have a swimming pool. I counted eight people who were pushed, fell, or were forced to dive into one of the pools to escape a a dog. The hedges are all perfectly barbered, the grass neatly trimmed, the interiors impeccable, and the acreage infinite, all rather like my place.The comedy is usually slapstick. People fall off balconies, ladders, and, in one case, a tree after being hit accidentally on the head with a golf ball. One running gag is effective by any measure. John Larroquette, as Basinger's jealous lover, follows the couple in his car and when his attention is distracted, which it is, three times, his car leaves the road and invariably smashes through a plate glass window -- once a paint shop, once a pet store, and I forget the third. Each time he picks up souvenirs of his accident until he finds himself speeding along in a battered, paint-splashed car, his own clothes and face varicolored, and being blinded from behind by some kind of chirping primate. And this is a man who, though a lecher, is rich and dignified.The burlesque alternates with less frenzied moments, and the dialog is sometimes funny. Larroquette is a lawyer who has decided to defend Willis in court. His very presence draws an angry comment from the judge, William Daniels, who is perfect in the role. I hoped never to see you in this courtroom again, snarls the judge. Larroquette approaches the judge and smoothly blackmails him into letting the defendant go, while he himself promises never to practice in the judge's jurisdiction again. Daniels scowls, ponders the proposition, then finally agrees, because the prospect of getting rid of Larroquette is simply too bright for him to resist. With a smile, the lawyer leans across the bench and says earnestly, Thanks, Dad. There are some weaknesses too. On those few sips of wine, Basinger stays drunk for a long time, and when she sobers up and wants to go home, the crazed Willis drags her to another party, which he invades. There he swills down booze, gets loaded, and jiggles matzoh balls while insulting the guests. Drunks -- seriatim. And of course not all the gags succeed. But when they do, they can be subtle as well as obvious. Get on with the wedding, Daniels orders, and kill the dog. The minister begins his intonations while, off screen, a distant gunshot is heard.Blake Edwards is adept at handling comedies. Sometime's he's made something out of virtually nothing, as in The Party. He does pretty well by this script. "},{"Title":"Funny but losses a little prior to the end","Date":"1 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie begins with a pretty good premise, that Nadia (Kim Basinger) will let her real innermost feelings rip out, when she drinks. This leads to a lot of difficult to handle situations for Walter Davis (Bruce Willis) her blind date. This premise is coupled with her stalker ex-boyfriend David (John Laroquette) constant attacks against Walter. Walter appears to begin the movie, wanting to conform to society's expectations. But about midway through he becomes more like Nadia, when she is drinking.The movie losses some steam near the end in the nearly confusing scenes in a judges house that often deal with a dog.But for the most part it is funny.The movie has one terrific song by Billy Vera and the Beaters, which is one of several songs they did for this movie Let You Get Away and Kim Basinger is great to watch when she dances to it. "},{"Title":"Briiliant & funny performance!","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bruce Willis is great,as a top notch action star.In this romantic slapstick,Walter is a businessman who loses face and all honor.He meets up with Nadia(marvelously played by (Basinger) who is knee-slapping hysterical. There is one disaster after another, when they go on a date and she gets totally drunk and wild. The hits keep coming, as Nadia is frantically romanced by an old boy friend (John Larroquette). When these three characters come together this side-splitting comedy makes you laugh at Love and how funny people try to win at this game. I enjoyed this Romance that is surely made in Heaven. Love comes at a price, as this great film proves. "},{"Title":"Underrated Comedy...","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  with some very funny scenes! John Larroquette is very good and I always enjoy William Daniels. The interplay between them is classic. It is mostly physical comedy, which is apparently not funny to everyone, from the looks of the ratings here, but I liked it. I also prefer Bruce Willis doing comedy. And while capable in the role, Kim Basinger is nothing to write home about. "},{"Title":"One of the best.","Date":"27 March 2012","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't know what everyone is talking about. I've seen this movie many times and have it in my collection. I think it is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen, and I've seen many.I think the movie moves along just fine, the characters are believable, the story is believable, and every actor does better than their best. The casting was perfect. The cinematography, set design, and all other aspects were good too.It was directed superbly as well. And why not, since it was directed by a master of comedy.I love it, and intend to see it many more times.) "},{"Title":"Likable farce with Bruce Willis and Kim Basinger","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Released in 1987, Blind Date stars Bruce Willis as a workaholic who is forced to get a blind date (Kim Basinger) for an important company dinner meeting. Everything goes awry when she has too much to drink. John Larroquette co-stars as the girl's crazy ex and Stephanie Faracy has a small role.This is a likable farce with quite a few laughs, but not enough to give it a higher rating. Being shot in 1986, everything about it screams mid-80s &#x96; the big hair, hideous mullets and music with electronic drums. Plus it's cool seeing Willis when he was young and with a full head of hair. On the negative side, even farces have to stay somewhere within the bounds of plausibility, but Blind Date sometimes goes over-the-top goofy, like at the midpoint when the house moves away while hooligans run wild in the neighborhood. Nevertheless, this is worthwhile for some laughs, particularly if you like the cast.The film runs 95 minutes and was shot in the Los Angeles area.GRADE B- or C+ (5.5/10) "},{"Title":"Terrific cast","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The only other Blake Edwards I've seen is 10, but I do prefer this. Blind Date isn't wall-to-wall gut-busting, but there are all sorts of little things (touches, gags, what-have-you) that really make this an enjoyable movie. The two leads make for solid comedic actors (Basinger and her million dollar scream makes a great sillyass drunk, Willis playing against type as a high-strung business type . . . and he's hilarious when he loses his sh|t). And at some point along the way, William Daniels strolls in and owns the whole flick. Marvelous stuff.One scene in particular had me geeking out pretty hard. John Larroquette's office looks out onto the (still under-construction) Fox Plaza, otherwise known as the Nakatomi Building. That was awesome.7/10 "},{"Title":"Slapstick but also has clever social commentary running through","Date":"4 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Walter Davis needs a blind date to impress his boss and allows his brother Ted to set him up with his wife's cousin, Nadia, who goes a little wild as she has an intolerance to alcohol.Not to be confused with the TV show or Kirsty Alley film. Straight off the bat of Moonlighting Bruce Willis is on fresh form as Walter. Incidentally he is being stalked by Nadia's ex called David (Willis' character name in Moonlighting). Willis is witty sharp, physical and funny. Blind Date was a box office success but it was panned by critic's, most likely as it poked fun at the very yuppies who were reviewing it.Yes its packed with slapstick humour, but after all this is a Blake Edwards' film. There's mooning at a guard dog, golf balls knocking people out of trees, a menagerie of drunken moments as Nadia, played perfectly by Kim Basinger, causes mayhem, only for Walter to later embarrassingly do the same. There's Walter holding David at gunpoint and getting him to 'Moonwalk'. A Japanese ladies wig coming off. Walter's sleazy workmate palming off his card to his date. A James Brown car alarm. The sulky French head waiter. There's too many great moments and characters to mention. It's not perfect, it has it's eye rolling moments and it's not as slick and pacey as it could be, but bear in mind the late great Edwards was in his mid sixties when filming. Walter and Nadia fall in love a little quick and while the creeping around the house scene is not as well executed as Secret of My Success (1987) of the same year, Willis' falling on the golf- ball is hilarious comparable to Bill Murray's fall in Scrooged (1988).There's plenty of great lines and performances from the supporting cast. Phil Hartman and William Daniels are particularly memorable. And Henry Mancini's score complements the film well.Whether intentional or not writer Dale Launer and Edwards' Blind Date offer a social commentary in amongst the comedy. Blind Date is actually very self aware, spoofing its own time period, highlighting the sterile materialism and superficial modern life of the 80s. Overall great fun. "},{"Title":"A fun film about a bad night","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When you're looking for something to watch on a weekend afternoon, this movie fits the bill. It's not perfect by any means, but the actors were believable and the story was enjoyable. Bruce Willis and Kim Basinger did a great job as they started out as normal and delved into the anarchy of John Larrouquette's stalking and the influence of alcohol. Sure, it's cheesy at parts, but this is great if you're looking for something simple with some great film work. I love how the director, Blake Edwards, was sure to add background to layer scenes to make them fun (i.e. the sobriety test). As for my favorite part, it's John Larroquett. He has talent for being a complete boob. Have fun! "}{"Title":"An hilarious start but tails off towards the end","Date":"18 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Before Bruce Willis starred in 'Die Hard' and became an action hero he was best known for the television series 'Moonlighting' and it was at this time that he made this film; a romantic comedy which concentrated on the comedy more than the romance for the most part. Bruce Willis plays hard working business man Walter who finds himself with out a date for an important works dinner; luckily his brother knows just the person to go with him; she is beautiful and smart but must not touch alcohol or she will 'lose control'. The evening starts badly when his date Nadia's psychotic ex-boyfriend bumps into them in an art gallery and attacks Walter! Having got out of that scrape Walter makes the mistake of buying a bottle of champagne&#x85; Nadia does indeed go wild; and not in a good way! At the business dinner she causes such a scene that Walter has lost his job before the starters have been served and as the evening goes on things get worse. They have further run-ins with the mad ex, get held up by a group of female punks and eventually Walter finally reaches breaking point and goes wild himself. This lands him in a police cell facing prison for a serious offence. In court he discovers his attorney is none other than Nadia's ex&#x85; surely he is doomed&#x85; or is he? This film contains plenty of hilarious moments, largely in scenes featuring John Larroquette who was great as the psychotic ex, David. That isn't to say there aren't other funny scenes too; the scene in the restaurant has several great moments. The biggest laughs are to be found in the first half of the film; after Walter's arrest the laughs tail off which was a pity after the good start. This isn't as good as director Blake Edwards 'Pink Panther' films but there are some reminders of those earlier hits such as the way David crashes into various buildings and his attempts to throttle Walter reminded me of Dreyfus's attacks on Clouseau. Having grown used to seeing Bruce Willis in his more recent action films it seemed odd at first seeing him in a comedy but he was good in the role. If you want a good laugh you could do a lot worse than this although parents might not want to show it to their children as there is a small amount of swearing. "},{"Title":"Generally harmless comedy","Date":"19 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bruce Willis plays a young accountant who needs a date to go with him to a big business dinner involving a wealthy Japanese businessman in this slapstick heavy romantic comedy. Willis' brother, played by Phil Hartman, hooks him up with Kim Basinger, who looks like perfect woman. The only problem is that whenever she has a drink, she goes crazy. Of course, Willis gives her a drink and she completely wrecks the business dinner.The problem that this film has is that there is nothing really compelling to compliment the slapstick comedy. There is really no reason why Willis' character would stay with Basinger after everything she did to ruin his career other than to set up for later slapstick gags. That said, there are some very funny scenes in this film. Any scene that involves John Larroquette as Basinger's jealous ex-boyfriend is a scream. There are enough laughs and fun here to make this film worthwhile, but just don't expect anything very memorable. "},{"Title":"a real 80s movie, quite dated, but really charming","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Blake Edwards, who also directed the famous Pink Panther series in the 60s and 70s, has got the knack when it comes to taking the best out of visual effects.Romance and comedy scenes alternate swiftly,jokes and quips may be not always funny as some situations may be too cliché, but the slapstick moments will make you roll in the aisles. As for the cast,if you liked Bruce Willis in Moonlighting, you will love him in this comedy;Kim Basinger is surprisingly very good and the supporting act is a great help. it was surely underrated when it came out but it will become a classic by 2020.And once you've watched the movie, you'll rush out to buy the James Brown auto-alarm! "},{"Title":"Nothing special, but worth a look","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Blind Date is a romantic comedy with great potential, but the final result is not that great. Walter Davis is an artfulness guy who needs a girl for an official dinner at which his boss will meet a rich Asian man, so things are important, but he doesn't have a girl for the night. His brother recommends him a girl named Nadia and he agree after some arguing. She turns out to be a beautiful woman and Walter is happy. The problem is that she cannot drink alcohol. She is kinda allergic to drinks and Walter doesn't know that and completely ignoring or simply not knowing that, he pours her some drinks right before the dinner and she gets drunk and becomes a stranger person who causes many troubles to Walter and puts him in very uncomfortable and embarrassing situations. This is going to be a night, Walter will never forget.Bruce Willis is casted for the role of Walter which is good. I actually liked him although he is an actor, I do not like or adore. His eccentric character is funny and this is important after all. No overacting or needless facial which we have used to watch in similar movies. Kim Bassinger also does a great performance taking 2 personalities. The drunk, party women ready to spoil anything and the smart, kind-hearted women that Walter fell in love with when he met her for first time.Other than the good characters and acting, the movie is not something special. I admit, I laughed a lot, but the plot wasn't something impressive and the movie is one of those who have their moments and their fans, but are not something to remember after all. That's basically Blind Date. "},{"Title":"I laughed so hard it hurt","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you've ever had what you thought was a bad date, watch this movie and you will see a really, really bad date.  It leaps from disaster to disaster and each one is funnier than the last.  I especially enjoyed John Larroquette's performance as Kim Basinger's crazy ex boyfriend.  Blind Date may never win any awards, but if you ever need a good belly laugh, watch it.  You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Kim Basinger - a successful actress!","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My rating for this movie is the clearest 7 out of 10. It's just too good entertainment though it's just too bad. The first point is much stronger.Surprising that John Larroquette can make a nice psycho. I won't bother discussing whether his character is believable or not. But you can laugh very much because of him. Not in the very first scene he appears, but in all the later. It only gets better. The situations are absolutely absurd, but you can't help enjoying them. (Why should you?)Nor do I want to discuss the credibility of Kim Basinger's character. But she is just too wonderful, as she is always. When her character starts to fall out of line, she makes me feel a small and bizarre deal of joy, she can really make you laugh in some scenes and she also works out real emotion in some scenes - in a movie of this kind. Apparently there are people who think of her as a dumb blonde (!) whose job is nothing but being beautiful or something like that. I can't understand this, she's actually a real good actress. She doesn't play a complex or somewhat character here, but it's her who manages to make much fun of it. She's successful!So everything in the movie works. The madness of the plot, the showdown-like action scenes in that big and crazy house, and that one thing with the brandy... don't ask me why it works. And Bruce Willis...well he's not bad... but he can't really be but Bruce Willis, that tough, blood-smeared guy in his muscle-shirt, can he?No, actually I liked him more in Mortal Thoughts, Death Becomes Her and Nobody's Fool than I did in this one. "},{"Title":"Blind Dated","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one 80's movie! Which is fine considering that particular decade gave us so much nostalgia. I just feel weird giving Blind Date 4 stars because, even though it's great, it does contain a highly distressing 'disco' scene that will make you cringe.Walter Davis (Bruce Willis in his first movie) is a stressed workaholic who must bring a date to a business dinner to impress a Japanese client. In desperation his brings his sister-in-laws cousin Nadia (a brunette, and prettier Kim Basinger) who is very cute, but has a drink problem. Despite warnings not to get her drunk, Walter buys her champagne and, like some sort of human mogwai, she transforms into a crazed party animal. Things go very bad for Walter as Nadia proceeds to wreck his life. Not only that, but her totally mad ex-boyfriend David (John Larroquette) is stalking them at every turn. William Daniels (the voice of KITT from Knight Boat) even has a funny role as a disgruntled judge and the late (great) Phil Hartman plays Walter's brother.Filmmaking legend Blake Edwards (The Pink Panther, Breakfast at Tiffany's) is the man behind the camera. He brings a lot of class and experience to what could have been a generic romantic comedy. His widescreen compositions and long, moving camera takes add a touch of sophistication, it's a shame it just had to end up being so 80's.There are loads of hilarious moments and I suggest you pick it up whenever you see it. Just use 80's block factor 1000. "},{"Title":"Blake Edwards' Genius Makes This a Classic","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've read with interest a number of user comments on this film, and I've come to the conclusion that many people have no idea what true classic comedy entails.  Blake Edwards is, without a doubt, the finest comic director of the past fifty years, and this film is a prime example of why. The casting is flawless, the material is deeply funny, but it is the *details* that make this film the incredibly uproarious vehicle that it is. Edwards' forte is comic surprise; the little things that come completely out of left field, the sotto voce comments made (the judge telling the butler, oh, and kill the dog...then, some moments later, in the background, a gunshot rings out, Basinger miming the drunk test which Willis is easily passing, falling down in the background while trying to stand on one foot).If you haven't really *watched* this film, then do so...and learn to cherish one of filmdom's greatest talents, Blake Edwards. "},{"Title":"don't know what movie the other user watched","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  a delightful entertaining movie...i still laugh even years later everytime I see the movie...Bruce...is outstanding and Kim plays her role very well...John Larroquette is funny...the entire movie is one someone working in the corporate world can understand "},{"Title":"A scream! How could the critics not love this?","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Comedy is very personal, but how could anyone not be ROFL over this one. It was panned by most critics and yet I don't know anyone who doesn't love it. Many big laughs. Performances alternately understated and overstated. Not only is comedy personal, but the appeal of various comics changes over time (Bob Hope isn't popular with people under 40, Laurel and Hardy endure). This comedy may have long legs. Note that many IMDB comments are current as people give it another look 15 years later. "}{"Title":"Blake Edwards Makes A Comeback","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After a string of disappointments that weren't up to the levels of his earlier films, director Blake Edwards has a funny film again with this 1987 Tristar Pictures release. The wild slapstick flies fast and furiously in this tale of a man (Bruce Willis) and his blind date (Kim Basinger), a woman who absolutely must not have too much alcohol. However, when she does drink too much alcohol during one of their dinner dates, things get hilariously out of hand. One of Willis' earliest films and one of his few forays into comedy before later films like Die Hard would forever establish him and typecast him as an action hero.  "},{"Title":"Wacky and hilarious movie","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't have several comedies on my particular list, but Blind Date is at the top. There's been some other users who have commented on the wackiness of the plot and some beefs. While I agree with the latter, especially the ones regarding the scenes when David (John Larroquette) crashes over and over again in windowshops, by and large I enjoy this movie so much. John Larroquette is perfect playing a discarded ex-boyfriend and Bruce Willis is not bad in his role. I know that perhaps he feels more comfortable in stuff like Die Hard, but I think he's ok here. In my humble opinion Kim Basinger lives up to what's expected from her in this film.This movie is full of absurd situations that you forget if the story makes sense. After all, if it would there wouldn't be as much fun.The parts I most enjoy are those in the restaurant, especially when Nadia comes to Yakamoto's dinner table and Walter's boss accidentally takes that weird hat off Yakamoto's wife's head. Also when Walter goes insane and takes Nadia to crash that party with his fearless antics and vocabulary - especially funny is when he drops that olive in a woman's bossom. And when they come to what's supposed to be Nadia's friend's house turns out to be a mobile one that starts moving as she presses the doorbell. Then some crooks steal the right door of his car and run away. And right after that Walter is mugged again by those wacky-dressed girls. I love the scene when they run away from the police car and Walter loses it banging in the car yelling at the cops to go chase the girls. The scenes in judge Bedford's house are hysterical as well.Well, I could go on and on mentioning the funny parts of this film, but I think it's enough. Only I'm left to say that if you wanna spend ninety minutes of pure fun and nonstop laughter pick this movie. Nine out of ten. "},{"Title":"Really funny movie.  A 10.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I agree completely with TVGirl's review.  This is a really funny movie with a first-rate cast, from top to bottom.  Bruce Willis, Kim Basinger, John Laroquette, and William Daniels couldn't be better; there is a bonus appearance by Graham Stark, who played the flunky policeman in the Pink Panther movies, and there is not one dud performance or moment.  It is fast-paced, imaginative, and just really funny.  It doesn't rely on graphic sex or a gross or smutty script filled with smutty language (or that hack Robin Williams) to make you laugh.  I can hardly believe this is a Hollywood production, it's so all-round classy.  I caught this on cable not long after its release in 1987-88, so it was not a big box-office hit.  Probably because the critics whizzed all over it (see my above remarks about graphic sex, gross, and smutty) -- pretentious critics apparently only like graphic, gross, and smutty in their comedies.  This is on my personal list of perfect movies and is in my personal collection.  Every time I introduce someone to it, they can't believe how funny it is -- usually because they haven't heard of it.      "},{"Title":"Technically uneven, but fun","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"     Blake Edwards is in his element, but the script is too choppy for the cast to maintain a veneer of credibility.  Nadia's motivations appear to be utter fantasy much of the time, taking away from Basinger's excellent portrayal.  The various technical goofs and discontinuities should have been repaired before shooting began; instead, they go to the silver screen.   This should have been a career milestone for Willis and Basinger.  Instead, the relationships are a few cents short in development, and the final product is a second-rate laugher.   Specific beefs(1) Ted and Nadia have separately warned Walter that Nadia can't handle alcohol.  In response, Walter pressures Nadia to drink 2-3 glasses of champagne just before a critical business meeting.(2) David rams through 3 storefronts during the movie, ending up covered with the store's product.  Twice, this requires a right-angle turn, at speed, in the middle of a city street, caused by his merely taking his eyes off the road for 1-3 seconds.(3) After each of these accidents, he somehow manages to track Walter & Nadia down at their next stop -- through LA traffic, without knowing where they were going.  Also, despite these three storefront accidents, he punctures nary a tire (nor his radiator).(4) In one evening during the work week, our lucky couple manage to (a) meet at her hotel after dark (b) attend an art show and escape from her ex (d) attend a taping session (e) get most of the way through a fancy business dinner (f) stop for gas (g) drive significantly elsewhere in the LA area and get mugged (h) and STILL make it to a society party in full swing.  Given the daytime weather, this appears to happen in less than 5 hours.(5) On the basis of one disastrous date, in which they rarely connected on a personal basis, Nadia and Walter decide they can't get along without one another and make life-changing sacrifices with almost no encouragement from the other side. "},{"Title":"Bruce Willis Poet, Stylist, Performer, Clown, Man.","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Baudelaire once said, If you can't laugh at a man slipping on a golf ball and going head over heels, then what can you laugh at?  to which Rimbaud responded, with the divine wit that marked him out as the brightest star of his generation, How about a guy pulling down his pants and getting chased by a dog? How painful that Bruce Willis' comedy career was limited to just two movies Blind Date and Hudson Hawke.  (The latter was a woefully misunderstood addition to the canon, in which Bruce, with subtlety, wit, style and charm to spare, essayed the role of the eponymous master criminal.  The film is a fancy, a trifle, a mere bagatelle, to be sure, and yet it speaks to everyone, centring as it does on the sublimely universal theme of breaking into places with Danny Aiello while singing.  Who can forget the great scene where Bruce breaks into some place, accompanied by Danny Aeillo, while the two of them sing?  Certainly, in the pantheon of movies in which Willis and Eaillo sing, Hudson Hawke shines proudly, a beacon to guide us home through the dark.) Blind Date is a sadly neglected comedy classic in which Kim Basinger (whose facial expressions are myriad and yet indistinguishable from one another, a sign of real talent) and Bruce Willis play people in ironically awful clothes and ironically awful hair.  That they are given ironically awful dialogue to work with is a sign of how delightful this movie is.  It works on so many different levels.  For example, I watched it while ironing, drinking, reading and watching the lottery results on teletext, an experience which brought tears to my eyes as I relished the multi-layered, Baudrillardian, hyper-real and yet simultaneously false, fractured, psychotic, delerious cataclysm of sound, image, sensation and steam. The film continues, pitching our heroes into ever more outlandish scenarios, before finally giving us the only denoument with which we could ever be truly satisfied Bruce and Kim fall into a swimming pool and embrace.  Ironically awful rock music fills the soundtrack to bursting point. As the credits roll, we ruminate on what has gone before, and what is yet to come.  We have seen Bruce Willis walk into the world's most awful music shop.  We have seen that bloke from the Pink Panther movies degrade himself yet further with a performance that can only be described as bad.  We have seen Kim Basinger give a performance so heart-rendingly real and disturbing that, try as we might, we can remember little or nothing about it.  In fact, the entire film is like quicksilver.  Trying to keep a grip on it is like trying to catch a falling star in a box.  It's a brief flare of genius and dazzlement.  Let it go.  It'll be repeated in a couple of weeks anyway. What more is there to say?  Well, let us leave the final word to James Joyce, who, upon witnessing a child being knocked down and killed in a Dublin street, was heard to mumble, Holy sh*t, that's the worst thing I've ever seen.  Are the pubs still open? "},{"Title":"Wildly entertaining slapstick comedy","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Blind Date is a very funny slapstick comedy by Pink Panther director Blake Edwards. Bruce Willis made his film debut here (he made this movie back when he was starring on TV's Moonlighting) as Walter Davis, a hard working guy who needs a date for a big business dinner. His brother (the late Phil Hartman) sets him up with Nadia Gates, well played by Kim Basinger. He gives him one word of warning about Nadia don't let her get drunk, or she'll lose control. Walter forgets this one crucial detail, and right off the bat he's giving her champagne. And this is the beginning of a very disasterous date. Things go wrong left and right. She makes a fool of herself. She makes him look like a fool of himself. And so forth. Caught in the middle of the crazy shenanigans is Nadia's pain in the butt ex-boyfriend David Bedford (played in delightfully goofy fashion by John Larroquette) who proceeds to make their date even worse. Blind Date is alot of silly fun. Basinger is terrific, and Willis made a good film debut here before going on to action pictures such as the Die Hard films and Armageddon; and to more serious fare such as last year's  smash hit The Sixth Sense. Blind Date isn't the best film of Willis' career (that's the original Die Hard) but it's a good one and pretty entertaining. *** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Split right down the middle when allowing for nostalgia factor.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bruce Willis made this film in the middle of his stint in the hugely popular TV Show Moonlighting, and it's very much in keeping with the fun side of that particular show. I remember watching this at the cinema many years ago with my then new girlfriend, and I remember laughing heartily as Bruce prats about falling over things and being thrust into ridiculous situations caused by the (then) luscious Kim Basinger. Viewing it now 20 years later I still have a soft spot for it, but it plays out more as a time capsule oddity in view of Willis's subsequent career. He was not very far away from making action genre template Die Hard, and that is the context in which to view this early comedic effort.The plot revolves around Walter Davis (Willis), who needs a date for a very important business dinner, his brother sets him up on a blind date with his wife's cousin Nadia (Basinger) with the express warning of not getting her drunk as she goes wild when taking too much booze. Naturally things go from chaos to bigger chaos as Nadia promptly gets drunk and tears Walter's world to shreds. Some fun set pieces and tidy humour dialogue keep the proceedings jovial enough, but a running gag with one of Nadia's ex boyfriends turning up quickly becomes annoying, and the standard plot gag of Nadia ruining everything also becomes tiresome.It's got it's moments but just not enough to lift the film above average, the two leads do well enough to keep the mood going, but ultimately the film for me is straight down the middle with a rating of 5/10. "},{"Title":"almost a winner","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just saw a short film called SHOTGUN WEDDING that is basically the same kind of film, made with no money, and no stars, but SHOTGUN WEDDING is much better. I remember seeing this years ago and thinking it could have been a great film instead of an almost classic.I only wished to comment on this one to say that if you liked this movie you love the aforementioned short film.Don't know how you can find it, but check it out.Kim Bassinger is always worth a look and Blake Edwards is often hit or miss as is this entire film. Check out Mr. Edwards earlier films before you give this one a look.  "},{"Title":"Blake's last great hurrah & Say hello to Bruno, America ;)","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  BLIND DATE (1987)*** Bruce Willis, Kim Basinger, John Larroquette, William Daniels, Phil Hartman.  Willis in his first film during his Moonlighting hey-day is faced with the blind date from hell Basinger, a bombshell who loses control with one drink of alcohol, causing a night of slap-stick heavy consequences.  Larroquette is a riot as her zealously jealous pinhead ex hellbent on destroying Willis.  Best bit Larroquette's car destruction. Directed with flair by ace Blake Edwards. "},{"Title":"Really funny movie.  A 10.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I agree completely with TVGirl's review.  This is a really funny movie with a first-rate cast, from top to bottom.  Bruce Willis, Kim Basinger, John Laroquette, and William Daniels couldn't be better; there is a bonus appearance by Graham Stark, who played the flunky policeman in the Pink Panther movies, and there is not one dud performance or moment.  It is fast-paced, imaginative, and just really funny.  It doesn't rely on graphic sex or a gross or smutty script filled with smutty language (or that hack Robin Williams) to make you laugh.  I can hardly believe this is a Hollywood production, it's so all-round classy.  I caught this on cable not long after its release in 1987-88, so it was not a big box-office hit.  Probably because the critics whizzed all over it (see my above remarks about graphic sex, gross, and smutty) -- pretentious critics apparently only like graphic, gross, and smutty in their comedies.  This is on my personal list of perfect movies and is in my personal collection.  Every time I introduce someone to it, they can't believe how funny it is -- usually because they haven't heard of it.      "}{"Title":"A few good laughs","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'd give this a six or seven.  The first half of the movie is an absolute riot, with both Kim Basinger and Bruce Willis doing a great job with physical comedy.  However, the second half drags despite a near film-stealing performance by William Daniels, as tart as ever.  As mentioned in an earlier review, the continuity of the story stumbles in several places, most notably when the two main characters declare that they never want to see each other and, without benefit of any developing scenes, suddenly can't live without each other.  Looks like part of the film got left on the cutting room floor.  Unfortunately, this is a consistent aspect of Blake Edwards' films (see Skin Deep, which is almost unintelligible).  This film is no exception.Still, if it comes up on cable (pay channels only), you could do a lot worse than Blind Date. "},{"Title":"A Blinding Mess.","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bruce Willis goes on a blind date with Kim Basinger (who loses control when she is drunk) and total chaos strikes. The night goes into a tail-spin very quickly and it appears that Basinger's ex-boyfriend (lawyer John Larroquette) may end up winning her back in the venture. Willis, almost totally ruined by Basinger over the course of the evening, might even get thrown in prison unless....you guessed it, Larroquette helps him out. Naturally, Larroquette's father (a priceless William Daniels) is the judge. Would-be-funny comedy just never does jell too well and only presents stupid alcoholic lush routines for Basinger while the males of the production just act pretty much as scenery. Phil Hartman steals every scene as Willis' annoying brother. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Blind Date","Date":"5 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Most people incorrectly think that the former Moonlighting star made his leading movie star debut in Die Hard, in fact it was in this film, and unfortunately it wasn't rated well by critics, I had to see why, directed by Blake Edwards (Breakfast at Tiffany's, The Pink Panther films, A Shot in the Dark). Basically Walter Davis (Bruce Willis) is a workaholic, all work and no play or attention to his appearance or personal life, so he allows his brother Ted (Phil Hartman) to set him up on a blind date. Walter's date, who will accompany him to his company's business dinner with a new important Japanese client, is Ted's wife's cousin, Nadia Gates (Kim Basinger). Nadia is new in town and wants to socialise, she is shy and there is an awkwardness between her and Walter, as the evening goes on Nadia has a drink, and this causes her to behave in a wild manner, Ted warned Walter beforehand about her behaviour under the influence of alcohol, but he thought this was a joke. The situation gets worse when Nadia's ex-boyfriend David Bedford (John Larroquette) shows up and starts stalking the couple all night, trying assaults of all sorts, including ramming Walter's car. Walter ends up going insane with Nadia's mishaps and David's pursuit, he wreaks havoc at the dinner, and Nadia gets Walter fired, his car is destroyed, and he is put in a prison cell after threatening David with a mugger's weapon, including forcing him to moonwalk and firing at a frightened man's feet. Nadia pays the $10,000 bail for Walter's release, and she is forced to agree to marry David so he will help Walter avoid prison time during his court case. Walter realises he may in fact have real feelings for Nadia, so to spoil the wedding he injects a full box of chocolates with brandy, she eats all of them before the ceremony, and chaos ensues with her drunken behaviour. In the end Walter, previously seen going all over the house trying to talk to Nadia, stops the wedding and expresses his feelings, the paid kiss and embrace what looks like true love, and they get married. Also starring William Daniels as Judge Harold Bedford, George Coe as Harry Gruen, Mark Blum as Denny Gordon, Stephanie Faracy as Susie Davis, Alice Hirson as Muriel Bedford, Graham Stark as Jordan the Butler and Joyce Van Patten as Nadia's Mother. It is unsurprising critics thought Willis would be another TV star attempting an failing somewhat in his first film, he doesn't quite fit, and Basinger, despite being beautiful, is rather irritating as the woman turned crazy by alcohol who causes disaster for others. This film has almost nothing that works, the attempts at slapstick create only titters of laughter, the mad behaviour gets the point where it cringing and unbearable rather than funny, and there is hardly any believability with the love story, it is most disappointing comedy. Pretty poor! "},{"Title":"lacks any laughs","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Walter Davis (Bruce Willis) is overworked with no personal life. His work friend Denny is a slimball womanizer. They have a new big traditional Japanese client. His boss Harry Gruen (George Coe) require everybody with first class dates to a dinner with the new client. His brother Ted (Phil Hartman) sets him up with his wife's cousin Nadia Gates (Kim Basinger) as a blind date. He's warned not to get her drunk or else she'll get out of control. The date goes well even after they run into her ex-boyfriend David Bedford (John Larroquette). For some reason, he gives her some alcohol and away she goes.Director Blake Edwards is running on fumes. Most importantly, I don't buy Bruce Willis as this character. This character is suppose to be a workaholic office drone. Kim Basinger is bad at drunk acting which is a real art. There has to be a class for that. Everything about this is badly manufactured. None of it is terribly funny. The slapstick and the ridiculous setups don't work. I don't understand why he gives her a drink in the first place. The setup should be that she accidentally takes a sip. The bright side is that I don't actually hate these characters. I just don't necessarily care about them. "},{"Title":"The return of Blake Edwards","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Very auspicious collaboration of Blake Edwards, the creator of such comic classics as The Party or the Pink Panther - series, and Bruce Willis, who takes the David Addison spin-off character to extreme, fully exploring its drunk, shirt-ripped, bad hang-over with a vengeance - dimension, with a surprisingly funny Kim Basinger, the brilliant Phil Hartman, and John Larroquette, who delivers the best performance of his sadly not-so-glorious career.The premise is simple Walter(Bruce Willis) needs a date for an important business dinner, and his brother (Phil Hartman-brilliant as always) offers to help, setting a blind date with his wife's cousin Nadia (Kim Basinger). Everything should go smooth, if it weren't for Nadia's psychotic ex boy-friend David(John Larroquette), who is following her, and Nadia's intolerance for alcohol. The dialog is excellent, the slapstick and exploration of awkwardness in social circumstances are magnificent. The restaurant scene, the Walter gone wild at the party and police drinking test scene, David's parents house scene, and John Larroquette's performance altogether, are only a few of the deliriously funny bits in this excellent comedy. "},{"Title":"A mildly pleasant misfire.","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Blake Edwards tries to combine visual and verbal slapstick, and he delivers a few (scattered) laughs, but his direction is too static for this kind of wild comedy. The film is a mildly pleasant misfire, and Willis wasn't yet comfortable enough to be able to carry a movie on his own. There is a funny little performance by Daniels, who plays a judge. "},{"Title":"Poor script - redeeming factor - the 3 leading actors","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The story moved clumsily along from one idiotic situation to another none of which were really tied together by the end of the movie.  Bruce Willis' character changed twice during the movie, but the changes were sudden, and the character never evolved.  Kim Basinger's character was like a Dr. Jekyll and Miss Hyde which never really worked, and John Laroquette's character had a limited redundant vocabulary (I'll kill you), and a running gag of driving his car into buildings which really didn't work when you discovered in the latter part of the movie that he was a defense lawyer.  These three actors made the movie tolerable, but it would have been much better if the writer and the director had never made the movie to begin with. "},{"Title":"Blind Date","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Awful Blake Edwards comedy with yuppie Willis taking Basinger out on a blind date. She warns that she can't handle alcohol, so he immediately gives her champagne...and the night turns to hell. Unfunny! Unimaginative! Unmemorable! "},{"Title":"starts off promisingly but fizzles","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHOUTI loved this movie's premise and had wanted to see it for quite some time, especially since it received some glowing recommendations.On the plus side, it's easy to see, even though this is a comedy, that Kim Bassenger is a great dramatic actress as well. She really was good in this role and that was the one aspect I liked. That and the premise. But the movie, while starting off extremely well and even being REALLY funny, takes a wrong turn somewhere and gets a bit lost.The movie becomes a bunch of outrageous slapstick gags that are completely over the top and aren't even that funny. I had thought the focus would be on the dinner. That scene was the best in the movie no question-HILARIOUS. But it ends much to soon and the movie never really again picks up that level of humor.I really found myself WANTING to like this. Bassenger was great, even Willis, who I wouldn't have thought of for a role like this, was awfully good. But the movie just became really obnoxious and the initial fun of the premise was lost in a barrage of slapstick and annoying people and situations. Some of the the critics didn't like this one and I really can understand why even though I disagree with them a lot. I loved this in the beginning. But where was the humor? It was disappointing. My vote's 4 of 10. "},{"Title":"Yippie-ai-oh-ki-yea, Mr. Falcon.","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Another overly predictable, formulaic Bruce Willis movie. Oh wait, it's his first? Well, it only gets better from here. This is the Bruce Willis you remember from Moonlighting. This is the Hollywood you remember from the slapstick days. One situation after another goes wrong in predictable fashion. Here's an idea. Go out and get drunk, then write down every idea of what could go wrong on a blind date. Throw up on your list and then go to bed and watch the room spin until you Ralph. Oh, sorry. Was that a spoiler? If you can find this film for rent in one of those cheapie one dollar rental dispensers, save the dollar and go get something off the 99 cent value menu at McDonald's instead. "}]