[{"Title":"Star Trek 4 Get Your Whale On Baby","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"53 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadOK, now if some giant, black, anal probe looking thing starts tooling around shutting down everything and killing everybody, do you think it might be hostile? If monkey boys can tell their effects on their universe why would this giant suppository be different. Oh, it is full of whales seeking their progeny currently swimming, eating and crapping in the oceans of the past? Whales are always friendly, just ask the seals being thrown back and forth on the discovery channel while killer whales, those saintly creatures, take bites out of them while they scream. What is with these people? Why are all superior creatures, always benign? In THE MOTIONLESS PICTURE, the giant ball of rectum gas apparently did not know scans from weapons; gee, the people who made the Star Trek movies can, if they can anybody could. Give us a break, stop worshiping lower life forms and get some therapy. The plan is we go to the past in this old, beat up, piece of crap bird of prey pick up some whales and 2000 tons of water and try to attain the same speed when we almost all died last time? It wiped out the dilithium crystals in the monkey boy engines? Did the person who wrote this take serious sedating medicines? Is he under ten years old? Is the script written in crayon?What is with these people? Superior beings in their films that are oblivious to wiping out everything around them. I do not care what monkey boy Spock says, on earth, as you ascend the evolutionary ladder it comes with greater not lesser awareness of the consequences of how your actions effect your environment. Non Sequitur, pointy. Whale Woman is a great teaching tool if you know someone talking like this open the phone book to T for therapist. I cannot type what is going on let's just say she really, really, really likes whales. It started way back here even before DANCES WITH WOLVES, glorifying lower life forms or primitive cultures idealizing them beyond Walt Disney to a psychotic level. These are animals they eat each other OK? They did not descend from heaven in a beam of light, get a grip on yourself, you are scaring us. Presumeably, the eating, swimming and crapping machines will do what Star Trek people cannot do, tell the anal probe, hey, do you notice our oceans going into the sky, that kills us retards?; get lost, go eat some mackerel. To people who read these things called books without the really big print and pictures your movies are frightening. Next time you see a pod of hungry killer whales take off your clothes and jump in there, good luck to you. You look like a giant Reuben sandwich to them. Yes, Whale Woman we promise after we feed the billions of starving people and eliminate poverty and suffering; the whales are next on the list, until then take these pills for us. What is hilarious is if other humans were doing this it would be inimical but whales? Oh, they love everybody; listen, GALOOOOO, BALLOOOO that means we love you. Please, you are making us sick. This movie is drop dead funny and I do not mean that in a nice way. "},{"Title":"Hugely enjoyable!","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"58 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" First off, I'm not a big BIG 'Star Trek' fan. I've seen the first six films, and catch an episode of the TV series every now and then (I saw the whole first season recently, which made me re-visit the Shatner/Nimoy films). I did however, find this film extremely entertaining! In fact, it was about as much fun as I think you can have at home with a (tasteful) video! I found 'Star Trek The Motion Picture' a tad dull, although I still enjoyed it. And II and III work well together, and are both enjoyable sci-fi action flicks ('Wrath of Khan' is another classic, but I feel IV pips it to the post). However, when 'The Voyage Home' was over, I had no idea that a film with a plot which involved two humpback whales and mid-1980s San Fransico could be so damn fun.Shatner is on great form as the rogue Capt. Kirk, and Nimoy is brilliant in conveying Spocks absolute confusion at being stuck on a planet he partly understands, in a time he cannot comprehend. When Kirk explains Spocks oddness to the brilliant and frankly underused actress Catherine Hicks, Kirk says that Spock did a lot of LDS back in college.Kelley, Takei and company are all on fine form, and the score, direction and script all work brilliantly. The fact that the 1980s now seems so long ago (it after all, did not age as well as some decades) only adds to the films premise.I would thoroughly recommend this film to anyone - 'Star Trek' fan or not - as it is a wonderfully entertaining film for all ages. I'm sure wherever Gene Roddenberry is, he looks back on this film venture with a wry smile and a bag of popcorn. "},{"Title":"There be whales here.","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"56 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" An alien probe is heading towards earth causing tidal waves and hurricane winds. The probe is trying to get in touch with humpback whales which no longer exist.In time honoured tradition it is up to James kirk and crew to go back to the 20th century, find some humpback whales,take them home with him and save the day again. This is by far the funniest of all the star trek films due to the fact that it is played totally tongue in cheek and the cast aren't afraid to poke fun at themselves.To the crew it is like visiting an undiscovered country and the customs of modern man confuse them totally. Catherine Hicks plays their 20th century contact,joins in the fun and adds to the confusion they are feeling by playing her role totally straight. Some classic scenes include Scotty trying to instruct a computer by talking into the mouse,Dr Mcoys horror when surgeons are about to drill into Chekovs skull and Spocks solution to dealing with an arrogant yob on a bus. However it also has a serious ecological message.If we don't stop destroying our planet then the day could well come when every kind of whale will cease to exit.Some video clips, shown in the scene in the museum,displaying images of men killing whales are disturbing because they are real. Watch this film ,enjoy it, but remember that sometimes fact is more disturbing than fiction. In memory of James Doohan 1920- 2005 RIP. "},{"Title":"The most popular Star Trek movie","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"43 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Voyage Home is the Star Trek film that had the highest box office gross. It captured the imagination of the public who were eager to see Kirk and the crew in present day (1986) San Francisco. Luckily, the film was solid in all aspects and was enjoyed by long-time fans of the series as well. Although the outcome of the film is never in doubt, it never loses the attention of the viewer and entertains throughout. It actually felt fresh and original despite the fact that time travel had been done before (in the TV series) and it was the fourth film in the franchise. Recommended, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Time for some colorful metaphors...","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"35 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This one is great-I remember laughing my butt off the first time I saw it, and it still works now. Very well done, the time travel angle was better handled here then it has been in other Trek films, shows, etc.-and one thing that makes this work is that they didn't take themselves too seriously. What a romp! The crew come back to save the whales so they can save themselves in the future-and make some commentary on 1986, too. Personally I donno if this is the best of the run-Undiscovered Country and Khan are its main competition-but I applaud them for doing this; and hope they can lighten up the newer generation too now. It is needed.*** outta ****, good stuff. "},{"Title":"A Vivid, Upbeat, Frequently Intelligent and Delightful Sci-Fi Adventure","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"45 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fourth entry in the Star Trek movie series is the most popular and unarguably the best-liked of these entertaining movies. It has a fine variety of scenes, intelligent comedy to leaven the more serious adventures. it is fast paced, beautifully directed by Leonard Nimoy who also plays Spock. What prevented it from being even better perhaps appreciated is a deliberate attempt by the writers to write short, choppy-sentence dialogue that in some scenes does not work as well as more formally-structured words might have worked. The film is bright, the art direction is very good, the music by Leonard Rosenmann is outstanding. And the story line is one of the best that sci-fi filmmakers have yet devised, in my judgment, because it has everything. As Captain James T. Kirk of the 23rd century starship Enterprise, William Shatner acts with unusual intelligence and even strength to get by. As his half-alien First Officer Spock, just recovering from a traumatic experience that caused him to have to be reeducated from ground zero, Leonard Nimoy is even better. Everyone of Jim Kirk's crewmen, including James Doohan as Engineer Montgomer Scott, De Forest Kelley as CMO Leonard McCoy, Nichelle Nichols as Lt. Uhura of Communications, talented George Takei as Helmsman Sulu, and Walter Koenig as Navigator Pavel Chekhov, have good scenes to perform and do them seamlessly and with professional style. Others in the cast including Brock Peters, Jane Wyatt, Mark Lenard, Grace Lee Whitney, Alen Henteloff, Robert Ellenstein and a relative unknown as the earthwoman who becomes enmeshed in the Enterprise officers' mission,are given telling moments. There are many memorable visual moments, including the departure of a stolen Klingon warbird from the planet Vulcan, the near-wreckage of Starfleet Headquarters, the landing of an invisible vessel in Golden Gate Park, a slingshot run around the sun, a descent from the invisible craft to the ground, scenes around the Alameda Navy Yards, a chase in a hospital and scenes at the cetacean Institute all make themselves hard-to-forget. It is the sheer fun and adventure of the storyline--sending a starship back in time to rescue two hump-backed whales and save the earth from alien destruction--that sets this film apart. Ignored by critics who have nearly always ignored sci-fi achievements, this cinematic attainment set a standard for future sci-fi to which hardly any film's maker has yet approached. The revelation of character could have been deeper, but the relevance of every moment to the plot line could hardly have been bettered. Harve Bennett deserves some of the credit for this script's excellences; so do the special-effects creators, since for once in Hollywood, every such effects serve to further the progress the central character and his helpers are making. This is probably a film to be watched over and over; I wish there were more such adult sci-fi efforts that eschew pretension and present so much intelligent dialogue, acting and intriguing differences. "},{"Title":"Anti-Trek Film","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"32 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek IV The Voyage Home is my favorite Trek movie but one that I say is off-limits when my friends and I discuss which Trek is the best. Quite simply, this movie is not really a Star Trek movie; Star Trek II and III are far better examples of the genre. Of course, that is what makes Star Trek IV such a fantastic movie; it's crazy and hilarious. This movie is also probably the best one for a family to see other than Insurrection, which is a weaker film anyway. The movie does have more profanity than usual, but it is dealt in such a comedic fashion that it is excusable (the whole colorful metaphors thing always makes me laugh). This is a movie that you could put a very mixed crowd in front of and enjoy; you don't have to love Star Trek to love this movie. This movie is also great because the acting has improved immeasurably since the hammy days of Star Trek The Original Series and Star Trek - The Motion Picture but everyone has not gone decidedly gray yet. This movie might be looked upon best as a spoof of the genre, but it is not Spaceballs. What this is is a wonderful movie with some great comedy but still some great science fiction ideas (particularly the probe, which is one of the more chilling things I have ever seen in a movie). This was the first Star Trek movie I saw as a child, and it was only until years later that I watched the others. If you have children and want them to introduce them to Star Trek, this is the perfect way. It was for me.3.5/4 stars "},{"Title":"Silly but Trek at it's best!","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"34 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Star Trek IV The Voyage Home' is the most popular of the Trek films and quite right too. Not only does it appeal to both fans and non-fans of the show but it revels in the spirit of what Trek has always been about how perfect and Utopian the citizens of the twenty-third century are compared to their Neanderthal ancestors of the late twentieth century!The film sees Kirk and his crew, in disgrace after disobeying Starfleet orders to save Spock following the events of 'Star Trek III The Search for Spock', travel to 1986 San Francisco to retrieve a pair of hump-back whales, a species extinct by Kirk's era. The whales are the key to communicating with an alien probe that is in the process of destroying Earth. As well as the non-too-subtle eco-message ('don't allow any animal be hunted to extinction as they may save us all in the future!'), there is much fun to be had as Kirk, McCoy, Uhura, Sulu, Scotty and the ever-logical Spock struggle to integrate themselves into most alien situation they have ever been in. They are clueless about exact-change buses, pizzas and why 1986 doctors think it's a good idea to drill into someone's head.It is very light-hearted at times but I imagine this is the film Gene Roddenberry is most proud of given the way it portrays the best of all our favourite characters and reaches the heart of the ethos of 'Star Trek'. When I first watched this as a child, I wished Kirk would come and let me join him in the twenty-third century. In fact, the only thing that could improve this film would be if the probe had aimed its venegeance entirely at Japan and Norway in retaliation for the sins of these countries' backward twenty-first century 'ancestors'. After all, it's these two countries who will surely bring about the extinction of whales. While this doesn't delve too much into the mythology and background of Trek, it is a great film and deserves to be counted as the best of the ten films. It is also an excellent option for Trek fans trying to convert friends and family to 'seeing the light' and loving Trek! "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"20 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie marked the death of quality in Star Trek, and as far as I'm concerned it still hasn't recovered thirteen years and five movies and three more television series later.  So much promise existed after the wonderful movie that was Star Trek II and it was all thrown away first in Trek III (a very ridiculous story designed to get Spock alive again and undo what made II so poignant) and then in this film where all sense of serious storytelling is thrown out the window for some silly laughs mixed in with discourses of political correctness about whales.  On top of that, consistency is thrown out the window with a number of plot holes and illogical developments that don't mesh with what was established in the last two films and even worse James Horner's wonderful music is replaced further lending to the sense of inconsistency.This marked the end of my love of Star Trek.  Fortunately I'll always have the original series and the second movie to go back to. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood film","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I believe The Voyage Home is among the greatest Star Trek films, but it has been misunderstood. Although it seemed light and humorous, it was a serious film. But serious like Dr.Strangelove which was funny only to make the comment that the arms race and the situation the world was in was ridiculous and insane and so the film lampooned it. Star Trek Voyage Home also was done in a similar way and made the point that man's destruction of life and the greed and selfishness of the 80's was ridiculous and insane. The enemy here is man's greed and selfishness and it is defeated not by phasers but by the crew's sticking together. The film made points about unnecessary curse words in public and print and that our behavior makes us more like primitive barbarians--even with our technology that is laughable to the people of two hundred years from now. You should not compare the film to others but look at it for what it is. Even on the series, the episodes varied in subject and approach.Beneath the humor, there is a great film. "}{"Title":"Probably the Most Enjoyable of the Original Series","Date":"6 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Voyage Home may very well be the goofiest, most incoherent, and outright strangest of the original series. But it's also funny, re- watchable, and probably the most entertaining. As weird as the film can get, thanks to a wonderful score, gorgeous cinematography, and a step back into the TV format, it's one of my favorites of any of the Trek films.The Voyage Home centers on the the Enterprise's hopes of finding something to communicate with a dangerous probe that wants to destroy the earth. The only possible way to communicate with the probe is to travel back in time to the late 20th century and bring Humpback Whales to the probe. Yes, that is the real premise.As a whole, it's a fun ride. Not only do we get to see the crew of the Enterprise go somewhere other than the seats of the ship, but it's the only Trek film that could be considered a comedy. Watching the crew attempt to fit in with 1980's San Francisco is good TV for sure. And that's what this film essentially is. It doesn't really fit into the film series at all, and it may have been better served as an extended episode. In fact, the only real link to Search For Spock is just the fact that Spock still hasn't fully adapted to being a member of the Enterprise as his memory is still weary.Ironically, it out-grossed all of the other Trek films leading up to it by far. It's domestic gross was the highest for the franchise up until 2009's Star Trek, so it's safe to say it was an crowd-pleaser. Perhaps it's success had to do with this film focusing less on overdone special effects and over the top villains and more so on a story people could get behind and humanized characters. As goofy as Catherine Hicks' Gillian character can get, I think she resonated with the audience.With all that said, the film is pretty nuts. The idea that the crew could just walk around San Francisco, in and out of hospitals and restaurants and not be captured by police at any time seemed a bit far fetched. Sometimes the reach for comedy was definitely felt and sadly there aren't any great sci-fi moments like the others have. But I think everybody can have some fun with this one. If nothing else, perhaps you can do something to help whales next time you come across one.+Has its funny moments+Goofy fun+Cinematography+Score-Stupid and incoherent moments-Why is a Trek film focusing on whales anyway?7.2/10 "},{"Title":"Takes the Star Trek films in a different direction","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If there was one film out of the ones that starred the cast and crew of the Original Series that appealed to the mainstream audience, this would be it. And this deserves it, even if the environmental message isn't subtle in the slightest.The best part of this film is without a doubt the comedy. All of these actors have a natural talent to make people laugh, and this film exploits that fully. I laughed out loud a lot of times during this viewing.I also liked how much time we got to spend getting to see the characters play off of one another. Is this film deep or intense like Wrath of Khan? But it's excellent in another way, and this isn't just your standard popcorn fair. I would recommend you watch this film. Maybe because I'm a fan of 80's comedies in general, but I really liked this film. "},{"Title":"Are you sure it isn't time for a colorful metaphor?","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There was a moment in the film that stopped me in my tracks. It was when Scotty explained he had to beam up four hundred thousand tons of water along with the whales! Holy smokes, did anyone involved with the script do a reality check on that? That much water equates to eight million pounds!!! How much did the refitted Klingon ship weigh to begin with? I don't know, that just seemed too bizarre.The premise of the story was kind of bizarre too, in as much as a threatening alien space vessel is inadvertently destroying Earth's atmosphere in an attempt to communicate with an extinct species. It takes a bit of a stretch to come up with an explanation for it, which is probably why bringing Spock back from the dead was a pretty good idea. I guess that's one of the reasons why the picture over all doesn't resonate with the more serious Star Trek fans but I thought the picture took a campy enough approach to make it enjoyable. I especially liked the humor that went with Kirk, Spock and the rest of the crew attempting to adjust to Earth's customs and language of 1986 San Francisco.One of the things the picture doesn't address, and I used to find this quite often with a series like The Twilight Zone or the original Star Trek, was how do the friends and co-workers of Dr. Gillian Taylor (Catherine Hicks) deal with her sudden disappearance after she joins the Trek crew. She'll be tooling around in the Twenty Third Century but the folks she left behind would wind up devastated, wouldn't they? I guess as the viewer you're not supposed to think about it or just let it slide, but as you see, it's something I wind up wondering about.Well anyone who at one time might have had some trouble with tribbles will probably have a hang-up with humpbacks in this flick, but as I said earlier, I took it in a humorous vein and found it generally entertaining. Spock in particular found himself in some clever situations, and since Leonard Nimoy co-wrote and directed the picture, you'd be asking for a full dose of double dumb-ass if you didn't think so too. "},{"Title":"One of a Kind Star Trek flick","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is just an excellent Star Trek movie. I made the error years ago of saying that the Star Trek movies, like the show, diminished as the movies went along (it was certainly true for the series). But in retrospect that was in error on the movies, and this is by far my favorite. Having recently rescued and reanimated Spock, and using a Klingon warship as their ride (and how exactly did they learn to fly that?), our favorite outer space crew are immediately embroiled in a life or death struggle for Earth. A huge space probe is at Earth's door looking for whales, and our 23rd century world has no answer. Our crew goes back in time to try to rescue their world/galaxy. With Nimoy's passing I just have to say again what many others feel, which is that the character of Spock played by Nimoy is one of the greatest, if not the greatest, in modern entertainment history. In the original series his character was always A+ even when the story wasn't as good. Leonard does equally well in directing this effort. And I have nothing more to say on that. "},{"Title":"Kirk and Crew Face the 1980s.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the most explosive, if not the best, Star Trek movies, THE VOYAGE HOME has Kirk and his team time-traveling to 1986 Los Angeles in search for a pair of humpback whales, the only beings that can be signaled by a mysterious alien probe threatening to destroy 23rd-century Earth.  During their mission they must also face the reality of 1980s civilization.  Not as powerful as WRATH OF KHAN, but it is very close to that standard and is never dated as an 80s Movie.  Some good performances help too, as well as spectacular special effects that make THE VOYAGE HOME a highly enjoyable entry in the Star Trek film series.4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Excellent and Comedic!","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A mysterious space probe arrives at Earth, its broadcasting signal is causing massive damage to Earth, ionising the atmosphere and vaporising the oceans. Its signal is for the extinct race Humpback Whales. With Earth all but destroyed Kirk and company must go back in time to the 20th Century to retrieve two whales. The comedic possibilites are explored to their fullest with this movie, with Kirk (William Shatner) swearing every other sentence and Spock's (Leonardy Nimoy) humourous attempts at emulating him. Chekov wandering around San Franscisco looking for Nuke-lear wessels. is one of the most parodied moments in all Trek history. Another great comedy moment is when breaking Chekov out of hospital they come in with Gillian on the bed and come out with Chekov on the bed and Kirk says to a security guard One little mistake. - Ultimately it ends up with Kirk and his new love interest Gillian (Catherine Hicks) saving the animals from a Whaling Ship, they then travel back to the 23rd Century and the whales are then able to communicate with the probe and it leaves. (I would advise you pick up a copy of Star Trek Probe to see what happens next) Despite all the charges levelled at the Enterprise crew only Kirk's is upheld and he is demoted to Captain. Captain of the Enterprise-A. A comedy movie is perhaps what Trek needed after all the seriousness of the previous three, it works well and the cast chemistry is at an all time high, with a Save the Whales message thrown in to boot along with some fine acting and special effects it makes a great movie.9/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best of the sequels","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The fourth and the eighth film (First Contact) are the best films in the Star Trek movies series mainly because they are directed by knowledgeable cast members who relate all this Star Trek jargon to the survival and advancement of humanity.  In this one we see the anthropocentric importance of preserving species for future generations.Spoiler warning!The plot is a probe that has traveled a great distance to communicate with the humpback whale, which has become extinct, is threatening to destroy planet earth.  The crew travels back to 1986 in order to retrieve a couple of them to communicate with the probe.  There is an effective ecological message in this film.  8/10. "},{"Title":"In top 2 best Star Trek films","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The fourth and the eighth film (First Contact) are the best films in the Star Trek movies series mainly because they are directed by knowledgeable cast members who relate all this Star Trek jargon to the survival and advancement of humanity.  In this one we see the anthropocentric importance of preserving species for future generations.Spoiler warning!The plot is a probe that has traveled a great distance to communicate with the humpback whale, which has become extinct, is threatening to destroy planet earth.  The crew travels back to 1986 in order to retrieve a couple of them to communicate with the probe.  There is an effective ecological message in this film.  8/10. "},{"Title":"Terrific follow-up to THE SEARCH FOR SPOCK. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the most accomplished of the STAR TREK movies with the original cast, albeit with a storyline similar to THE MOTION PICTURE.Some neat exchanges of dialogue, plus some great special effects combined to make this a bigger hit than the previous films as well as being accessible to non-Trekkers. It is a testament to the writers that they didn't turn this into a sub rip-off of BACK TO THE FUTURE, which utilised the time travel idea with effective results.Allowing the cast to mock their characters as well was another strength of the film and it brought the saga back to where it should be. "},{"Title":"Great fun even if you're not a hard-core Trek fan.","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Following on from where Star Trek III left off, our heroes are on Vulcan, having  been reunited with Spock (Leonard Nimoy). Soon afterwards they set off on anunusual adventure. The Earth of their time is under threat from an alien probe,  and the crew discovers that the only answer is to bring back some hump-backed  whales from the past -- which in our universe was the then-present 1986!One of the most wonderful things about this movie is how the 23rd Century crew  have difficulty adapting to the 20th Century Earth, with people being far less  hospitable than they are used to, as well as things like Spock's trying to fit in as  a human (including concealing his famous pointed ears) in some very amusingways (you'll have to see the film to find out), while at the same time trying to  remember things prior to THAT event in Star Trek II! Another thing that is equally  wonderful is that even someone who has not followed Star Trek in any of itsprevious incarnations could enjoy this due mostly to the familiar 1986 setting.Admiral Kirk (William Shatner), Dr McCoy (the late DeForest Kelley), Sulu(George Takei), Chekov (Walter Koenig), Scott (James Doohan) and Uhura(Nichelle Nichols) are still as engaging to watch as ever, with McCoy still giving  his trademark quips and Spock's half-human nature still causingembarrassment in rather amusing ways.Absolutely fantastic even today. Light-hearted, escapist fun for all the family. "}{"Title":"Kirk and Spock Save the Whales!","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The fourth installment of the long running movie franchise based on the original 1960s TV show is different, but good. Star Trek IV is an example of the fish out of water comedies popular in the 1980s (humour derived by putting characters in unfamiliar locales - such as in Crocodile Dundee and Down and Out in Beverly Hills). This makes Star Trek IV unlike the other films in the series, but it works because Star Trek was always about ideas and characters instead of action sequences and special effects and also because the jokes are actually funny.Star Trek IV's plot is pure contrivance. After angering both Starfleet and the Klingons because of their actions in Star Trek III The Search for Spock, Adm. James T. Kirk (William Shatner) and his officers prepare to return to Earth and face the music. However, before arriving home they learn that a mysterious, energy-draining probe is threatening to destroy the world unless it can communicate with the humpback whales it has been sent to find. Since whales are extinct in the 23rd century, Kirk and company go back in time to 1985 San Francisco to retrieve some. The whole bit with the alien probe is kind of a rip off of the first Star Trek picture (which itself borrowed heavily from a couple of old TV episodes), but that's not really the focus of the film. Instead it's the time travel, comedic, and environmentalist elements. As directed by Mr. Spock himself, Leonard Nimoy, Star Trek IV strikes the right tone of light hearted fun without becoming too campy. While it does become a little too preachy at times (especially from Catherine Hicks as a marine biologist Kirk befriends), it's hard not to like this goofy sci-fi lark that nicely exploits the cast's encounters with 20th century culture and technology.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"What its all about","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Long long ago in a franchise far far away, before the dark days of saturation and indifference there was just the original Star Trek and its cast of likable characters, with the likes of Nicholas Meyer, Harve Bennett and Leonard Nimoy steering the ship a confident course through a trilogy of excellent movies that perfectly captured the spirit, intelligence and deft humour of the original television series. Those who took over when the original crew retired were but a glint in Kirk's wandering eye and a Trek movie was an event, the first of which for the unconverted was to be Star Trek IV The Voyage Home.Meyer and Bennett had taken the series apart in parts II and III and so, having lost the Enterprise, killed and resurrected Spock and having the entire crew become fugitives in the process, it was left to The Voyage Home to resolve these problems and return things to normal. Gone is the dramatic urgency of the previous sequels; instead IV is a likable, feel good comedy with a intelligent ecological message. Very much of its time, The Voyage home manages to use a clever sci-fi conceit that ensures its 'save the whales' message doesn't become trite or preachy. The fish out of water (sorry) double act of Kirk and Spock is a joy to watch as the leads get to relax and really spark off each other and the rest of the crew get a chance to enjoy themselves in a series of well crafted vignettes that remind you why they were all so popular in the first place, the late Deforrest Kelly in particular enjoying a lions shares of the one liners. Star Trek IV isn't a big budget picture and it doesn't rely on special effects gloss or scenes of galactic destruction to entertain. Its a good old fashioned character driven adventure that keeps moralising to a minimum while delivering the kind of effortless feel good entertainment that is so often lacking in the genre, culminating in a throughly satisfying conclusion. Die hard fans may find it too slight and too jokey to take as a serious entry to the series, and much has been made of its successful cross-over quality, endearing itself to fans and non-fans alike, but to dwell on this really misses the point by a few light-years. Its a good movie full stop, and in light of the forced humour and out of character asides of later next generation entries to the canon, we may with the benefit of hindsight, have wished that the voyage had ended here. "},{"Title":"Best of the series","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek IV succeeds not because it is normal science-fiction fare with battles between Earthlings and aliens but because it takes on the characteristics of another category it is comedy -- not satire of science fiction (like Spaceballs), but satire of Earth as we knew it in the 1980's. The last Red Scare. Nuclear proliferation. Ecological wreckage. Punk rock. Drugs. Public vulgarity and rudeness. Celebrity trash. After the mid-1980s the subjects for satire wouldn't work, in part because international tensions moderated (thank you, Gorbachev!) and in part because the ugliness of the time has abated.Nothing dates as quickly as science fiction due to the inevitable anachronisms, but this one will last because it is tied to a time now clearly in the past. Special effects? If pedestrian, they at least are modest, and modest effects can be effective without calling attention to themselves at the expense of the script.  This movie isn't for those who think that sci-fi absolutely needs either light-saber fights as in the Star Wars series or psychedelic visions as in 2001. The object of this movie is comedy, of people of the crew of the Enterprise appearing in the late 20th century and trying to avoid its dangers while not giving themselves away.One probably needs know less about the conventions of Star Trek to understand this movie than any other in the series -- and where necessary the script explains those conventions with economy. Were this the only Star Trek Movie I would have glowing praise for the whole (ahem!) enterprise pun intended. Regrettably, only the middle ones of the six involving the original Enterprise Crew (Kirk, Spock, etc.) are worth watching by any other than Trekkies.  "},{"Title":"Star Trek with an added dose of humor","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this is the best of the Star Trek movies with the original cast. Mr. Spock, after his trauma from the the previous movie, is not all there mentally and it makes for some interesting and very funny scenes.  The scenes of McCoy in the 20th century hospital and Scotty trying to use a 20th century computer are also quite amusing.Sure, the premise of this movie is a bit silly, but it is STAR TREK so what do you expect?  There is no violence as another reviewer pointed out, but even as a fan of action films myself, I didn't miss it.I believe that the Star Trek series has survived so long because of the writer's attention to character interaction and the actor's ability to make us believe that they have a real relationship.Star Trek IV The Voyage Home does this exceedingly well.  Leonard Nimoy is to be commended for his script writing and directing in this movie. "},{"Title":"Science Fiction without violence.......To Boldly Go Where No Man Has gone before !!!","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In spite of it's many critics, I think it's one of the best Star Trek-films with the original cast. Star Trek has always been about exploring new frontiers. There are some who complain there's no violence in the film, something I think is a plus in this movie (It was one of those new frontiers to try and do without). Wasn't it creator Roddenberry who believed that we the people from earth will one day come together as one to live in peace and harmony so we could face the perils of alien races and outer space ? The second thing that makes this a memorable film is that Leonard Nimoy tries to get us narcissistic humanoids of the idea that all intelligent life in space will in some way resemble us. Well I guess the people who choose to believe that are the ones that think we are the most or even the only intelligent life on earth, because we can create.......Well I'm not one of them simply because we are also the only living beings on this earth which destroy and what's so intelligent about that ?? So critics if the above mentioned pre-conceptions on life are yours I understand where you're coming from (and pity you) but please do not criticize this movie for being the odd one out it was meant to be.............  "},{"Title":"A fine Star Trek film, simply excellent","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently saw Star Trek Nemesis, a Next Generation movie that was only fair.  That quality of a movie made me long for this kind of Star Trek movie.  This is a movie that defines Star Trek, boldly going, seeking out new life and civilizations, protecting mankind, and doing all of this with the best of intentions.  There is nothing dark about movies like this whereas the most recent entries in the Star Trek franchises have been very dark.In this Star Trek we find the crew of the Enterprise not at all on the Enterprise.  Instead they are on a hijacked Klingon vessel they hijacked from the third one.  They decide to journey home, where they are in hot water for stealing a Klingon vessel and the Klingons are not happy about it.  Also back home are Spock's worried father, Sarek, and Admiral Cartwright, played nicely by Brock Peters.  On their way home the crew encounters a probe of unknown origin.  This unknown probe is destroying everything in site and it is heading for Earth.  SPOILER  Mr. Spock identifies the signals this probe is giving as whale signals.  The crew deciphers that they are trying to send signals to earth.  Here is the problem  The probe appears to be trying to contact a form of whale that was extinct long ago.So what do they do?  OF COURSE!!!  Why didn't I think of that?  They go back in time to take a whale from the twentieth century and bring it to the future to save mankind yet again.  This is perhaps the most successful installment of Star Trek.  This installment is relatively lighthearted compared to other installments in the series.  There are no great battles in this movie or real intense moments.  But this is just a decent little film. One thing I like about this movie is the socially conscious element.  This movie really talks about an important issue in this time frame and that is environment preservation and species protection.  Few people look at it and I am glad this movie did.  The movie has its very funny moments as well, including the crew trying to blend in during modern times, as well as Spock cussing, that's great!!There was a scene where the Star Trek people were in front of a group of TV screens and originally the screens were suppose to have old episodes of Star Trek.  Why didn't they?  It would have been great.  But this Star Trek gives way to intensity and Science Fiction and makes for great light-hearted entertainment.  To me this is the second best Star Trek the first is the Undiscovered Country, in the original.  I have to say First Contact is the second best movie overall.This was the last ever Star Trek before the Next Generation.  For 21 years this was the only Star Trek, still the best Star Trek and still very entertaining.  This is a fine adventure and a great departure for the original crew to be the only intergalactic travelers, warriors and philosophers.  But they were far from done, and even long after they were done they are still only getting started.   "},{"Title":"Lighter and Happier Than its Predecessors","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek II and Star Trek III both dealt with serious themes, and had an unusual focus on death and the macabre.  Star Trek IV The Voyage Home, by comparison, is a much lighter and happier affair, and is thankfully pulled off rather well.  Comedy is by far the most difficult and dangerous genre of film, so it is no small miracle that Star Trek IV maintains its integrity as an entry in the franchise while shooting for laughs throughout.  The plot itself is preposterous, but has a sense of fun and urgency that resonates beyond the Star Trek universe, dealing with many issues of the time of its release.  Such things as the Cold War, Endangered Species, and Nuclear Energy are all dealt with in a delicate but amusing fashion.  This, balanced with the extensive and effective use of familiar characters, make for some truly memorable and enjoyable moments.  The juxtaposition of the Enterprise crew of the twenty-third century reacting to the customs of the 1980's remarkably never wears thin throughout the movie, and makes Star Trek IV a true gem.It is interesting how stylistically different Star Trek IV is from the previous films, yet comfortably holds its own with the other nine entries in the series.  Standing so far outside the formula manages to heighten this episode within the ranks of the best.  Of the original crew films, Star Trek IV is second only to The Wrath of Khan.   "},{"Title":"Awesome even for Trekkies(ers)","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I live for Star Trek.  I pretty much love all Trek with the exception of Voyager, which I can tolerate.  Star Trek IV is a comic relief within the Star Trek movies series.  It was a brilliant illustration of the fact that the franchise *could* do comedy and not come off stupid or campy.  Maybe some think it was campy, but I love that movie, as I love all the movies with the exception of number 1 (which Nimoy and Shatner don't like all that much either Mindmeld). "},{"Title":"Star Trek's attempt at comedy","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie in grade 12 with my friend Moses.  I found this movie funny.  They added many humorous time travel scenes.  This is not a serious film.  I found Kirk and Spock's antidotes funny.  It had an environmental theme before its time.  Worth renting not owning.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Fun; Great Send-Up! and a Message or 2 (or 5...6; ect)","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No Way!! Send Enterprise back to present day Earth to retrieve some whales?? As plot, this ain't gonna work! But history shows that The Voyage Home deserves its status as one of the best entries in the 'Trek' canon.Star Trek 4 is a rare sequel that actually improves the previous entry ('Search for Spock') and is an excellent mid section to the satisfying conclusion in 'The Undiscovered Country'. It's also the TREK movie that combined elements that appealed to 'Trekers' and 'Non-Trekers' alike.And...it represents an essential chapter. With Star Trek 2, 3, 4 and 6; a complete story is told. What makes the viewing a lot more rewarding is knowing some of the original episodes that inspired them; the obvious 'Space Seed'; 'Amok Time'; 'Journey To Babel'; 'Trouble with Tribbles'; 'City on the Edge of Forever'; ect. (You could almost discount Star Trek 1 and 5). And so many new supporting characters that carried over to # 6.A Sci-Fi premise with on-target humor that's laugh-out loud. This will always be a great audience movie. The Series' supporting players shine a little more in their importance to the success of the mission that combines laughs, nostalgia and urgency.(Subtle Spoiler) And one of the best 'throw-a way' line in movie history that sums up so much. While analyzing the probe's transmission, Spock reasons that it's unlikely the probe is unaware of it's destructive effects taking place. 'Bones' asks Spock if this is the probe's way of saying 'Hi There' to the people of earth. Spock's response There are other forms of intelligent life on earth, Doctor (McCoy). Only human arrogance would assume the message must be meant for man.Bullseye!!! Is this Spock's perception of the human race; doomed by arrogance in thinking that man has everything all figured out?? Religion! Origin of! Superiority over others with different opinions! Or probably, Spock's awareness of another form of intelligent life not deemed worthy for human understanding. Marine Biologist, Gillian Taylor, displays the necessary compassion that represents most of us in the 20th century; compassion and understanding that most everyone wants to strive for.Nimoy's direction is more assured, especially when he doubled-dutied with a co-starring assignment. Nobody ever said that great sci-fi is action-packed. Nimoy's approach (and co-writer Nicholas Meyer) excells in character interaction, non-violent solutions and culture clash that is downright insightful and Funny!! And all the actors display the fun-loving warmth they must have felt for their character's attributes. And some nice comedic timing too.Leonard Rosenman's score ('East of Eden'; 'Beneath the Planet of the Apes') does not have the operatic quality of James Horner, but is perfect when the crew is dumped into the mid 80's, especially in the center of the bustling streets of San Fran (hysterical).A family movie! Inside jokes; and a touch of vulgarity.Special effects so good, that members of the academy didn't realize they were watching 'special effects'.A labor of love for many who understand 'Star Trek'. "}{"Title":"A great addition to the series!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This Star Trek film is most definitely different from the rest of the films.  I say this because there is a great deal more comedy in this film than any of the other films.  The comedy in the film is done very well, and even now (16 years after the release), the comedy is still really funny.The story is very odd, but very good.  It is most definitely a great addition to the Star Trek series.  Also, the story flows very nicely from preceding film.  This film picks up right where The Search for Spock left off and continues from there.The special effects alone in this film are worth watching.  There are a number of scenes where I was just in shock at how cool the special effects are.  There are a lot of cool things to look at in this film, so if you like special effects, you'll hopefully like this film.All the cast members in the film were great!  I've got to hand it to the core cast of the Star Trek films, they do a great job with these characters and I really enjoyed all of them, in this film especially.  The part of Dr. Gillian Taylor (Catherine Hicks) was done very well, and was a great addition to cast.  (A little side note  Catherine Hicks has since gone on to play the part of Annie Camden in 7th Heaven, a Television Show.  The part of Eric Camden, Annie's Husband, in the television show is played by Stephen Collins, who played Captain Willard Decker in Star Trek The Motion Picture.)  Anyhow, all the cast members did a fantastic job in this film.  Also, I should mention that Leonard Nimoy did another great job at directing for his second time in a row for the Star Trek series.There were a number of things that I really liked about the film and would really like to express my interest in them, so if you haven't seen the film, DO NOT read on.  But, if you have seen the film, by all means, read on.  For those of you that are leaving me now, thanks for reading and I truly hope you enjoy the film.SPOILERS AHEAD!I thought it was very interesting that you never really find out the origin of the space probe that came to earth in an attempt to communicate with the Humpback Whales.  I like it that way though, because then you are in the same boat as the characters in the film.  They don't know where this probe came from, and neither do you.  I kind of like that it's left up to your imagination.I also really liked the idea behind time travel/warp in the film.  It was made to seem like something that could be done, but was VERY dangerous, unpredictable, and unstable and therefore not performed very often.  It is almost as if time warp is a new technology to the people of the Star Trek universe.  Anyhow, I thought that aspect of the film was done very well.There were a number of other little things that really made this story great to me like the things mentioned above, but I won't go into all of them.  Anyhow, thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"The funniest and greatest Trek movie","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the very serious Star Trek II and III there is a comedy, a funny and laughable Trek adventure. It has got very good jokes, gags and a good adventure for all of the Trekkies. It is the biggest Trek movie made. See your favourite Starfleet heroes in a comedy! Excellent! "},{"Title":"Ranks up there with the best of the Trek films","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Voyage Home is one of my favorites. It has everything comedy, action, and a Klingon ship decloaking under the Golden Gate bridge. The best seen would have to be with Kirk's classic line, everybody remember where we parked. I give it a 5 out of 5.  "},{"Title":"so far, this has the most humor of all the star trek films","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Compared to the other star trek films, this doesn't have much action, effects, and scenes that will excite you, but this has the most humor of all the star trek films. Spock is funny as he tries to understand human behavior and the crew as they try to find there way through 21st century America. Although you won't understand the humor in the movie if you don't know the background of star trek, this will certainly give some laughs to those who know Kirk and his crew. "},{"Title":"brings a smile to my face every time","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a fun movie, no two ways about it. I enjoy catching it whenever it's on for its light-hearted humour. I think this is the best of the Star Trek movies, mostly because the sci fi part is not at all embarrassing. How could it be, in a movie that doesn't take itself too seriously (a problem with much of Star Trek)? If only the later series would have as much fun with the stories as this movie did. Catherine Hicks played her straight part perfectly, allowing Shatner to get away with lines like Hello Alice, welcome to Wonderland! and was a very attractive and realistic leading lady. Nimoy was hilarious in his part as a spaced-out version of Spock - he could have played Jim Ignatowski on Taxi - and deserves a huge amount of credit for this relatively daring departure for a Trek story and for his direction. Everyone clearly had a lot of fun on this movie, and there are so many funny moments. Spock and the punk rocker on the bus. Scotty (James Doohan) playing with the Mac. Chekhov asking the suspicious cop about the whereabouts of the Nuclear Wessels is a great scene, which of course was particularly funny in 1986, during the Reagan era of the Cold War. But Doohan gets the memorable, oft quoted line Admiral, there be whales here!  "},{"Title":"The Best Trek Movie!","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found this movie funny, enjoyable, and quite a change of pace from the previous movies...in fact, a change of pace from most of the series! (Excluding Shore Leave and The Trouble With Tribbles, of course.)While diehard fans who want serious stuff, like Klingons and battles and very serious soap-operaish character development won't find much here, for any fan of Star Trek, this is a must-see.One of my favorite scenes come when Scotty sits down at a 20th-century, 1986-ish computer and says, Hello, computer.McCoy hands him the mouse, and he speaks into it Ah. Hello, computer!When it is pointed out to him that in 1986 computers didn't have voice-recongition capability, he rolls his eyes and mutters about old-fashioned gadgets.This is just one of the many amazing scenes in the film. There are also funny scenes when Chekov is interrogated by a commander on board the USS Enterprise, a Navy ship; Spock's constant use of colorful language, often wrong; a punk rocker being neck-pinched by our favorite Vulcan; and the whole crew striding down 1986 Los Angeles in their very futuristic costu--I mean, uniforms.The film also has a very serious message. The basic plot is that by the 23rd century, whales are extinct from the Earth's ocean. When a probe from an alien race which communicated with the whales comes to Earth and finds none of the ocean's gentle beasts left, it begins to destroy the Earth. That is why the crew goes back in time -- to rescue two of the giant animals to bring back to communicate with the probe.I'm told environmentalists were very happy over the film's message. In fact, just about everybody was happy with the film, period.  "},{"Title":"Nuuu-cleee-aaarrr...WESSELS!","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie when it was first out and it was as much a laugh riot as it is today. The fact that the punk on the bus went on to write MUPPET TREASURE ISLAND amuses me to no end. Then there's Gillian's first encounter with the transporter, Dr. McCoy's total disdain of20th-century medicine (My God,what is this,the dark ages?) Spock's inability to stop swearing and his mind-meld with the whale,Scotty attempting to interact with the computer...THE VOYAGE HOME is pure entertainment from beginning to end.  "},{"Title":"Good stuff.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Voyage Home (a.k.a Star Trek 4) ranks as my most loved Original Series based film. The other Kirk and Co adventures were good but just not as good as this. The comic value of this film is just great and I think that this was what made the film so loved by some and hated by others. For me however, the crazy adventures of the ever aging cast placed a smile on my face and a laugh in my mouth. This deserves at least 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"My favorite Star Trek movie.","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"      It is difficult to say because this one is not typical Star Trek, but this film could be my favorite of all the Star Trek films. I probably have seen it more times than the others. Kirk and his crew travel back to late-1980's San Francisco. The humor in this movie is terrific. The crew seems to stand out like sore thumbs - particularly Mr Spock. Vulnerability to the era causes problems, while adding laughs at the same time. What probably makes me enjoy this one the best, in addition to the humor, is the time travel. I seem to have a particular liking for films that have time travel, or the altering of time ( the Back to the Future movies, Frequency, etc.) No doubt about it, Star Trek IV is always exciting and fun to watch. "},{"Title":"The best comedy in trek since the tribble.","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off, to explain the common question In the beginning council scene, where we see the Enterprise explode, how are we seeing this take place? True, it is footage from STIII, however, alot of hardcore trek fans know that when you are in imminent danger, you release an audio/visual flight probe. (alot like our flight data recorders on planes.) This is how we watched the Enterprise go kablooey.Now...on to the review...This is the best Star Trek movie that has ever been made. Star Trek IV combined loads of comedy, technical information (ie, transparent aluminum, dilithium recrystalization, etc...)though true, that little mac would have died from overload with an equation like that. Still, it's Scotty,...And the absolutely superb acting done by the cast. This is, and always shall be...my favourite trek movie.And the ending, with the new Enterprise-A, well, that's just a classic. "}{"Title":"A wonderful caper with our future at stake.","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film originated with Leonard Nimoy concerned at the plight of whales and the very real probability of their extinction. Nimoy does a documentry on the making of this movie which is fascinating to say the least.  It is part of the director's edition series from Paramount.The beauty of this film is that it as Nimoy puts it. a caper, after the first three films a chance to lighten up.  Everyone in the crew gets to shine and have fun doing it.  In fact some of the things that a lot of Star Trek fans have dreamed of doing our friends actually do it and for a good cause.  We get to see Kirk and crew as a family here something that will also be brought out in Star Trek V The Final Frontier.  The Voyage Home is considered the best in the series and in the final moments of the film the USS Enterprise NCC-1701A is traveling through space with Kirk and crew aboard. "},{"Title":"The troubles with . . . well, not tribbles","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers!Whale probe, big soccer ball in the sky, attacks earth. Kirk saves the world, joking about it the whole way. That's pretty much it. But it works, somewhat - somehow. I tend to like this as the best of the film series.Actually, I thought Schuck was Christopher Lloyd, but . . . the annihilation of the Klingon people! Huh?Anyway, it sets the off and on comedy tone of the whole film. The very attack ship, itself, looks just like a gigantic length of pipe with a soccer ball floating under it. One of the opening lines is, when seeing the probe - what do you think of that? And I'm saying to myself - not much.But the film doesn't stay as farce. It bounces back and forth between the dramatic and the goofy. That was sort of the thing with the original tv series. Nimoy, the director, and writers almost seem to have an ear for when the comedy is about to spoil the believability, and switches back to the dramatic and sublime. Spock plays the straightman fool in the fish out of water, failing to understand idioms he's surely heard before, in many places, who knows about whales but describes Harold Robbins as a 'giant' of literature or something. But, eventually, at other times he returns to being the noble Spock, right up to the final scene. It's critical for the balance of the film, or it wouldn't work at all. Chekov is almost goofy when interrogated aboard ship, or when asking directions. What a loon! He's playing Abbot and Costello. Kirk is foolish when confronted by a motorist - double dumb, etc. The real Jim Kirk would have just ignored it and maybe laughed to himself; and prob. wouldn't have said at the end of the movie - but I don't even have your number. Jim Kirk wasn't that artless; but maybe Shatner is (?). So it's a laugh riot, at times, then a briefly serious interlude, and then a chase scene through the hospital, to the accompaniment of circus music, and so on.So why does the film sort of work? Because of the flaws, the idiotic plot, and plot holes, the scenes shot in sort of a detached form, particularly the crash landing scene which seems completely artificial and contrived (you can almost sense the studio lights overhead), the characters simultaneously dunces and competent futuristic bridge officers, and so on, you could say the film hasn't aged well. I think it worked better in 'the day' because the previous movies had been so ponderous, or serious, or dreary, that a jokester crew was probably a bit of a welcome surprize. That the film throws in the dramatic scenes at the right time, doesn't hurt. Sarek doesn't crack wise, for ex.The writers were aware, obv., of how unlikely the whole thing is. But that's prob. just as true for the orig tv series. Here, we identify with the ever perky Hicks/'Mrs. Camden', as it were, who is just cynical as can be sitting at the trendy SF diner with the 'bum', Kirk. She can't believe him. And she doesn't care. Kirk and Spock seem harmless enough, she would say. And the film occasionally tries even to distance itself from the PC, being in plot the most PC film I can recall - humpback whales (trapped in the Klingon ship tank - they're air breathing), 'still using money', 'arrogance o man' - OH, c'mon Bobbb!, and so on. The yuppie joggers get theirs as the invisible ship lifts off. But that doesn't stick it to the PC. The whole film is PC. And that hurts it, today. The whole exercise seems achingly contrived.I guess I still haven't explained why I thought the film worked. I think it's for the reason that crew worked. If the plots in the old show were even PC for the day, the crew wasn't. It held together, worked as a team, kidded with each other, knew the flaws, knew the bravery, and so on. And that 'history together' is what survives this utterly contrived film, as well. The plot is absurd. The plot holes are found in almost every scene. The nerd complaint is the Mac+ being able to hold even that demo without crashing. The nerd+ complaint is how come no one found the ship - GG Park is a very small place. The docs would say that McCoy knew what a physician would wear in the hospital more than a 'Mrs. Camden' would. The critic's complaint is also with the doc, with McCoy saying 'sure, slingshot around the sun . . ', as the only point for him being there to drive home what's seen as almost a routine method of time travel, despite all the assorted 'guessing' complaints. The trekkie would prob. wonder why they can't recrystalize crystals that need to be - but then we wouldn't get to see Chekov play with his ray gun. Frankly, the manipulation smashes you on the head. And the location shoots, for anyone living in the SF Bay Area, are preposterously misrepresented. But the crew is what seems real, even for the odd lapses into imbecility, seen for the sake of a 'joke'. It's the cast. Ultimately, that's why I think it works, if it does. It's the reason, really, ultimately, that the original Star Trek worked. "},{"Title":"Save the whales while you still can!","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this movie in Orlando, Florida right after Navy boot camp. Ironic that I ended up serving on board USS Enterprise CVN-65 as a nuclear machinist.  Their depiction of the engine room was pretty good, but I can tell you that there are no German shepherds running around and the nuclear reactor doesn't have a nice window looking into lava-land.Another neat thing was the Pontiac Fieros you see driving through San Francisco.  Don't see that much any more - but I still got one!  And how can you go wrong with time travel? So many great one-liners too! All in all, Star Trek IV is my favorite Star Trek movie; it was very timely when it came out.  It combines the revival of Spock with saving the whales and demotion of Kirk from Admiral to Captain.  I think when Star Trek first came out, it was Hollywood's way of dealing with the Cold War.  It placed Russians side by side with Americans on the same ship, thus showing that we could all get along - with or without a greater enemy.  After the tremendous success of Star Trek due to its love of high tech  space exploration, I think we forget that original message.  It jeers back at us in this movie when Chekov asks the San Francisco police officer where the naval nuclear wessels are.  And the policeman just stands there in disbelief - as if the Russians can't afford to train their spies in proper English. Kudos to Star Trek IV for bringing us full circle! "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star trek seems to be running a little pattern the Even-numbered Movies have the best stories. I loved all the jokes and spock's use of colorful metephores as he put it. and it was great to see the new enterprise at the end of the film.  "},{"Title":"The best trek of them all!","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Star Trek, and the fourth movie in the series, titled Star Trek IV The Voyage Home is my favorite movie in the series. One of the best things about this film is that the filmmakers went out and did something different compared to the other movies in the series. They made it lighthearted, and it's full of comedy. It lacks the violence of the other movies, but I didn't mind one bit. Star Trek IV is about an orbiting probe that is threatening to destroy Earth. The only thing that can respond to the probe is the sounds of humpback whales. Unfortunately, whales don't exist in the 23rd century. So the crew of the Starship Enterprise must travel back in time to retrieve some humpback whales to save Earth. They end up in San Francisco during the year 1986. This is where the movie turns into a comedy, and it's great. It's hard to believe that a Star Trek movie can be so funny, but it is. There are a lot of big laughs throughout Star Trek IV. I mean big laughs. Some of things that the Enterprise crew go through when they get to San Francisco is hilarious. Terrific performances abound, especially by William Shatner as Admiral Kirk, Leonard Nimoy (who also directed) as Captain Spock, and guest star Catherine Hicks as a whale biologist who helps them out. The other cast members come off well here. DeForest Kelley is very funny as Dr. McCoy (Bones); so is James Doohan as Scotty; George Takei, Walter Koenig, and Nichelle Nichols are very good as Sulu, Chekov, and Uhura, respectiably. Every character is very well written in this film. Just about everyone has at least a couple of good scenes, thanks to excellent direction by Nimoy and a good screenplay. Plus, the special effects are impressive (far better than the cheap effects in the next film Star Trek V). This is the Star Trek movie for everyone. And to me is the best of the series.**** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"The fourth installment set a different pace. SPOILERS","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  STAR TREK 4 THE VOYAGE HOME was a time travel adventure set in modern day California. The Enterprise crew goes back in time to save some whales when a alien probe ravages earth. The probe needs to hear the songs of whales to cease it's probing. The only place these whales exist is in the past, since they are extinct in the future. This film focused more on comedy as the Enterprise crew encounters culture shock when they are confronted by the rude world of the 1980's. Of all the trek films, this one had the best box office. The film catered to people who normally wouldn't go to a STAR TREK film. This was Leonard nimoy's second directorial effort and was one of his best. The environmental issues get a tad preachy, however this is a fine film. "},{"Title":"How can you not enjoy this movie!","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How can you hate this movie?  Granted it is about whales, but the message is there etched in stone.  This movie is the one that did the best at the domestic box-office, why?  It reflected some sort of pop-culture, this is one of the last movies of the 1980's that gave us some sort of identity as to who we were and what could lie ahead of us if we're not careful. The screenplay is so lighthearted and funny that we don't even take notice of some of the slap-stick humor.   Everyone has their moment on camera in this movie, all except Sulu, who has to settle for flying a helicopter instead of meeting his greatgrand-father, it is unfortunate that the scene was not shot, still, everyone got a chance to show off their character.   Although not as dramatically charged as 'Wrath of Khan' this is certainly easier to watch and fills you up with comedy.  It is a movie you can watch over and over again, that is what makes this superior to Khan. "},{"Title":"Save the whales!","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek IV departs from the typical serious tone of the other Star Trek movies.  It serves as a breath of comic relief from the more somber tone of Star Trek III, its predecessor.  It definitely is one of the more entertaining films in the Star Trek series.The movie begins with Admiral Kirk and his crew exiled on Vulcan.  They have managed to resurrect Captain Spock and to procure the Klignon vessel gained during their defeat of the Klignons at the Genesis planet.  They now decide to boldly return to Earth to face the consequences of their treasonous actions against Starfleet.Meanwhile, an alien probe of unknown origin has set a direct course for Earth.  This probe is unleashing an unusual signal aplified with great power at everything in its path.  During its journey to Earth, the probe disables ships and the Starfleet space station at Earth as well as vaporizing the Earth's oceans and ionizing the Earth's atmosphere.Admiral Kirk and his crew return to Earth to find it nearing total planetary ecological disaster.  The probe has caused an immense cloud cover over the planet and has almost entirely vaporized the Earth's oceans.  After analysis of the probe by Spock, Spock announces that the only way to placate the probe is to answers its signal.  The answer can only be provided by the humpbacked whales.The only problem is that humpbacked whales are extinct in the 23rd century.  This extinction was caused by extreme hunting and poaching in the 20th and 21st centuries.  Upon realizing this, the crew of the Enterprise realize the inevitable ... they must somehow travel back in time to 20th century Earth to obtain some humpbacked whales to respond to the alien probe!  So, they aim their Klignon vessel at the sun and use its gravitational field somehow go back in time.When they arrive at late 20th century San Francisco, they find a world that is both fascinating and hostile.  They are bewildered by a people that use money, have many cars, speak with colorful metaphors, and have exact change buses.  Their experience of cultural shock as they adapt to our present world provides for some rather humorous encounters.  They eventually manage to elicit the help of Dr. Gillian Taylor, a marine biologist who is steward to George and Gracey (two humpbacked whales--male and female).However, despite their success in going backwards in time, several problems remain.  Can they really obtain the two humpbacked whales they need to save Earth?  Do they have the necessary fuel and resources to successfully return to the 23rd century?  Is saving the Earth going to be enough to salvage their omenous careers in Starfleet?  (... And even, what does exact change mean?)This movie is successful because it is easy to relate to.  You see our world and our culture in the light of a foreigner, a visitor from the future.  You also see the consequences that can result from our sometimes shortsighted attitudes towards the environment.Overall, this is a funny film with several good philosophical messages.  It is obvious that the cast and crew had a lot of fun making this film. "},{"Title":"Trek takes on comedy","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To save the future Earth from a mysterious alien probe,Kirk,Spock,and crew venture to 1986 to retrieve some humpback whales in this solid,and often very funny Star Trek film. Spock's cursing,Chekov trying to ask people for directions to the nuclear wessels with a cop watching,and Scotty's speaking into the computer mouse to get it to work,are just hilarious. Leonard Nimoy pulls off another good film. Save for First Contact and Undiscovered Country,this was the last decent Star Trek film.      ***1/2 out of ****      "},{"Title":"Feels more like a comedy more than a science fiction movie!!!","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the fourth entry in the Star Trek series of movies. It stars the original cast . This time the Federation faces a probe which leaves everything it meets powerless. The crew of the Enterprise find out they need humpback whales to save the earth. They travel back in time to get the whales. After they get there it starts to feel more like a comedy than serious sci-fi movie!!Eventually the crews leaves for their right time. This sequel was ok , for me a causul fan of the series,but I like the second and third entries in this series!!If you really enjoy the series, then you might enjoy this movie!!Overall, it is ok for viewing every once in a while!!In this movie ,you can also see the mother from Seventh Heaven on the WB network!! "}{"Title":"Bring back the old cast","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know this movie is considered to be the worst in the series among star trek fans, but I liked it better than any of the ones with The Next Generation crew. The cast just doesn't measure up to the old crew, and the last movie, Insurrection, was dreadful. Star Trek V'The Voyage Home' brings us on a voyage to where no man has gone before. I just sat back, relaxed and enjoyed the trip on the starship enterprise. When I go to a theater to watch a movie, I want to be taken away from my regular everyday problems, and be brought to another universe. Star Trek V accomplishes this, and this is why I enjoyed it.  "},{"Title":"This is how Trek was meant to be !!","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is more comedy related than the other Star Trek movies. It is my favorite Trek-movie, including First Contact. Star Trek was supposed to be like this, a mix of comedy and action. This movie alone should be enough of a reason to bring back Captain Kirk.  I have a great time watching this movie and you do not need to be a Star Trek fan to watch it, everybody will enjoy it, unless you are that Rambo type that dislike comedy. "},{"Title":"nice....nothing more, nothing less","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No, I don't like the ST-movies. I still prefer the tv-series, which I can't live without. But oh how nice, sometimes a ST-movie is shown on TV, and of course as a fan I watch them. This particular movie is one of the most enjoyable. But still I can't be hilarious about this one as well. It's a nice movie.... nothing more, nothing less. Why is it so hard to make a movie as strong as some of the episodes on TV? e.g. the episode(s) Best of both worlds could be a great SF-movie.... "},{"Title":"Good trek, decent film","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While I would rather see a dark, visionary, and serious Trek without comedy (but still keeping the playful bridge bantering), I did enjoy this film.  It had its serious moments, and it had its light-hearted feel-good moments. Overall, a good film even outside of Star Trek, with some wonderful plot devices.  As Leonard Nimoy said, This was not a movie about a bad guy with a gun, it was a movie about circumstances.  It proved that Star Trek is about *ideas*, and not just space battles.  I couldn't agree more, and that sums up my entire review for this movie. "},{"Title":"Me","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the best Star Trek Movie!!!! "},{"Title":"Comedy Trek","Date":"29 July 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This Trek movie is different from the others, because it is not that serious. There are some good humour-parts in this movie, but for a  'real Trekker', this might be a small disappointment! A Trekker can watch this movie one time or so, but that's enough! Special FX's are not that brilliant. "},{"Title":"A superb film","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" NO Spoilers!! I've made this review with no spoilers - if you're thinking of watching Star Trek IV, then feel free to read this view, and then go on to watch the film! It's more than worth it.Often you find, with long series of famous films, like Terminator or Shrek, the quality decreases as you get to the later installments. If you compare Terminator Salvation to the original, or Shrek 5 to Shrek 1, the difference is astounding.The difference is astounding with the Star Trek franchise too - but the other way round. Star Trek the Motion picture was, frankly, a disappointment. It had its moments, and I consider it a good film, but it's nothing compared to Star trek II, III, or IV.This film is, in my opinion, the best film out of all 12 Star Trek films.The actors, having played these classic characters for 30 years or so, are so comfortable and brilliant in their roles that it seems incredibly real, like watching old, familiar friends. Their acting is as good as it has always been.The film itself strikes a balance between sci-fi and comedy, a beautiful mixture that they got perfect. Thrown back in time, we see the old crew deal with 'our' time. It is hilarious, yet moving - exciting, yet poignant, and leaves you both positive and thoughtful. It's not just a film - it's an experience.Now, you may think the plot sounds absurd - a giant whale-speaking probe comes along, hoping to have a chat with whales - Kirk and co. go back in time to get some, etc., etc... I haven't heard something so strange since... ever! And yet, the plot unwinds beautifully.This film seems to have everything. Good acting. Superb scripting. A solid score. It's an exciting sci-fi, with some classic Kirk romance thrown in, comedic moments all over the place, and a feel-good positive tone all the way through - but not without dramatic tension! I've wasted enough of your time. Go, quickly! Watch this brilliant film! "},{"Title":"Star Trek at its funniest","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Klingons are calling for Kirk's head. It's been 3 months since they got Spock back. Kirk and the crew journeys home to face the court marshal. Meanwhile an alien probe has been disabling ships and stations on its way to Earth. It's sending messages to the ocean which is ionizing the atmosphere. Kirk figures out the message is a whale song. Only the whales are long extinct, and they must go back in time to get a couple of whales.Once this gets back to the 20th century, the movie goes full on comedy. It is simply lots of fish out of water jokes. Everybody gets a shot. Catherine Hicks joins in as the straight man in this comedy fest as a whale expert. The environmental message is good. Star Trek has found a truly funny comedic voice in this movie. "},{"Title":"A light hearted Star Trek adventure","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I went into Star Trek IV The Voyage Home with anxiety, thinking this was going to be a Trek film I would not like due to the silly sounding story and the use of a clash of culture humour. But I ended up enjoying this sequel, finding it to be a lighted-heart adventure that had some well written comedy and most of the crew get a moment to shine, except Sulu who does not have much to do. Shatner is at his best in the more comic situation and since Spock's resurrection he has to rediscover his human side and develop his emotions. The special effects are strong for the time, some of the best of the original film series, even allowing us to see more unique looking alien races . Leonard Nimoy keeps a fast pace and makes sure that there isn't any fat. But Nimoy does lay it one thick with the environmentalist/conservationist message, even though it is a message I agree with.Star Trek IV The Voyage Home is a film that over comes its silly plot and set up and plays to the strengths of the original series. "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek movie yet","Date":"21 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" STAR TREK IV THE VOYAGE HOME was, for me, the most entertaining of the Star Trek movies so far, purely because it feels like an episode of the original series blown up to movie length. The time travel plot is an ingenious excuse for Kirk and co to have some fish-out-of-water fun, and fun it certainly is!This is a notably lighter film than the previous instalments and there's plenty of workable comedy to see it through. The cast feel more relaxed than before and there's a holiday atmosphere to the whole thing. Shatner is even charming on occasion while Kelley and Nimoy make the most of their comic bonding.The film also has a more modern, less dated feel than the previous outings. It's worth noting that the new TV Show, STAR TREK THE NEXT GENERATION, was starting around this time, which may have influenced things, so the special effects are better and there's more originality in the alien races who provide window dressing. Yes, the film has a political message to convey - it's all about saving the planet and protecting the whales - but it's done so in a matter-of-fact way that refuses to preach to the viewer. The focus, instead, is on having a good time, with the result that the audience does too. "}{"Title":"My favourite Star Trek big-screen adventure","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's a special place in my heart for Enterprise-Travels-Back-In-Time stories, and The Voyage Home is up there with the best of them (like City on the Edge of Forever). The film makes ample use of fish-out-of-water gags, but never gets a mere parody. It's the funniest ST movie by far Spock's ears and generally trying to blend in, Checkov checking out the nuclear-powered carrier, Scotty trying to communicate with a stone-age computer, Bones experiencing a 20th century hospital ...The film is far from perfect - plot holes abound, starting with the silly premise (the probe destroying earth by communication), and the environmental message is written in overlarge letters, but still a very entertaining and endearing film, endlessly rewatchable! "},{"Title":"Plain and Simple,Not Something You'd Expect From Star Trek,","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek 4 The Voyage Home is a very enjoyable movie with a simple storyline and,like there always is in Star Trek,a brilliant cast.It's certainly not the best Star Trek movie,and it's definitely the least exciting,there isn't an awful lot of spaceships and aliens in this movie,but it did feel like we got some time to really know these characters in a much less serious scenario.What I liked the best about this movie was that they fit a lot of comedy in it,Star Trek dosen't try to be funny a lot of the time,but this movie showed they do have a sense of humor.Fans of Star Trek won't be getting a big action-packed science fiction movie,but they will get a sweet and funny story,and you'll probably surprised with how much you enjoy itKirk and his crew boldly go back in time in search of the only thing that can save Earth in the distant future,humpback whales. "},{"Title":"Admiral, we have found the nuclear wessel.  And Admiral...it's the Enterprise!","Date":"9 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Star Trek II, the Enterprise crew confronted Khan at a great expense. In Star Trek III, they confronted Klingons in a frantic bid to bring back Spock, at great expense. So naturally, in the fourth film of the classic Trek saga, with the Enterprise crew hanging around planet Vulcan in a captured Klingon Bird of Prey, they had to find their way back home. This film turns the voyage home into an adventure all on its own.The film starts off pretty straight-faced, immediately tossing the Federation and Earth into peril to prompt the Enterprise crew to deal with it. The crew's solution - to travel back and time and save the whales - proves to be utterly ridiculous, but the film plays with so much tongue-in-cheek humor that it becomes a comedy classic. There are a few visually impressive moments, as the Klingon Bird of Prey skirts along Earth's oceans, but most of the fun in this film is the lighthearted fish-out-of-water comedy. What could be more hilarious than watching 24th century space explorers slumming around 20th century San Francisco, struggling against a seemingly-primitive society to solve high-tech problems? Some of the funniest and most endearing jokes include seeing Chekov roaming with with his Russian accent, asking where the nuclear wessels are. It's always a blast to watch Spock trying to get the hang of cursing, and ultimately using his nerve pinch on an annoying punk. And one of my favorite scenes is Scotty visiting an industrial plant, trying to use a 20th century computer by speaking to it.The comedy makes the film entertaining throughout, but there's still enough problems and peril to make it roll evenly and effectively. It's a little derivative, but still a well-structured plot with quality characters. The film gets a little pushy with the whole save the whales theme, but it fits in the light and fluffy context of the overall picture.The film looks good, with solid photography and editing. Acting is still great from the classic Trek cast William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, and the rest get even amounts of screen time to express their tongue-in-cheek humor with phenomenal results. Writing is quite witty. This production has some fine-looking sets, props, costumes, locales, and special effects. Music is really boisterous and happy-sounding, but strangely catchy.4.5/5 (Entertainment Very Good | Story Good | Film Very Good) "},{"Title":"Interesting Fact","Date":"30 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just wanted it to be known, I want no compensation, I was present during the filming of Star Trek 4. Specifically during the scene when Chekov and Uhura were being beamed out of the reactor area of USS Enterprise. They removed the stairs (ladder) to the engineering space and I was lucky enough to be sitting in the opening and watching the filming. Mr. Nimoy was unbelievably nice to allow this and sadly we were louder than we should have been. After a couple of takes Mr. Nimoy stopped production, came close and looked up. Pointing to me, he said, You, Shut the Fu*K Up. Amazed, I turned to another sailor with me and said loudly, Wow, Spock said 'Fu*k'. I believe Mr. Nimoy used this to add the cursing parts in the movie to characterize the 1980's in America. Thanks, Mr. Nimoy and the entire cast and film crew during the filming on board RANGER. You were a class act and I'm forever grateful for the memories I've taken during your time on board the USS Ranger CV-61. "},{"Title":"TJ HooKirk, and rest of TOS cast at Peak in this great Epic STTOS Centerpiece","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The argument? Which TOS Trek film is the greatest Trek Film ever made? Most Trekkers will say, The Wrath of Khan- And although I agree Khan is an amazing adventure, I say Star Trek IV The Voyage Home is the greatest Original Series Cast Trek Movie ever made - Possibly the finest Trek movie ever made, and certainly the best appearances of TOS characters ever Kirk and Uhura looked good and trim, Chekov is still Even Younger than Ensign Demora Sulu (From Star Trek Generations), and both Scotty and Bones look great.In The Wrath of Khan we get to see the Novelty of Dr. Carol Marcus' Genesis Effect - One of the first ever occurrences of CGI (Computer Generated Imagery) graphics in a Feature Film - But this film gives us Special Effects Galore, Trek Comedy, and Kirk/Spock/McCoy interaction like never before seen. And although ST II had the first CGI sequence, this film has the very first extended Computer Graphics sequences and possibly the very first instance of Morphing tech, which was done here, regardless of how much James Cameron insists he created the technology for The Abyss - The Time Travel scene has each TOS crew-members head, morphing into another's - Scotty into Uhura, Spock into McCoy. etc. And several other improvements in Special Effects, Starships, a huge Whale-Trashcan Probe, Stardock, Excelsior, and the Enterprise A.The Klingon Bird-of-Prey spacecraft was introduced in STIII The Search for Spock- And we assume in this film, The Former Enterprise Bridge Crew is flying that same Craft - Except that it had been worked on for a few months by both Scotty and a crew of Vulcan Engineers, and so the Bird-of-Prey Bridge is quite different than the Bridge Captained by Commander Kruge/Chris Lloyd.We have the first appearance of Spock's Human Mother Amanda (Jane Wyatt) in 20 years, another portrayal of Sarek (by Mark Lenard), and John Shuck introducing what a Klingon Ambassador might look like. We also get to see the Inside of Starfleet Command for the very first time, and we get to see the first Trek appearance of the Pool Table set piece - which was the Table in Engineering on STTNG - and was originally used in the film The Last Starfighter on the Bridge of a Spaceship.And we have an Anachronism, the 23rd Century Enterprise Crew, walking around in 20th Century San Francisco.What does this combination of elements do for us, the Trekkers? For one thing, it re-creates the feeling of three Original Series Eps that deal with Time Travel Yesterday is Tomorrow and Assignment Earth and the Classic Harlan Ellison Penned City on the Edge of Forever.Except this film proposes a 23rd Century Dilemma that has a 20th-Century-ONLY Solution, and so this is the first time in Trek where a 23rd century Problem needed to be solved by a trip into the past of Earth Later, the 5th and 6th Season Next Generation Eps Times Arrow used the same plot device, with a different mechanism.In this film, we get to see how Kirk might have blended in to the 1980's San Fransisco Pop culture, which included Punk Rock. Producer Kirk Thatcher very accurately portrays a Punk Rocker on a Bus, and created AUTHENTIC Punk Ruck Music to go with the part.As each Team of Enterprise Crewmembers pair off and search The City for each of their Puzzle Pieces, they Interact with 20th Century San Franciscans in most Humorous Ways. And the Pairing of Scotty and McCoy was ingenious, this was the first Prolonged interaction between the two of them in the whole series.There is a lot here for all kinds of Trek fans. This film was Leonard Nimoy's Brainchild, and he proved himself, yet again, a superior and clever director. "},{"Title":"Magniificent and even better with age","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek 4 looks better and better as the years roll by, and may very well be the best of the Kirk-Spock movies, Wrath of Khan notwithstanding. Kirk and gang, although a bit long in the tooth, go back in time to capture some humpback whales in order to save the planet in their time. Along the way, they encounter San Francisco hippies, primitive personal computers and medical practices that Dr. McCoy considers medieval and barbaric. They even run into the original Enterprise. The whole thing is played largely for laughs, although it has a serious undertone in the 23rd century, whales are extinct and God knows what else has disappeared by then. Kirk sports the best toupee he ever wore (he even swims in it) and Spock, who has returned from the dead (see the previous film), is having to relearn everything, which makes for some decent laughs. The Voyage Home also is an emotionally stirring movie, most notably when a pair of whales have been brought on board and Scotty declares, Admiral, there be whales here! Scotty also gets the film's biggest laugh when he tries to talk into a PC's mouse. This Star Trek movie is both a comedy and an epic adventure. I can still remember the audience's reaction when the crew's Bird of Prey (see Star Trek 3) suddenly appears between the fleeing whales and a whaling vessel. A truly unforgettable moment. A sidenote as a newspaper editor, movie reviewer and writer on consumer electronics, I have met several Star Trek regulars, including Shatner and Nimoy over the years. I ran into James Doohan at the Comdex computer trade show many years ago. By then, Paramount had released the first two Star Trek movies. I asked Doohan if he would be doing another one. His reply, in his best Scotty voice If they pay me enough fooking money! "},{"Title":"strictly for fans","Date":"4 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The gang's all here Kirk, Spock, McCoy and crew, once more boldly going where no man has gone before, which in this episode happens to be San Francisco. Their mission time-warp back to a more primitive era in Earth's history (the year 1986) and hijack two humpback whales to the 23rd century. Never mind why; you can smell the environmental message from light-years away. Trekkies, needless to say, will love it, but normal people may experience some problems, since the film demands familiarity not only with the TV series but with the previous big screen episodes as well (the plot takes forever to warm up because it first has to clean up the loose ends left dangling from 'Star Trek III'). Mister Spock himself directed this one, although there's no particular emphasis on logic it's about as stimulating as a comic book, and often just as colorful. One nagging question when the crew of the Starship Enterprise returns to Earth in the mid 1980s how come no one recognizes them from the TV show then still in syndication..? "},{"Title":"Star Trek IV The Voyage Home","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Continuing where The Search for Spock left off, this next sequel is a good step away from the regular format, and is in my opinion better The Wrath of Khan, from directing star Leonard Nimoy (Three Men and a Baby). Basically Captain Spock (Leonard Nimoy) is slowly regaining his memory after his spirit was transferred from Dr. Leonard Bones McCoy (DeForest Kelley), and Admiral James T. Kirk (William Shatner) and the rest of the crew face a new problem. Don't worry, the Genesis thing is over, now a giant alien space probe is threatening to evaporate the Earth, and in the process is sending out unidentified messages. The crew translate it as the songs of whales, and they know the only way to stop this destruction is to get two whales to communicate, in particular the now extinct humpback whale. So with the help of the Klingon vessel they stole after destroying the Enterprise, the crew travel back in time from the 23rd Century to 20th Century San Francisco. In this world of punks, pizza, exact-change buses and hardly any politics to govern, the crew split up to find all the things necessary to bring the whales to the future. In the process, Kirk meets the woman caring for the whales, before they are thrown back in the sea, Dr. Gillian Taylor (Catherine Hicks), who slowly understands and helps their cause. After some captures and mishaps, all the crew eventually come back together, and they travel back to the 23rd Century, where luckily the whales are dropped, and the communications work to send the alien force away. In the end, Gillian is allowed to stay in the future to help out on another station, Kirk is punished with demotion from Admiral to Captain, of a spaceship, and the crew are pleased to see the brand new Enterprise ready to go. Also starring James Doohan as Commander Montgomery Scotty Scott, George Takei as Commander Hikaru Sulu, Walter Koenig as Commander Pavel Chekov, Nichelle Nichols as Cmdr. Uhura, Jane Wyatt as Spock's Mother Amanda, Mark Lenard as Ambassador Sarek and Robin Curtis as Lieutenant Saavik. There is a good bit of humour during, including Spock not understanding certain things, and the crew hanging out with people in the past, and it is a good story, a good fun science-fiction adventure film. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography, Best Sound Effects Editing, Best Music for Leonard Rosenman and Best Sound. Star Trek was number 41 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, and Mr. Spock was number 23 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters. Very good! "},{"Title":"No. 4 Holds Up Well After Almost Quarter Century","Date":"15 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Whether or not the fake animated background at the beginning of VOYAGE HOME ruins the movie for the younger, modern generation used to 3-D images, it's hard to say. Nevertheless the simple storyline and the integrity of this almost quarter century movie holds up well. The quirky characters, the inclusion of a wry sense of time travel humor remains almost brilliant in its delivery, even today. This is adventure, science fiction, comedy, and most of all entertainment at its smoothest and general audience finest. The editing, the pacing, the timing, the interest level remain at high levels. With a few emotional strands of simplistic but meaningful thought, this movie is a cut above its genre and a classic in terms of its representing American cinema of the 1980s focused on the general audience. It's fun story telling in sight and sound at some of its best. "},{"Title":"A perfect, light hearted Sci-Fi Comedy which keeps you entertained for the whole two hours","Date":"1 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" WARNING!!! POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!!!!!! Star Trek IV The Voyage Home is arguably the greatest Trek. It is the most popular Star Trek film (not including the 2009 reboot). Before the reboot, it was the only Trek to gross over $100 million domestically, plus it was extremely well received by critics and fans alike. It surpassed every expectation that it had set up for itself, simply because it is the funniest and most light hearted Trek.The best part is the interactions between the characters. Yes, the film was nominated for 4 Oscars (once again, the most of any Trek) including best effects, but the effects aren't the best part. It was the success of this film that convinced Paramount Television to give a spin-off series a shot. As you probably know, TNG, DS9, STV, and STE were all very successful, and they were the result of a chain reaction which started with the success of The Voyage Home.The film also noted Leonard Nimoy as a top-notch comic director. This won him the job of directing Three Men and a Baby.If you like Star Trek, this is definitely the film for you. Everyone else? Just research the characters a bit and I'm sure that you'll have a good time.This film earned its money and its acclaim. It features many classic moments (Spock mind-melding with the whale, Scotty talking to the computer, Kirk using colourful metaphors to handle an angry cabbie, Spock using the nerve pinch on a punk on the bus, Kirk and Spock arguing over their preferred foods, and that's just scratching the surface!).10/10 A Sci-Fi Comedy along the quality of Ghostbusters, MIB, and Back to the Future! That might be an overstatement, but I think it's true! "}{"Title":"One of the best Star Trek Movies Ever!","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A gigantic probe sends strange whale-like sounds is causing major disasters in 23rd century Earth. Only Admirel Kirk (William Shatner), Spock (Leonard Nimoy), Scott (James Doohan), Chevok (Walter Koenig), Commander Uhura (Nichelle Nichols), Bones McCoy (DeForrest Kelly) and Sulu (George Takei) can go back in time to the year 1986 in San Francisco where they must bring back two humpback whales to take back to the 23rd century so they can use the Whale's calls to stop the probes.Brilliant installment of the big screen Star Trek film franchise! What works here is that it's wonderfully directed by Leonard Nimoy and very well written. The film co-stars Michael Berryman (The original Hills Have Eyes) and Catherine Hicks, i also love that this movie has a sense of humor that made it a comical Star Trek movie yet it works well on it's own unlike part V which kind of stunk. The special effects are good and the acting as well, this is a smashing finale of the Spock trilogy that started with part 2 to this as it's great fun for fans and non-fans alike.A most recommended sequel! "},{"Title":"Admiral, there be whales here!","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" While I prefer both The Wrath of Khan and The Undiscovered Country to The Voyage Home overall, I do find The Voyage Home to be perhaps the best Star Trek film as far as the treatment of characters go. All three of the aforementioned films, and The Search for Spock certainly capture the unique friendships and sense of camaraderie the TOS crew share, but in those films all that is forced to share the spotlight in those films with oncoming disasters, space battles, and villains.There is an oncoming disaster the crew must work to stop in The Voyage Home, but, in the words of Leonard Nimoy no dying, no fighting, no shooting, no photon torpedoes, no phaser blasts, no stereotypical bad guy. The result is not only one hell of a fun film, but a truly excellent piece of Trek writing, one which gives even Chekov something of note to do, stays true to every character, achieves emotional poignancy during the scenes with Kirk and Spock awkwardly re-establishing their friendship, and provides a lighthearted plot which nonetheless explores some big ideas (and ideals).Amongst time travel Trek The Voyage Home is definitely bested by The City on the Edge of Forever, Yesterday's Enterprise, and The Visitor from TOS, TNG, and DS9 respectively, and is probably slightly less fun than DS9's legendary Trials and Tribble-ations but overall is an incredibly entertaining, fun time travel story better than any others that I haven't mentioned (including the films Generations and First Contact). The plot, which sees the crew go back in time to 1986 San Francisco to take humpback whales to the future to repopulate the species and save Earth works much better than you'd expect, but the movie really shines when the crew is in San Francisco in 1986 attempting to get the whales back to the future. Uhura and Chekov's quest for nuclear wessels, Scotty revealing the formula for transparent aluminum to a manufacturer, and especially, especially, Bones' hilarious outrage at the barbaric medical practices of the 20th century during his time at a hospital are a few of the highlights.The script went through a lot to get to the final draft, but Nimoy stated that Nicholas Meyer gave the script the kind of humor and social comment, gadfly attitude I very much wanted, so I guess we have Nicholas Meyer to thank once again for a great Trek adventure. You know, they haven't announced a director for the sequel to J.J. Abrams canonical reboot out May 8th yet, it's not too late to ask him to return... Harve Bennett, who had a hand in this entire trilogy (II, III, and IV, together one of the best film trilogies of all time), also deserves credit, and whomever the other writers were I'm sure. Great screenplay brought to life wonderfully well by Leonard Nimoy's direction (he really appears to have grown as a director since The Search for Spock), good cinematography, good design work, and superb effects.Some dismiss The Voyage Home as silly and indulgent. I view it as a fantastic piece of violence-free Trek, and after a wildly off-mark attempt at hard sci-fi and two extravagant, though emotionally-grounded space adventures, the film series was wise to finally bring to the big screen what the original television series often did very well a humorous fish out of water story with great characters, excellent dialogue, and a good overall story. "},{"Title":"Just loved it ! A must watch !","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek IV The Voyage Home is a total 117 minutes of thriller, fun and entertainment. I don't remember if I watched any other Sci-Fi movie thats so nicely made, with remarkably well done background music, fantastic effects and a plot that involves the skills of the crew to the cutting edge, i.e. going back to 20th century and bring 2 whales back !! The humor in the movie is just fantastic, esp. the bus ride of Kirk and Spock to the aquarium, Spock in the whale tank, Kirk explanation about Spock to Dr. William Taylor Oh, him? He's harmless. Part of the free speech movement at Berkeley in the sixties. I think he did a little too much LDS. , discussion between Spock and Kirk regarding colorful metaphors (lol !!) and lots more make the movie filled with fun and joy. Nimoy has acted even better than the first 3 star treks. I have watched first four of them yet, and this is THE BEST. I remember laughing to my buts while watching the movie at times, mostly when Kirk and Spock are alone in the 20th century San-Francisco.At the whole, I must say this is one of the best, not only the star trek, but all movies that I have watched so far and is a must watch. I'll give it 10 of 10.**********(of 10)Regards, Ashish "},{"Title":"Scotty, Beam Me Up !","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not a big fan of Star Trek. Actually the first movie (The Motion Picture) was highly recommended from lots of people but I couldn't watch it at all, and maybe I won't ever, since it has a bald girl in it (my personal most awful sight !). Originally this is the real reason why I couldn't even watch these works in the first place, and I mean the way they deform people's look, this is too sick for me to follow (I believe women is the beauty of the world so when they're misshapen, what's left?!). The second one (Wrath of Kahn) was watchable though, (Ricardo Montalban) was great as the revengeful Khan. The third one (Search for Spock) wasn't as good, but it kind of fascinated me with an imaginative persona as a Sci-Fi movie. Then I had the pleasure of watching (Star Trek IV The Voyage Home), which's definitely the best yet.I loved the creative main irony of it. The shot in which the entire crew of Enterprise from the 23th century walks clueless at the crowded street of San Francisco in 1986 is priceless. It represents the clever sense of the whole thing this time. It was the comic episode, which could make it that rarely attractive for the ones whom love Star Trek or the ones whom don't. The beauty of it, else seeing the usual characters for the first and last time as guests in our present days, is the case of watching those very serious characters in some unserious situations; putting an annoying punk into sleep in a second is a classic moment as well as a dream comes true !. However, one of the few shortcomings of the movie is that it doesn't catch hold of this thought that much; because the comedy was little, and a bit sedate unlike what it should have been (Imagine Spoke in disco for instance !). So, it uses the music to make a moment as light (the escape of Pavel Chekov from the military base) more than droll details, embarrassing situations, or many gags around. I think that was natural since it was written and directed by Leonard Nimoy who's one of the original team already, so it had to be not over the top for the sake of being some light moments along the way, more than a silly spoof of themselves (despite how greater that would've been !). I thought also that the climax was somehow average, without not much to thrill. Then again why to waste a chance of a car chase in San Francisco ? Is it just because the characters can transport through beams ?!! Well, a breakdown can always happen !.But this movie managed to be very entertaining. Its atmosphere is so smart, with engaging story, imaginative elements, it got the word sweet adventure all over it. The scene of the hospital is a fine example for how smooth and diverting this movie is. I used to read that William Shatner is a proverbial when it comes to overacting, here this is absolute nonsense, he mastered the 2 sides of the case; the serious Captain Kirk, and the 1986's copy of merry Captain Kirk which's close to Shatner-takes-on-Kirk-loosely!. (Catherine Hicks) was so white-hot as Dr. Gillian Taylor, let alone the matter of her being a white hotty also; she was extremely sexy in a strange way, surely because she was the first woman who appears in her ordinary look at the Star Trek's works yet (without freaky long eyebrows or &#x96;God forbid&#x96; a bald head). Not to forget her simple costumes with all the soft serene colors of the 1980s (blue, white, and violet) that's a damn pretty sight apart ! The music, the special effects, the cinematography, etc were amusing. Some slight touches made my day such as making the closing credits in immovable separate cadres, form the movie's events, for its stars with a music of an orchestra plays passionately; this evoked the good feel of the 1960s' movies, or the 1970s-1980s' TV shows, just like the good feel this movie left me with.I believe (The Voyage Home)'s personality can attract and entrain even Star Trek's first viewers who don't know what franchise's holy halo is being broken here. According to the movie's own trivia the line Scotty, Beam me up witnessed the only time Kirk said such an order in that way. It summarizes the difference and the lightness of this movie. So, live it up. "},{"Title":"My Mom's favorite Star Trek movie","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I cant think of Star Trek IV The Voyage Home with out being reminded that it is my Mom's favorite Star Trek movie. She claims to love them all (original cast films at least) but I know the truth. She's seen IV a million times (many times in my company) and she cant fool me...its her fave. For me that says more about the film than anything I could come up with. Though I will attempt a few comments. This is the first Star Trek film thats both fun and funny. A combination of witty dialog and spot on performances from its two leads. It a rather charming film and its this very charm that allows us to forget how ridiculous the plot is. A group of fifty something space travelers travel back in time to retrieve a couple whales so they can be brought back to the future to communicate w/a probe that will keep on tearing things up until it can talk to its whale friends. These things don't bother me because the pointy eared alien guy cant quite grasp the concept of curse words. Comic gold my friends...comic gold! "},{"Title":"This goes to show what you can do with the right people at the helm","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Each of the previous Star Trek films had their moments and they were leading up to this one. With the death and resurrection of Spock, his character was able to become more human. Director Nimoy used this to helm a delightful Trek Episode that was as much fun as the series episode The Trouble with Tribbles, which was everyone's favorite. This film was allowed to be a lot more general audience friendly as well. The plot was a good one, the script was well written, and there were improvised scenes that helped to move things along quite nicely. I can't help but believe that the Trek movies from here on in would have fared better if Nimoy had continued to direct. "},{"Title":"ST FILM FOUR Save the Whales, Save the World","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The concluding ark to Trek's trilogy of films two, three and four, and Nimoy's follow-up directing job after The Search For Spock, this one has the surface appearance of being rather simplistic and lightweight. But, against the odds, it succeeds beautifully, probably because all of the scenes in the film are pitch perfect - a perfect balance of humor, action and science fiction fancy; Nimoy learned his lessons well in the 3rd Trek film. Again, on the surface, the story seems to be a simple union of the overused time travel angle coupled with an environmental message. But, because the messengers are the seven well-known characters of the Trek canon, all here given a chance to shine as never before, there's much more enjoyment to be found throughout than we could have ever expected. All the actors had been in these roles for many years by this point and they each knew how to make the most of it, including the ones playing Scotty, Sulu, Chekov and Uhura, usually relegated to one-note scenes regarding ship's functions. Here, they get to fully participate in a grand Trek adventure, full partners with the main trio of Kirk, Spock and McCoy. Oh, and, besides returning Spock's father, Sarek, they even let Spock's mother return briefly - talk about grand reunions (see Journey to Babel).The only thing missing, of course, is the Enterprise - our Trekking castaways get around in a commandeered Klingon 'Bird of Prey' ship here. Things begin with a huge mysterious probe, approaching Earth and knocking out all power as it sends a signal into the oceans, requiring an answer. I had some misgivings when I first saw this in the theaters back in '86 - it seemed too similar to the first Trek film (shades of V'Ger!) and did not bode well. But, luckily, the story veers to a different tack after this first act our heroes are on their way back to Earth as well, ready to answer charges for breaking several Starfleet rules and regs in the previous film. Suddenly, this turns out to be the least of their problems as they're placed in the position of saving their planet once again. Instead of attacking the probe head-on, which would probably be a useless attempt, they deduce that their best option is to travel back to Earth's 20th century. And the audience is along for the ride, watching these greats work their magic, watching them solve all manner of dilemmas and accompanying these legends on their tour of present-day San Francisco. It's wish fulfillment, it's a crowd-pleaser, it's high concept done with a wink and a cheer.Some might argue that this retreads familiar ground, the original time travel episodes Tomorrow is Yesterday and AssignmentEarth, but all the scenes in our present time work great. My personal favorite is Scotty & McCoy meeting with a Plexiglas manufacturer and their introduction to him of transparent aluminum. It's directed perfectly, with Scotty at first appearing out of place but soon showing he was in control of the situation the whole time - it may be Doohan's finest moment in the Trek film series. Running a close second is Chekov's interrogation scene; it should have been stupid but, somehow, Nimoy and Koenig made it hysterical. There are numerous others - Kirk's bit with his eyeglasses, Spock's conversation with the whales, his struggle with present-day profanity in speech - it's all smoothly integrated into the overall playful adventure. We even encounter some genuine suspense in the race against time near the climax. Yes, maybe it is a bit all lightweight in the end but as the concluding chapter of a trilogy, it gave us the satisfaction of tying things up neatly - with Spock and his father, with the fate of our beloved crew and the promise of yet another new beginning. But, uh-oh, next was The Final Frontier. "},{"Title":"A Refreshing Return","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After The Search for Spock, Leonard Nimoy, Harve Bennett and the rest of the Star Trek creative team wanted a change in style. Both of the previous films featured strong, angry antagonists by Christopher Lloyd and Ricardo Montalban. Numerous people were killed. On the other hand, many episodes of the original television series had no villains at all. In the Menagerie, for example, the Talosians were not evil, but merely trying to save their own species, and even proved their gracious nobility in the end.The decision was made to alter the tone in a return to the roots type movie. Their first attempt, Star Trek The Motion Picture, tried and failed in the same effort, but did so because it was protracted and boring, hardly characteristics of the original series. It was a risky choice, but if successful it would please not only fans of the cannon, but mainstream viewers as well.Successful it was, as it became the only Star Trek movie to exceed $100 million in box office receipts. Not even the beloved First Contact matched its intake. So favorable was its reception that it paved the way for a new television series, The Next Generation, which in turn spawned others such as Deep Space Nine and Voyager.Why was it so successful? The reasons were many. First of all, Leonard Nimoy returned to the director's chair. It was Nimoy's guidance that made The Search for Spock as good as it was. Part of his contract to return as Spock also granted him direction of this film. Like Jonathan Frakes after him, Nimoy had a great deal of skill in both the direction and the story, which he co-wrote with Harve Bennett.The plot An alien probe from an unknown system is on a direct heading for Earth. It is emitting immensely powerful sound waves that knock out power in every star vessel it encounters. It arrives above Earth and continues to emit its signal, which begins to vaporize the oceans.Meanwhile, the crew of the scuttled Enterprise has decided to return to Earth and face trial for their violations of Starfleet Regulations in the previous film. They receive a planetary distress call en route, and conclude that the sound emissions are meant for an underwater species, namely humpback whales. With no other options, they decide the only way to save the planet is to travel back to 1986 in order to transport humpbacks back to the present and answer the probe's call.The idea has an intrinsic appeal, but it is not until the crew embarks on late 20th Century San Francisco that its true ingenuity becomes apparent. The crew attempts to blend into a primitive and paranoid society, leading to a host of hilarious moments. It also lampoons 1980s culture, but in a friendly way. Nimoy took a scouting trip to see what appropriate urban clothing for Spock would be, but saw so many outrageous outfits that he soon knew that his character's Vulcan robes would fit right in.The less said about the main portion of the film the better, since the uncanny situations presented are so humorous it would be a crime to give them away. Three teams are formed, the main one consisting of Admiral Kirk and Spock (William Shatner and Nimoy), each experiences its own unique adventure. Kirk meets Dr. Gillian Taylor (Catherine Hicks), a whale biologist at the Cetacean Institute. The facility houses two humpback whales who are about to&#133;I can say no more.After two forgettable musical scores by James Horner, Leonard Rosenman invigorates the movie with his Oscar nominated music. His theme is not filled with mystery, intensity or foreboding, but levity and joy. During the film's two chase scenes, one of which takes place in a hospital, the music is not the usual pulse rising, but instead accentuates how silly the whole affair is.This is one of those movies that must be seen to be believed and appreciated. The arsenal of gags is large and every one works. If you want to know about simple logic, the yellow pages, and the *best* application of the Vulcan neck pinch ever, see this movie. If not, see it anyway. It will brighten your day. "},{"Title":"Great Comedy and well deserved rest away from the drama.","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is comedy at it's best. Who ever came up with the idea of sending the Enterprise crew into the past is a genius and should be hugged because as far as I am concerned Star Trek is lacking comedy. At the time of this film's release comedy was somewhat uncharted territory for the persons involved with Trek. At this point there been three comedic episodes in the original series produced and they were Mudd's Women, I Mudd, and the legendary The Trouble with Tribbles episode. Everything else in the saga had been drama based and sometimes dull if it was androgenic , which fortunately Star Trek did deliver most of the time on there drama based episodes it just became rhetoric and in need of change. And change is what this film is. It takes all the heated battles and death from the previous three films and says lets take a brake and laugh. The most comedic element of this film is when Chekov goes around asking random people to take him to the Nuclear Weesle's, comedy gold is what that scene is. I laugh every time I think about it. The whole plot with the whales is cool and makes sense in the grand scheme of the Trek universe. I wish more Trek movies and episodes would go in to this territory of comedy. There is always the chuckle here and there from the light hearted banter of the ships crew, but rarely in any of the follow up shows have the went for the jugular on comedy. If Star Trek would do this I think it would draw in new crowds and we would not have to worry about J. J Abrahams ruining this beloved franchise that has forty years of history. Watch this movie and laugh. "},{"Title":"Different, yet uplifting!","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fourth installment of the Star Trek saga continues when the crew of the USS Enterprise ride aboard a Klingon ship. And man, the rest of the Federation will have to wonder what to become of Kirk(William Shatner), now that he's an Admiral. He takes the Enterprise in part 3 to find their comrade Spock(Leonard Nimoy). Spock is part-Vulcan and part-human has a tough time knowing human emotions. I guess being a half-breed can be frustrating. Going to 20 Century Earth was a long and bumpy ride. The crew were sent there to retrieve two humpback whales. Their names are George and Gracie(named after the duo George Burns and Gracie Allen). It was cool when Spock mind melds with Gracie, but it angers Dr. Gillian Taylor(Catherine Hicks). However, she trusts Kirk and the Enterprise crew when she helps them retrieve Chekov(Walter Koenig) from the medical practices of the 20th Century. Seeing that, Dr. Taylor goes into the future with Kirk because she felt unwanted in that Century. 300 years behind, though she knows the century the Enterprise crew are from was worth it. As the old saying, To boldly go where no one has gone before. 3.5 out of 5 stars! "}{"Title":"the crew of the enterprise saves the whales, visits San Fran, other follies, very entertaining","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is probably one of the best examples of Star Trek being able to reach past its main fan-base. It's got some action out in space, but for the most part the story takes place all on Earth, particularly in San Francisco, and out in the ocean. It also boasts a very good supporting turn from Child's Play/7th Heaven star Catherine Hicks as the unintentional tag-along on the Enterprise's mission. This mission involves an alien presence threatening to wipe out the oceans, and all life perhaps, with the only solution to move a Humpback whale to safer waters. But the film isn't really about the story, per-say, which could have been a problem as Star Trek is more than anything all based on story with characterization that grows in bits and pieces. By the fourth film in the franchise, however, after overly dramatic turns in parts 2 and 3 in which the main cast had been given enough time for the audience to know and connect with them, there's some fun that can be had.So the Voyage Home is more entertaining and thematically engaging- immensely so- about life in 1986 Earth. In a sense it's linked to another 1986 film Crocodile Dundee about a guy from out of town in the big city. But this time it's also a change of centuries and cultures, and such little scenes involving some of the oddities and quirks in the city, with Spock's analytic observations dead-pan enough to be funnier than by those of most regular comics. In any case this is also a kind of strange guilty pleasure for Trekkies, as it has the Enterprise crew doing something they almost never do- contacting with other humans on Earth. The scenes with Hicks primarily add some charm and interest, like when Kirk has to ask her out on a date. In general her role isn't necessarily the 'best' in the film, but it doesn't hurt at all either. The scenes of action are 'safe' enough for all ages, the main villains aren't flogged with make-up and over-acting, and the climax of the mission is enthralling like science fiction rarely can get without explosions or tragic feats of strength.Star Trek The Voyage Home is often really goofy, harmless, and playing to a pathos that speaks to not just Trekkies but also non-Star Trek fans, particularly, well, environmentalists. It's probably one of the best of its franchise- it knows what it is and it's got laughs for its audience and thrills for young and old alike (and yes, it's a clich that isn't how it really is here). "},{"Title":"My Favorite in the Series (So Far)","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The crew goes back in time to save some humpback whales to bring to the future and save humanity. It's even crazier than it sounds.For some reason, an alien probe sent a message 100 light years to contact the humpback whales. Why they would do that, I don't know. How a whale is supposed to send a message back without technology, I don't know. How it's somehow an efficient means of communication (how long does it take to send something 100 light years???), I don't know.And they go back in time and later forward in time, and nobody finds this unusual. Which makes you wonder if it's this easy why people aren't doing it all the time. They create some time paradoxes and infinity loops (Scotty gives a guy a formula, Scotty will in the future learn that formula... but he learns it from a textbook based on a guy who learned it from Scotty. This means nobody ever invented it!!) This film, obviously funded by Greenpeace, is hilarious. The crew goes to 1986 San Francisco where they talk about the evils of money, nuclear power, smog and species extinction. Swearing is evident, Spcok pretends to be Japanese. This is classic.This sort of greatness was all over The Next Generation, but this film proves that the classic crew had a few funny bones in their bodies, as well. Well played, crew. Well played. "},{"Title":"Fun Trek...Can Enterprise crew cope on 20th Century earth?","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is not my favorite Star Trek film (that would be The Wrath of Khan), but it's certainly the most fun of all the Treks. Frequently hilarious, it offered Trek fans some welcome comic relief after the trauma of Spock's death in that second movie and his rescue in the third, The Search for Spock.The Enterprise crew members are en route from Vulcan, where they have rescued Spock, back home to earth (to face charges) via a Klingon Bird of Prey, which they have commandeered for the purpose. While en route (during their own 23rd Century), they witness earth's oceans being evaporated by an alien probe, and are forced to save the planet from certain disaster threatened by this probe, which is attempting to communicate with humpback whales. These whales have long ago been hunted to extinction, so the crew must travel back in time to 20th Century earth (before the extinction) and locate one of the whales, which they can bring forward with them to their own 23rd Century to reply to the probe.Thus begins a culture shock in which our favourite Enterprise crew members (all in their usual fine fettle) must deal with the questionable 1980's environment of punk rock, junk food, Cold War mistrust, rude language, and 'colourful metaphors' (a euphemism for swearing, which all movies including this one would be better off without). Of course the crew's assorted adventures and antics as 'fish out of water' make for a highly amusing frolic. McCoy is naturally horrified by the primitive medical techniques. However, my personal favourite scenes are Chekov innocently asking various San Francisco pedestrians where he might locate some 'nuclear wessels' and Scotty trying unsuccessfully to communicate with a 1980's computer that doesn't respond well to verbal commands. Also, Spock's neck pinch comes in handy with one of earth's more annoying natives.Of course there's a love interest here for Kirk. What else would you expect? The cetacean biologist at the Institute where the humpbacks are located just happens to be a lovely lady, Dr. Gillian Taylor (portrayed by Catherine Hicks). Spock's interactions with the whales also make for some pretty funny moments. Of course the movie has an environmental warning message, but the plot idea with the whales is a cute & clever one.Even though the Enterprise really isn't featured in this film, and the ship is normally as beloved a character as the crew, I actually kind of enjoyed this little diversion with the Klingon Bird of Prey (knowing it was only temporary), and found impressive the shots of it in flight. Its cloaking aspects in Golden Gate Park also elicit a few laughs.As others have noted, it's definitely the most downright entertaining of all the Treks. Yes, get the popcorn ready and go along for the romp. "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek movie ever!","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Doohan's death last year brings to mind the whole Star Trek franchise, including this installment. I've never usually taken much interest in the Star Trek movies, but Star Trek IV The Voyage Home is something else! It has the Starship Enterprise going back to 1986 San Francisco to find some humpback whales to appease an alien race trying to attack earth. I crack up thinking of the crew traipsing through the city oblivious how to do things in the 20th century, especially since Spock takes everything literally (Maybe if we play our cards right. How will playing cards help?) and Chekov sounds like a Soviet spy. My favorite scene is that part on the bus! Catherine Hicks adds an interesting dimension as a woman at the Cetacean Institute who has a weird encounter with Kirk and Spock, but then joins them. It almost seems to me that they should have stopped the franchise after this. In fact, they could have made the original series just about this. All in all, a really cool movie. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good for Star Trek","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although this film is Star Trek, which can scare some people away at first glance, its an excellent film.The film is part of a trilogy plot line (Star Trek II, Star Trek III and Star Trek IV). Although 'Trekkies' generally seem to think that ST II is the better film, I would strongly disagree, I also believe that is better than the infamous Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country - And all this coming from a non-trekker must be pretty high praise.'The Voyage Home' is definitely the most entertaining of the Star Treks firstly because for one of the only times the un-killable Star Trek crew is put in a situation which we understand and they don't. And secondly because who cannot laugh at a Russian walking around the US during the cold war period asking for the n'clear w'essels.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Pretty *damn* funny!","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's unfortunate that I have only seen so few Star Trek films. I picked this one out of a batch of cheap DVDs purely on the rumours that it was the funniest Star Trek film. In deed, it is the funniest Sci-fi film I've seen. Nice little recap and not so over-blown special-effects (the over-all down-to-earth feeling of the film) make it a very enjoyable experience that gives us the best elements of both the Classic Star Trek and the New Generation (which came about a few years later).I was shocked at how fat Scotty had gotten, but it actually makes him a little more distinct. The 'stache was a nice touch too.In all the level of comedy is not too over-blown but a little quirkiness is something you have to endure in a film like this. Spock is particularly amusing because he clearly stands out from the rest. Also I liked the theme of swearing that occurs through-out the film as this is something that I would like to see more in Star Trek.Star Trek IV breaks the dogma of bad sequels which is very refreshing.If you're looking for a great movie, with lots of comedy and a touching plot this is one heck of a film. "},{"Title":"Funny!","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek IV The Voyage Home - Stardate 8390This is a very different departure from Star Trek universe - a turn to comedy! But it was done so masterly well by director Leonard Nimoy, with a strong script (by Nimoy and Nicholas Meyer, who brought us the best Star Trek films - II and VI), that any unrealistic points in the film can be overlooked. This is really a fun adventure and can be argued that it was sorely needed after the nostalgic and soulful Star Trek III. The only hindrance is perhaps the score to the film (by Leonard Rosenman) which is unlike any other Star Trek score. It isn't a bad score (in fact, it was nominated for an Oscar) but also isn't appropriate in the Star Trek universe. Overall, a solid and funny 8 out of 10 and a must see! "},{"Title":"a light-hearted sci-fi comedy","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Since when did Star Treck become a comedy Routine? When you hear Star Treck you automatically think of a bunch of nerds dressing up as their favorite characters and going to weirdo conventions. Well thats half true; Star Treck freaks do go a little extreme and even become scary as they learn to speak languages like Vulcan and creepy stuff like that but there no different that sports enthusiasts who paint there faces and collect hundreds of dollars of sports memorabilia. Both are scene by the general public as people who need to get a life. So when I sat down to watch this my expectations were low but I'm glad to say I was pleasantly surprised. The only other Star Treck film I had seen was First Contact witch was actually rather good and way better than junk like The Matrix. But unlike First Contact this wasn't really and action/adventure but instead a comedy.To save Earth from an alien probe, Kirk and his crew go back in time to retrieve the only beings who can communicate with it, humpback whales. So they arrive in 1986. The Voyage Home is the Star Trek film that had the highest box office gross. It captured the imagination of the public who were eager to see Kirk and the crew in present day (at the time), San Francisco. Luckily, the film was solid in all aspects and was enjoyed by long-time fans of the series as well. After seeing this I plan on checking out the other Treck films so far they are not as nerdy as I would have figured. Maybe Treckies arnt as weird as we make them out to be!7/10 "},{"Title":"One of my favorites...","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is pretty much my favorite of the original Star Trek movies. I enjoy the fact that the Star Trek movies are consistent -- the story picks right up from the previous movie. Spock (Niymoy) is still not quite himself; the crew uses the hijacked Klingon ship (and takes advantage of its cloaking capabilities); and the crew is on their way to Earth to face the consequences of their actions in the previous film when they find that it is up to them to save Earth.This is also the only Star Trek movie where much of the story takes place in present time (in San Francisco, during the time period of filming). This provides lots of room for humor, and gives this particular film a more main-stream appeal, that the previous movies didn't have. It is quite a bit different from a typical Star Trek film in that more of the humor is understandable by even non-fans of the show/films.In all, if you are going to introduce a non-fan to Star Trek, this is a good one to start with, due to its wider appeal and present-time (1980's) setting through most of the film. It shows that the crew are, in fact, only human (mostly anyway), and that even with their superior technology they can still have trouble relating to people from the past. I believe it is among the most humorous of all the original (and Next Generation) films, and the actors get to show a side of their characters that hasn't before been seen. "},{"Title":"There be whales here!","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, it's even number time, so we all know what that means, right? Now, personally, I never subscribed to the even numbered Treks are better theory. The best ones are those with Nicholas Meyer involved, in some form. Meyer is one of the writers this time and the script is all the better for it.SpoilersThis time, Kirk and company head back to Earth to face the music for the last film. The Enterprise is gone and, boy, is the insurance company ticked! The crew has a nifty Klingon Bird-of-Prey to zoom around in, with a bit of graffiti on the side.Meanwhile, back on Earth, another probe has shown up and made a mess of things. The rest of Starfleet is incompetent, so it's up to our heroes to save the day. It's a quick slingshot around the sun and back to primitive 20th Century San Francisco.Spock, a little loopier this time, has discovered that whales are required to answer the probe. By pure coincidence, and a convenient plot twist, there are a pair of whales at a marine institute. There's also another love interest for Kirk. (How about letting Sulu get the girl, for once. Even Chekov got to make out a few times.)Much hilarity ensues and a few dramatic chases; not to mention a rousing middle finger to the whaling industry. The gang slams the ship in reverse and lead-foots it back home, in time to save the planet, again. Everyone goes for a dip and then a court-martial. Of course, all charges are dropped, except a token one against Kirk. Kirk gets busted to Captain and gets his just reward. The crowd cheers and the gang goes for a Sunday drive. The end.This film provides wonderful opportunities for the actors to demonstrate their character skills. The focus is still the Kirk-Spock-McCoy triangle, but everyone else gets their moments. Catherine Hicks makes a fine addition for Kirk to romance. There are plenty of laughs, some lame, some inspired. A few clichs are trotted out, like the annoying punk rocker (uh, guys, this was the era of hair metal), but at least they stayed away from any gay stereotypes.Ultimately, this is one of the more satisfying entries in the series. It has a good, sound plot, a nice mix of drama and comedy, and plenty of character moments. It's a bit preachy; but, when wasn't Star Trek a little preachy? The actors are really showing their age, but the action is such that it's not a handicap. However, it does signal that it's about time for retirement for the crew. Unfortunately, William Shatner got to direct the next one, and another had to be created to give the crew a better send-off.Oh, by the way, nice tribute to the Challenger astronauts. "}{"Title":"Very enjoyable and user friendly.","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Great stuff. I saw Star Trek VI before seeing this film and I remember thinking it was pretty good. This film was far better however. Most reviews make this out to be a humorous affair, full of jokes involving the Enterprise crew's being from the future. There were some, but they didn't bring the entire movie down with them (a la Superman III). I found this to be a very enjoyable, user friendly Star Trek film, and with the help of it, I managed to get my younger brothers into the franchise.*SPOILERS*The story begins with the Enterprise crew fixing their stolen Klingon Bird Of Prey (see ST III) and heading back to Earth, only to find a big old alien probe is destroying Earth. They analyse the strange noises the thing is making and find out that it is trying to communicate with Humpback Whales (which of course are extinct at this point). The crew goes back in time to save two Humpback Whales and save the future of planet earth from total annihilation.OVERALLGreat stuff. Go out and buy it. "},{"Title":"The one with the whales&#133;..","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes that one &#150; a Star Trek with a 20th century environmental message &#150; dear oh dear.They play this one mostly for laughs `Are you sure you won't change your mind?'  `Is their something wrong with the one I have?' and so on.  Then there is the fantastic set of coincidences &#150; you just knew that the &#145;nuklear wessel' would be the USS Enterprise didn't you?The whales where excellently done it has to be said but apart from that and a few shots of Spacedock, the special effects where pretty limited.There were also several bits of unexplained nonsense &#150; the dream sequence during the time warp, the fact the entire interior of the Klingon ship had mysteriously had a complete makeover and the entire unbelievably embarrassingly transparent aluminium formula plot.The soundtrack grated as well, it just did not fit in with the established style of Jerry Goldsmith and James Horner who had scored ST1 and 2 plus 3 respectively.All in all a bit silly but at least Kirk got his Enterprise back in the end&#133;.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film in the series is a good, lighter side of Star Trek. After two of the film series's darkest movies, this a good combination of both humor and adventure. there are lots of funny highlights in the movie, such as Scotty using a Mac Plus, Spock cursing, Chekhov getting grilled by the F.B.I and much, much more.WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD. IF YOU WANT THE MOVIE TO BE REALLY INTERESTING, DO NOT READ AHEAD.The film is about around Starfleet's prosecution for Kirk's disobedience in STIII. Meanwhile, Kirk and his crew go through self- imposed exile on the planet Vulcan. The resurrected Spock is now undergoing a great reteaching. Soon, Kirk and his crew vote to go back to Earth and there, begin facing the consequences for the actions. Spock agrees to go with his shipmates to Earth.But meanwhile, a starfleet ship encounters an alien probe that drains the life out on the ship and goes on a course towards Earth. When the probe gets to Earth, it starts sucking the power of all the ships and stations in the sector. The lead Starfleet officer, Admiral Cartwright (Brock Peters) tells the Federation president that all ships heading towards Earth cannot go to Earth at all costs. While Kirk and his crew are heading home in their captured Bird of Prey, they receive the message to stay away from Earth.Also, Spock soon realizes the probe is sending a message to the Earth's humpback whales, a race of creatures which have been extinct for 200 yrs. Soon, Spock comes up with the theory they can travel back through time to a point in time in which humpback whales still populated the Earth. Spock prepares the calculations for time travel. Kirk sends a message to Earth, informing them of what Kirk and his crew are about to do.And then, they travel back in time to what we believe is the year 1986, the film's release year. There, after they arrive, Scotty tells Kirk that they have 24 hrs. worth of power because the time travel sucked out all the energy in the dilithium. Spock says that they could use the protons inside fusion reactors, found on naval vessels. So, the crew splits up into three groups. Chekhov and Uhura go to find the protons neccesary to recrystalize the dilithium crystals in the Bird of Prey. Scotty, McCoy and Sulu go find a way to carry the whales back to their time and Kirk and Spock go and find humpback whales. And that's the movie. I would give this Star Trek movie *** out of **** "},{"Title":"interesting premise","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In this installment the crew of the enterprise takes a klingon bird of prey back in time to 1986. The crew touches down on earth of the past to find two humpback whales to transport back to earth in the future. The purpose of the trip is to stop an alien probe trying to contact the whales species who have gone extinct in the future. The premise is intriguing. The story and the film were one of the most monetarily prosperous of the series. The strength of this film is the modern day time warp story and the future crew thrown in a contemporary setting. STAR TREK 4 has a eco friendly tone and does it without being a farce. The only problem was it would have been nice to have at least a three minute synopsis on the probe and the race from which it came. One of the beter movies of the series, STAR TREK 4 was a box office hit of the christmas/thanksgiving season of 1986. Of note is CATHARINE HICKS, the beautiful yet talented actress who plays GILLIAN TAYLOR in this film. As a 16 year old I was attracted to her much the way my grandfather was drawn to past actresses such as BETTY GRABEL. A great film and an ensemble piece.  "},{"Title":"Star Trek voyage home hits home","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I believe that while they have written intelligently, some people have misunderstood Star Trek the Voyage Home. It was not simply for laughs.The real villian in this movie is the greed and coldness of the 80's.  This is shown as Man wipes out a valuable species amdScotty runs into a greedy personwho nearly drools at the formula for a metal.The film attacks the crudeness of the 80's when Kirk tells Spock that to pass for humans of the day, they must curse and no one pays attention to you unless you curse every other word. MyCoy says about the people I don't know how these people ever made it to our time.While the second movie had Khan as a villian, this one had man's greed. It became funny at times because it had the star trek belief that what we consider modern today will be laughable tommorrow just as the early hand cranked cars look silly to us. That was a point made in the television series and this movie.The movie might be appreciated more if one considers what it was saying. Just as Dr Strangelove was funny with a deadly serious topic and showed how insane the world had become, so did this 'Star Trek "},{"Title":"Book, movie play differently than video","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The funny thing is that the book, the movie and watching it at home have different experiences. I read the novelization before I saw the movie, and the book (by the woman who also wrote II and III's novelizations) gave the probe a voice, making it that much more poignant, especially when the probe speaks to the whales - who have a very interesting perspective. In the book, the whales have a broader perspective. They don't think in terms of days, they think in terms of decades and centuries. Regardless, the book was the best rendition of the movie - in fact, the fellow who Scotty reveals the transparent aluminum to actually IS the inventor. More importantly, Carol Marcus is discussed in the book as well - the writer follows her through II and III - and the pain that lady feels. Ah, yes, Saavik's pregnancy with David's child I believe is hinted at as well. The book is a must read.The movie was a raucously good time, especially on opening day. While the movie was a great catharsis, I remember the dead silence when the pictures of actual whales being stripped of their blubber - the palpable horror and dismay, so Leonard Nimoy got his desired effect, though the contrast to the rest of the film was jarring, to say the least. I remember seeing more than a few nods of the head and some claps of applause when Nimoy's Spock uttered, quite matter-of-factly and unemotionally, To hunt a species to extinction is not logical. (Yes, we all felt guilty about it.) I don't know if I remember hearing Bibi Besch's response Who says the human race is logical? or something to that effect. It was a powerful moment at the time.Unfortunately, a lot of the emotional investment is gone when you watch in the comfort of your own home - this is a movie meant for the darkened theater and a communal experience, more than any other Trek film. "},{"Title":"Star Fluff","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cute. After the unfunny first movie, and the doom-laden second and third movies, it was decided that a lighter, more humorous Star Trek should be produced. It also featured the return of time travel, an environmental message, and wrapped up storylines from the last two features. It's ironic that the more humorous moments in the film come from the unemotional Mr. Spock.I didn't care much for the romantic interest and the musical score was lame, but all in all, this is a charming movie.  "},{"Title":"best Trek ever","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Laugh through it ever time i see it, i have been watching trek since i was very little ... and this was by far the most interesting one out of the TOS. My hat is off to the actors...what a great job thank you "},{"Title":"How We Differ From Them","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film sees the original characters going back in time to the 80's to bring two hump whales into the future to save the earth! Now that's a good damn premise! These characters stick out as you would imagine and it actually turns out to be quite comical. Mr Spock understands all different science equations but fails to understand the simple question of how do you feel? Well, this sees him in the 80's so obviously an impact will be made on him. The film is vast entertainment for not just Trekkies but everyone with a sense of humor. Just seeing the characters be so out of place in their enviorment is so much fun you cannot even comment on the all the strange technobabble the shows are known for. Give this a fair chance even if you hate Star Trek. "},{"Title":"One of the best Star Trek films","Date":"29 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film has an excellent storyline, Leonard Nimoy's direction is wonderful, the regular cast all have great scenes and something to do for really for the first time on film and it has a very good supporting cast, though Catherine Hicks is the only one who gets significant screen time since the others (Mark Lenard, Jane Wyatt, Brock Peters, John Schuck and Robert Ellenstein) were all playing 23rd century characters. While the regulars all get something interesting to do, Sulu has the least to do since his big scene - in which he would have met his distant ancestor as a young boy - was never filmed due to problems with the child actor and his mother. In Star Trek III The Search for Spock, Nichelle Nichols disappeared from the film for about an hour while the men had all the fun, which I didn't take too kindly to. It reminded me of Blake's 7 Series Two in which Jenna and Cally frequently manned the teleport while Blake, Avon and Vila fought the other, less nice Federation. I'm glad that this film redressed the balance.I love the fact that a science fiction film can feature no deaths or weapons fired at people (though Chekov does try!) and still be a big financial success. The film has a few minor antagonists such as the Klingon ambassador and the whalers but no villain per se since the Cetacean Probe's destructive effects on Earth seem to be an accidental byproduct of its incompatible technology rather than its intended purpose. It's also the best environmentally themed film that I've ever seen. While it's not exactly subtle, the pro-environmentalism message is very effective.The film was co-written by Nicholas Meyer, who also directed and co-wrote Time After Time and the two films share some interesting similarities. Both feature temporal fish out of water visiting San Francisco in the year that the film was released and befriending a young woman who learns that they are time travellers and eventually returns with them to their own time. In both, the time travellers earn money by selling their possessions in an antique shop. The scene with the punk on the bus was based on a deleted scene from the earlier film. Time After Time features a great scene in which H. G. Wells eats in McDonald's. I'm not sure where they could have fit it into the film but I'd have loved to have seen Spock doing the same thing! The time travel effects are quite similar too.It's quite well known that there was serious talk of Eddie Murphy being in the film as an eccentric scientist / UFO nut but he eventually turned down the role in favour of The Golden Child, something which he later regretted, and the character was changed (considerably!) into Gillian Taylor. At the time, Murphy was at the height of his popularity and, sadly unlike now, was making many hilarious films but, even though I am a fan of his, I am glad that he wasn't in the film. It could have easily been Star Trek's answer to Superman III in which Richard Pryor is given so much screen time - not much less than Christopher Reeve's, really - that the film often feels like a Richard Pryor film with Superman in it rather than the reverse.Double dumbass on you! may be my favourite line in Star Trek history. "}{"Title":"There be Whales here, Captain","Date":"21 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Voyage Home is the funniest and most heart-warming of all the Star Trek movies. Wrath of Khan is my favorite Trek outing, but The Voyage Home is fantastic in a different way. It challenges its characters in a different way from Wrath of Khan. Rather than pitting the crew of the Enterprise against an antagonistic man, it places them in the past, against their future, and against their past, while still creating an enjoyable, light-hearted atmosphere. The crew of the Enterprise returns to earth after the events of The Search for Spock, but find that a probe has disrupted the planet and its atmosphere. Spock listens to the noise of the probe, and realizes that the probe is trying to communicate by humpback whale speech. But whales are extinct in the 23rd century, so the Enterprise crew travel back to the 20th century to find some. They find two captive whales there, but they have trouble getting them out of captivity, and try to repair their low-powered ship at the same time. The premise of the movie is silly, but it's arguably the most creative and brilliant premise of the Star Trek movies. A lot of thought has obviously been put into this silly idea. A probe that talks to whales is something most of us would never have thought of. In the end, we don't find out what the probe has to say, and that is fantastic. It keeps the story mysterious, and shows that some questions will never be answered. The characters are in a great situation for character development. Their eccentricities and personalities stick out more than ever against the background of the 20th century, causing some great character interactions and hilarious comedic situation and lines. Each character is tested. McCoy is disturbed by 20th century medicine, Scotty has to deal with 20th Century mechanics, Chekov has to communicate with others, Sulu's pilot skills are tested, Spock has to deal with being honest (as Vulcans cannot lie), and Kirk has to convince the whale keeper Gillian of his situation. All the character interactions are believable and funny, and everyone working on the movie seems to be enjoying himself or herself. Normally, I don't get into environmental message stories, but here I enjoyed myself. The message wasn't crammed down the audience's throat, and it tied into the story nicely. Despite the lack of guns, spaceships, and action in the movie, it is arguably the closest of the films in the series to the heart of Star Trek. The themes, situations, and character make the movie get it absolutely right. A "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek movie","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's the best Star Trek movie that I have ever seen. But every time I watched the succeeding films I can't help but I wonder why the ending of this film went that way.At the end of the film, Captain James T. Kirk was given a new ship NCC 1701-A Enterprise, Constitution Class.For me, like Captain/Commander Sulu, was hoping for a new ship, an Excelsior class starship.It would have been great for the next film if Captain Kirk has a new ship. A bigger ship.With that new and big ship he could still hop around the galaxy. "},{"Title":"A Star Trek film even the non-Star Trek fans can enjoy","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sure this film isn't like the 3 previous films but that's what makes it so interesting. Instead of spending the entire movie in space, we get to see Kirk and the crew on Earth back in the 1980's and watch them try to adjust to the way things were back then (example Kirk had to sell his antique glasses that McCoy had bought him for his birthday in order to get money). The film also takes the step of adding a lot of comedy to it. From Spock experimenting with colorful metaphors to Scotty learning how to use a non-voice activated computer, the film is a treasure to watch. Also stars Catherine Hicks (from 7th Heaven) as the intelligent but stubborn Gillian Taylor. Wonder whatever happened with her character after she got assigned to a science vessel. We'll never know. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly Accessible & Entertaining","Date":"5 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is not the best Star Trek film. But it is the most fun, the most accessible to general audiences, and really much more than just a novelty or comedy. The plot is brilliant in multiple ways. The most obvious is the irresistible humor that arises naturally from the circumstances that the characters find themselves in. This is always the best type of humor, not forced or contrived. Of course, there is also a strong conservation/preservation message, which is inspiringly though-provoking (in the best tradition of Star Trek). Thirdly, this film wraps up the continuous story-arc begun in Stark Trek II & III, finding closure for the characters and answering some of the questions left by the previous installment.As far as other specific things, Catherine Hicks does a great job in her role as a biologist, and it is nice to see all of the crew members getting some genuine screen time of their own (i.e. not just Kirk/Spock/McCoy). The one particular problem is that there are a few moments when things get a little too lighthearted, to the point of being disposably unbelievable. But that can be forgiven, because on the whole, Star Trek IV manages to be a wonderfully engaging, universal film that a wide audience can appreciate, without sacrificing its soul in the process. "},{"Title":"Certainly more down to Earth...","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Following the mediocre success of Search for Spock, the Star Trek franchise wanted to appeal to a different kind of audience, in a sense, bring it home, and this film pretty much symbolises that by literally bringing it home! It's a really clever and quite quirky story which attempts to bring characters of a different space and time back to the present day, almost like a dream come true for most die hard fans. It also attempts to bring across an environmental message, and they certainly do better than most environmental films as a concept such as this could be quite plausible.The film begins with a strange probe trundling through space, the probe has no distinguishing features apart from the fact that it makes a strange noise. Starfleet notices it's appearance and find's it's course is set for Earth. We then move to Earth where a trial is being held against Admiral Kirk for his actions in the previous film, including the robbery and destruction of the Enterprise. Kirk and his crew have in fact been in exile on Vulcan whilst Spock finishes the final stages of his training and teaching. With the crew now ready, they use the Clingon vessel from before to return to Earth in order for Kirk to stand trial. However, the probe arrives and settles itself above the Earth. Due to an Electromagnetic field being created by the probe, all electrical power is interrupted and violent storms start to rip the world apart. A distress signal is sent to all ships, including Kirk's, stating that they must stay away from Earth. Spock attempts to decipher what language the probe is speaking in and determines it to be the song of the Hump Back Whale, a species which became extinct at the beginning of the 21st Century. Using a special 'Sling Shot' manoeuvre, the crew fires themselves at Warp Speed round the sun in a certain direction and they travel back in time to the year 1985. They then travel to San Francisco where they believe a pair of Hump Back's have been kept in an Aquarium. After attempting to fit-in with the 1985 style (including the use of money), the group travels to find several vital items- Nuclear Coils in order to re-power the ship - A special transparent Aluminium to help contain the Whales and water - A helicopter to carry the Aluminium tank - The Whales themselves!All of these tasks seem to go to plan apart from 2, the acquisition of the Whales, and the collection of the Nuclear Coils. The Whale's Owner, Dr Gillian Taylor, however is reluctant to do so, and Kirk must use his charm on her in order to acquire the vital pieces of equipment necessary to save Earth's future. Can Gillian be swayed to releasing the Whales? Will the others be successful in finding the missing items? Will the Earth of the future be saved? Only within the movie will you find that answer...I can understand that this film is an obvious Enivronmental Film, and a majority of these don't work as they continually cram their messages in your face. But this on the other hand is able to mold it into the Star Trek Universe in a sensible and plausible way. There's a lot more humour in this film compared to the previous two and the acting is a bit more flamboyant. But other than that, this film is really an enjoyable laugh that I'd recommend to anyone! "},{"Title":"Definitely seems to be one of the more fun Star Trek movies!","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It definitely seems to be the case I'm being far more fond of the later Star Trek movies, featuring the original cast. Instead of having lots of slow moments and be completely serious movies, the later ones seem to be far more entertaining and adventurous.I know that a big criticism about the later Star Trek movies is that they are being too comical. And yes, you could definitely even call this movie somewhat of a comedy! I however really don't mind this at all, since I always felt Star Trek took itself far too serious, which pretty much sucked all of the fun and adventure out of it for me. I therefore also really consider this movie to be one of the better Star Trek movies and one that I could probably watch over and over again.It also seems to be the case for me that I definitely enjoy science-fiction better when it's not just set aboard a spacecraft. This movie for most part is actually being set on Earth, which might sound like a strange thing for a Star Trek movie to do but this definitely and obviously ain't no ordinary Star Trek movie!The movie is not just mostly set on Earth but 20th century San Francisco! That's right, this movie features time traveling and this is actually being the thing were the movie draws its most fun and entertainment from. It's a great sight, seeing Spock and Kirk and all of the other wander around 'present' time, with their goofy looking costumes. And the movie definitely has a sense of humor about it itself and isn't afraid to make fun of a couple of things. Of course they get themselves into all kinds of trouble, when being confronted by 'old' fashioned costumes and technologies. I also loved how the one with the thick Russian accent, Chekov, was the one in charge of finding a nuclear power source, while in fact the cold war was still very much going on at the time. Needless to say that he gets into the most trouble, out of all of the crew members.It's also a very good looking movie. You could definitely tell technically had been improved and the special effects and all of the other details are pretty good looking. This one feels like a more stylish Star Trek movie and Leonard Nimoy once more did a great job as a director!Don't worry about the story. It concerns bringing whales back to the 23th century, since they are the only ones who can communicate with an alien probe and save the Earth from getting destroyed. It sounds crazy but again, don't worry about it. This is not a movie that is all about its story but more about its adventurous and comical aspects. The movie itself, among other things, doesn't even really feature a villain in, expect maybe mankind itself.Yes, this is one of those movies with an ecological message in it but as far as these type of movies go; this one really doesn't work out as an annoying one. The message isn't being put on too thick and you can pretty much ignore it if you choose too, without this making a negative impact on the movie or its story.A real fun science-fiction adventure!8/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A more lighthearted take","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bringing humor into a series can be tricky. Oh sure, there was probably some used before, but in moderation. Sometimes it's done to try and inject some life into a dying series. Other times it's to lighten things up after they'd been so darn serious. The first three 'Star Trek' movies aren't totally lacking in humor. For the next installment, it was about to cranked up a notch or two. Setting much of the film in 1980s North America should give some indication. Luckily, the balance between comedy and drama is pretty solid.Pros Fine performances. Another steady directing job by Nimoy. Story is a nice change of pace. Good score. Nice job on the effects. Great sense of humor. Pace just moves right along. Great cinematography. Leaves one with a good feeling.Cons Story is kind of silly. Hasn't aged well. Some effects haven't held up. Lacks the sense of danger of it's predecessors.Final thoughts As part of a trilogy of sorts, IV closes it up nicely. It's best to go in with an open mind since the tone is quite different. Had they gone overboard with the humor, the film wouldn't have worked so well. But once again the cast and crew, under the strong directing hand of Leonard Nimoy, have made magic.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Simply one of the most enjoyable sci-fi films","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek IV is the second best Star Trek movie after The Wrath of Khan. Not surprisingly, Nick Meyer, the master director behind Khan, was also involved in this movie.This film is just thoroughly enjoyable from start to finish. It looks great. The dialogue is smart. It's genuinely funny. And it completes one of the best trilogies in movie history.There's really no villain in Star Trek IV. This isn't an action film. It relies on its plot and characters to carry it.Leonard Nimoy redeems himself after the disaster which was Star Trek III The Search for Spock. "},{"Title":"The Best Of The Original Trek","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This final chapter in the trilogy of Star Trek movies from II through IV is, I would say, the best of the original cast movies - and therefore the best of all the Star Trek movies that have been made, perhaps with the exception of Generations, which very thoughtfully and skilfully bridged the gap between original Trek and Next Generation Trek. This lacks the excitement of Star Trek II (or even of First Contact in the TNG movies) and it lacks the tweak of originality found in 2009's Star Trek reboot, but what it has is a sense of what made the original TV series work so well. This is both funny and philosophical at the same time, it makes good use of the entire original cast, it blends in new characters (especially Gillian, played by Catherine Hicks) seamlessly, it involves time travel (which was always a favourite staple of the TV series) and it would have struck a chord with a 1986 audience with its save the whales theme. If only Paramount hadn't tried to milk the Star Trek cow too hard by releasing the abysmal The Final Frontier a couple of years later, which then required (just to leave us with a better taste) the much better but still nowhere near as good as this The Undiscovered Country then the original cast would have left with their heads held high for a job well done!The Voyage Home begins where The Search For Spock left off, with the crew on Vulcan, preparing to return to Earth in their captured Klingon vessel (along with Mr. Spock, who's come back to life!) to face the music for the events of the previous movie. But they discover that an alien probe has entered Earth's orbit and is threatening all life on the planet because no one is able to understand or respond to its signal. Spock determines that the probe is sending whale songs to Earth, but in the 23rd century whales are extinct, and so there can be no answer. The only solution is to go back in time to the late 20th century, capture a couple of whales and bring them back to the 23rd century, hoping that they will be able to call off the probe.It's a lot of fun watching Kirk and crew as they try to fit in to 20th century San Francisco. Many scenes made me laugh. Kirk and Spock repeatedly trying to use profanity because according to The Collected Works of Jacqueline Susanne and the novels of Harold Robbins that's how people talk in this era; Spock using the Vulcan neck pinch on an obnoxious punk on a city bus to the cheers of his fellow passengers; Scotty trying to operate a computer by speaking into a mouse; Sulu flying a helicopter and to his surprise turning on the windshield wipers; the old lady shouting the doctor gave me a pill and I grew a new kidney (which you really have to see to appreciate the humour of) and, of course, Chekov's search for the nuclear wessels at the naval base as they seek energy to repair their ship. And in the midst of the fun there is real drama.The ending was perfect (again - why, oh why, did they make V?) After saving the planet, as punishment for his actions in the previous movie, Kirk is demoted to captain and assigned a starship command and everyone expects to be assigned to the Excelsior. Instead, their shuttle goes over the Excelsior and reveals a brand spanking new U.S.S. Enterprise, Serial # NCC-1701-A, as Kirk intones My friends, we've come home. The original movie The Motion Picture tried so hard to bring forth a reaction of nostalgia from its viewers with extended exterior shots of the Enterprise. This worked far better in doing that, to be perfectly honest.There's not much here to criticize. Yes, one could wonder why they would choose to come back to Earth in - I guess - 1986. With whales already in decline, they'd surely expect to have an easier time finding whales in maybe the 17th century? But, of course, we needed them trying to adjust to our society to increase the sense of fun. And this is fun. Well done, all round. Of all the movies, this probably is the closest to the real Star Trek experience you'll get. (8/10) "},{"Title":"The Hands-Down Pinnacle of the Star Trek Film Series!","Date":"5 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" THE STORY Kirk and crew must go back in time to late 20th century San Francisco and bring back a couple of humpback whales to save 23rd century Earth from a strange alien space probe that is attempting to commune with whales, but can't because they've become extinct (!!).The movie's title, The Voyage Home, is appropriate not only in terms of the film's plot, but also represents the revival of the fun character interplay and spirit of adventure that have endeared the original cast to ever-growing legions of loyal fans (although, admittedly, we enjoyed a nice little dosage of this in the previous film in the series). Shatner referred to this quality as the joy of living. This joyful energy that the characters possess would at times verge on tongue-in-cheek but would never cross the line and the best Star Trek hours include this texture. He pointed out that there's a fine line that the actors and writers have to walk in order to maintain a sense of reality and keep from devolving into camp. They did a fine job of walking this line in The Voyage Home; some of the dialogue and situations are so absolutely absurd that the film is somewhat of a comedy, but the pic strangely maintains a sense of reality throughout, avoiding the rut of camp. (The next film in the series wouldn't be as successful in this regard).One amusing recurring theme is the characters' attempts to add profanities to their every-day speech in order to fit into present-day America. Their efforts are noble but it goes without saying that they fail abysmally, especially Spock. Kirk's first attempt is in response to a cab driver who calls him a Dumbass! for walking in front of his cab. Kirk responds by giving a quick uncertain glance at his comrades and then spouting, Well, a double 'dumbass' on you! The cast members have unanimously expressed that The Voyage Home was the best Star Trek feature film, or at least one of the best. Nichelle Nichols felt the first movie was certainly good science fiction but it wasn't a faithful adaption of the television Star Trek (i.e. it lacked the action, humor and character interplay), the second film was centered around Spock dying and the third around bringing him back to life. She pointed out how there was never enough time to introduce the qualities that made Star Tek on TV so great. She believed these qualities successful came to the fore with The Voyage Home.FINAL ANALYSIS Everything magically comes together on this fourth film outing to give us a tale every bit as good as the best TV episodes. In fact, it's BETTER because it's a feature film and looks so good (unlike the cheap sets of the original three-year TV run). I gotta hand it to Leonard Nimoy for coming up with such an intriguingly bizarre and original tale involving humpback whales that communicate with aliens. If I didn't know better I'd think he was influenced by some trippy foreign substance. Needless to say, the film's great fun and grand entertainment of the highest order -- even if you're not a Trek fan. In other words, this is the most accessible of the feature films for non-Trekkers. FINAL WORD Without a doubt, the best of the film series -- the most entertaining, the most popular and the most profitable. "}{"Title":"Who's Idea Was That?!","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Humpback Whales ?! Seriously I had problems understanding how and why they came up with that, did Greenpeace help them out?! That whole story didn't do it at all for me and how can people say it's one of their favorite? The wrath of Khan is without a doubt the best, mainly because of the absence of Leonard Nimoy in The search for Spock. Also the time travel idea is an easy and cheap choice for the obvious reason that there's no Space Ship of any kind for like 3/4 of the movie, maybe they forgot it was a Star Trek movie. The only good thing about it are the characters that we love so much and thus makes it possible to tolerate this fourth chapter to the Star Trek franchise. "},{"Title":"Our heroes friends journey back to Earth  20th Century  trying to save mankind","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This following from 'The search for Spock'(by Leonard Nimoy), again reunites the cast of the popular television series. This time a weird probe is menacing Earth causing disasters, storms,destruction and broadcasting a sounds that anybody understands. Admiral Kirk, Spock who say goodbye to his Vulcanians parents(Mark Lenard as Sarek,and Jane Wyatt),and Bones(DeForest Kelley 1920-1999)along with the crew, Commander Scotty(James Doohan,1920-2005),Chekov(Walter Koenig),Uhura(Michelle Nichols), Zulu(George Takei), Commander Janice Rand(Grace Lee Whitney) and Dr. Christine Chapel(Majel Barret, married to Gene Roddenberry)must time travel to 1986 San Francisco where they know Dr. Chapel(Catherine Hicks) who help them.The entire crew of the Starship once more boldly go where no man has gone before in this Star Trek adventure.They must locate a humpbacks whales ,extinct in the 20th century, which can respond to strange alien and bring them back to 23rd century Earth. Besides Kirk to face legal charges after his unauthorized assignment. Admiral Kirk is judged by disobeying and degraded as Captain and given command USS Enterprise A , NCC1701.This appealing, lighthearted entry is fun to watch, and Trekkies are sure to love it and non-fans will most likely find it top-notch. The charming movie is full of enjoyable characters, comedy, and overemphasis on excellent special effects. Entertaining story with intelligent ecological message about a humpbacks whales saving mankind.Evocative musical score with usual leitmotif by Leonard Rosenman. Colorful and glamorous cinematography by Don Petterman. The motion picture is well directed by Leonard Nimoy in his best film. Suitable for family viewing , it's a bemusing adventure which young and old men will enjoy. Fans of the series will find very amusing and fun, but followed by an inferior outing Star Trek 5 The final frontier(1989) directed by William Shatner. "},{"Title":"Trek's social message...","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roddenberry had always lined TOS and the planned TNG with underlying social messages, but none to the extent with which Nimoy put it on the table. Save the Planet! 'nuff said.Take out the alien menace, the love interest and the damaged vessel part, and you still have good Trek.Rounding out the 'Spock Trilogy', Shatner required a Kirk vehicle, and this film delivered. Originally planned to co-star Eddie Murphy (yeah, The Golden Child was a better choice, right) as the geek whale biologist, this film rebounded to be a better popcorn movie. Everyone on the crew does their share, and Kirk gets in nearly every scene. Mission complete. Nimoy makes a great directorial save, following Trek III, and proves he deserved the center seat. The story moves along nicely, even past the opening, and ties together well at the end, introducing the 'new' Enterprise designation and giving the opening to TNG Enterprise. Social message or no, this one ranks as #3 on the best Trek list for me, rounding out II and VI. "},{"Title":"Are you sure it isn't time for a colorful metaphor?","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw the Special Collector's Edition of this(which I understand doesn't have any additional scenes that weren't in the original). Ah, 'the funny one'. There is a theory that after a few heavy or dark episodes in a row, they'd have a fun one. This is the movie version of said lighter one. And yet, it's smart, dramatic and, well, a blast. Again directed by Nimoy, and this also partially penned by him, this is superior to the one before it. This could be absolutely lousy, given the concept, but it's... not. It's marvelous. The humor is genuinely well-done, timing, material, it all works. Most of it is verbal, with a little bit of silly, with none of it being childish or worse. The prerequisites to getting it, apart from knowing the series, are simply understanding American culture and slang, specifically that of the period. The plot is good. The situations are resolved in a satisfying manner, albeit certain aspects might benefit from more seriousness. The dialog is excellent, possibly the best of any of these I've seen thus far. The language is pervasive, to a greater extent than earlier(and harsher, as well), though some of it is there for a purpose(namely, hilarity). There is another minor offensive thing in this. If viewers can tolerate or look past them, they're likely to thoroughly enjoy this. This has a moral, but it isn't preachy. I recommend this to fans of Star Trek and/or sci-fi, and will suggest that the second film be watched first(the third is perhaps optional). 8/10 "},{"Title":"Pleasant break from the Serious Tone of preceding films","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recall seeing this in the theatre when it came out and being confused by it. Maybe it speaks to my ever-growing, worldly sophistication that now I get it. ;-)ST IV is an unusually pointed movie, with a save the whales activist theme that's overarching and at times heavy-handed. Of all the issues to focus on, I'm not sure why this was chosen, but it made a change, at least.In their travel into the past, the characters actually get more independent screen time than they usually do. They're also off the darn deck! We get to see new sets and surroundings for familiar faces.The picture itself is predictable and lightly entertaining. The best part was a perfectly timed comedic exchange between Kirk and Spock in a pickup truck about whether or not they liked Italian food. It's the only time I've seen that kind of humor in Star Trek -- I could only wonder why there wasn't more! "},{"Title":"a funny flight for the ST crew","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Star Trek IV The Voyage Home' is the Star Trek film for anyone who doesn't like Star Trek. That probably explains why it was the most profitable of all Trek movies, in both generations. With its largely comedic take on the ST universe, it allows skeptical audience members to identify with the 20th-century characters who variously consider Kirk, Spock, and company to be ditzy, freakish, anachronistic, or, in Chekov's case, even retarded. At the same time, the film slyly draws those disinclined to enjoy Star Trek INTO its universe by showing the crew to be humorously self-deprecating and of course in the end, heroic. And there is still enough serious business, mostly in the bookends of the story, to satisfy most hardcore Trekkers. All of which, it must be admitted, is pretty neat. The episode of the original series that many people feel was the best, 'The City On The Edge Of Forever,' was a time-travel story as well and can be seen as a source of inspiration for 'The Voyage Home,' if not plot-wise then in approach. One can hear echoes of Edith Keeler's line to Kirk, Why does Spock call you Captain? in various bits of dialogue spoken by the film's Dr. Gillian Taylor (Catherine Hicks). There, as here, Kirk and Spock are considered anomalies, Spock in particular. A running gag is Spock's naive misuse of common profanities and it provides some of the funniest moments in the film. Not all of the comedy works but fortunately 'Voyage Home' stays just this side of outright buffoonery. The lapses most apparent are the rather strained instances meant to portray the Enterprise crew as knowing next to nothing about twentieth-century Earth, its social customs or even language. (Kirk almost immediately contradicts this approach by telling the crew as they walk away from their ship to remember where we parked.) They know what they need to know when it's useful and are playfully ignorant when it's time for another joke. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. The 'save the whales' plot is another feel-good aspect of the movie, one that is either heartwarming or groan-inducing, depending on one's sensibilities. Catherine Hicks is quite good as the whale expert and her scenes with William Shatner are both amusing and touching at times. There is an oddly melancholy moment at the end where Gillian and Kirk go their separate ways; for what seems the first time in a long career of charming the pants off women with his charisma, Kirk is essentially 'blown off' by Gillian (in a nice way). Shatner's expression is perfect; it seems to say, Wait a minute, that wasn't supposed to happen. There are other things one could quibble about; the stock footage of whales splashing around in the ocean is cheesy even by Trek standards. But 'Star Trek IV The Voyage Home' is so good-natured and likable, by the end it tends to break down all resistance, satisfying fans and disbelievers alike. "},{"Title":"Trek's Answer to the 'Star Wars Holiday Special'...","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was TERRIBLE! No action, no intergalactic menace for Kirk and company to thwart, no ENTERPRISE, for crying out loud...nothing...just a moronic space probe providing what may well be the most contrived excuse for a voyage in sci-fi history! Even if a Star Wars fan intent on sabotage had slipped into the scriptwriting conference, I can't imagine how he could have done a better (by which I mean worse) job. For the blissfully uninitiated, a space probe appears over 23rd-century earth and starts causing storms. Why is the probe causing this havoc? Is it a plot for revenge by the not-quite-dead-after-all Khan? Have the Klingons declared war? No! The probe is destroying the earth because...wait for it!...it wants to 'talk' to a couple of humpback whales! This is utterly beyond belief. It reminded me of the South Park episode where the campers summon the spirit of Moses, and ask him what he wants, and he answers that he wants popcorn necklaces, macaroni drawings, and bean/paper plate tambourines with glitter on the sides. And South Park wasn't being serious! Why didn't the writers resurrect some space villain from the original series, and have him hold the planet hostage until they produced two humpback whales? They could posit that this villain intended to don a pair of water skis and do jumps over the whales, once the earthlings had handed them over. I can honestly tell you that such a change could not possibly have made the movie any more ridiculous than it already is.Now, I probably wouldn't last a week at Starfleet Academy, but I just don't buy the story (which is wisely left unelaborated) that it's impossible to blow this space probe up. Of course, the real reason they can't blow it up is that this would end the movie, before Kirk and the gang got a chance to swim with the whales. So, they go back in time to pick up these whales, and oh brother, it's about the most heavy-handed thing ever to disgrace the screen. Not only do we get a love interest for Kirk who REALLY has whales on the brain, we are treated to a TOUR of the whale's aquarium (lovingly laid out in real time!), replete with films of poachers carving the whales up (!), long-winded speeches about whales (mostly from the aforementioned Whale Woman), and a final confrontation between the Klingon ship the crew is using (no Enterprise, remember?) and a whaling ship. I must admit that I was very surprised that Kirk didn't dispatch the poachers with photon torpedoes. I have a hard time imagining that this idea never occurred to the writers, but I have an even HARDER time imagining the people who wrote this dreck thinking of this idea and then dismissing it as hitting the audience over the head too hard. At least it would have provided a single explosion for the producers to put in the trailer. In fact, I don't remember one fight or confrontation in the entire movie. It's as if the people who wrote the film (one of whom was Leonard Nimoy himself) were venting some kind of hidden hostility or frustration with the series. It's as if they set out to destroy everything that made the original show so enjoyable. Shoot, they even have Spock sporting a big toothy grin as he and the others take a dip with the whales! The only thing worse about the movie than the fact that it was ever made is that it has become regarded as one of the best of the Star Trek movies (!!!). Let's just say that this opinion tells us a lot more about the quality of the Star Trek movies as a whole than it does about this one in particular. Okay, there was one good part in Star Trek IV. It's the part where Scotty talks to the computer of the 1980s.Rating 1.5/10 "},{"Title":"Better and even Better!","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, with the stolen Enterprise destroyed and Kirk and crew in a Klingon bird of prey, they face the court martial of which I spoke in my review of Search for Spock. The Klingon President is going ballistic over the theft of the bird of prey and the death of its crew.Instead of being handed over to the Klingons for their version of justice, Kirk faces charges of 9 violations of Star Fleet Regulations, which further enrages the Klingon President.With the return of Spock to his native planet, and the restoring of his soul to his body at the end of Star Trek 3, Spock now trains to regain his knowledge and makes an asserted effort to regain his memories of those who love him so much.The Enterprise crew must now return to Earth to face the music, as it were, but the music that greets them belongs to the sea.A probe, sent to Earth to make contact with an ancient and now extinct race of beings, drains and disables everything in its path, in an attempt to establish communication with their target race. It is up to our favorite Captain and his loyal crew to save the planet by returning to Earth with the extinct race for which the device probes, or all will be lost.While this installment has the highest popcorn factor, this is the most entertaining of the series as it is by far the most fun. While there are no battles in space, and no serious alien drama, this return to 20th century Earth (the '1980's of course), is an absolute fun-fest in the series of Star Trek movies.Grab the kids, the tub of popcorn, sit back and just...enjoy.It rates a 9.35/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Hokey Trek","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One good thing about this Star Trek movie is that any future pictures could only get better. This is as low as Star Trek can get. It's hard to believe that a better story couldn't have been written for this installment. At the beginning of this film the council watches the destruction of the Enterprise the way the movie going viewer did from Star Trek III. Time out!..Who or what was recording all this for the council to view? Did they pop into a video store and say Hi there we need a copy of ST III The Search for Spock so we can have evidence to prosecute Kirk and his gang? The Catherine Hicks character Dr. Gillian Taylor is taken back with the crew to the 23rd century and then the next time we see her she's a big wig science officer. In an original series episode an Air Force pilot is beamed aboard the Enterprise to avoid killing him when his F-104 begins to break up under the strain of the tractor beam. When Kirk suggests that he be kept on board and brought back into the future with them he's reminded by McCoy that The man wou1d be antiquated in our time period virtually archaic The Gillian Taylor character however isn't hampered by being transported 500 years into the future.  She's right at home sitting next to non human looking aliens and is so well adapted in 23rd century science she's quickly made a Star Fleet officer. In an earlier film Kirk is told the Enterprise is being decommissioned because that class of Star ship is too old. At the conclusion of this movie another one has been built just for this particular gang to zip around in. This is what made the films, particularly this one so inferior to the original series, which were written clearly by more educated and imaginative minds. "},{"Title":"Who would have thought the best Star Trek film would be the one with a sense of humor?","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek IV The Voyage Home is a delightful film. A large alien probe threatens the Earth, and the officers of the USS Enterprise have to travel back in time in order to save the day. In my opinion the special effects, by Industrial Light & Magic, were the best yet for a Star Trek film. Leonard Nimoy's direction is a definite benefit. While the story is quite simple the dialogue and character interactions are witty and entertaining. The scenes where the officers make their way in the San Francisco of the past were a joy to watch. It's clear that the actors were having a good time during filming. The Voyage Home is notable for being the first film to raise the issue of whale hunting. Whales, like many other species, have been hunted to near extinction by man. This important message is clearly expressed in the film. If that weren't enough there's also a fitting ending. The Voyage Home is entertaining and thought-provoking, one of the very best Star Trek films (I think it's the best). Discussions about interstellar politics are almost absent here. I highly recommend seeing it. "}{"Title":"Also known as Star Trek Save the Whales","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sure, the idea of the Star Trek crew going where several million men (and women) have gone before -- 1980s San Francisco -- is an amusing possibility. The futuristic technology and mindset of the Star Trek universe meeting current times is ripe with gag potential and in many cases, Star Trek IV The Voyage Home lives up to that concept's potential. At the same time, it might be one of the dumbest Star Trek, nay, movie plots ever conceived.In the 23rd Century, an alien probe wipes out every ship orbiting Earths' main power and begins to tear the planet apart. Admiral James T. Kirk (Shatner) and his crew, having just risked it all to find Spock, are on their way back to Earth in a Klingon ship when it all goes down. They analyze the probes signal and realize that there's only one creature in the universe that can communicate with it -- the humpback whale. Yes, you're reading that right. These creatures are of course extinct in the future and so the Enterprise crew must travel back in time to Earth to retrieve a humpback whale and bring it back to save humanity.Seriously? Is this the best story Leonard Nimoy and Harve Bennett could come up with? Humpback whales? The concept was clearly we need a reason to send the crew back in time. How could it occur to anyone that they have to retrieve whales was the obvious answer? Clearly, someone had a save the whales agenda on board this project. I'm all for saving the whales, but that should not be a driving thematic force behind a Star Trek movie of all places.The best part of The Voyage Home is it gives Shatner and Nimoy a chance to flex their comedic chops. They definitely had to have been itching to use that skill and it's really amusing to see them work for laughs. Spock taking figures of speech literally is worth a few chuckles and watching Kirk make some moves on the whale lady (Catherine Hicks) -- who gets the pleasure of all the lines that try and help suspend our disbelief such seriously, who are you guys? -- it's a treat to get the comedic side of Star Trek. Even Scotty (James Coogan) and Chekov (Walter Koenig) get to be funny. That said, that's not really what Star Trek is about.Too few are the moments of Spock coming to terms with being half human and having feelings (and they're really irrelevant to the story). Too little is the sense of danger and adventure. Chekov getting injured and sent to the emergency room is not for suspense as much as the comedy of the Enterprise crew sneaking into the hospital and McCoy (DeForest Kelley) making snarky comments about how archaic '80s medicine is. McCoy, in fact, is the only character who gets what's really going on, though it was doubtfully intended that way. He tells Kirk, You're proposing that we go backwards in time, find humpback whales, then bring them forward in time, drop 'em off, and hope to hell they tell this probe what to do with itself? ... that's crazy! Yes McCoy, it is crazy. Too bad none of the real people on the set of this whole movie are smart enough to make that very observation. The Voyage Home is worth it for the sense of humor, but otherwise it's a complete joke in the other sense. As good of an idea as it might have been to bring the gang back to the present, it's rather insulting to think fans didn't need any kind of substance behind it. Sadly, considering the film's success, people proved them right.~Steven CVisit my site at www.moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"The One with the Whales!","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" That's how everyone remembers this film, Star Trek Saves the Whales.In many ways, it is the most enjoyable of the Trek films, because the whole thing was done in a fun spirit. The two previous movies dealt with the death and resurrection of Spock, the destruction of our beloved Enterprise, and conflict with the Klingon Empire. The producers decided, Hey, let's get back to the fun of it. because a lot of the original Trek was fun, not a lot of heavy stuff.So the plot is that Earth is under attack by an unknown space probe, and the only species that can give it an answer are Humpback Whales, which are now extinct in the 23rd century. Kirk decides to go back in time in the Klingon Bird of Prey he hijacked in STIII, and bring some whales back into his time. What follows are a number of amusing encounters with people from our time (1986).This movie continued with using the second stringers in better roles. (Especially hilarious are McCoy and Scotty at the plastics factory, using a circa 1986 computer.) In all, this is a enjoyable movie, and despite it's links to the 1980's and Catherine Hick's Big Hair (Hey, I vaguely remember in the 1980's i HAD hair!) it holds up over time better than most of the Trek films. "},{"Title":"Sure, it's silly. It's also great entertainment.","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take The best of the original big-screen Star Trek adventures, perfectly exhibiting the quirky appeal of the Enterprise crew. (This is an extension of the review I wrote in March 2007) Though I'm not exactly a Trekkie, there's certainly something that appeals me about the original STAR TREK movies. It's clearly evident in this spectacular and downright lovable fourth film in the series (and to some, the closure to an often-called STAR TREK trilogy which began with THE WRATH OF KHAN and continued with THE SEARCH FOR SPOCK). Also often regarded as one of the best movies in the uneven big-screen franchise, and I couldn't agree more. Packed with silly humor, a compelling storyline and the ever-likable crew of the Starship Enterprise, STAR TREK IV THE VOYAGE HOME is not just the best of the original series, it's also great science fiction. In this entry, the Enterprise crew goes on a voyage back in time, to save the future from a strange cylindrical probe that seemed to evaporate the worlds' oceans and cause communications malfunction. Back there, their the aliens. Everything is new, from Pizzas to exact-change buses, including the crew finding it primitive that the 21st century still makes use of money. Their mission is to collect two Humpback Whales, for they are the only ones that can translate the machine's frequency and prevent Earth's destruction. This is the most unique of the entire series, for its strange, but excellent combination of past (our present) and the future (their present). The characters are more likable than ever, this time given time to exhibit their quirkiness and likable soft sides, which are only occasionally evident in previous STAR TREK movies. Everything else, down to the first-rate direction by Leonard Nimoy, funny dialogue and some imaginative special effects, THE VOYAGE HOME is the best in the original series. Rating ***** out of 5. "},{"Title":"It's Time for a Colorful Metaphor Now","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is welcome comic relief after the brooding intensity of ST 2 & 3. Spock was hilarious when he was trying to curse. What Kirk didn't bother to tell him was that it takes human emotion to curse, something Spock doesn't have. There are times when cursing is bad, even for people who do it regularly. For example, when a commanding officer gives an order, Just one damn minute, sir, is not an appropriate response. ABSOLUTELY THE WRONG THING TO SAY TO AN ADMIRAL!!!! It worked in this movie quite well. So did Chekov and his nuclear wessels. I also liked He did too much LDS. And who hasn't wanted to do a Vulcan nerve pinch on some idiot on a bus, train, passing car, or next door neighbor who had their noise that they call music so loud you couldn't hear yourself think? The Star Trek crew is out of character here, but that's what makes it so beautifully funny. Now for the bad news. The environmentalist wacko theme was a little over the top and spoiled the movie just a little bit. That business about the whales just seemed to me to be misguided and misinformed. For that, I would give what otherwise would be an 8 or 9 out of 10 a 6 out of 10. By the way, if you look carefully, you can actually see Spock smiling at the very end when the crew is dunking each other in the water. "},{"Title":"'Star Trek' can't get any better!","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is without question the best STAR TREK movie in the series. It is full of great special effects, clever dialogue, sharp humor, and absolutely dazzling action sequences. It is the most fun to watch out of all the STAR TREK movies and is the most creative of them too. This is was easily one of the best movies of 1986. "},{"Title":"Not too impressive -- I actually liked V better than this one!","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I guess I am the only viewer that did not think that this was one of the better Star Trek movies. V and VI were much more entertaining because the storyline in this is plodding, at best. It does not get up much momentum at all. Like one viewer said, the pace is so slow, the story is dead in the water.I did not care for the fact that the silly probe did not seem to have any purpose but to make annoying noises throughout almost the whole movie. The destruction of earth because of some old probe was really a hokey, contrived plot. I loved the whales, but going to rescue whales from the 20th Century simply to have them speak to an old probe did not make much sense to me. It did not even make any sense in the end, either.Catherine Hicks' performance was so over the top, she became really annoying several times. I suppose her range was never all that broad anyway, but I did not end up ever liking her character, and she was supposed to be one of the good guys in the film. Perhaps the script did not have enough substance to make her more than a plastic character.You have to love Chekov and his nuclear wessels. Although that was dumb, too, at least it was entertaining. Of course, who wouldn't smile at too much LDS? Overall, not too great because it was so slow moving and not suspenseful. At least some of the other movies had some suspense. "},{"Title":"amazing movie, and I think the best one.","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movies exemplifies not only the virtues as a society we need to embrace ( moving to non-monetary society, and protecting animals, instead of exploiting them ) , but it also enlists comedy to help drive home the point that our society is headed in the wrong direction.This is the one movie that I would refer friends and first time trek fans ( any non trek fans left ? ) to as it embraces everything that 'starfleet' stands for, and in the real world that is a good thing.When we live in a world where basic needs of health and happiness are met  we all need to adjust , and teach our children to respect animals not hunt them, as only then will we find our true humanity, the one path God set us on in the beginning, and I think this movie does a wonderful job of illustrating that with just a touch of humor thrown in for humility .This movie encapsulates everything a passionate society stands for as it allows us to embrace the Heartseed , a non-violent coexistent stance with our world. "},{"Title":"The Lighter Side of TREK is GREAT Fun...","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Gene Roddenberry's original Star Trek 'family' fully expected that Paramount would 'pull the plug' and end their series of films after STAR TREK III THE SEARCH FOR SPOCK. After all, Spock had died and been reborn, Kirk and the crew were fugitives from the Federation, and the Enterprise itself had been destroyed, with the cast, now the proud owners of a Klingon 'Bird of Prey', staying with Spock's parents, Sarek and Amanda, on Vulcan. Pretty heady stuff for a franchise considered past it's prime, and as the studio seemed to be focusing it's attention on the upcoming 'Star Trek The Next Generation' television series, which would introduce a younger cast, there was a general feeling that the aging veterans of the first series, now all in their fifties and sixties (with the exception of George Takei, a 'kid' of 46) were overdue to be 'put out to pasture'.But producer Harve Bennett and Leonard Nimoy had an idea for a 'Trek' film that would be 'hip', lighter-hearted, could 'tie up' the loose ends of the series, and, as the film would be set largely in the 20th century, be both inexpensive to make, and 'audience friendly'. Inexpensive was always the key word for Paramount's 'brass', particularly concerning 'Star Trek', and after Bennett and Nimoy made the rounds pitching their script outline, and Nimoy agreed to direct, the project was green-lighted. The story is simple and straightforward; returning to Earth in the 'Bird of Prey' to face charges for hijacking the Enterprise, and destroying it, Kirk and crew discover that the planet is 'under attack' from a gigantic tube-like object, emitting weird sounds and laser-like beams that are playing havoc on the weather, world-wide. Spock determines that the sounds are the language of humpback whales, a species extinct in the 23rd century, so our heroes slingshot the spaceship back in time to the 20th century, in an attempt to capture a pair of the whales, and bring them 'back to the future'.As the Klingon ship has a cloaking device that can render it invisible (a wonderful invention that helped keep the FX budget down!), it is easy to 'hide' the spacecraft in a park in mid-eighties San Francisco, and the crew, after a funny sequence strolling the streets of the city, are divided into teams, with Kirk and Spock to procure the whales, McCoy and Scotty to build a tank to house them, Sulu to find a means of getting the tank to the ship, and Uhura and Chekov to siphon off some nuclear fuel (from the U.S.S. Enterprise, no less!) to help power the ship back to the 23rd century. Each team has their own mini-adventure (Kirk and Spock meet whale expert Dr. Gillian Taylor, played by perky Catherine Hicks, who, eventually, insists on accompanying the whales to the future, while sweetly shrugging off Kirk's passes; Scotty has to 'invent' the glass for the tank, potentially rewriting the future; Sulu is like a kid, flying an antique helicopter; and Chekov gets captured, then injured...Chekov is ALWAYS getting injured in the 'Trek' films!...providing McCoy a chance to perform some 'miracles' and criticize 20th century medicine). These vignettes are wonderful, and remind one of what terrific actors the original crew of the Enterprise were.The Earth is, of course, saved, Kirk is busted from Admiral back to Captain (the rank he was best suited for), Dr. Taylor informs him she's too busy to date (Kirk strikes out???), and the crew is assigned to a new starship...named Enterprise, naturally!STAR TREK IV, the most popular and successful 'Trek' movie yet made, would have been a fitting conclusion to the adventures of the original cast, but William Shatner, as part of his contract, was promised a writing credit and the director's chair for the next 'Trek' film... "},{"Title":"Too jarring for my taste","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many people, both Trek fans and the general public, consider The Voyage Home to be the best Star Trek film with the original cast, if not the best Trek film period. I disagree. However, I do not feel that Voyage Home is necessarily a bad film; merely that I did not enjoy it.There's something about playing the Trek set-up for laughs that just doesn't sit well with me. I agree that The Search for Spock bordered on space opera and that many critics found that film too serious, but IMHO the producers went too far in the opposite direction for the follow-up. I don't see what is gained by putting these characters in a present-day setting. This fish out of water premise worked on the TV series (particularly in The City On the Edge of Forever), but it wears thin on such a grand scale. I found the most interesting character in the piece to be Gillian, the scientist who cares more for the whales than anything else. She could be seen as an analogy for those of us who hope that the future will bring a civilization in which the quest for money is not our primary concern.Further, many feel that the true appeal of the original series was the interplay between the characters of Kirk, Spock and McCoy; so it makes sense that the producers would try to mine the possibilities of having Kirk try to explain 20th Century Earthling behavior to Spock as they go along on their bizarre journey. But to me, this just doesn't ring true.It has been said of science fiction that it concentrates too much on technology and effects and too little on character. Perhaps the producers of this entry were trying to change that with this one. But to this viewer, the experiment just didn't work. I have no qualms with those who like the film, I'm just saying I don't. "},{"Title":"Silly but fun and even more enjoyable after the straight-laced part 3.","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Still on the Vulcan planet awaiting repairs to their captured Klingon ship, Kirk and his crew are summoned to earth by the Federation to stand trial for making Star Trek 3 so very dull.  However a deep space probe is approaching earth sending out a communication signal that is disrupting power and damaging the whole planet.  When they find that the signal relates to the now extinct humpback whale, Kirk decides to travel back in time to the 1980's to recover and bring back a whale.Part 2 of the series is easily my favourite to this day of the Star Trek movies, so part 3 was a major problem, being so very dull and heavy, but part 4 was an improvement simply because it was so much more light hearted and fun.  The plot is potentially very silly and a barely hidden ecological subtext that threatens to sink the film, but it is delivered with tongue in cheek and it is that saves it.  The mocking humour is gentle and really carries the film as fish-out-of-water gags abound and the contrast between the crew and their surroundings is used well.While the plot is nonsense, the cast all enjoy themselves in whatever roles the script gives them.  Shatner has the biggest role of course but has the least fun as he has to carry the unlikely love interest.  Nimoy is good fun despite having a follow on from the last film that is a little heavy and he does a steady job as director.  The rest of the crew have small roles but each is funny - whether it's Chekov appearing to be a communist spy, McCoy berating modern doctors as the Spanish inquisition and Sulu happily flying helicopters for some reason.Overall this is not the best Star Trek film as it lacks any real action, excitement or tension, but what it lacks in this area it makes up for in terms of gentle laughs.  Looking at it alone it is only reasonable but after watching the dull `Search for Spock' this is a fun relief. "}{"Title":"Star Trek with a sense of humor!","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" My wife loved this movie and I did enjoy it more than most Star Trek films. This surprised me a little bit because the ads for the film made it look like a film made by Green Peace or PETA--with its emphasis in going back in time to rescue some whales. However, while this was part of the plot, the journey there was so much fun that it didn't seem preachy.The important crew members (you know, the ones you knew couldn't die when they went on landing parties in the old show) take a stolen cloaked (i.e., invisible) ship back in time to the 1980s to bring back some whales to save the Earth of the future. Some odd probe arrived over the planet and began sending messages to the Humpback whales but since they'd all been wiped out, the probe began destroying everything). Once they arrive, they try with little success to blend it. Spock tries cursing a lot because he'd read that the 80s were a rather coarse time, McCoy starts effecting miracle cures in the hospital he visits, and Chekov, with his Russian accent, gets busted when he begins asking where he can find the Nuclead Wessels (vessels). It's all great trivial fun. Not the deepest movie, but the trip was so much fun who cares? "},{"Title":"great!","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"18 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this movie. It is my favorite Star Trek film. The blend of scifi and comedy works.Ever been shocked if you visit another country and have to adapt to its culture? Try visiting another time period! That's what Kirk and company do, as they visit 20th century America to retrieve a pair of humpback whales to ward off an alien probe, and you will love their (mis)adventures as they adapt.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Saving the way, going back home","Date":"23 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" To most Star Trek fans, this is rated the best of the movie series.As Admiral Kirk and his crew go back home to face trial for insubordination, they must detour in the 20th Century as their actual world is threatened by an alien probe, looking out for humpback whales who emit the same sound as the probe do.Funny to see that the first time, the Enterprise is not involved, but a repossessed Klingon spaceship christened as the Bounty. However, in the 20th Century, the crew wanders around and mingle around San Francisco finding a way to get real whales and go back to the 23rd Century. Sometimes, the environment of the Past gets tricky for our crew, especially that Spock must overcome a partial amnesia...No matter why it is beloved, at least, an interesting (say fascinating...) twist of how can a crew from the Future handle a situation which could have been disastrous... "},{"Title":"Star Trek meets 80's America","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" An Alien Probe is heading towards earth playing havoc with atmospheric conditions and having terrible effects on the weather. The probe it seems is trying to communicate with Hump Back Whales, which are extinct. So the crew of the enterprise must travel back in time to the 1980's.The customs and the traditions seem so alien to them, how to take a bus, how to use computers (they try to talk into the mouse), Punk Rock music its could be a totally different planet.They find two hump back whales due to be released from captivity back into the wild, so a race against time begins to bring them to the future before they are released. "},{"Title":"A Voyage Worth Watching.","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek IV The Voyage Home is definitely the best of the Star Trek movies made with the cast of the original television series. It is very entertaining even though the plot premise is more than slightly implausible. The Earth is threatened by an alien spacecraft & the starship Enterprise must travel back in time to 20 century Earth to capture a couple of hump-backed whales which are needed to communicate with the aliens. Obviously, the movie's producers are making an all-too-true point about their possible extinction in the near future. However, there are a lot of really great scenes in the movie which make it all very watchable. My favourite is when Captain Kirk & Spock are taking a bus ride. A yob has his ghetto blaster turned up very loud & when Kirk asks him to turn it down the yob sticks two fingers up & ignores him. So Spock gives him the Vulcan nerve pinch which knocks him out & turns off the radio. This earns a round of applause from all the passengers on board the bus. That would probably earn a round of applause in any country!. Another sees Scotty trying to speak to a computer. He thinks the mouse is a sort of microphone & uses it to give verbal instructions to the computer. When he is told he needs to use the keyboard to instruct it he says sarcastically, How quaint!. There are many more memorable scenes in this movie in which the late Leonard Nimoy (Spock) did very well on one of his earliest attempts as a director. "},{"Title":"A fun edition of Star Trek","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek 4The Voyage Home is one of the best films of the Star Trek series because it just gives you the great appreciation for what made you a fan in the first place. Plus this film is actually a real winner for fans and movie fans alike now that is not something you can always get all the time.The film has a great plot that centers around time travel it made the film a winner because it had a strong plot where the Kirk,Mr.Spock, McCoy and the Enterprise must travel back in time to find two humpback whales into the future to save the Federation you'll have to watch the film to better enjoy the plot.Also what makes Star Trek 4 a strong film after Star Trek 2 and Star Trek 3 is that it took to a more mellow and comedy feel to it but it really worked as it still has a strong serious plot but all together the film is just fun to watch. Also the cast make it a thrill to watch with their performances. They worked pretty well together and made the characters enjoyable. The score is very well done and helps tell the story of the film also the effects are impressive which holds up nowOverall Star Trek 4 The Voyage Home is just a real treat for fans of Star Trek and movie fans alike. Sure it took a turn to have a comedy feel but it still one of the best films in the series and one of my favorite Star Trek filmsI give Star Trek 4The Voyage Home an 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"And Those 80's Hairdos! Ka-Ching!","Date":"11 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, normally I would be browsing through my library of Keats, Donne, Clare or Fitzgerald's Iliad but my entire library was thrown away by the bitter idiots in my family (ha ha we gotcha!), so I was stuck borrowing this from the library, having a vague memory of some good humor in this film. Apparently I need some ginkgo biloba because my memory failed me. As soon as I saw the cardboard paper towel tube covered with aluminum foil that is the enemy drone (borg? droid? sex toy?) I saw that I was in error. Oh I need the help. I think there must be a population of trailer trash worker bees who think they are viewing the sci-fi equivalent of Shakespeare just because the ST brand name is applied to a movie, but this movie has the same relationship to the original ST that Spaceballs has to Star Wars, only it's unintentionally funny. Future trivia question what movie features a Fat Bastard, humpback whales and a bra-less female lead? You got it! I don't know which is worse, the Fat Bastard Scotty in these movies or the new Scotty who is a completely different character altogether. Possibly the most (but not the only) annoying feature of this movie is the music, which was written by a now-deceased old-timer who apparently has early 70's white funk confused with mid-80's pop music. When the crew beam into downtown SF in '86, some strange concoction of the aforementioned white funk played with 80's synthesizers pops up in the score. I'd like to dig the composer up and ask him did you ever hear the score to Metropolis? He also likes the trumpet-bells combination, which might work for the Flying Nun but doesn't fit Star Trek at all. Pretty much all of the movies are amateur hour kitsch until Generations so I can't really say that this one is the worst of the bunch. Hey, at least there's some nipple-itis. "},{"Title":"Star Trek goes full-on '80s","Date":"9 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek IV feels like a product of mad science; comedy with a heaping does of ecological agenda. And even though humor doesn't seem within Trek's purview, its intentions are earnest and it really does work. the ensemble cast also helps to that end (everyone here gets their time in the sun), and it all makes for a pretty enjoyable ride. Not only that, but it works within the context of the larger story started by The Wrath of Khan; the crew of the Enterprise finally make it home, and the gift is nicely wrapped. Not only did this movie open the doors for a wider audience, but it also kick-started The Next Generation. Plus, it's a fun adventure flick. An all-around winner.7/10 "},{"Title":"A light-hearted 'Trek'","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" For those of us who followed the Star Trek (film) saga from the beginning, it's hard to believe that 'The Voyage Home' is really a follow-up to Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan. The second outing was dark, brooding and brutal, whereas The Voyage Home is light, fluffy and even political.The crew of the Enterprise (minus their ship - see III for what happened to that!) are on their way back to Earth when they find an alien probe is on the brink of destroying their planet in the search of whales it made contact with thousands of years ago. The only option - to Kirk anyway - is to travel back in time to present day, pick up a couple of humpbacks and then bring them back to the future to tell this annoying probe where to go.Yes, you could also call Star Trek IV 'Save the Whales.' However, the film is more than just a piece of animal rights propaganda. It never feels like it's stuffing its message down your throat (Avatar, see how it's done!) and it such an enjoyable ride that you really forget about the subtext.It's probably the most widely-watched Star Trek film to date. People are sometimes turned off the franchise due to its 'geeky' reputation. However, you don't need to know that much about the characters to appreciate it, nor do you have to sit through hours of space battles as ninety per cent of the film is set in present day Earth. It's the most 'family-friendly' of the Trek movie and, whether you're a fan of the franchise in general or not, I would say that most people should be able to sit down and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"Star Trek IV","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my favorite Star Trek Movie so far. It starts right after star trek III, and it might be the star trek movie with less screen time of Enterprise ever. But that's not the reason I like this. Star trek IV is, first of all, the first Star trek movie not involving battles, violence and such. But it's real pro is the humor. Spock's literal taking of anything told to him makes great jokes around here, more than in other star trek films, thankfully to this film's special setting. This is so far the funniest star trek movie I've seen, and I didn't laugh that hard in a long time. This movie makes it necessary to make a new separation in sci-fi categories. We have so far the action sci-fi, horror sci-fi, and the philosophical sci-fi categories. This could make a good entry in a third category, the sci-fi Comedy one. "}{"Title":"The 80s as you've never seen them before","Date":"3 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, Chekov goes snooping around looking for nuclear wessels at the height of the Cold war, Spock mind melds with a whale, Kirk puts a double dumb ass on YOU, and the Star Trek crew saves the earth from its own environmental antipathy towards Humpback Whales in this fun little outing, set in 1986.Nimoy again goes behind the camera and gives the type of solid directing effort we've come to expect. Spock is slowly getting back to his old self again after a mild case of death in part 2, and a major case of painful Vulcan puberty in Part 3. The rest of the Enterprise crew are lying low on Vulcan after their intransigence in the last film. A beacon arrives near the earth and starts sending out signals that no one can interpret. Annoyed at not receiving a response, the probe blocks out the sun and starts sending some planet shaking storms. Kirk loves the earth and so his crew, and Spock, in a pretty ridiculous outfit, climb on board the late Commader Kruge's Klingon Bird of Prey and head to earth. Spock is able to work out that the signal being sent by the probe is that of a humpback whale, which has been extinct since the 21st century. So to save the Earth they need to travel back in time. They can't simulate the noise (no seriously they address this very reasonable suggestion, and give a technobabble reason why simulating the signal can't be done). How to travel back in time? No police boxes around so we will just have to slingshot our ship around the sun (nope, me neither), and hey presto, we're in 1986.A pretty smart script makes the main body of this film fun. For instance Kirk is trying to explain to the crew how to act in 1986, but clearly has no idea how to act himself. The fish out of water stuff works pretty well. Highlights including Scotty trying to operate a computer by talking to a mouse, Bones being a miracle healer in an 80s hospital and Spock trying to cuss.Back to the plot. They find the humpback whales living in captivity in a museum under the care of Dr Gillian Taylor (Catherine Hicks from Seventh Heaven) and so Spock takes a dive with them to mind meld, and he thinks they'll help us. Kirk tries to get Gillian's help, but she doesn't believe them, until Kirk shows her the inside of the ship. The whales are in trouble once they're released into the wild a day early with evil whalers about. In the meantime, Scotty and the gang are trying to make a tank to hold the whales in out of transparent aluminum, which doesn't exist in the 1980s so Scotty has to help a man invent it.Needless to say they get the whales, Gillian comes with them to the future and they save the day. By this stage, 4 movies in, the chemistry between all the main characters is really going smoothly (on camera anyway) and everyone appears to be having a lot of fun. I never watched the original TV series, but I was still starting to feel like I knew these guys pretty well. The script has a nice flow to it and this and the chemistry between the leads makes the film very easy to watch.The main characters being so out of place helps this film to look not as dated as it otherwise would. While there are environmental themes, they are not explored in a preachy way. There are some fun comic moments but the stakes are kept high. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"My friends, we've come home.","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" All week I've been looking forward to re-watching this film, which I originally saw on its first cinema release. It was a delightful film, fun and vastly entertaining.How strange it seems that just a few minutes before I popped in the disc I heard of the death of Leonard Nimoy - a strange chance. I decided to go ahead and watch it anyway, despite feeling deeply moved at such sad news. I grew up with Mr. Spock, and I learned tolerance and patience from him - tolerance for people of different races and beliefs, and empathy.And all because of a fictional character in a weekly sci-fi series that its own network considered a failure.So I watched it again, and the sight of Mr. Nimoy, again as Mister Spock, in a film he directed and co-authored gave me much consolation. Voyage Home is one of the best Trek films, riffing on the TV episode TROUBLE WITH TRIBBLES, in style if not story. The movie is warm, incredibly funny, and the whole cast is a delight. Special praise must go to DeForest Kelly, a joy in every scene he's in.The story of course involves the crew travelling back in time to the 1980s to save Earth from a space probe which proves to be of cetacean origin (yes really).This is great Trek and a great movie. Even people who don't like Trek generally enjoyed this one,and it's endless fun to re-visit.But it's Leonard Nimoy I'm thinking of tonight. You will never be forgotten. Mr. Nimoy I salute you, Vulcan style.... "},{"Title":"Fun, quirky, solid Trek...","Date":"25 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is a fan-favorite for many fellow trekkies, which sends Kirk and the crew to 1987 to retrieve a pair of presumably extinct whales for an alien probe threatening 23rd-century Earth. Strange as that may sound, the story stays true to the what-if that is so characteristic of Star Trek by posing serious questions about the human condition, while retaining a witty, light-hearted tone throughout. Perhaps even more importantly, it does this without turning the characters into farcical parodies of what they had been previously established as.The only qualms I have about this film are the less-than-stellar cinematography, cheap-sounding music, and cheesy dialogue (though I can forgive this since the film was meant to be more tongue-in-cheek than the predecessors). The effects (as limited as they were in this installment) and overall direction, however, represent some of the best work that 1980's Star Trek has to offer.Conclusion give it a watch. "},{"Title":"Still haven't captured the awesomeness of The Wrath of Khan","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's an okay movie and that's being generous. It is slightly better than the last film, but I still wouldn't call this a good movie. It starts well enough. We get a good setup for the plot (and I mean the time travel, save the world part. Not the whale crap.), we get some cool sci-fi stuff, and we get some decently funny situations. That is where the positives stop and the negatives begin. The movie has this irritating message about saving the whales. The plot is the crew of the Enterprise going back in time to get a hunchback whale and bring it to the future so the whale can hopefully communicate with a mysterious probe that is threatening to destroy Earth (Hunchbacks are extinct in the future). This makes me think the people behind this movie were more concerned about making a Free Willy movie rather than a Star Trek movie, and it's incredibly disappointing. All they talk about is how important the whales are, how cruel it is to kill them, and how terrible the human race is to do so. It's extremely annoying and it killed this movie for me. What put the nail in the coffin though was towards the end it got really, really boring. Up until that point it had at the very least slightly funny, but the movie couldn't even hold on to that aspect. I'm still waiting for the next Wrath of Khan, but I somehow doubt I'm going to find it in the next movie. "},{"Title":"Great to see it again!","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just saw it again on the big scree! What a joy. The special effects and Art Direction have held up very well, and the acting seemed genuine for that particular universe. DeForest Kelly and James Doohan, of course gone years now, were at their crotchety best! Seeing Dr. McCoy's gleaming eyes and warmth again-so great indeed.The audience broke into applause at the end, and there was more than one tear in their eyes. Some of the shots and set design could have been made last week-so it was actually a pleasant surprise at how strongly the film held up over time. Truly, if you get a chance to see it on the big screen again, it's well worth it. A Leonard Nimoy film, the messages of friendship, duty, self sacrifice, a sense of adventure, and good stewardship on the environment are still fresh and important. "},{"Title":"The Adventure Continues...","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" ***Warning! Spoiler Information Inside***Star Trek IV was released in the aftermath of the Shuttle Challenger's destruction and it was appropriately dedicated to those who died in it.On Vulcan the crew faces the daunting reality that there are going to be dire consequences for their actions at the Genesis planet. Spock has returned from oblivion thanks to a lengthy mind meld. He is however now appropriately tasked with re-identifying with his humanity.The interpersonal issues of the characters create a wonderful foundation for the imposed situation, presented in a well written script. Shot in and around San Francisco, the settings enrich the acting of the performers while enhancing the viewers enjoyment with sometimes personal connection. The Plot is campy at points , but is so well carried it is easily forgotten in the show.This is one of the better entries in this franchise.Four Stars.(of 5) "},{"Title":"'Home' is where the heart is","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Though is boasts what I believe to be the most absurd plot in the entire 'Star Trek' movie saga, 'The Voyage Home' is none the less a handsomely made, humorous, and heartfelt entry. Yes, its Save the whales agenda does get a bit heavy handed at times, but that doesn't dim the light of optimism that has always been at the heart of 'Star Trek'.Many things set 'The Voyage Home' apart from the rest of the saga, but none so much as the genuine ensemble feel. The original 'Star Trek' series and the subsequent films have always focused on the triumvirate of Kirk, Spock and McCoy. This focus has served the series well, but as a result the rest of the cast/crew have often been little more than window dressing. Here they all finally fit into the story in a substantive way, and that inclusion has a definite effect on their performances. Everyone seems to be having a blast, and as a result, so did I. "},{"Title":"We've come home","Date":"24 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forgive me doctor, I'm receiving a number of distress calls. I don't doubt it. Saw this earlier tonight, and a short interview with Nimoy came before it, explaining that he was given free reign over this one, and decided to make it humorous, light-hearted, and free of conflict and death, much like some of the best episodes of the series. He succeeded, and the result is one of the best films of the series, and a breath of fresh air after the previous two entries. This time the film starts with the crew apprehensive about returning to Earth in the captured bird of prey to face a court martial. So they set off, and just as they do so, a large shiny tube starts singing whale and sends the Earth's environment into chaos, so it's up to the Enterprise crew to go back in time to the late 20th century to find a whale to sing back to the shiny tube. So they find themselves in 20th century San Francisco, looking for humpback whales, a way to transport them, and a way to repair the ship. Naturally, all sorts of hijinks ensue, like Spock knocking out an annoying punk with the neck-hold to the applause of bus passengers, Chekhov asking random people where to find nuclear wessels, Scotty giving an engineer the idea for transparent aluminium, and more casual gambling with the spacetime continuum. Highlights for me include the usual hilarious banter between Bones and Spock, Shatner hamming it up as Kirk, Chekhov causing mayhem on a naval cruiser, Scotty saying hello to a computer, and just too many to name. So in short, I loved every minute of it. It's great fun, hilarious, lighthearted and captures the spirit of the series. I'm not sure if I can rank it against the others, because I like it for different reasons than I like say the others. It's a different kind of film, really a comedy more than anything. We've come home. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A masterful work that imbues you to it through its realism. All the characters struggle against a system that has perpetuated falsehoods. Kirk and his crew, in disgrace after disobeying orders to save Spock following the last film, travel to San Francisco to steal whales. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. Uhura has never been better, but the cinematography is stark and bare, with only the soundtrack adding some effect. The characters in this film have a lot of depth and the realism with which they are portrayed by the actors is shocking at times. "},{"Title":"1986","Date":"23 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Admiral Kirk and gang go back to earth in 1986.After all the death and destruction of the last two films it was about time we got something a bit lighter. Kirk provides all the laughs, Spock is funny but sometimes his jokes miss the mark.Star Trek DS9/Star Trek Voyager would go on to have two-part episodes where they go back to earth, more or less around the same 1980s time as this. They did it well but not as well.They never had the Leonard Rosenman score, but more to the point, they never had William Shatner! I have made an estimated 50 viewings of this film in my lifetime! "}{"Title":"Standard, but a bit better than Search for Spock","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" While the original had it's flaws, I thought it was a decent enough film, but the The Wrath of Khan was a much better film with a compelling story while The Search for Spock is pretty good aside from it's other-the-top moments. Star Trek IV The Voyage Home isn't as excellent as the second, but it's marginally better than Search for Spock.The story isn't exactly perfect, but it was OK with it's fine moments and while most of the humor is nice, some of them are pretty feeble. Aside from those flaws, everything else holds up. The scenery is nice to look at especially New York City, the special effects are solid, the writing is clever, and the music score from Leonard Rosenman is rousing. The cast is still as charming as ever along with a nice appearance from Catherine Hicks (who would later play Andy's mother in Child's Play). William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy and others did a fine job with their performances.Overall, not solid, but a bit better than Search for Spock. That's all I have to say. "},{"Title":"The best one so far","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A big improvement on the previous three dullards, 'The Voyage Home' rounds off the story arc kicked off in 'The Wrath of Khan' and finally brings the series to life. Although it drags in places and suffers from a few (raise eyebrow) illogical ideas (wouldn't people walk right into the cloaked Klingon ship sitting in the middle of a park?), the movie is an engaging romp that ups the comedy element without getting silly. The breezy dialogue lets the regular cast have fun as their characters try to fit in 300 years into their past, and Leonard Nimoy's direction is far less static than in 'Star Trek III'. It's not the best instalment but it does point the franchise in the right direction. "},{"Title":"Strangely Watchable","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek IV The Voyage Home*** (out of 4)119 mins/ PGCast William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, James Doohan, George Takei, Walter Koenig, Nichelle Nichols, Catherine Hicks, Mark LenardDirector Leonard NimoyPlot Admiral James Kirk and his crew are forced to travel back in time to 1986 to retrieve two hunchback whales that are the only beings that can communicate with an Alien Probe, which is on the brink of turning Earth extinct.JJ's Verdict Star Trek IV The Voyage Home is almost not a Star Trek movie. It has a completely different tone, setting and plot to its three predecessors. This is, in fact, a very good thing. Its originality and utter bizarreness are its defining qualities. The film opens well with use of footage from parts 2 and 3 and introduces newcomers to the plot very well. As Kirk and his crew are returning back to Earth, the planet becomes under attack from an Alien probe, which is searching for signs of whale call. However, whales have been extinct since the 21st century so Kirk is forced to time-travel back to the 1980's to find the species and take them back to the 23rd century. Here hilarity ensues as the crew tries to get used to eating pizza, swearing and 'dark age' medicine. Although at times this does feel very, very silly, it can be welcoming at times as most of the film is very, very funny. Leonard Nimoy shows once again he can direct well, but his character, Spock is sidelined to an emotionless bore. Shatner and his crew put in good performances once again and Catherine Hicks is very good as Kirk's love interest/ whale expert, Gillian. The film also ends very well with huge triumph and feel-goodness. Due to this really being a comedy it can be annoying that the film is full of clichs and coincidences that usually annoy viewers, but this is a Star Trek for not only Star Trek fans but all movie fans. "},{"Title":"Kirk and Spock save the whales!","Date":"16 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the financial success of the first three films, only one of which I consider to be a truly good film, the creators of Star Trek decided to come into Star Trek IV The Voyage Home and just have fun with it. It takes off where the third film left off, only a few months later. The Enterprise crew are still on Vulcan and they only ship they have is the Klingon bird of prey they escaped Genesis with in the third film. When they return home they discover that a strange alien probe is destroying Earth. The only way to communicate with this probe is through humpback whales, a species that went extinct hundreds of years ago. Kirk and his crew make a very spontaneous decision to travel back in time to retrieve a pair of humpback whales in order to save the Earth. They travel back to 1980's San Francisco and make plans to steal two whales who are currently in captivity, but are preparing to be let loose into the ocean soon. The strangely comedic antics that transpire while in the past make this Star Trek film one of the strangest and most different Star Trek films. In some ways this is a good thing, but in other ways it is not.The Voyage Home prides itself as a comedy. I guess Star Trek was tired of being a serious sci-fi melodrama and decided to take it a little more light hearted for the fourth film. This would have been OK if it had worked out better. I laughed pretty hard at moments of this film. Sometimes it was because they were genuinely funny, like a taxi driver calling Kirk a dumbass for walking out in front of the moving car and hearing Kirk retort back with double dumbass to you! Then there were other moments that I laughed at because they were really pretty stupid. The range of comedy that is available in a scenario of humans from the 23rd century walking the busy streets of a 20th century city is wide but it has its limits. The Voyage Home picked the most clich and predictable of these scenarios that really ended up being silly. There's a cringeworthy scene where Scotty tries to use a 20th century computer. I just shook my head in shame as he tried speaking directly to the computer, then trying to speak into the mouse. Maybe I was just caught off guard when this film suddenly turned into a lighthearted 80's comedy, but the comedy didn't always work for me.Overall, The Voyage Home has an interesting and very creative story that takes Star Trek on a very different route than we've ever seen. The story isn't executed in a way I would have expected, but it doesn't make it any less intelligent. It also returns Star Trek to its roots of having a deeper purpose than to just entertain. The message here is blatantly obvious. It is a go green save the whales film and it doesn't try to hide that fact. It even gives us a little whale trivia during a tour of the whale museum Kirk and Spock find themselves in at one point. I found the film to be a little preachy when it came to all this, and I got a little tired of it after a while. I respect Star Trek's maturity and ability to bring to light an important issue like whaling, but it could have toned down the blatant PSA-esque feel it sometimes had.I didn't love The Voyage Home, but I didn't hate it either. It isn't a particularly bad film, but it didn't hit any notes for me. I felt the comedy was awkward and out of place, and the whole idea of time traveling didn't seem to be executed to its full potential. The movie also lacks an actual villain which was pretty disappointing. There are tiny obstacles the characters encounter while trying to retrieve the whales, but nothing that puts them in real danger, or at least believable danger. This definitely wasn't my favorite Star Trek film, but it isn't the worst ever made. "},{"Title":"Certainly decent, but considering the potential of the storyline, rather disappointing as well.","Date":"24 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" (Credit IMDb) To save Earth from a destructive space probe, Kirk and his fugitive crew go back in time to 20th century Earth to recover two humpback whales, which are the only Earth beings who can respond to itI love time travel, I love anything to do with it, and so even being just a casual fan of Star-Trek had me pumped upped for this one. That's not to say I didn't enjoy this, because I enjoyed a lot of it. The bus scene involving Kirk, Spock, and a disrespectful, boisterous hard-rocker was a hoot, and some of the humor was very effective, but when the story hit its most crucial points, it really seemed to regress shockingly enough. I wasn't very satisfied with the finale of the movie, nor did I think they went as far as they could go. More creativity would have been a lot nicer.Performances William Shatner does his Kirk thang again, and he does it well. Leonard Nimoy plays a great straight man, opposite Shatner. Kelley and Doohan offer solid support, while Catherine Hicks is OK as the Doc. Rest do OK. Bottom line Not as good as it should have been, but I had a fairly decent time with it. There are a lot of fun moments, and when it all boils down, the good outweighs the bad. Not great, but not bad. Worth a view, especially for Trekkies6/10 "},{"Title":"Lightly played but enjoyable romp through space; time and, most remarkably, 1980s  California for the Star Trek crew on a quest for whales and redemption.","Date":"23 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is an unshakable sense of this, the fourth Star Trek film in its original guise, just being somewhat of a fanciful excursion; its particular plot elements and overlying political sensibility to take a stance on a certain item seeing the franchise, here, attempting to branch out into a realm of both the cute and ideas ridden, albeit in an escapist fashion, as well as of the serious and furrowed brow sort. Much of why what happens in the film happens is borrowed from how it was the first Star Trek film, from 1979, began; in that a large mysterious object is ominously floating towards Earth but with our old friends the Star Trek crew, headed up by James Kirk (Shatner), out and about in space. Consequently, they're both a lot safer and better off than those down on the planet when this large, floating piece of cylindrical debris arrives; the film coming to form the most comic, and in a way most adventurous, of those particular two but lesser of the preceding three.The reasoning for their absence feeds off of much of what happened in both the two preceding Star Trek films, a scene in a large council room seeing many-a person of varying alien species discussing the ins and outs of Kirk's actions that saw both he and his crew not only betray StarFleet's orders to remain grounded when told to, but engage with a renegade Klingon commander; the events of which are played out in the third entry entitled Search for Spock. The magnitude of Kirk's actions are verbally highlighted by a Klingon's ultimatum that while Kirk is still alive, there can never be a truce between his kind and ours; neatly teeing up what we entrust will be some pretty serious ramifications when he gets back to StarFleet and his superiors punish him not only for crimes against this potential for peace, but their own regulations.The film, a travelling back in time for Kirk and his crew as they occupy the Kligon war ship they came to obtain, is effectively a shot at redemption for him and his gang; the floating object coming to wreck somewhat of a deadly wrath upon Earth after having initially arrived to the tune of what sounds like an index finger scraping down a window full of condensation blended with the unequivocal whines of Mr. Blobby. With Earth in trouble and the deducing that the screeches are, in fact, those of a whale's; a species long since deceased in this time and century, they use a function that we have to assume was probably accessible to that of the craft's previous owners, consequently opening up all sorts of questions and plot holes, to go back to the year of the film's release, 1986, so as to bring a whale back and send the craft away happy. The goofiness of such a premise is captured in one scene involving the ship's doctor, DeForest Kelley's Leonard Bones McCoy, and his verbal outlining to Kirk as he hassles him through the ship's corridors of how crazy it is to attempt what it is they propose to do; neatly encapsulating the audience's own reaction and stances on such an idea. Regardless, a whip around the sun at top speed later, the crew are thrust back in time before honing in on the city of San Fransisco.It's when we all arrive back to the then-modern day that things begin take on a different guise, Voyage Home's true colours revolving around the item of whaling and the maltreating of whales rearing its head; so much so that the film's time spent in this timezone will culminate in a direct confronting of a team of whalers out there in the middle of the sea. The film as a whole has a chip on its shoulder hanging over all of its proceedings which reads something along the lines of how whaling is generally perceived as just downright evil and ought to stop; summarised later on when a line of dialogue linked to how man's hunting of them effectively comes close to dooming the planet centuries later, while an extended VT sequence in front of a television screen at a local water-world park outlines, in a somewhat clumsy manner, the scenario surrounding such an issue. As Kirk and faithful companion Spock (Nimoy, also directing) head off to find a whale, some of the other crew members venture off to find certain equipment of an advanced nature bringing them into contact with the authorities of the era. These scenes are humorous enough, the clashing of not only different people from different centuries but of different varieties of creature. Kirk later comes to interact with an employee at said theme park which harbours just the kind of whale he's looking for to take back with him. She's a doctor named Gillian Taylor (Hicks) and their friendship is developed amply enough, although retains that under-baked feel given the role was originally male and originally, of all people, Eddie Murphy's.I don't think it was ever truly possible to play the material any other way than what they do here, the idea of this crew of 23rd Century space explorers having to dart back to the apparently more primitive times of late 20th Century Earth so as to garner access to a whale, was always going to be goofy; some later sequences involving the interrogation of one of them and consequent rescuing of them sitting uneasily with the film's general aura of broad laughs running on an absurd premise. But there's a sense of heart behind the overall project; its message doesn't detract from the bulk of the film or necessarily lecture the audience culminating in a cute, decent enough comedy time-travel romp those on screen are probably enjoying producing as much as we are having a fun enough time watching. "},{"Title":"The Enterprise Crew Saves the Whales","Date":"23 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really love this movie and it was my favorite STAR TREK film throughout my childhood (until FIRST CONTACT came out). It's such a big departure from the movies first three movies, with light-hearted humor substituting for heavy-handed drama. It is the closing film in the unofficial trilogy that started with THE WRATH OF KHAN and continued in THE SEARCH FOR SPOCK. The crew is still on the planet Vulcan, having remained there for three months while completing the repairs on the Klingon Bird-of-Prey commandeered in III. Admiral Kirk (Shatner) and his crew have decided to return home to Earth to face the consequences of their actions, but there's a problem when a mysterious probe arrives from the depths of the galaxy with a heading for Earth. It's emanating a strange signal and causing everything around it to lose power. As it approaches Earth, it focuses it's signal on the oceans, causing them to evaporate at an insane rate, risking the death of all life on the planet. Spock (Nimoy) determines that the signal contains the sound of humpback whales, a species long-since extinct. In an effort to respond to the probe, Kirk and the crew must travel back in time to the late 20th century to retrieve two whales and bring them back.The plot is ridiculous, with the crew using the Klingon ship to slingshot around the sun at warp speed to travel time, but it's all right because this film seems to focus on the humor of the situation more than action. Honestly, I love it for that reason. After the theological overtones of the first, the action/adventure of the second, and the jerky pacing of the third, this film is a breathe of fresh air. It embraces the humor of the situation a crew of 23rd century Starfleet officers dropped in the middle of San Francisco in the late 80's. There's plenty of opportunities for a laugh when Spock tries to embrace profanity, Scotty interacts with a (then) modern computer, or Chekov panders on the street corner for the location of nuclear wessels (keeping in mind this film occurs during the Cold War). I'm sure there are people who will be disappointed by the film's lack of action or feel betrayed by it's sudden campy direction (e.g. the escape from the hospital near the end is reminiscent of classic silent comedies and the music certainly doesn't help).Leonard Nimoy returns to the director's chair and it seems he's improved greatly since STAR TREK III. He must've learned a lot the last time around because this movie moves so much smoother. The film does come with a moral by the end about saving humpback whales from extinction and it's not shy about throwing it out there. You'll hear plenty about how important they are, how graceful and beautiful they are, etc. You'll also get a bit of footage where we see whalers skinning and gutting the animals, just to drive the point home. I'm sure the movie could've done without that, but the save the whales theme never becomes too annoying. There are points where you almost wonder when it shifted from feature film to PSA but it never lasts long and gets back to the fun before it gets too preachy.The movie is one of the best STAR TREK films out there and each of the beloved crew members gets their own chance to shine. The story is memorable and, of course, it features my favorite starship from the franchise the Klingon Bird-of-Prey. There's plenty to enjoy here and it can appeal to a wider audience than the average TREK film. If nothing else, use it as a means of getting your non-TREK fan friends interested in seeing more. It worked on me. "},{"Title":"Takes us back to the 60s,","Date":"1 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the first three Star Trek films, where the producers tried hard to push the series into a modern age of special effect, with varying results, they finally settled down and did a Star Trek film that matched the stories that made Trek so popular in the first place. Star Trek IV The Voyage Home, of the six Original Series films, takes me back to what it was like to see a new Star Trek episode when I watched them in the 60s.Even though the fate of planet Earth in the future rode on the success of Kirk and crew's mission to the past, the movie didn't have a serious tone. There was plenty of the light comedy and entertaining character interaction that made Kirk, Spock, Bones, and Scotty such beloved characters in the first place. Sulu, Uhura, and Chekov round things out, and after all, these seven were what made the TV series popular.The overall plot is almost irrelevant. Sure, the Earth is threatened with total destruction (again). Sure, the Enterprise crew goes back in time (again). Sure, of course Kirk and company save the day (again). But all of that is just a vehicle to get the stars we came to respect and the characters we came to love on the screen interacting in amusing and entertaining ways. We have Kirk charming a woman. We have Spock as dizzily out of touch with slang as in A Piece of the Action. We have Scotty mastering the areas of technology, yet failing to comprehend a computer mouse. We have a truce between a concerned Bones and a reemerging Spock, yet still with an entertaining interaction between them. Chekov's session of being questioned by Naval officers is hilarious, and would have pleased Abbot and Costello.Instead of The Voyage Home you could virtually name this movie The Trouble with Whales. In this case the problem is not too many tribbles, but too few whales. And the story should keep us humble. Here, Earth, technologically advanced in so many ways, and the Capitol of the United Federation of Planets, is helpless before the arrival of a yet more advanced technology from the endless depths of deep space. Not even the Borg would want to mess with this baby ... and if they'd found and assimilated a world of intelligent whales, once this probe came across them the Borg problem would have been solved the easy way. LOL yet the probe is not of evil intent, just interested in finding the species it had been assigned to be caretaker.This is Star Trek as I grew to love it, and I thank the people responsible for giving me a look back through the same magic mirror through I saw the series in the 60s. "},{"Title":"Home is where the heart is (DVD)","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, for a long time, I thought that I was cheated they call this movie the voyage home, but it lacks the enterprise, it's nor about new worlds (the action happens on Earth) nor future (at the actual time of its release, so 86) and the main plot is the same than the first movie (the alien probe threatening the galaxy).But on this viewing, I find it particularly compelling. Dee said Trek was about moments and here, every one has his shining ones. It's not only the troika but the back cast as well. Thus, this movie is filled with team or family spirit that is very hard to find in media actually.The ecologist message, the save the whales fight doesn't speak personally to me ,before or after the movie (the priority goes to other human fellows who are barely surviving) but it's true that it doesn't happen quite often in movies and the speech is done here in a light way. It's not a boring lecture! It also happens also in San Francisco that is a city more interesting than LA.From a production point of view, the detail that strikes me here was the good jackets they have, especially Chechov. It's a change from STIII, where they were surprisingly dressed, especially Chevov in a pink outfit! The special effects were also particular those old movies from my childhood were pre-CGI so it uses models, mattes and rudimentary programs screens. Sure, unlike today, the effects have less fluidity and the screens seems lacking but the pictures are still glowing with beauty and poetry.Finally, this is very enjoyable movie, fast-paced and with a lot of human feelings. "},{"Title":"Amusing","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Final film in the Spock trilogy concerns efforts to get bring Spock home, as well as save Earth and Star Fleet when its discovered that whales, who have gone extinct, are necessary to talk to a space probe thats threatening to wipe out everyone and everything. So its back in time for Kirk, Spock and friends to a time when whales are still alive.Solid Star Trek film is considered by many to be the best film in the series thanks to its balance of comedy and action. While I consider it one of the better films I wouldn't put it at the top of the top simply because I don't quite see what everyone is gushing about. Regardless of my reservations it is a solidly entertaining film and definitely worth seeing, especially if you want to see many of the conventions of the series turned on their heads. (Its huge success also helped assure the restart of the franchise on TV) "}{"Title":"The comedy saves it.","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" For the first forty minutes this film was in danger of joining Star Trek 1 and 3 as being bad. The film starts of too slow, though the acting and special effects kept it chugging along.I also felt that the plot was ridiculous where Kirk and the crew have to go back to 1986 to capture whales, but what ultimately saved it was the comedy and for the last hour and fifteen minutes the film warmed up and thanks to the actors professionalism in there roles, the laughs started coming and in the end this won me over.The constant humor gives vibrancy and glow to the film and makes the script more intelligent and in the end I had a smile on my face. "},{"Title":"You begin to sense that the even numbered movies in the series are good, the odd bad.","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I did not care for the first Trek movie, loved the second one, did not care for the third all that much, but this one was pretty good. It was also the highest grossing Star Trek prior to the 2009 version as it grossed over 100 million at the box office. The story has the Earth under attack yet again and in similar fashion to the first movie in the series. Some mysterious force is sending a beam into the oceans and it becomes apparent it is trying to communicate with the now extinct whale. Well the Trek crew somehow travel back in time using their newly acquired Klingon vessel and travel back to 1986 San Francisco. For the most part this movie is rather funny and it is the comic moments that I enjoyed the most about this movie. It never gets to serious, it moves at a nice clip and it seems to be over before you know it. The cast is in top form and the effects are good for the time too. Improvements could have been made, but compared to the two movies this one is sandwiched in between this one comes out looking like an Oscar winner by comparison. "},{"Title":"Star Trek + comedy = success","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek IV plays as a fish-out-of-water story, with Kirk and his crew from the 23rd century going back to 1986 San Francisco. The visual effects are not too great, but the story does not need them. Giving this movie a more comedic value than the others was a risk, especially after the dramatic Star Trek II and the moody Star Trek III. Leonard Nimoy returns to direct after directing the previous movie, although this time, he is also acting as Spock. It is an understandably grueling task to alternate between acting and directing the movie, but Mr. Nimoy pulled it off, paving the way for future Star Trek actors to direct future installments on the television series and movies. A lot of the movie involves Spock trying to rediscover what it means to be human, after his mind has been retrained as a Vulcan. This leads to some of the movie's comedy, such as the fact that he takes Kirk's advice that in the 20th century, you have to swear a lot to be taken seriously. I have seen a non-Trekker watch this movie and enjoy it, so I can recommend this movie freely. "},{"Title":"Great to see Crew reunited","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think out of all the Star Trek films I find this the funniest, it is so hilarious to see the crew so out of their depth and not in their usual environment with technology that has not been developed in the past and is kind of like the stone age for them. There are such wonderful scenes that had me in stitches, Kirk and Spock's conversation in the presence of Gillian (Catherine Hicks), where Spock doesn't know how to lie and contradicts what Kirk is saying. The other scenes where Scotty is talking to the computer and thinks the mouse is for talking. My favourite scene of all is when Kirk, Gillian and Bones go to rescue Chekov. For this reason, it is my second favourite Star Trek film.At the same time it has a serious message about the extinction of animals and what devastation man causes animal kind. I think Leonard Nimoy does it just right, I like that in the story it is by man's actions, the world is in danger and it is the animals that man hurts that will safe mankind in the end.You can't help getting emotional when you see the whales safe from poachers and having fun, even though they are probably machines. Just a very touching scene and great to see Kirk where he belongs, on the bridge of the Enterprise. "},{"Title":"Star Trek At It's Most Accessible","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A mysterious probe has come to Earth from some unknown galaxy and it is broadcasting a strange message aimed at Earth's Oceans. Although not overtly hostile the probe drains the energy of any ship that it approaches and begins to vaporize the world's oceans and disrupt the atmosphere with catastrophic effect. Enter the heroic crew of the Enterprise now aboard a commandeered Klingon Ship following the destruction of their ship in Star Trek III. Though they are facing a number of charges for their actions in the previous film and despite the fact Spock my or may not have recovered fully after being restored to life they are the only one in a position to save Earth from catastrophe. They are the ones that discover the only way to save Earth is to go back in time to the 1980's to find whales.While retaining a number of the traditional Star Trek elements and having a serious theme, much of the movie could best be described as light comedy, and in that genre it works. Despite the genre, and the light hearted tone though, the film also has a message that is surprisingly resonant. Another interesting aspect of the film is that included no real violence or hostility, which was a very big shift from previous two films in the series. Much of the humor is based on a fish-out-of-water scenario (no pun intended) wherein our protagonists from the future must deal with Earth in the 1980's. There is also some not so subtle commentary on the problems of late 20th century earth including the cold war and pollution. "},{"Title":"Another Notch on Nimoy's Phaser!","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek IV The Voyage Home has the distinction of, not only being the most successful entry in the Trek series of films, but the most fun Trek outing ever! Actor-Director Leonard Nimoy does it again with this time travel themed outing. It begins right where Trek III ended, on the Planet Vulcan where the small Trek crew of Kirk, Spock, Bones, Chekhov, Sulu and Scotty are repairing the Klingon 'Bird of Prey' spaceship they commandeered; for the voyage home to Starfleet where they face Court Martial for their actions at Genesis. As they arrive at Earth they are warned by Starfleet of a dangerous Probe which threatens the Earth. They determine the strange sound emanating from the Probe is trying to contact Humpback Whales who are extinct. The Enterprise crew decides to attempt a time traveling mission to earth of the 1980s (the year the film was made) to find some whales. The crew's encounters with 20th century earthlings provides for most of the fun. This film was extremely popular not only to Trekkers & Trekkies, but those unfamiliar with Trek Lore. I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Star Trek IV The Voyage Home","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The most overtly comic of the series, this silly but fun caper sees the crew travelling back to modern-day San Francisco to steal a couple of whales.How he got that awful sequence depicting time travel past the studio is a mystery, but otherwise Leonard Nimoy's direction is more assured and it at least looks like a proper movie. The whale models are impressive and there's some beautiful matte work (even if once or twice it's very ropey.) There's plenty of fun to be had in the streets of San Francisco and while it's alluded to plenty there's thankfully no over-reliance on we're-from-the-future-and-we-don't-understand-your-ways gags, and the ones that are there work well for the most part.Ultimately it feels more like a stop-gap, a holiday special rather than a proper addition to the series. There's no tension, no villain, no action. Still, taken on its own terms this oddity succeeds well enough. "},{"Title":"Are you sure it isn't time for a colorful metaphor?","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Star Trek IV The Voyage Home' is the absolutely most silly of all Trek films, period. At least 'I' attempted to take itself seriously. Not that this was a bad thing. It contains probably some of the best comedic lines, that even after 23 years, I am still laughing. For example, Scotty Hello, computer while holding the mouse, policeman He? You came in with a she. Kirk One little mistake and Spock Are you sure it isn't time for a colorful metaphor? Once you get past the enormously silly aspects (all the scientists couldn't figure out the wailing (ooohhh) deadly probe but Kirk took two seconds, the alien whales (really?), the time travel trip around the sun (I guess I could accept this one as I did the flux capacitor) and the psychedelic mind time-travel-trip) the movie finally finds a, well, home, and settles in to some of the most humorous and non-trekkie scenes in the franchise, which is probably why this movie made the most in the entire series, to date. (I suspect the rebooted Star Trek of 09 will trump them all.) Sure, I could take a Trek movie that didn't take itself so serious, with the crew on the brink of imprisonment (see 'III') who travel back to our time (well, the film's 1986) to bring back two humpback whales in order to satisfy a mysteriously destructive tube/ball. The movie's biggest downfall was the fact it was made for a wide-non-trek audience and family friendly yet contained numerous profanities (yes, I get it was part of the humor, but eventually became a distraction) and the overuse of political statements. The save-the-whales (and planet) was an obvious one, but the I quit smoking button was shoved down our throats. And what's a Star Trek movie without the Starship Enterprise? "},{"Title":"Family Trek","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek is never everyone's cup of tea, and this, the fourth installment in the movie franchise, is no exception. Yes, it's set in the real world, in the 1980's, but it never quite betrays its roots and becomes a different entity. However, for Trekkies (me included) this seems possibly the most fun and even best loved of the films, and it's not hard to see why. The cast seem perfectly comfortable in their roles, all showing the signs of age, but no less enthusiasm for their cause. There is very little in the way of peril in the film, there is no big baddie and the most stressful period for the crew seems to be trying to transport a humpback whale onto the Enterprise. This is a significant departure from The Wrath of Khan and Search for Spock, both of which had formidable villains. So, the plot is light(humpback whales? in Star Trek?!), the jokes are sparkling (Nuclear Wessels)and the whole thing ends up as a fun ol' romp for the Enterprise crew. Enjoyable Stuff. "},{"Title":"Save the Whales and Star Trek combine...brilliantly!","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" With Star Trek III The Search for Spock, the cast of Star Trek began to gain creative control of the series with Leonard Nimoy occupying the director's chair for the first time. Star Trek III was hardly brilliant, but it did allow Nimoy the chance to hone his craft and develop his skills. And put them to good use in Star Trek IV The Voyage Home.When examined closely, you can see where Star Trek IV is coming from. It was designed to jump on the then popular trend of time travel films begun with The Terminator and Back to the Future. That in itself isn't so strange. Time travel has been a common staple of the series since its conception. But the plot of the film is bound to make you do a double-take. Kirk & Co travel back to 20th Century Earth to rescue whales, and bring them back to the future.Its a concept so mind-boggling its a wonder Paramount ever greenlit the project. Its an idea that shouldn't even begin to work. And yet oddly enough it does. Leonard Nimoy directs it all with a deft hand, achieving a perfect balance between drama and comedy. Indeed Star Trek IV probably has wider appeal than any other film in the series. It was no doubt the huge success of the film that convinced Gene Roddenberry there was a larger audience for Star Trek, now more than ever. So the very next year, Star Trek The Next Generation came to our screens.Pt 4 is definitely much lighter in tone than the preceding three entries, or any other for that matter. It establishes that right from the beginning with the fanciful theme from Leonard Rosenmann. The film is a little slow to start. It begins on an intriguing note with a mysterious space probe arriving in orbit around the Earth. It transmits a signal that wreaks havoc with the Earth's oceans. This is all quite fascinating to watch, but the film has a bit of damage control to mop up first before it can get to the real thrust of the story.After the Enterprise was destroyed in the last film, the crew must return to Earth to face charges. I did admit to feeling a bit restless during the opening scenes on Vulcan. Because they have no real bearing on anything else in the film. But once it gets to the time-travel angle, the film takes off like a rocket.Nimoy cannily ensures the cast members are all given something to do. It avoids a trap that most TV series fall into once they arrive on the big screen. The format of feature film restricts the screen time actors are allowed in a TV series. And many film/TV crossovers have failed at solving that seemingly impossible task.But Nimoy somehow gets everything right. The film derives much of its appeal from the culture clash between the people of the 23rd Century confronted with that of the 20th. Its a classic fish out of water scenario, and although the film is a bit predictable, it is very entertaining. It seldom puts a foot wrong.Kirk and Spock make a most wonderful double act. Whatever friction between them in the series, it doesn't seem apparent in the film. Everybody seems to be having a great deal of fun. Kirk is the brash man to Spock's straight man. And the screenplay gives them lots of witty exchanges. I'm especially partial to the scene in a pawn shop when they need money to get around. So Kirk has to pawn his spectaclesExcuse me Admiral. Weren't those a gift from Dr McCoy? And they will be again. That's the beauty of it.The film is made up of many different subplots. And each subplot is assigned to a different member of the cast so nobody is left out. While Kirk and Spock track down the whales, Scotty and Bones search for materials to build an aquarium to transport them. Chekov and Uhura search for nuclear materials aboard an aircraft carrier so they can make the return trip to the 23rd Century. And Sulu has 'borrowed' a helicopter to transport the aquarium for the whales to their hijacked Klingon Bird of Prey.The Voyage Home is a film that is consistently amusing. There are lots of fun things to be had from the film. William Shatner shows an early talent for comedy. Something that he would hone to perfection in his twilight years. Chekov searching for nuclear wessels is hilarious. The cute scene where Scotty tries to make a Macintosh computer work by talking into the mouse. Nimoy gets perfect comic timing out of everyone, including himself! The Star Trek cast make for a wonderful comic ensemble, and since they've worked together for so long, they know how to compliment each other.But its not just a Back to the Future clone of one generation confronted with another. I like the film's message of saving the whales. Kirk makes a particularly impassioned speech about them. When humanity was hunting them to extinction, they were inadvertently causing they're own. This space probe in the future can only communicate with whales that no longer exist. Since it won't get a response, its hectic signal will probably destroy Earth. You walk out of the film wanting to be just that little bit nicer to whales.If the film has any flaws, I was a little disappointed that we couldn't have learnt more about the probe. Once it speaks to the whales Kirk has brought back, it just goes on its merry way. Almost as if the writers couldn't think of a way to elaborate on it. And the whole tribunal at the end almost seems unnecessarily tacked on after all the fun beforehand. But The Voyage Home is still the funnest and most thought provoking time you'll ever have in a Star Trek film. "}{"Title":"Its about time for a romp","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After going through so much death, loss and heartbreak in the last two movies, with III being pretty grim until the very end. It was about time that Star Trek should lighten up. And Star Trek IV was the result, and perhaps my favorite of all the Star Trek movies. Time travel, has always been my type of Science fiction story and Star Trek is the best at telling that story. Some of the best best Star Trek episodes, in any of the TV shows, where time travel episodes. Those episodes are always fun for me as was this movie. Basically this movie starts where Star Trek III left off, the crew of the now destroyed Uss Enterprise is stuck on Vulcun after saving Spock. They all now have to face the consequences of there actions during the last movie and must return home in a Klingon Bird of Prey. But at the same time an Alien probe, is and is threatening Earth and no one has any idea how to respond to it. The crew hear of this and after doing some investigating, they find out that the probe is actually trying to communicate via whale song, specifically, Humpback Whales. Unfortunately, in the 23rd century, they are exinct. So the only way to to respond to the probe and save humanity, is do back in time, to the year 1986 and pick up some Humpback Whales. The story, may not be as intense and complex as the last two movies, but this movie has something that the last to didn't, lots of humor. Its always funny to see Capt Kirk and Spock walking around in modern day. So their a lot of opportunities for comedy. And also what makes this movie special is that, the supporting characters like Scotty, Chekov, Uhura and Sulu have a lot to do and have there moment to shine. And much like the last movie, made them look just as important to Kirk, Spock and McCoy. It put the focus on the crew as a whole, which is what Star Trek should always be about, not special effects, space battles and such, but about the people and IV does this extremely well. Overall, this movie is brilliant. It perfectly ends the storyline that started back in Wrath of Khan. This three movies are a great trilogy to put together, and in my opinion, its probably as good as the TOS movies got. "},{"Title":"Kick back and enjoy the fun !,","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is perhaps the one offering in the movie franchise that appeals to everyone, it's not a film grounded in historically deep Star Trek fandom, nor is it much of a plot to get your head around. It's simply takes the characters that most have grown up with and thrusts them into an amusing and cheeky fish out of water scenario.Watch as the intrepid crew travel back in time to 1980s San Francisco to literally save the Whales, the fun begins and it takes in scenes of our crew tackling what is to them, weird dialogue. See Sulu fly a helicopter, Bones cure the ill, Spock administer the neck treatment to a noisy punk, and on it goes for what is pure and simply a lovely fun tale for all the family.8/10 "},{"Title":"Great voyage home.","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The crew of the Enterprise makes its latest voyage home, leaving Trekkers and the general movie audience in stitches for a wonderfully good time at the movies.Star Trek IV picks up right after Star Trek III, the Search for Spock. It has been a few months since they got to Vulcan, and now it is time to go home. If only it was that simple.A probe of unknown origin has come to Earth, directing a message at the oceans. It has also dampened all power supplies, as well as manipulated the weather to blot out the sun. As Earth sends out its distress signal, the Enterprise crew (on a stolen Klingon Starship) is able to determine the signals by the probes are meant for Humpback Whales. Unfortunately, since they are instinct by the 23rd Century, they are forced to travel back in time to the 20th Century to find some whales to bring back to the future.Only Star Trek writers could take a plot that sounds so silly and preposterous and make it so wonderfully entertaining. The Wrath of Kahn went for action and suspense. The Search for Spock was introspection, laced with philosophy and commitment among friends. The Voyage Home, though, is mostly comedy.The best part of this comedic voyage is putting Jim Kirk, Spock, McCoy, Scotty, Sulu, Chekov, and Uhura to fit-in with 20th Century America. It leads to so much hilarity&#151;mostly in Spock learning to use profanity.Another strength of the movie is that it can stand on its own. While it is a part of the Star Trek Trilogy from the Wrath of Kahn to the Voyage Home, an audience can go in without any knowledge of the previous films to enjoy it. Also, while the appeal will be to Trekkers, this installment could appeal to people who really know little to nothing about the franchise.Finally, Lenoard Nimoy (Spock) also takes the director reins. He does it well, following all the subplots even handedly.While the Wrath of Kahn is my definite favorite, this one is a close second. "},{"Title":"Another good Star Trek movie, this time with more humour than before","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing a chunk of this movie years ago, but don't recall watching the whole thing (can't remember what happened that would have stopped me). Anyway, after watching its three predecessors within the past seven months or so, I finally watched this entire film. I don't think I liked it as much as I expected, but found that it was much better than the first movie of the bunch, Star Trek The Motion Picture (sometimes referred to as Star Trek The Motionless Picture).In the 23rd century, a mysterious space probe enters the Earth's atmosphere, sending out signals and threatening destruction! As Kirk and his crew are on their way back to Earth, where they are to face criminal charges for their last mission, which went against orders, they are informed that the planet has become too dangerous! It turns out the probe is calling for humpback whales, but unfortunately, this breed has been extinct since the 21st Century. In order to save Earth, Kirk and his crew must travel back in time and find humpback whales to take back with them, so they travel back to the year 1986, and land their ship in San Francisco. The crew members will experience several difficulties on this mission, and it doesn't help that they are not used to late 20th Century life! Star Trek IV The Voyage Home may not be as consistent as Star Trek has ever been, but it is mostly entertaining, with its fair share of excitement, like one would hope. Also, unlike what Star Trek is usually known for, the humour is a significant part of the film. In the previous three films, there may be some mild humour, but unlike them, this one has enough to be put in the comedy genre. The funniest part is probably the one with the punk on the bus with his boombox (which is hilarious), but there are several other very humorous segments, such as Kirk and Spock swearing while in the 20th Century, believing they have to do so in order to be listened to, and Scotty trying to give a computer verbal commands, unaware of the fact that computers of the time were not advanced enough for that.Despite some dull moments, I would say The Voyage Home is another watchable Star Trek movie. Most fans would probably agree, and many probably like it a lot more than I do. With its comic touch, it's also a bit different from what we would usually expect from the ST franchise, and certainly not in a bad way. In my opinion, Leonard Nimoy did a good job directing two installments in the ST movie franchise in a row, which, in case you didn't know, were The Search for Spock and then this one. "},{"Title":"A lot of fun for kids and adults.... maybe not so much for teens","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've gone through an interesting series of different reactions to this film. The first time I saw it was in the theater when it came out, and I really didn't expect to like it much because at that point I was not a fan of the show and really had only enjoyed the second film. I was about 11 at the time, and saw it with my whole family, and we all loved it. I remember it as one of the more enjoyable films from that time along with Back 2 the Future and Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure, both of which perhaps not by coincidence are time travel comedies.However when I saw it again a few years later as a 16 or 17 year old fan of Next Generation and The Undiscovered Country the whole ting felt unbearably goofy, to the point where I actually felt embarrassed for the actors. I associated the writer Nick Meyer with the more serious 2nd and 6th films in the series, both of which he also directed, as well as his film Time After Time which is a similar time travel comedy but with a somewhat darker and more ambiguous edge than The Voyage Home. So I wasn't expecting to enjoy it quite as much as I did this time around as an adult in my early 30s. I guess one thing is that my overall attitude about film, and certainly science-fiction, has lightened up over the years &#150; I no longer worry quite so much about the dignity of characters like Scotty and Sulu (but come on guys, if Mr. Sulu can fly a helicopter then can't he figure out how to work the windshield wipers? Lol). But mainly I think they just hit a good note in this film and I would argue that in many ways it's actually closer in spirit to the Trek show &#150; while at the same time providing a suitably cinematic doomsday scenario &#150; than any other film in the series. When I saw it in my teens I was comparing it to the other films in the series and it seemed out of place, but the original show had many humorous episodes including the popular Trouble with Tribbles. And perhaps more importantly, it isn't just a revenge story with a villain; it's got a strong message that applies to our society and culture, just like so many great episodes of the original series. I like the idea that the dangers that we encounter in the future are not all villains &#150; these aliens do not wish us harm, they simply do not realize that the message they are sending to the whales is harming us. If you think about it, these aliens have a similar arrogance as the humans who considered themselves the only worthy race on Earth and killed off so many species after using them for their materials.Star Trek should be about big issues, and it should not feel the need to be subtle in its allegory. That's the power of the series &#150; it actually made political, ethical, and moral questions feel personal and urgent, all in a sci-fi context. I think those who complain about this film's politics &#150; my own teenage self included to some extent &#150; must be selectively remembering only certain aspects of the original show, because it was a very political and a very progressive show. And, as with the original series, this film's message is only growing more and more relevant as time goes on and humanity's impact on the environment becomes less of a fringe issue. Many of our current problems have been solved by the time of the Enterprise, and in the show they often meet our problems by proxy in other planets who are still caught in various stages of development. However here we find that the people of 23rd Century Earth are still plagued by the errors and problems of our time &#150; specifically our wanton destruction of the planet's ecosystem. It's actually kind of chilling to hear Kirk and Spock discuss the extinction of the Humpback Whale in such a casual way. One wonders why it took an apocalyptic cataclysm to make them attempt to fix the problem, and maybe by the end of the story they too have learned something about what Spock calls human arrogance &#150; that we are the only species on Earth important enough for some other life form to want to communicate with.The humor is definitely laid on a bit heavy in the San Francisco sequences. However the jokes are good for the most part and they are anchored in the characters' established personalities. I laughed an enjoyed the colorful metaphors and Kirk's LDS joke which flew over my teenage head. Nick Meyer's writing should be praised, and I doubt it's a coincidence that the film returns to SF like his marvelous Time After Time any more than it's a coincidence that he was involved in all the good ST films and none of the poor ones.A final point on the locations in the film &#150; it looks like the aquarium that's supposed to be in Sausalito in the film is actually the Monterey Bay Aquarium, grafted with mattes onto the SF Bay. I did recognize some actual location shooting in downtown SF near City Lights (and F.F. Coppola's favorite hangout which is right down the street) as well as at the Naval yards in Alameda. I thought maybe they shot on the USS Hornet which is permanently stationed there as a museum but someone here stated it was on a different ship. The scenes in Golden Gate Park do not look like the actual location and are probably backlot shots. Probably part of the reason I loved this movie as a young kid was because I was born here and had to grow up on the East Coast and I always wanted to come back here. "},{"Title":"Dialysis? What is this, the Dark Ages?","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am not a trekkie. I may have seen some Star Tek on TV - the original only, and I have seen a movie or two, but I am not obsessed with the show. No matter. You do not have to be a fan to love this one.Made over 20 years ago, it is never more timely. It perfectly illustrates what may happen if we continue on the path of destroying our planet and the inhabitants that share it with us. The consequences of satisfying our current desires may be fatal. Many of us will see the tipping point in our lifetimes if we do not reverse course.The other thing I love about this movie is the time travel aspect. Yes, I know it is not very likely, but it is fun to watch. I especially liked Bones (DeForest Kelley) comparing our current medical practices to The Spanish Inquisition.The movie is characterized by excellent cinematography, sound, and effects, as well as good performances from the regulars - William Shatner, DeForest Kelley, James Doohan, Nichelle Nichols, George Takei, and Walter Koenig - and Catherine Hicks.Watch it, be entertained, and be warned. "},{"Title":"Are you sure it isn't time for a colorful metaphor?","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The trilogy within the Trek series comes to an end in this intriguing and well-styled film that brings us traditional Trek thrills with an additional save the world ethic that too many people have ignored time and time again. This adventure is a wee bit on the long side (for a ST movie, that is), but it never drags on and never feels boring. In fact, I think one of the main reasons I rated this film as low as a 9 was that I've watched it, I'm sure, thousands of times. This movie is very good, just as every Star Trek time-travel adventure I've ever seen has turned out, with fantastic fish-out-of-water comedy perfectly blended with paranoid apocalyptic drama. Mark Lenard returns as Sarek for a nearly-invisible but memorable turn. Brock Peters (To Kill a Mockingbird) and John Schuck (Robert Altman's MASH) are also terrific as the head of Starfleet and a ruthless Klingon ambassador, respectively. It'll never be my all-time favorite Trek film, but (if for nothing else, than for the punk on bus sequence) it's still dreadfully close. "},{"Title":"great fun(not your conventional StarTrek movie)","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" i enjoyed this installment of the Star Trek franchise quite a bit.in my opinion,it's better than the previous ones.i think they did a very good job here,balancing many different elements.there is certainly the action/adventure element here but there is also so quite a bit of humour.the writing is very intelligent and witty.there is also the element of danger,which is very real in this one.the threat is very grave and imminent.the suspense factor is high here too.the story itself is very well written and well paced.this is almost a comedy at its heart.the dialogue is very sharp and fresh.it's more of a family movie than the previous ones.there is some mild language,but it is not used maliciously.it does actually serve the story.the movie is also a cautionary tale i think,to humanity.i think it's just as relevant today as it was then,maybe more so.generally,this movie is probably the most fun of the original Star Trek movies,in terms of comedic value.i also think it is probably the best of the original movies.for me,Star Trek 4The Voyage Home is a definite 8/10. "},{"Title":"StarTrec the Voyage Home","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw the Movie years ago - until today I never knew the Carrier in the movie was the USS Ranger (CV61). I served 2 years on-board the Ranger between 1974 to Jan 1977. It would have been really nice to be there when they filmed that scene. StarTrek has come a long way - seems Captain Kirk never ages. Time travel has my vote. Lets bring back some of the Extinct things of the past. Beam me up Scotty. (Did that sound logical?) **********smiling******************** Kevin K. Chedville (YNSN - XO's Office). I'll have to watch it again now, just to bring back memories. PS - anyone seeing this post who might have a Ranger 1976 WesPac Cruize book. I'll give a few bucks for it if they would like to give it up. I lost mine to Hurricane Katrina --- below New Orleans. My email is kchedville@yahoo.com "},{"Title":"Enjoyable sequel","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek IV The Voyage Home is an enjoyable installment in the Star Trek franchise. It is fun to watch, especially as the crew travels back to the 1980s in an effort to save the 23rd century.What is especially fun about time-travel stories is the general fact that the time travelers are, of course, anachronisms. It was amusing when Scotty tried to talk to the 1980s computer, even speaking into the computer mouse. Another funny scene was when Chekhov was asking for directions to the nuclear wessel. When it comes to the Star Trek movies, the even-numbered installments tend to be very well-received, and Star Trek IV is no exception. The main cast, especially William Shatner,Leonard Nimoy, and DeForest Kelley, shines throughout the movie. "}{"Title":"A wacky caper with that ol' Star Trek feel","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek IV The Voyage Home was a fun filled film for the whole family to enjoy. Despite some cursing, the overall film was great fun. The crew of the late starship Enteprise, have been exiled to the planet Vulcan because the crew bring Captain Spock's katra, or spirit, back to his body, in the previous movie. They take a Klingon Bird of Prey after Admiral Kirk kills it's Commander, and they name it the HMS Bounty. It is then decided by the crew to return to Earth and be court martialled. On their way, they intercept a planetary distress signal from the United Federation of Planets President, to discover that a probe that came from the outer reaches from space has destroyed three Klingon vessels, and disabled a few Federation ships, is also vaporizing Earth's oceans and blocking out the Sun by sending a strange message to the surface of Earth. Spock recognizes this transmission as Humpback whale song. Spock also points out that the Humpback whale has been extinct for centuries, and was only indigenous to Earth. Admiral Kirk then gives the order to start computations to time warp, and slingshot around the Sun to the year 1986. From this point forward to the last 10 minutes of the movie, this Trek tale becomes a caper more than a mission that determines the fate of Earth. Landing their cloaked Bird of Prey in the middle of Golden Gate park in San Francisco and spooking a couple of garbage men, they locate two Humpback whales, a male and a female, in a Cetacean Institute. While at the institute, Spock mind melds with the female whale, Gracie, to communicate their intentions, as well as persuade the Marine Biologist Gillian Taylor to hand over the whales. Meanwhile, Doctor McCoy, Sulu, and Scotty try to find four plexi glass sheets, all one inch thick, that could withstand the pressure of 20,000 cubic feet of water, and two humpback whales. Scotty impersonates an Engineering professor, and Dr. McCoy impersonates his assistant. They give the formula for a futuristic substance, transparent aluminum, to one of the manufacturers at PlexiCorp, in order to have walls to their little aquarium. On the other hand, Sulu flies a helicopter to carry the plexi glass walls. During this, Uhura and Chekov find a naval vessel, named Enterprise, and take it's radioactive photons to fuel their Klingon vessel's warp drive. They retrieve them, and Uhura beams out, but Chekov was not as lucky. He is chased out of the ship, and falls from the side of the ship, and suffers a nearly fatal fall. Fortunately, Doctor McCoy, Kirk, and Dr. Taylor get to the hospital and help Chekov. They beam out, and try to find the whales, which were shipped to Alaska the night before. Fortunately, the whales were tagged with transmitters, and are tracked. They beam the whales out before they were killed by poachers, and the crew safely returns to their time, along with Dr. Taylor, and save Earth. All charges are dropped, except for one, which is against Admiral Kirk, for disobeying orders from the Commander in Chief of Starfleet. He is demoted to Captain, and given a beautiful ship, the USS Enterprise NCC-1701-A, and the only thing he ever wanted, the command of a starship. The movie ends with the Enterprise leaving dock, and going warp speed. As for Dr. Taylor, she is stationed on a Science vessel, claiming to have, 300 years of catch up learning to do. A truly great addition to the Star Trek legacy, and definitely a turn from the Star Trek norm, and in a good way. "},{"Title":"A movie I can watch over and over","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" No, it may not be the best acting. But this remains one of my favorite movies of all time. Between the message they pass along, the humor of the movie (note the usefulness of talking to Macs!) and a great sense of feel-goodness you can't beat this movie.The crew, err cast seemed to work so well with each other. The pace is good.Yes, the whales at the end looked terrible. Especially on the last scene where they look like they are just being towed out of the Bay. all that doesn't matter, unless you whale in the north sea, I think you'll love this movie.Personally, I only wished the Klingon ship had blasted the whaling vessel. Oh well. "},{"Title":"Depending on your viewpoint, the best star trek film made","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of the 10 Star Trek movies to grace the silver screen, I stand three apart from the rest, the other two being the Wrath of Khan and First Contact. All three are brilliant and can be called, depending on your opinion, the best Trek film made.Of the three The Voyage Home is certainly the funniest and has the most mass appeal. If you are not a Trek fan this will probably be you're favourite. Disregarding the bizarre and rather stupid story, it's a film that entertains and most importantly, doesn't take itself too seriously. This is refreshing in a franchise that often regards itself too highly.The comedy comes thick and fast. Whether it's Spock's attempts at 20th Century 'colourful metaphors', Chekov in his thick Russian accent asking 'where are the nuclear vessels?' in cold war U.S.A or Scotty's hysterics at the Polymer glass plant, it's unlikely you'll go longer than 5 minutes without cracking a smile. Spock as usual has the best lines, but both Shatner and Kelly have their moments too Overall it's a light hearted and enjoyable picture thats easy to watch and enjoy. Highly recommended "},{"Title":"slow moving but funny and sweet","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" whilst the film moves at a snails pace during some scenes others are a delight. most the great dialogues occurs between kirk and spock due to spocks half memory. the appearance of the wale biologist to help them is highly predictable however you have to adore her for her sweetness and her passion about those whales. and the story line itself is a real eye opener - humans in danger because they wiped out a species? could really happen, spocks summary of it is quite apt even if he does sound slightly judgemental. basically this film is worth watching for some of the dialogue if you can stick with it through the drawn out scenes - especially the ones with whales. "},{"Title":"Nimoy's comical time travel adventure","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERSOne of the reasons that the entire Star Trek universe has been so successful is that it is forever looking for original ideas. Whilst occasionally an idea might be copied to some degree (Star Trek The Next Generation copying an Original series episode early on with The Naked Now), a lot of the time the people involved take great pride in giving the public a fresh new idea to grasp hold of. In the list of all ten films to date (as of 2004), 1986's The Voyage Home was a novel idea in that it attempted to inject humour into the story. Written and directed by our very own Mr Spock (Leonard Nimoy), Star Trek IV is a fresh and occasionally very funny story which stands out alright as a film on it's own, but falters when considered as a Star Trek movie.Continuing on from the previous events of Star Trek III The Search for Spock (1984), the crew of the now destroyed Starship Enterprise are located on planet Vulcan. With a Klingon Bird of Prey, named The Bounty, the crew decide to face multiple charges in front of a Federation Court. Heading for home however, they soon become aware that something is wrong. A probe of Alien origins has positioned itself near Earth and is attempting to contact the now extinct Hump Back Whale. Realising that this probe is inadvertently draining power from the entire planet, Kirk decides that the only way to save Earth is to travel back in time and gather some whales. As a result the crew are forced to face one of their toughest ever missions, the 1980s.With the writing team of Leonard Nimoy and Harve Bennett, the forth film to feature the original crew concludes it's three film story with a comedic touch. After the sometimes criticised Star Trek III The Search for Spock, these two men chose to go in a completely different direction with their latest offering. Whilst the previous two parts of this trilogy of sorts were serious, arguably to an extreme, this third part attempts to add a bit of humour to the series. As a result we have Kirk and crew discussing profanity, Chekov asking people where he can find the nuclear wessels and Dr McCoy condemning twentieth century medicine as the Spanish Inquisition. All in all, this is not a terrible idea. By attempting to lighten the mood, Leonard Nimoy has tried to breath life into a series which had began to get a bit too serious. Ultimately however, Nimoy goes from one end of the scale to the other. Rather than having a film which was too serious, Nimoy directs a film which is far too laid back.When making an episode or a film in this fictional universe, the key has always been the interaction of the crew. There are countless occasions in series and films alike where the crew make us laugh by their own little in-jokes. By watching how these jokes develop, we become part of this to a degree. In countless examples of Star Trek The Next Generation, episodes finish with a light hearted reference to an event earlier in the episode. After the heavy plot has resolved itself, this light hearted conclusion leaves the audience feeling happy. Whilst Nimoy will be fully aware of this, in this forth movie, he appears to try to force this feel good feeling across countless times. By placing certain obvious moments of humour into the film, Nimoy does succeed in making us laugh and smile. The problem however is that this isn't Star Trek. This fourth film actually feels more like some spoof of the serious universe, than an official film in it's own right.The other problem with Star Trek IV the Voyage Home, and arguably something major, is that it is severely lacking in futuristic technology. Whilst Star Trek IS all about characterisation, part of it's genius is that this bonding amongst a crew, with their occasional funny jab at each other, always took place far in the future aboard a futuristic starship. By relocating Captain Kirk and his crew to an ugly Klingon Bird of Prey and twentieth century San Fransisco, the film removes a key part of what is Star Trek. The original Enterprise is only shown in footage of the previous film, and the second Enterprise is only shown briefly at the end as well. This is a bit of a huge problem since the Enterprise is just as important as the crew itself.To sum up Star Trek IV The Voyage Home therefore, it's not a bad film. With moments of fun and laughter, it is definitely worth a watch. The problem with it however is that it just doesn't feel like it belongs in the Star Trek universe. "},{"Title":"The masterpiece trilogy ends here...","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of all Star Trek movies, The Wrath of Khan, must be the most successful of them all, forgetting perhaps that this movie has an open ending, leading to The Search for Spock and ending the epic tale with the third act, which is the present one, The Voyage Home. You simply cannot extrapolate the one from the other, unless you want an incomplete story.The Voyage Home is different from the two preceding ones, which were charged with drama and pathos. This is comedic in scope and shows the crew of the USS Enterprise (aboard a Klingon vessel), traveling back in time to San Francisco in 1986, in order to capture two humpback whales and therefore save the Federation from an imminent threat of annihilation by an alien probe.How would you feel as a far advanced human being, living in the 23rd Century, if you had to face the social chaos of the mid-1980s? This is how Cpt. Kirk, Spock, Bones and all the rest of the gang, landing on Earth, feel.Like the preceding versions, including The Motion Picture - Director's Cut DVD, this too is crammed with tons of extras.What I do not understand is, why these newer versions, which all come in a two-disc package cost less then the single disc versions.If you want a sound advice and if you love the movie series, wait until Paramount dishes them all up in a Special Edition or Director's Cut version. It's well worth it. You pay less. Receive more for the money, including a better picture and sound remix, and will always have your favorite characters at home with you, telling you why and how they decided to appear in the movie you are watching.Paramount certainly hit the target.The Voyage Home is great fun for the entire family and is also the most ecologically-oriented one of them all. I can only recommend it, but don't forget the other two preceding ones, they are an integral complement to this one...  "},{"Title":"The best of the Trek films","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is definitely the best of the films. It is the best written and has the best plot. The whole whale idea is an original one and very Star Trek. It finishes off the trilogy of ST2, ST3 and ST4. The humour in it is good, too, after the seriousness of ST2 and ST3. Off all of the films, it is most like the series. All the actors said that they were pleased that their characters had something new to do and say in this film. Spock, particularly, shows character development, learning to swear and showing humour. It has a beginning, a middle and an end, like all the best books, plays and films. It has an ending which sums up all of the producer Harve Bennet's thoughts about Star Trek and which brings tears to the eyes.  "},{"Title":"A good attempt at Comedy.","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *May Contain Spoilers*   There was some funny things that happened in this one. It was hilarious when the Star Trek crew first arrived at 20th Century San Francisco and they heard the unusual colorful metephors of the time period. I think this Star Trek was good without any violent action which is what the Star Trek movies were looked up on as. Leonard Rosenman's score was good and was nominated for an Oscar for Best Score of 1986. Spock was funny as heck in this because he didn't get the use of Profanity. He said a cuss word when it wasn't necessary and that's funny. For those people who don't like Star Trek, this might be one you might like because it escapes the usual Star Trek atmosphere. Watch it. ***1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"The finger is no match for Spock's nerve pinch.","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Picking up where Search for Spock left off, Kirk, the resurrected and somewhat blank slated Spock and the gang saddle up in their stolen Klingon Bird of Prey and head back to Earth to face the music for their antics and en route they find out that the Earth is under siege by what looks like a giant pastry that has rendered the Earth's technology useless because it is trying to deliver a message. Problem is the only creatures who can understand the alien space thing are humpback whales, and sadly, humpback whales are extinct in the 23rd century. This requires Kirk and the gang to make a daring trip back in time via the sun to pick up some humpback whales from the mid 1980s.Naturally, Kirk and the gang have a few problems dealing with the 20th century and Kirk romances a cutie pie marine biologist (Catherine Hicks, who later joined Stephen Collins from Star Trek The Motion Picture on TV's 7th Heaven) with a soft spot for two whales who could be the key to the crew saving the world in the future.One of the best and most accessible Trek entries has the gang poking a little fun at themselves and making a point about destroying the rest of the Earth's inhabitants instead of trying to accomodate them. In the words of Spock To hunt a species to the point of extinction is not logical. Well said, Spock. Sadly, the human race is anything BUT logical.Funny moments include Kirk's dinner with Catherine Hicks, Scotty trying to use a 20th century computer, Chekov being interrogated before running for his life, McCoy bad mouthing 20th century medicine (imagine if they'd gone back to the Dark Ages), Spock cursing and of course, Spock nerve pinching the punk who gives him and Kirk the finger while blaring his stereo (he was actually a co-producer of the film and a creature effects worker).  "},{"Title":"Perhaps the Most Enjoyable of the Star Trek Movies","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, I'm not a Trekker, but I knew Leonard Nimoy when he was Lenny Nimorovsky. This is a one of a kind Star Trek Movie. No Klingons, Borgs (wasn't that a scale), no real bad guys. The Enterprise is just trying to help out an endangered species. Leonard Nimoy gave the directing performance of his career by letting his actors go with the flow of the characters they had spent years developing. For once, Roddenberry allowed the story to be as much funny as it was technowizzy. The only other Star Trek that bore as fine a sense of humor was David Gerrold's masterpiece, The Trouble With Tribbles. So why not put aside the space opera for a little bit of harmless fun. This film has so many great lines it would take more words than I am allowed to account for them all. My favorite was Chekov asking a 1980's San Francisco policeman if he knew where there were any nuclear wessels. Also the scene in the bus when Spock uses his neck pinch to silence an annoying punk was a highlight. When I originally saw it in the theater the entire audience applauded. Enjoy this film for what it is. A romp and not a bad one either. "}{"Title":"The third Trek film I've seen (kind of messing up the order, I know)","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This really is a pretty good film. The thing I liked best about it, was the way it captured human behavior and attitude nowadays. It was almost a parody on modern life and modern society and I must say that all jokes and every &#145;philosophic' statement was at place and did what it was supposed to do. I was really surprised by the good acting. I especially liked Capt. Kirk (William Shatner) and Mr. Spock (Leonard Nimoy). The acting, the jokes and the think-about-lines really made up for a very strange (not BAD) story and it was really good that the attention was mostly centered on other thing than the spaceship looking for whales.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Simply great!","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen this movie again and again and I've never gotten bored. It is one of my favorites.True, it is not so brilliant as far as science-fiction is concerned; it has no particularly new and astonishing idea. I mean, time travel has been used again and again, and I have a feeling that those special effects of backwards time travel were copied from the Space Odyssey.Still, the characters... The actors are at their best and for any fan it will be pure enjoyment to watch their conversation and their spirits.(Spoilers from now on...)Spock in particular is great. You cannot imagine how funny he can get now that he has been literally brought back from the dead and cannot remember humor, or irony. Or when he starts swearing to be in the spirit of the time, but all the time keeping his serious face!Or Chekov, with his very Russian accent, asking a SF police officer for direction for nuclear weapons...Some could say that the idea of saving the humanity from its own errors (namely, the extinction of humpback whales) is a bit naive... I enjoyed the movie nevertheless and perhaps a serious problem put this way will get more quickly to the audience and make them think about it... However, I don't want to sound nerd-like, so I'll stop here about this.Overall, this is a thoroughly enjoyable movie, very funny, very optimistic and very good. "},{"Title":"The best!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am 12. Star Trek Rocks. But it does have its funny moments. And those are often the best. I mean You laugh so hard during  this movie it is not even funny. Personally, I think trekkers like this movie because it is a chance to relax a little. For example, (I will use Voyager) Tinker, Tenor, Doctor, Spy was a great episode. Why? because it is funny. So is Star Trek IV, and thats why it is great. "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek movie - because it's so damn funny!","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Star Trek crew proved one thing with this movie. That they are fully capable of self-irony. A very nice trait in my eyes.Of course, the plot of the film is totally cheesy. Picking up whales from the 20th century because they are needed in the 24th to communicate with a deadly alien probe? Ha!But the setting which is provided through this plot is so wonderfully hilarious that I could watch it over and over again. There are some really memorable moments in this movie Chekov with his Russian accent searching for nuclear vessels, Scottie trying to talk to a computer, Bones being abhorred by 20th century medicine, and Spock cursing and getting rid of a punk in a city bus.This is great comedy, wonderfully played by actors who can laugh about themselves. Very good.  "},{"Title":"Kirk, Spock and Bones will live forever","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is and will forever be the greatest Star Trek film ever made. Why? Because William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy and DeForest Kelley will have nothing to do with any more of the Star Trek films. And frankly, THEY ARE STAR TREK. This was the film that best presented Star Trek to the world. It has a great story, fun performances and memorable moments, and wraps up the 'Genesis' trilogy with flying colours. Even if you're not a Trekkie, see this film! "},{"Title":"Kirk, Spock and Bones will live forever","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is and will forever be the greatest Star Trek film ever made. Why? Because William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy and DeForest Kelley will have nothing to do with any more of the Star Trek films. And frankly, THEY ARE STAR TREK. This was the film that best presented Star Trek to the world. It has a great story, fun performances and memorable moments, and wraps up the 'Genesis' trilogy with flying colours. Even if you're not a Trekkie, see this film! "},{"Title":"Very predictable","Date":"7 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have this video. I only paid $1.00 for it. The story was lame. The acting was lame. The directing was lame. There were a couple of funny moments in the movie. I would not recommend it. The girl was pretty hot. Overall it was lame. I would have liked to have seen more battles The whales were lame. I would like Hollywood to make movies without sex and alcohol involved. The truck as lame too. I am trying to write 10 lines but I am running out of things to say. I am a Star Trek fan but this was no where close to the Wrath of Khan. Hopefully they will make a better movie soon. I like the Star Wars movies. I am trying to think of one good thing about this movie. At least there were no drugs, rap music, or major violence. "},{"Title":"The comical Trek entry.","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  7 out of 10Star Trek IV has its admirers, as well as its detractors, all for the same reason.  This outing's a fish-out-of-water comedy.  Considering the at-times heavy-handed seriousness of the previous entries, this could come as a pleasant or totally unwanted surprise.  As for me, I'd argue this as the original crew's best movie until The Undiscovered Country.  It was about time the filmmakers put to use the cast's impeccable chemistry.The story, while fairly decent, is irrelevant, it's major purpose is to set up the comical situations and let the cast's performances and dialogue take over from there.  But for those interested, the movie picks up almost immediately after The Search for Spock.  Now that the Vulcan has been joined mind and body, the crew is ready to head home on the Klingon warship, ready to face their charges.But Earth is invaded by a probe which is sending transmissions into the ocean, causing disastrous weather and climate problems all over the planet, possibly signaling the end of human life.  The only creature that can communicate to the probe is a humpback whale, extinct in the 23rd century, thus the crew must travel back to the late 20th century and retrieve a specimen.  Finding one isn't the hard part.  Blending into the era is.Star Trek's most light-hearted entry is a very funny and highly enjoyable adventure set on the streets of San Francisco, circa 1986.  The laughs come from the characters' interaction with the people and the culture of the time period, and unlike most other fish-out-of-water comedies, the jokes aren't cheap and they don't insult your intelligence.  My favorite lines?  Kirk telling a 20th century woman that Spock used to take LSD, but mistakenly calls it LDS and Spock's retort to Kirk Are you sure it isn't time for a colorful metaphor?William Shatner and Leonard Nimoy have never made for a more delightful duo than they are here and their scenes together are easily the film's best. The rest of the cast is solid as usual and they get to do more here than in any of the previous movies, and James Doohan does get in one hilarious scene with a computer. Catherine Hicks as a whale biologist goes a little over-the-top, but is likeable enough.  The movie's biggest flaw is, oddly enough, the plot, at least when it becomes necessary to resolve the situation.  The last twenty minutes don't sport the same spontaneity and spark the rest of the movie has in spades.  But as a whole, this one might even appeal to non-Trek fans. "},{"Title":"Great sequel!","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Perhaps the most different and most unusual film in the series, Star Trek IV The Voyage Home is a welcomed addition as it shows us the importance of our wildlife. I like the subject of the story as Whales are one of my favorite animals of the world.The music is great and the film is never boring.I liked it and I think all Star Trek fans will also! "},{"Title":"A mixed bag at best...","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" One point Star Trek has always attracted criticism on is its white-hat view of the future. Nowhere is this more evident than in Star Trek IV, or the Greenpeace Episode, as I like to call it. Sometimes, it can be seen as pure entertaining fluff. Sometimes, it almost feels like someone in the Bird Of Prey is going to flip a switch on the chameleon circuit, and it will morph into the Rainbow Warrior. Given that Greenpeace has been denounced by one of its founders as a mob of scientific illiterates who use Gestapo tactics, it does make the eco-friendly message of the film incredibly hard to swallow.By the way, you can stop reading now if you don't want to be told what happens in the film.The plot begins with an alien space probe traveling across the galaxy, sending out signals that, seemingly unknown to the intelligence behind said probe, disables any electronic circuit within shouting distance. Even worse, once it gets near the Earth, it begins to ionise the atmosphere and vaporise the oceans. If this is a subtle comment about how greenies are definitely not above using terrorism to achieve their goals, then it certainly achieved its goal there. However, for the most part this is irrelevant because we are only shown the alien device for ten minutes of establishing footage.When the Enterprise crew get word of this alien thing attacking Earth, they manage to deduce that the signal is in fact the song of Humpback Whales, which have apparently been hunted to extinction during the twenty-first century. This eventually leads to the decision to attempt a crude form of time-travel back to the year in which the film was released. There, the crew hope to secure a Humpback Whale in the hope that the probe will hear an answer from it, and thus go away.The logistical nightmare this would pose aside, one must also ponder what the long-term intentions of the Federation are, regarding the continued existence of the whales. From the earlier references, it seems time travel is a very dangerous hobby to be attempted only under such extreme circumstances. This makes a bit of a contrast to later Trek, where they seem to do it every second week. However, without going back several times to bring more whales to the future, the future Humpback Whale generations are going to be frighteningly inbred. And what happens if the Humpback Whales die out naturally, like so many species have done long before humans figured out how to bang the rocks together? Do the aliens come back to wipe out every other species, including thousands that cannot respond in this manner, once again?Where The Voyage Home succeeds is with the cross-culture references. Plunge astronauts of the future into situations where what they take for granted is a real struggle (medicine being the most successful example), and listen to the audience laugh. This is one area where the film works brilliantly. Another area where the film excels is in the use of widescreen photography, where the evolution of cinema to use a 2.351 frame is celebrated well. The DVD-Video includes a featurette in which Leonard Nimoy shows why he prefers to use the 2.351 ratio and what he thinks of the difference made by removing half the frame in order to fit the television screen. I have a basic saying that goes something like if you still believe you're getting the whole picture after seeing this, you're a moron.In all, I gave Star Trek IV The Voyage Home a six out of ten. The eco-friendliness message counts against it, especially in this day when a lot of such groups have exposed themselves as anti-choice terrorists, but the film saves itself from being a total loss by not taking itself so seriously. It's not the best of the series, but it will entertain for a couple of hours. "}{"Title":"attack of the toilet paper tube","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you put a hundred monkeys in a room with a hundred typewriters, and gave them a hundred years to randomly tap out a Star Trek story, this movie is very close to what you'd end up with.  Think about it a big toilet paper tube threatens Earth; only the song of a Humpback can stop it; the crew must therefore sling themselves around the sun several times until they time-warp (?), and then they must walk around 1980s San Fran for a while until they stumble on some whales.  Doesn't it sound like monkeys wrote it?I am, of course, being oh-too-slightly harsh.  But I do think that this movie is over-thought and generally over-done.  It bends over backwards to be funny and accessible, and ends up floating waaaay into the stratosphere.  No doubt this movie pleased lots of general audiences, but I doubt that it singlehandedly produced many Star Trek fans, because it's not particularly Trek-like at all.Complaints aside, this IS a funny movie.  Not quite as funny as it likes to think, of course (the bouncy music during Chekov's rescue it so obviously comedic that it makes me ill to hear it!).  But once the jokes wear off, the lack of dramatic content becomes pretty obvious.  There's a lot at stake, but the glib tone undermines any potential tension.Not bad, but to me, actually the weakest of the original crew's films. Would fans still like this movie if it bombed, or would they rise up in arms to condemn its silliness?  I wonder...  "},{"Title":"Sci-fi or comedy","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I do not like this film. Although it is the most successful and popular Star Trek film, the story is very dull and slow. The comedy in the movie was not only annoying, but rather unfunny. I don't know to look for this movie under sci-fi or comedy when I'm at the video store. The music is very bad and aggrivating, because it is just way to cheerful (considering Earth is facing total destruction). The character of Gillian is very useless in trying to establish a love story. I can't stress just how bad I though this movie was. But even though this is truly a bad movie, Star Trek VThe Final Frontier is even worse.    "},{"Title":"Star Trek IV The Voyage Home","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was the first Star Trek movie I saw at the cinema, and to top that I think I saw it whilst in the US of A too. So the story continues from where it left of in 'The Search for Spock' with Nimoy again at the helm. What can one say about this Trek outing, it certainly took a different route and clearly went for a more comedic approach. I believe this was the first movie to be set on Earth in the present day (at the time, 1986), I think that might also count for the TV series too.Was this the right approach? well maybe, I can't deny that the film is very entertaining with some well crafted family fun moments that make all the veteran actors even more endearing in their now historical roles. How can anyone fail to love these guys? look at Spock in his hippy outfit...hilarious right?...right?!! Quite literately old age pensioners in space (with Shatner and Doohan getting fatter by the sequel and Koenig's hair piece becoming more obvious) and still saving the Earth, what a team! So yes kudos for the alternate direction and some lovely amusing moments which can't fail to make you smile but...On the other hand did this film really do much to bolster Star Treks sci-fi rankings within the sci-fi hall of fame? I'm not so sure really, we all know Star Trek has that little niche of semi-serious logical sci-fi mixed with blatant fantasy but for me this plot just took one step too far. There is really only so far you can go before you have to step back and say hold on, and I think the whales went over that mark.Earth is in trouble (again), oh geez! A weird object in space that looks like a black cylinder connected to a football by a beam of intense white light is headed to Earth. Note the rather blatant '2001' obelisk clone conveniently changed to a cylinder...well that's what I think. Unsurprisingly this foreign object is draining everything of its power as they usually do. When in orbit around the Earth the object knocks out the global power grid and starts tearing the planets weather system apart...inadvertently. This alien thing is seemingly calling to humpback whales which are currently extinct in the year 2286 so the ageing crew simply decide to use a time warp into the past to casually pick up some humpback whales and bounce back to the their present before anyone knew they were there.Now is it me or is this premise just a tad beyond the realms of a reasonably sensible film? The last film saw a main character resurrected because they needed to keep the franchise going after the surprise blockbuster and now they can jump through time to fix problems...with whales, these guys can't be beaten! The story is indeed an ingenious creation (they do tend to come across a lot of unknown energy sapping problems don't they), a good message about the environment and endangered species but for me the time travel thing just never sat well. Its too convenient and renders the Enterprise crew almost insurmountable in any given situation. Problem? well we'll just pop back in time with a time warp and hocus pocus every things gonna be OK. Don't even get me started on how they managed to somehow transport these massive whales in massive tanks of seawater...Jesus!All that aside its a completely new breathe of fresh air to have the film set almost entirely on a planet surface, especially our own. This does in fact render special effects almost obsolete for most of the film...almost. Being set on present day Earth (1986) Nimoy was able to do a lot more without worrying about the confines of space limitations and real science. This movie really felt like a far out comedic fantasy where anything goes and Earthbound visual gags were a tour de force. Naturally being set in the 80's you can't not have a gag utilising a stereotypical 80's punk...that's virtually an obligation.Alas there are still many many typically nasty Star Trek bluescreen shots, hokey sets, some hideously obvious whale footage crowbarred in and pretty obvious matte paintings. On the other hand you do still get a solid array of decent looking starship models and the ever lovely Earth Spacedock. We also get to see much more interior of a Klingon Bird-of-Prey ship which up to this point had never really been explored much. On the whole I did actually like the misty atmosphere of the ship, the dark green colour palette set against various red LED panel lights, it looked mean and aggressive.I can see why this did well upon release as its a fun film with a good message and happy ending. True it does feel like a long tourism advert for San Francisco and the humorous side makes the entire feature come across like something as daft as 'Crocodile Dundee...in space'. For me the plot has gone from generic in the last two films to completely outlandish in this film, such a sweeping change in concepts and tone! much suspension of disbelief required here.Yet much like the previous two films I neither overly dislike or overly like this fourth effort. Its a movie of its time, I accept it for what it is and the movie itself knows what its aiming for, so to that degree I can't really moan. It is a typical Star Trek plot...but one of the more stupid plots, the classic TV series always did have good and bad plots. I can't really score this very high because apart from the childish funny moments that are indeed sweet the rest is pure dodgy hokem that still doesn't really look any better than the last two movies (the original still looking the best at this point).4/10 "},{"Title":"big disappointment","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Following Star Treks II & III I was eagerly anticipating this movie but I thought it was a colossal letdown when I saw it in 1987, and still do. It seemed cheap and superficial, nothing more than the ST cast running around in present day San Francisco. In the series, and in the previous movies, some attempt was made to justify events with some sort of science fiction, even if far-fetched. But flying around the earth three times and winding up in 1980s SF? An invisible spaceship in a public park? It seemed like an SNL gag or a Mad magazine send-up.Not even a very good TV episode, IMHO. The City on the Edge of Forever was vastly superior. My least favorite ST movie. "},{"Title":"Entertaining until it turns preachy...","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Amiable, corny, but mostly upbeat and fun fourth theatrical journey for the crew of the Starship Enterprise, directed by Spock himself, Leonard Nimoy. The original cast from the cult TV series travels back in time (to 1986) to save the Humpback Whale. Lots of bright satire and throwaway good humor, however Nicholas Meyer's Time After After utilized the same time-travel conceit to a much better advantage. This one is so concerned with being uplifting, it drowns itself in do-gooder clichs and eventually turns into an advertisement for endangered species. Special effects and art design are commendable, if unexciting. The old gang is amiable, but indeed looking a tad piqued. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Comedy Trek","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the one where Kirk and co. go back in time to the 1980s and collect a pair of humpback whales.  Never mind the ecological theme, it's the funniest Star Trek ever got, with classic lines like `I'm from Iowa, I only work in Outer Space', `Everybody remember where we parked' and, of course, `Can you tell me where to find the nuclear wessels?'  McCoy cures a woman on kidney dialysis with a pill, and Spock takes up profanity.  And bookending it all is a much more serious plotline involving a very impressive Probe. The last gasp of the old crew, before they got crap. "},{"Title":"Since when did Star Trek become a comedy routine?","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Easily the most accessible of all  the series, it is quite a change of  pace from the typical dullness of  the series. Plenty of laughs to go  around, and plenty of classic moments  like Spock's Vulcan Grip on the punk.  Sure, the story was a little boffo in  some points, but overall, the film  really presents a change in the series,  bringing a funny side of the series many  have never seen. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Voyage Home is very funny and a must see. The plot is solid and strong. The actors show their characters can be more funny then we are lead to believe. Even Spock, a person with no real emotions, is hilarious. The Voyage Home is very enjoyable and fun to watch. One of the best Trek films ever. "},{"Title":"My view on Star Trek IV The Voyage Home","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The reason why it's likeable is utterly clear this one seemed to be lighter than the other movies, for Kirk and crew go back in time to 1986 and they attempt to interact with people from that era, with very humorous results. It was also blended in with a good premise; it shows a moral of what could happen if humans caused the extinction of one species on earth, for example, humpback whales in this movie. They needed to give the crew a good time, to make up for the rough time in after the incidents in Star Treks II and III, and a way for them to resume their careers after what they did in Star Trek III would mean the end to Kirk's career as well as his fellow officers. This film does just that. There were, like usual, a few minor flaws, but those didn't dig in to this exciting flick.Rating B+ "},{"Title":"Not for real Star Trek fans","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I would like to class myself as a hardcore Star Trek fan and being a fan i also nit pic when i comes to things that happen in film or episodes that go against the Star Trek grain. The Voyage Home is nothing like any Star Trek Film or episode before or since and because of that for me this film is poor. For starters there are no fights or violence in this , apparently Leonard Nimoy who directed it wanted it like that, who has ever heard of a Sci Fi film with no action? This has no action at all accept the silly ,round the sun, time travel that the crew go through to get to 20th century earth. This must have made most Star Trek fans cringe(it did me!) what a kop out!. And what about the head quarters on earth? when you see the different species that they invented just for the film that we have never seen in the franchise before? where is the explanation for this? If your not a fan of Star Trek then you might like this ..... if you can see through the sentimentality .  6 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Not really Star Trek at all","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was a bigger disappointment than Star Trek the Motionless picture. It was more like Police Academy than anything out of the ST universe. Everything about it was too silly for words. Firstly an alien race turns up and on failing to contact whales for some reason not explained they shrug their shoulders, if they have any, and decide to boil Earths oceans away! From that point the film only gets worse as the crew camp it up around a Los Angeles that seems to have taken loss of its senses! Ridiculous. I nearly walked out before the end! However I did persevere to the final titles seeking some valid conclusion to the plot , in vain. I will concede that this film has some great humour in it possibly to the detriment of the plot but to me its still the worst StarTrek movie of them all. Sorry! "},{"Title":"This is good?","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  YUCK!  This is, BY FAR, the worst star trek movie I have seen.  The relationship between Kirk and the woman from the past is silly and annoying, and the stuff with the whales, around which the storyline centers, could not have been more sappy and ridiculous if the movie had been written by the most radical branch of PETA, or by a bunch 4-year-olds (no disrespect to PETA or 4-year-olds).  It felt like I was watching a pathetic attempt at propaganda from save-the-whales rather than an actual movie.  Yet, this garbage seems to be one of the most popular films of the series.  I have no idea why.  "},{"Title":"Camping in a Row of Future Tense","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I could say this movie was a whale of a time but it wasn't really. Starting with a promising premise, as the story unfolded, it quickly lost its porpoise. (Somebody slap me.)Continuing where *Star Trek III The Search for Spock* left off (sometime in the 23rd century), we find the Enterprise crew (William Shatner as Kirk, Leonard Nimoy as Spock and the cast of faves) on-board a commandeered Klingon spacecraft returning to Earth, only to find it being visited by a mysterious cylindrical alien probe hovering above the atmosphere, transmitting in whale song. Earth's authorities (the president of the United Federation of Planets looks suspiciously like Rob Reiner) discern the aliens are some kind of whaley protectors seeking their charges on Earth - and since whales were hunted to extinction back in the 21st century, the Federation believes the aliens will now exterminate Mankind in retribution. Our Enterprise Heroes must travel back in time to 20th century Earth (yes, The Present) to retrieve two humpback whales and transport them Back To The Future to whale-speak to the probe and &#150; I dunno &#150; dupe the probe into believing that ALL whales are okay or something. (Even if the probe leaves Earth alone, the humpbacks are doomed to another extinction, for just two whales cannot possibly re-propagate the species, with gestation periods of 12 months and birthing only single calves on average every 2 years.) But no one seems to care about long term strategy &#150; as with all environmental-based projects, it only benefits the immediate generation. This is one of those plots so crazy it just might work &#150; and it does, because the premise of this movie is not to retrieve whales or save Earth, but to place Our Heroes from the future *in the present* &#150; yes, excuse the further punning, but *Star Trek IV* is a fish-out-of-water tale. Our Heroes land in the mid-80s &#150; and don't QUITE look out of place in New Romantic/spandex Los Angeles. The dialog regarding time-traveling back to the 20th century goes thus Slingshot around the sun and you'll achieve time warp. But that's crazy! I kid you not. With five writers (Leonard Nimoy, who also directed, Harve Bennett, Steve Meerson, Peter Krikes, Nicholas Meyer) one wonders how the slingshot scene could've ended up so utterly bereft of sense, not only in its dialog, but in its execution judging by the size of the ship as it slingshots around the back of the sun, the sun must be, oh, about 100 feet in diameter. Then again, this one's a comedy; from the jaunty soundtrack during the hospital chase scene to Mr. Spock's dry one-liners. Some might say that Earth in the 1980s was a comedy anyway, so what's the diff? Our Heroes land in a San Diego field, put the invisible shield on (of course) and fan out in pairs, each on a wacky adventure Chekov (Walter Koenig) and Uhura (Nichelle Nichols) seek the infamous nuclear wessels &#150; to replenish the power that Scotty is always complaining he never has enough of; Bones (DeForest Kelley) and Scotty (James Doohan) seek plexiglass for the whale tank, Sulu (George Takei) and his enormous wang commandeer a chopper, while Kirk (William Shatner) and Spock (Nimoy) track down two whales at a Seaquarium, with Kirk spending all his precious Humanity-Saving time putting the moves on the marine biologist who looks like Elizabeth Shue (Catherine Hicks). At the time of its release, *Trek IV* was heartily entertaining &#150; but it is dating fast. In ten years, it's gonna look too damn naive to stomach. The most annoying scene that loses our suspension of disbelief is Chekov asking the cop, Where are the nuclear wessels? and the cop staring at him blankly. The five writers couldn't come up with a plausible reaction from the cop? At least Whatchoo talking' bout Russkie? or SOMETHING? Instead, we get this retarded reaction that makes me embarrassed to say I live in California.After the crew secure all their resources, they rescue Chekov from a hospital (and stupidly beam from the hospital to the OUTSIDE of their ship in the field &#150; why not beam straight INSIDE?), then the chick who looks like Elizabeth Shue forces herself on-board by jumping on Kirk outside the ship just before he beams on-board. Oh, like they can't escort her off &#150; they're still just parked in the San Diego field, not between wormholes in radiation clouds. After retrieving the whales in one of the most unconvincing, stock-footage whaling-ship scenes in the history of blubber, they slingshot round the sun again and arrive with such exactitude at the second they left the 23rd century, that we wonder why more people don't do this more often and save Kennedy and Gandhi and let Vanilla Ice die in the crib.Seeing Spock being pushed unwillingly into the water (in what I'm sure was a playful ad-lib) is worth the price of the DVD rental, or paying for HBO. When the crisis is averted, there is a short epilogue where the Elizabeth Shue chick spurns Kirk's advance. Even if we don't require a typical romantic ending, he had saved both her life and that of her precious whales &#150; the ABSOLUTE LEAST she can do is allow nuzzling of mammaries for one night; instead, Kirk is blue-balled and can only hope for another sequel where he can get his body-oil on and wail on some chick who is not even his species. "},{"Title":"Tendentious and ideologically flawed","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek IV is an agreeable holiday movie,fresh and smiling,and one of the time-travel Star Trek movies (the other is Star Trek VIII).The plastic,the chromatic values and compositions are interesting (e. g.,the lugubrious,massive probe).There is,also,a lot of fun,though not a very clever one.Everything is predictable and lacks suspense.It lacks real adventure,it is conventional,childish and banal.Nothing outstanding.Shatner,with his refined carriage and well-balanced acting,is one of my all times favorites. The title (The Voyage ...) is rather inept.Unfortunately,the movie is ideologically flawed and biased.Save the whales,yes,why not,they're God's works.But,first,save the unborn human babies. I didn't like the lessons of tendentious ecology and of anti-humanist propaganda(e. g.,the relativism of Spock's assertion that only human arrogance could believe that the whales are beings inferior to man).This is gross.If the whales are not inferior to man,then man is no longer his own equal;and we see this in today's life.Refusing to acknowledge an objective scale,man ceases to be humanist,and so we have,on different levels,Michel Foucault and Star Trek IV!Man's primacy can not be In Kirk's words,by killing the whales,the men destroyed their own future.I believe men do a much greater harm by killing their own unborn babies.It would be more educative to exhort men not to kill their unborn babies;it is these babies who need,now,to be protected,rather than the whales.I do not like this movie flattering the ideological fashions of today.Education?Education and things about life,my presumably young friends?One can find such thing in Mitchell Kalpakgian 's compact prose,in the writings of Edward B. Connolly ,Benjamin D. Wiker,Jeffrey R. Jackson,Dale Vree ,J. A. Gray ,David Mills and the pro-lifers ,but not in this politically correct entry of ST.I see Star Trek IV The Voyage Home  was given a weighted average vote of 7.2 / 10.Fair.This movie already has 115 comments. "},{"Title":"I don't even like Star Trek, yet this is passable.","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is odd, I've never cared for Star Trek. Each and EVERY one of the television series just bored me stiff. I'm not big on science fiction anyway. this movie however, was well so-so. Nothing great, hell not even that good. but by far the best star trek movie (heh, it's the only one i've seen. twas on TV and i had nothing else to do so i watched it) it's pretty amusing to watch them in 1986 and has decent enough acting. All I know is that this movie is about ninety six thousand times better then any of the frickin TV shows. So if you have to see anything based on Star Trek, watch this, but for the most part I'd say ignore anything related to star trek, even this their most DECENT production, but thats just me I really don't like star trek, so I guess you can see that I wont be rambling on about any of the other sixty gazillion movies in this friggin series.so uh, five out of ten stars should do. "}]