[{"Title":"Stylish gore","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I recently acquired Italian horror director Michele Soavis Cemetery Man which was released recently for the first time on DVD. I had seen it before, but somehow now it became one of my favorite horror films. It has a style, beauty and grace that many horror films seem to miss nowadays. So naturally I set my eyes on seeing all of Michele Soavis horror films. I had already seen two of them The Church and Cemetery Man, and The Sect isn't out on DVD so I decided to see his only other movie on DVD which is Stagefright. This was Michele Soavis directorial debut, so I didn't really know what to expect. A flawed film made by an at the time rookie? A promising film with glimpses of greatness here and there? The story is about this group of actors that are putting up a play. They have very little time to practice some of the dance moves and songs so they are all under a lot of pressure. A psycho killer finds his way to the theater and locks everybody inside with absolutely no way out. Then he begins to systematically kill all the actors on the play in some really gruesome ways.Well its no secret that Soavi was Argentos pupil and I think that out of all of Soavis horror films that I have seen Stagefright is the one in which this is most evident. There's the killers point of view, some strange and interesting camera angles and even an animal themed killer. But thats not a bad thing in my book because eventually Soavi found his own voice and style as evidenced by his last horror film Cemetery Man. Still, Stagefright has a great style and look. What I love the most about Soavis films is that they deal with all these horrible killings, yet the film has a class and a finesse about it that kind of elevates the sleaziness of the slasher genre to a high that it rarely reaches.Don't get me wrong here, this movie may be artsy and classy, but its still very very much a slasher film. There's some truly brutal deaths here! After the movie sets up its premise the ball gets rolling really fast! Thats one of the things I liked the most about this movie it had a fast pace and wasn't boring in the least! Once the killer puts on that cool as hell Owls Head mask on his noggin things get really gory and interesting. From people being cut in half with chainsaws (great scene man!) to some cool decapitations this movie had me cheering for more! So slasher fans and fiends, you wont be disappointed! Another excellent thing about this movie was that it wasn't an incoherent mess. I've seen a lot of Lucio Fulci films, a lot of Dario Argento films and a few other Italian directors and they all suffer from the same illness. They cant seem to bring together a story and tell it in a coherent understandable fashion. Not so with Soavis Stagefright. I was surprised at how smoothly the story flowed and I was surprised that I was actually understanding it without any extreme effort. In a sense I would say that Soavi took everything that Argento and Fulci did wrong and did it right. He learned from their mistakes and therefore he is a better filmmaker for it. He is the next step in the evolutionary ladder as far as Italian Horror goes. This might also be why Soavi is heralded as the savior of Italian Horror by many a horror connoisseurs.So in conclusion, Stagefright is a solidly well directed slasher. One that showed promise for what is one of horrordoms best directors,even though his body of work is comprised of only four movies. I hope Soavi wakes up from that dream soon and delivers us with something as good or better then what he has already done. Soavi you the man! Rating 5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"An impressive debut from the director of 'The Church' and 'Cemetery Man'","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Italian horror film directors like Dario Argento, Lucio Fulci, and Mario Bava enjoyed prolific careers for decades, but for as many talented horror directors in Italy there were, there were three times as many inept ones. By the late 1980s the Italian horror film market was beginning to dwindle and it needed a shot of life in the arm, and fast. In 1987 a young up and coming director, once known for bit parts in such classics as 'Demons' and 'City of the Living Dead' introduced the world to his first feature film and for a first it's a memorable one.Pros Performances are good all around. Briskly-paced. Some very intense and extremely bloody murders. An excellent and at times creepy score from Simon Boswell, who went on to score Lamberto Bava's 'Demons 2' and 'The Ogre.' Director Soavi should be applauded for such a strong debut. He also does a good job of keeping things unpredictable. Some chilling sequences, like the chase near the end.Cons A few of the characters are really unlikable and you'll want them to bite it quick. It makes sense to have cops outside to watch the place, but their scenes are nothing but worthless filler. A really lame and unnecessary final few minutes.Final thoughts Just when the Italian horror business seemed to be on it's last legs, this director's work came along and kept it going for a while longer. It may not be among the genre's greatest, but it's a worthy part of it. Too bad Soavi hasn't done a horror film since 'Cemetery Man' because he's proved that he's no one hit wonder.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Fine addition to the giallo subgenre","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" DELIRIA(USA/UK StageFright Aquarius) Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Dolby StereoA group of actors become trapped in a theatre with a rampaging maniac who has just escaped from the nearby psychiatric clinic...DELIRIA not only marked the directorial debut of Euro-cult favorite Michele Soavi (billed here as 'Michael' Soavi), it also marked a reunion of several prominent figures from the heyday of Italian exploitation. Produced by renowned sleaze merchant Joe D'Amato (Aristide Massaccesi - Buio Omega, Emanuelle in America) and written by splatter stalwart George Eastman (Luigi Montefiore - RABID DOGS, ABSURD), and co-starring John Morghen (Giovanni Lombardo Radice - CANNIBAL APOCALYPSE, CITY OF THE LIVING DEAD), this deceptively modest shocker attempts to subvert many of the clichés associated with 'traditional' slasher movies, and does it with style and grace. Viewers weaned on a diet of bland Hollywood 'horrors' may not succumb immediately to the film's wayward plot developments (including the central device of an off-off-Broadway stage musical which celebrates the very same serial killer who winds up massacring most of the cast!), but once the basic premise has been established, the narrative assumes a near-demonic life of its own.Beginning with a frankly horrific sequence in which the masked killer is mistaken for an actor during rehearsals and encouraged to 'kill' a female co-star (only to commit the bloody deed for real!), Soavi's direction is razor-sharp and visually appealing. The murders are outlandish and gruesome, though also tragic in places (watch out for a shower sequence which operates both as a suspense set-piece and as a vivid demonstration of human cruelty), and Eastman's clever screenplay strips the characters down to their emotional core, revealing a gamut of fears and prejudices which leave many of them vulnerable to the killer's predations. The climactic sequence - in which a frightened young actress must retrieve an all-important key from its hiding place within inches of the killer's feet - is ghastly, beautiful and terrifying, all at the same time. Outside of these major set-pieces, Soavi's relative inexperience is betrayed by a couple of ragged camera movements and some odd editing choices, while the performances are compromised by flat post-sync dubbing. But overall, the movie is a triumph, one which plays Soavi's mentor Dario Argento at his own game and succeeds beyond all expectations.(English version) "},{"Title":"Highly stylish Italian slasher is one of the best!","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Michele Soavi's debute film was this wonderful Italian horror film that's simply one of the best slasher films ever made!Cast and crew of a stage production find themselves locked inside their theater with an escaped homicidal maniac!Stylish and colorful direction highlight this excellent giallo film. Soavi makes the most of his clever cinematic techniques with inventive camera work and nice set pieces. Soavi has obviously taken a page from director Dario Argento in his artsy directorial style. He turns the dank catacombs of the theater into a dark, shadowy playground for our killer, who wears a truly spooky owl's head. Soavi sets up an atmosphere of great tension, setting the occurrences during a thunderstorm, using great re-occurring imagery and making even the huge theater a claustrophobic trap for our cast. There's some great moments of smart suspense as well, like the sequence with Alicia under the stage.Being a giallo film, there's a lot of bloody scenery to be had. There's plenty of vicious, memorable murder sequences that will please any gore-hound to no end! The cast is pretty good, even if they are dubbed something fierce. Barbara Cupisti is fetching as the films leading lady. The film boasts a weird and beautiful rock score that has a awesome contrast with the films visuals.All in all, Stage Fright aka Deliria is a top-notch film that's a true must-see for horror fans everywhere!*** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A simply outstanding horror film!","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Four films might be too little to judge, but I think Michele Soavi is the best Italian horror director since Mario Bava. Regarding several aspects, his visions and attitude surpass those of praised directors like Lamberto Bava, Umberto Lenzi and even Dario Argento. Stagefright has got a simple plot (much simpler that those in Soavi's later movies) but that makes it all the more accessible and enjoyable. The plot involves an escaped lunatic who stumbles into a theater where a group is rehearsing an artistic play. The mentally weak man, unable to separate reality from his own demented imagination, considers himself to be at home and violently begins to annihilate cast and crew. Even though the premise is perfect for sinking low in gore slashing, Soavi prefers to focus on creating tense situations and making you feel one with the characters and &#150; as a result of this &#150; petrified as well. The stylishly filmed sets and efficient scenery makes it feel like you're watching a more sophisticated version of Bava's Demons. This is exactly what makes him such a brilliant director! Give him little and he still manages to deliver a fully equipped horror film. Call me nuts, but I think there are directors who actually have the talent to make violence look like art&#133;and Soavi definitely is one of them. Stagefright has a terrific musical score and a few familiar faces in the cast. Most memorable appearance unquestionably is made by Giovanni Lombardo Radice. This Italian cult actor appears in multiple gore highlights and practically always comes to a horrible end&#133; Stagefright comes with the highest possible recommendation. In case you dug this film, you're ready for Soavi's the Sect and Dellamorte Dellamore. "},{"Title":"One of the best 80's slashers","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Spoilers I'm not a big fan of the slasher sub-genre; there's too many samey films clogging up the genre and seeing a man with a knife hacking topless babes to bits can be a bit tiresome after a while, believe it or not. This one, however, is a cut above (no pun intended) the majority of other slashers.Stagefright features an abundance of overly gory and creative death scenes. This, of course, is no bad thing. No bad thing at all. The film's first death scene sees the wardrobe assistant take a pick axe in the face, and that death scene alone beats any of the rather dull methods of death featured in other 80's slashers such as Friday the 13th and The Burning single handed; and it gets better than that...one actress is stabbed to death in front of her director and the rest of the cast; power drills, chainsaws, axes and fire also feature in the movie's vast weapon repertoire. On the subject of the chainsaw; it surely has to be the most under-utilised weapon in horror film history. The tool just cries out to be used to maul and saw up victims, and yet it hasn't had a great deal of screen time over the years considering it's potential. This movie, however, has a lovely chainsaw section which sees limbs get lopped, bodies carved up and an incredible death scene in which the victim has the lower half of her body removed while being rescued from falling down a trapdoor.This film's main downfall according to some people will be it's characters, script and acting. The characters are paper thin, the script, at times, is badly written (although not throughout) and the acting is wooden to say the least. However, as one doesn't go into an 80's slasher movie expecting Oscar winning performances, Oscar winning scriptwriting and great characters; one can forgive these things. What this movie does have lots of though, is style and atmosphere. It's easy to see the influence that master director Dario Argento has had on his understudy Michele Soavi. Soavi, who would later go on to direct his masterpiece, Dellamorte Dellamore, piles on the style in this movie. The style is very reminiscent of the sublime, 'Opera', actually, which also came out in the great year that was 1987. One scene in particular, involving the main character hiding out in the shower while one of her co-stars is killed in the next booth is very Opera-esque indeed. The creepy atmosphere in the movie comes mostly as a result of the claustrophobic setting, which is made more claustrophobic when you consider the fact that the characters are locked in with the madman. The creepy atmosphere comes into play again towards the end of the movie when the 'slasher trademark' victim has her final duel with the killer; Soavi is able to build up tension through a series of scenes, including one very suspenseful sequence in particular which the key to building is wrenched out of the stage floorboards in front of the killer. The suspense in the build up the killer's downfall is not wasted, as, unlike so many other films, Soavi is able to build the movie up to a satisfying and exciting conclusion.Stagefright is an underrated gem, and more than deserves the praise that lesser entries in the slasher sub genre, such as Friday the 13th receive. A creepy exhibition of atmosphere and creative gore; Stagefright comes with the highest recommendation from me.  "},{"Title":"A very satisfying thriller, visually and aurally, worth multiple viewings!","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  STAGEFRIGHT aka AQUARIUS is a very stylish chiller from Michele Soavi, whose critical reputation rests on this film and the later CEMETERY MAN.Certainly the film is derivative, and fans of this subgenre will surely comment that they have seen it all before; however, Soavi, like his mentor Dario Argento, is astute when he chooses the likes of ENNIO MORRICONE; GOBLIN, and now SIMON BOSWELL to score his films.Boswell's compositions together with the opening and end titles written by Stefano Mainetti propel the film along, and provide an aural edge to the onscreen visuals.  And if their contributions were not enough, the inspired, and uncredited use of Dmitri Shostakovich's 8th symphony, 3rd movement (allegro non troppo), reflects the imaginative touches that distinguish this film from many others.The play/film within a film works quite well, especially as the cinema is acknowledged to be the art of illusion; indeed this conceit looks ahead to the two DEMONS films, set in a cinema, where the audience are overwhelmed with illusion become reality.The acting is more than sufficient as the characters are written as types, and set up as victims, just as the heroine has a personality that sets her apart.  Her final scenes with the killer are very effective indeed; her fearfulness make her vulnerable, her vulnerability draws us to her, and in drawing us to her, we submit to the relentless onslaught the killer pursues.This is a film where the viewer/audience surely knows the outcome, but the satisfaction comes from the execution - literally - of the route that the filmmaker takes.I now have this film on a budget UK DVD which reveals little - I am playing it back on a 169 TV, and am very pleased with the quality of the sound (mono) and the visuals, plus some of the unusual, though rare basic extras. "},{"Title":"A stylish, bloody slasher from Michele Soavi.","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In Michele Soavi's classy 80s slasher Stagefright, a troupe of struggling actors are trapped overnight in a theatre; one by one they are bumped off by an escaped mental patient sporting an owl mask and wielding a nifty selection of sharp implements and power tools.Soavi gives us a brilliantly tense movie that makes maximum use of its locale, using lighting, theatre sets and shadowy areas to great effect. There are plenty of creepy moments, some genuine scares and loads of nice bloody FX for the gore-hounds. Fans of Italian horror might notice some similarities in style between this movie and some of Dario Argento's giallo films; this should come as no surprise, since Soavi worked as an assistant to Argento, and obviously learnt a thing or two about shooting a great murder scene. He even uses synth maestro Simon Boswell, who worked on Argento's Phenomena, to create the atmospheric score.There are one or two moments which stop this film from being perfect (in particular, an unnecessary prologue with a 'shock' ending), but Stagefight still manages to impress with its splattery death scenes and stylish direction. "},{"Title":"One of the best slasher films I have ever seen.(minor spoilers)","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  As an horror fan knows, movies that truly creep you out and make you tense are far too few in existence. This film stands as one of the greatest slasher films made.Soavi doesn't use the cheap tricks(except the black cat jump out in the beginning, but I swear that was put in as a joke) to gain scares, he uses atmosphere and a more human killer. The sets used in this film made me giddy when scenes would start. When our heroine awakens at the end and walks out to look upon an entirely black and blue set, knowing the killer is hidden somewhere in the theatre, I just cringed with happiness and fear. Soavi doesn't waste our time in this one either, he doesn't worry about creating a mystery of the killers identity, we learn very early on much like we did in Halloween and then we start the killings. What I find so great about the film, is that he doesn't try the fear involving jump outs, he creates tension. That is the reason I love this film so much, and why Halloween also stands as one of my top slasher flicks. He creates situations that you can imagine yourself being in, and that is where the constant fear comes from. Things like the guy left behind in the freshly pitch black theatre collecting his money as the rest of the group runs off without him. Along with that we have the girl who locks herself in a dressing closet to avoid the killer in the costume room. My favorite scene though would have to be after the heroine wakes up, she finds her way to the back and walks down a black and dimly lit very LONG hallway with doors on either side and the camera pans with her, following each step, this entire scene had my stomach jumping with delight. The killer is also human in this which is a relief. He is not all knowing, with each person he kills it is entirely believable that anyone could have found them there. Whether it be from the noise they made, or the fact that he was watching them all along, you won't see anyone disappear and hide only to have the killer somehow be directly behind them. I am a sucker for atmosphere movies and more realistic situations, if you like either, check this out )But you must give negative credit where it is due also, so here is some of that. It seems as if with each point we reached that needed to tell a plot point in order to advance the story, the plot points just don't make sense. In the beginning when the two girls decide that a minor sprained ankle is worth sneaking out to a mental institute to get it looked at just seemed like a very rushed and a kind of who cares, it works idea. The director telling the girl to hide the keys was also very stupid to me, why didn't he just hide them himself? Is not like he would have been tempted to leave. And the last I can think of right now, when our heroine is knocked out(an important point) it is done so in an exceptionally lame, and in a manner that makes no sense at all. There are a few more scenes that just make you say What? why??, but I guess it does work, because it is minor in comparison to the rest of the film.  "},{"Title":"Artistic slasher superior to most similar films from the era!","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A psychotic former actor named Irving Wallace (Clain Parker) escapes from a mental hospital and hides away in an actress's car. After being driven to a theatre where a group of actors are rehearsing a play he quickly dispatches the actress, and then proceeds to lock himself in the theatre for a gruesome night of blood shed. Italian director Michele Soavi directed this artistic and gory slasher movie. Bypassing the usual clichés of 80's slashers, &#145;StageFright' is a welcome change from the likes of &#145;Friday the 13th'. Though the plot does on occasion stretch the lines of credibility there is a persistent feeling of realism created by the way that Soavi is able to manipulate the characters and his exceptionally intelligent use of the soundtrack. Soavi makes the soundtrack an integral part of the movie by having parts of it actually in the world in which his characters reside. This means that the killer is able to manipulate (to a point) when music is played in order to instil terror in the viewer, as well as his victims. Many movies have used a similar effect but few have been able to use it as proficiently and inventively as &#145;StageFright'. The soundtrack itself is very fitting to the way the film is paced. Soavi astutely blends a fast-paced and exciting first hour with a more methodical, suspense-driven finale. The integration of the pace changes is virtually seamless and really adds to the effect Soavi attempts to create. David Brandon and Barbara Cupisti head up the cast and portray their characters very well. Brandon's portrayal of the merciless, but soon remorseful, Peter is of a very convincing standard and certainly compliments the constant ominous atmosphere of the movie itself. Although the cast may not be the most talented of performers, none of them really failed in putting in a respectable portrayal of their different characters. One highlight was the casting of perennial victim Giovanni Lombardo Radice (credited as John Morghen) in the role of the rather camp Brett. Radice adds a small, but welcome, element of humour to the movie with his multiple quips and snide remarks towards other cast members of the play. The humour, however, rarely takes priority over the main story and once the killing begins, the humour is all but gone. The murders themselves are brutal and effective. A wide range of weapons are used to kill off the cast in extremely bloody ways, from a knife all the way to the beloved chainsaw. In my opinion it was a shame that the killer wore such a ridiculous looking costume but this did not really have any negative impact on a somewhat harrowing movie. There were some sporadic moments of badly written dialogue and the occasional inconceivable situation but none of that really harms &#145;StageFright'. The movie is a very artistic and imaginative slasher that is executed better than the majority of slashers from the same era. The death scenes are generally inventive and particularly bloody. The special effects are also, generally, of a very high quality and succeed in adding more realism to an already fairly realistic movie. Unfortunately, there are few scenes that could be deemed as scary but &#145;StageFright' excels at being an atmospheric horror movie. Stylish and artistically directed, good performances and for the most part well written. I recommend this movie! My rating for &#145;StageFright' &#150; 7.5/10. "}{"Title":"Great Italian slasher by Michele Soavi","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Michele Soavi's feature film debut as a director was this film, Stage Fright (aka Aquarius and Deliria) from 1987. The film was produced by veteran producer, cinematographer and director Aristide Massaccessi aka Joe D'Amato, who is responsible for many hard core porn films, action adventures and horror exploitationers from Anthropophagous the Beast to Buio Omega. Stage Fright is written by Luigi Montefiori aka George Eastman, the man who played the cannibalistic monster in D'Amato's Anthopophagous and Anthropophagous 2 Absurd, so Soavi's debut has many great names in its credits. The actors are also great and include Barbara Cupisti in lead role as Alicia, John Morghen (Giovanni Lombardo Radice) and the director himself in little role as a police officer. D'Amato gave Soavi pretty much freedom to do this film and he did the right thing by trusting this young talent the result is fantastic piece of slasher cinema.A group of stage play actors and crew members are practicing their newest number, a horror musical which seems and sounds by the way pretty interesting. It rains hard and one of the actresses hurts her leg, so she and her friend have to visit the hospital nearby. Everything goes fine, despite the fact that in the same hospital, there is a dangerous psychopath killer in mental health therapy and the same guy committed horrible murder some years ago. When he hears some young females are in the hospital, old memories start come his mind and willing to kill seems to be born again. When the girls return to the set, they soon find themselves trapped inside the huge building and someone killing them one by one. This is the structure of this film, and even though it sounds very usual, the film is very noteworthy and made by talented people.There are great visuals in this film, and it is easy to see Soavi had been working with Argento before his own directorial career. There are twisted camera drives and angles and many little, but more than effective details, which are also among the elements that make Argento's masterpieces so great. There are many worth mentioning scenes and details in Soavi's film, and one is definitely the use of dummies especially at the very end of the film. They are so incredibly ominous at the end scene that it seems like which of the dummies is just dummy and which the killer! Totally stunning imagery and Soavi reminds me of another great horror director, Scott Spiegel, whose films are also full of little but effective details and crazy camera angles/drives. Spiegel is perhaps more positively crazy director than Soavi, who is pretty calm director, but they definitely share this unique style and innovation in their film making.There are many scenes that will scare the viewer especially if the film is viewed in peace and alone in the dark, as recommended. The mask the killer wears is very scary and also many memorable scenes include that mask. The tension lasts throughout the film and Soavi really does great job by using visuals and also music in creating atmosphere and tension so rarely found in nowaday horror efforts. The murders themselves are very gruesome, but also very stylish and not too gratuitous, and that is another thing Soavi has learned without a doubt from Argento. The murders in Stage Fright are gory at times, and they may offend some viewers, but still I think they only serve the film as a whole, since the scenes are horrific without showing too much. I had seen the film previously on murky and bad quality VHS which didn't reveal as near as many little details than the version I saw now. Soavi shows very little at times, but it is much more than if he had shown more!The only negative thing in this extraordinary film I found is the ending, since I don't know what it's all about. I mean the character who stays repeating line Right between the eyes.. What is the point in this since it is so stupid and gratuitous, especially when the characters are mostly pretty believable and personal in this film. I would like to ask Montefiori, why he included such stupid ending in his screenplay, since it tones a little bit down the whole film and I really was left wondering what's the point in this repeating.The stupid end is easy to forgive since there are so many positive things about this film. I really appreciate Soavi's work on this film, and also on his other films, like La Setta (Sect), La Chiesa (The Church) which are his films I've also seen. Hopefully this talent manages to continue his personal line and do more films, despite the fact that as a horror/fantasy director, Italy is not as great place to live and work as possible. Stage Fright deserves 9/10 from me. "},{"Title":"Good Slasher Film From Michel Soavi...","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" STAGE FRIGHT is another original take on a common theme by Italian director, Michel Soavi. Typically working with common genres, Soavi infuses his own stylish take on horror films which is a welcome change over many of the dull, derivative knock-offs that are usually done. Soavi did the same thing with DELLAMORTE DELLAMORE (another great film...) where he took the zombie genre and stood it on it's head, taking common themes and elements and transforming them into something new and refreshing. Although STAGE FRIGHT isn't a unique film in terms of the slasher genre, Soavi makes it more fun and interesting with his own unique twists...The story is about an escaped mental patient who terrorizes a dance troupe who are locked in their rehearsal studio. Being that this is a slasher film at least partly in the classical sense, the members of the troupe are knocked off one-by-one in pretty original fashion.One of the main strengths in STAGE FRIGHT are Soavi's obviously intelligent and competent direction. The film has pretty high production value, and the uncut DVD is transferred beautifully. My main gripe is in the sound level settings, where a good bit of the dialog is very quiet, and then when music plays it's exponentially louder than the dialog tracks. Not a big deal, but I had to constantly adjust the volume to hear the dialog during the dialog scenes, and then turn it down so that I didn't blow my ears out during scenes that had music. Speaking of the music, the score is typical early 80's Italian, with weird rock/synth instrumentals that sound like a weird, watered-down Billy Idol song. Not my favorite choice as far as scores go, but not a big deal either, and pretty typical of Italian horror films of that era. The plot in STAGE FRIGHT also had some decent twists, and the gore, although not extremely heavy, is far better than your average U.S.theatrical release. Overall, one of the better of the slasher films, highly recommended for fans of the genre - 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"An impressive debut from Michele Soavi","Date":"6 August 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I last saw this film several years ago on YouTube, and in less than stellar quality. At that time I was not a great admirer of Soavi, perhaps because I was hoping for Dario Argento Jr. and got something different. Since becoming a huge fan of Dellamorte Dellamore (1994), however, I've been planning to re-watch his other films, and now I'm finally getting around to it. This is Soavi's feature debut - before this he cut his teeth as assistant director to Argento, Lamberto Bava, and Joe D'Amato - and here we can see the influence of these various mentors. The flamboyant camera-work and imagery certainly bring Argento to mind, while the premise (an acting troupe gets locked inside a theater with a serial killer) is reminiscent of Bava's Demons (1985). The material isn't so similar to D'Amato's work, but we have him to thank for the film's existence (and for Soavi's directorial career, since he was perfectly content to remain an assistant director), since he produced it and hired Soavi.As a director Soavi hadn't quite found his own voice yet - he's very imitative of Argento here - but to his credit he conjures imagery worthy of the master. No one who has seen this film will forget the bizarre owl mask donned by the killer (an image that would not be out of place in Franju's Judex), and the scene of him sitting on stage with the posed bodies of his victims, tranquilly stroking a cat as feathers descend on them like snowflakes, is one of the most indelible in the whole of Italian horror. What already sets Soavi apart from Argento is his cheeky humor. The comic relief scenes in Argento's films generally come across as rather clumsy and awkward (e.g. the befuddled mailman from Four Flies on Grey Velvet), but Soavi is consistently clever. The opening scene, for instance, thwarts our expectations to great comic effect. Still Soavi knows how to stage an effective death scene, and he doesn't hold back on the red stuff, but even the most horrible scenes tend to have a touch of black humor. One bit I particularly liked involved one of the characters spilling stage-blood all over the dressing room; as their friend is drilled to death, his blood starts to drip onto the fake stuff. I can't help but wonder if this is a tongue-in-cheek criticism of the phony-looking blood in most Italian horror films.The cast is quite strong Barbara Cupisti is a sympathetic heroine, David Brandon is brilliant as the temperamental director (perhaps Soavi was drawing on his experiences with Argento here), and Giovanni Lombardo Radice is pretty amusing as a flamboyantly gay actor. Special praise must be singled out to the actor playing the silent masked killer (IMDb claims that it's exploitation legend George Eastman), who projects great presence simply through the use of his body language - I'd favorably compare him to Lon Chaney.The experience between my first and second viewings of this little gem is truly night and day. This is not just an astoundingly good film for a first time director, but a minor masterpiece of the genre. Dario Argento must have thought so as well; Opera bears some striking similarities to it, and Argento would subsequently enlist Soavi to direct The Church (1989) and The Sect (1991). "},{"Title":"Totally surprised at how good this film was","Date":"7 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Michele Soavi's directorial debut StageFright Aquarius is simply excellent, a slasher film on par with Halloween, Black Christmas and Scream. The plot itself isn't fantastic, a psychotic actor, now serial killer, escapes from a psychiatric hospital and hitches a ride with two actresses to a theatre, where a group of struggling thespians are working on new production. Once there the actors are locked in with the killer, who dons an owl mask from the costume room and wrecks havoc with various sharp objects. But when one looks at a slasher film the plot isn't important, it isn't why we watch a slasher film, if story is what we are after we would watch The Exorcist, Rosemary's Baby or Psycho.StageFright is stylish, fast-paced and gory with a groovy soundtrack and some genuine scares. Soavi seems to take influence from various other Italian horror directors, including Dario Argento, Lucio Fulci and Mario Bava. The setting is used to maximum effect, especially the main stage with its eerie blue lighting and the backstage corridors, dimly lit and claustrophobic. The killer's outfit is very simple, all black but with a giant owl's head, this sounds silly but is actually very creepy, with large glowing eyes it makes for a unique and entirely unforgettable villain.Soavi also knows how to stage some incredible scenes, two of particular note include a character trying to pry a key from underneath the killer and the killer appearing during a rehearsal and being mistaken for an actor, and when told to kill by the director does just that. These scenes are so well crafted it is hard to believe this is Soavi's first film. This being a slasher one would expect gory deaths and this film does not disappoint, with power drills, axes and chainsaws being used to dispatch our cast.The film maintains a serious, dark tone up until the very end in which the director pokes fun at slasher conventions in a rather amusing, if not out of place way. Ignoring this change in tone in the last five minutes StageFright is basically a perfect slasher film, expertly crafted and although not entirely original, is definitely unforgettable.5/5 "},{"Title":"A must see horror film!","Date":"13 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In what has to be one of the best Italian giallio horror films ever made, a group of struggling stage actors are rehearsing for a play when one of them name Alicia gets injured. Taken to a local psychiatric hospital, by the stage mistress to see a doctor, she is soon healed back up & ready to continue on. What she, nor the stage mistress Betty realizes however is that a former actor turned mass murderer has killed an orderly & has escaped that very hospital by hiding in the back of the car the two are driving in. When Beatty winds up being murdered, the police are called & the stage director decides to milk her death to the media, in order to sell more tickets on opening night & forcing the troupe of actors to work overtime. Handing the key that unlocks the doors to the building, to another actress to hide away, in case one of the actors takes the idea of leaving. What they don't know is, is that the killer has never left the building & The actress who hid the key winds up being killed & no one knows where she has put the key. Leaving them at the mercy of the maniac who decides to off them in some rather disgusting ways. You know ever since hearing about STAGE FRIGHT & how good it was for many years, I looked everywhere I could to find a copy, but always came up short, not many horror fans have heard of it & from what I understood, the film didn't fare to well at the box office either & after securing a copy & finally being able to see it, I just want to say that this is one of the best slasher films ever made! Which makes the experience of seeing it somewhat sad, when one realizes that horror fans have sadly overlooked this gem upon it's initial theatrical release. Director MICHELE SOAVI who trained under Italian horror director DARIO ARGENTO, has made a very impressive directorial debut here & for a while seemed to be heading on to becoming the Italian horror genre's next Argento & a real force to be reckoned with within the genre. These days however, he seems to have abandon his genre work & does mostly TV movies, which is sad because his direction & pacing here is so good. One of the most memorable sequences that really stands out as a great piece of cinematic suspense scene, is where the lead actress Alicia is hiding in one of the shower stalls, while the killer grabs his next victim, a badly injured girl, who just looks at Alicia & tries to call out for help, only for the actress to silently beg not to give her hiding place away to the killer & the ending is absolutely fantastic! The actors are just right for their roles, the suspense, tension & terror really works, which aided by a fantastic score by composer SIMON BOSWELL, helps elevate STAGE FRIGHT over many well known genre pieces & thus far stands as a shining example of a really great horror item, that sadly just doesn't seem to get made anymore. The film revels in some pretty nasty kills, such as a hacked off arm & head, an axe to the chest, a knifing, a power drill through someone's stomach, a mattock to the mouth etc. Highly recommended to horror fans, STAGE FRIGHT is exactly how a really good horror film should be made!**** stars "},{"Title":"STAGE FRIGHT (Michele Soavi, 1986) ***","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Director Soavi, whose debut this was, is the last of the Italian maestros of Horror to arrive upon the scene &#x96; by which time Mario Bava, the greatest among them, was dead and virtually all the rest were already past their prime! For this reason, perhaps, his work has been given slightly more than its due attention with this I mean that, while the film under review is miles ahead of what was being churned out during the last gasp of Euro-Cult, it does not really elicit the same level of trashy fun that the Giallo subgenre was well capable of during its heyday (despite the fact that Soavi immediately showed his clout with expert use of the Steadicam throughout, not to mention a clever opening which has a suspenseful murder being revealed as merely part of the show, the relentless and loud synthesizer-based score &#x96; which places this firmly in the bland 1980s &#x96; is positively annoying)! Still, being the third of his efforts that I have watched (with THE SECT 1991 coming up), I can say that I was only really let down by THE CHURCH (1990) &#x96; while his bizarre take on the zombie subgenre CEMETERY MAN (1994) remains, by far, his most sustained outing. Anyway, the film has a gazillion alternate titles &#x96; such as BLOODY BIRD and SOUND STAGE MASSACRE but also two in Italian, namely AQUARIUS and DELIRIA; besides, having recently mentioned the 2 differing versions of THE NIGHT CHILD (1975) in my review of that picture, this one has too &#x96; with the English-language edition (the one I acquired) being the Director's Cut, while the Italian release print was actually overseen by Soavi's prolific and versatile mentor i.e. cult figure Joe D'Amato!The movie is basically a retread of Pete Walker's average THE FLESH AND BLOOD SHOW (1972) &#x96; complete with a deranged actor (named Irving Wallace!) behind the killing spree; convicted, he escapes from the asylum where he was incarcerated &#x96; the far-fetched premise being that the leading lady of a theatrical troupe went to a mental hospital to treat a sprained ankle, and the maniac chose just that moment to bolt (hiding in her car throughout the journey back to the venue where rehearsals are under way)! The first (and most outrageously disposed-of) victim, in fact, is the girl's companion who was somehow delayed in joining the others and summarily receives a pick-axe blow to the mouth! Typically, the atmosphere behind-the-scenes was already tense but, with the murder, things naturally escalate to fever-pitch besides, the ruthless director (David Brandon) even takes advantage of the morbid situation by deciding to open earlier than expected since the public would flock to see a show from which a principal participant (even if the girl was nothing more than a wardrobe assistant!) had been offed! Soon, strange happenings inside the theater make it blatantly clear that someone else is in there with the troupe by the way, another manipulative touch by the director of the musical being staged is to have the monster (a man in an owl suit seemingly derived from the incredible opening sequence of Georges Franju's JUDEX 1963) in the show no longer be anonymous but is christened by the name of the real serial-killer&#x85;so that the director of the movie obviously has him actually assume that role by abducting &#x96; he turns up behind the victim mimicking a celebrated scene from Dario Argento's TENEBRE (1982) &#x96; and hiding the body of the actor (Giovanni Lombardo Radice, from PHANTOM OF DEATH 1988) playing him! The stage is thus set for a bloodbath, with the troupe at the mercy of a maniac who, even if clearly outnumbered, always has the upper hand until the extended climax one man is found tied upside down from the ceiling; another is perforated via a door and right though his chest with a driller (surely among the Horror genre's most popular killing tools!); about four different people are chopped-up with a chainsaw (ditto) &#x96; with Brandon having one arm torn off with it and then beheaded with an axe!; Radice is copped by the members of the troupe itself when, attired just like the killer, they mistake him for their pursuer! It is left to the very same girl (she had been left for dead by an envious colleague, whose own demise the heroine later witnesses) that 'liberated' him to eventually supply the murderer's come-uppance while he is placing all the victims on the proscenium, with himself presiding over them, she is underneath them all trying to retrieve the all-important key to the main door (a Police car stationed outside, then, is completely oblivious to the massacre, thanks also to the pouring rain!). Anyway, he goes after her, she escapes atop a scaffolding and, when he tries to climb himself, she cuts the thick wire with an axe, dropping him to the ground. However, he rises again (incidentally, the killer remains very much a cipher throughout, in the mould of Michael Myers from the Halloween franchise) and is engulfed in flames&#x85;but he is still not through as, when the heroine returns to the scene of the carnage, he attacks her one more time (why his body should have been left there, when all the others had been removed, is anybody's guess), only now she is saved by the timely intervention of the theatre's gun-toting black caretaker. "},{"Title":"That mask will haunt you","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stage Fright is surprising in how reminiscent it is of Dario Argento's style. Most notably when it gets suspenseful and The Goblins-type music starts playing instead of something more typically suspenseful (classical music). Since the plot takes place in a theater, filled with actors who happen to be in costume, of course it is also bright and colorful and almost artsy just as Argento films tend to be. But moving on.The story's pretty simple. There is a serial killer locked inside a theater with a group of actors. They die off one by one (what else did you expect). Simple enough. But what makes this movie so GOOD? The characters are all, as they say, a character. Animosity exists among the actors but then the killer is out there and so they are a collective group of victims at the same time. They all meet their makers in different way, for the killer, (who creepily enough wears a mask from the play the actors are starring in), doesn't have an attachment to any one tool. He will use what he can when he can and you never know what it may be. The lead victim, Alicia, is easy to empathize with. She's on the quiet side but you don't want her to die and you know if someone gets the killer, it will have to be her. The gore is nice, as usual some realistic and some not, but all of it is somewhat classy.Here's something to think about. The play within the movie goes as so a man goes around raping and killing at night. He wears a mask. Later in the movie, for reasons I won't spoil, the director wants the killer in the play to be portrayed as the real life killer. Later in the movie (and this is all still early on), the real life killer puts on the original mask from the play and goes around killing like so. Now how's that for cool? You don't find weird stuff like this in every movie.The general 80's and Broadway-ish scenery for Stage Fright is pretty cool too. I was reluctant to watch this because what do I want to see a bunch of actors in some play get slaughtered for? I think Scream ruined that for all of us, right? Well I was wrong. This movie is excellent. It all comes together very nicely. It's good to watch in and of itself and it's got a good soundtrack. Plus the story itself, which while not the most intricate, helps make for an overall excellent movie. "},{"Title":"We have all seen Stagefright before, but...","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" We have all seen Stagefright before; it's a predictable typical slasher with an unconvincing killer and young pretty people being axed off though this hasn't been done by Michele Soavi. The most noteworthy elements of the film are the camera-work, cinematography, score and it's violent, brutal deaths which are ranked by horror fanatics as some of the most vicious kills in the slasher sub-genre. It isn't a movie to be taken seriously and a massive 1980's cheese-fest which is what makes it so fantastic.First off, what Stagefright fails at is classic slasher rules; drugs, sex and language which is all absent from this movie. However I don't think the Guide to Making a Slasher Handbook was Soavi's inspiration as this is, after all, a directional debut. This isn't another Friday the 13th and it isn't another Sleepaway Camp &#x96; this is a Michele Soavi movie loaded with outrageous, loopy visuals, bizarre dialogue, bad acting and savage murders. When Soavi came out to the film industry as Argento's protégé he really meet expectations and Stagefright along with later films such as The Church and Cemetery Man go to prove it. Yes it does not have naked bodies, the characters are not drug inducing menaces and there is a lack of foul language but so what &#x96; this is far better than a lot of other slashers that came out in the 80's because it is just so fun and we can thank Soavi's style for that.Whilst the movie is completely silly it's still entertaining, especially for the eyes. The visuals are completely wonderful with cinematography exposing colour through the lens in a flamboyant fashion, especially when all the characters in the film are wearing such eccentric clothes. The camera-work is professionally solid and stands out, the panning is soft, the stills are (not always) very still and it's the style of camera-work one would assume would come from Argento's protégé. The score is 1980's cheese but it works a wonder and it fits well in a movie such as Stagefright, it's also a hoot to listen to as you watch a woman being torn in half from the waist down.I will not spoil the deaths in this review. There are some really nasty eye opening kills in this movie which are illogical, nonsensical and completely derivative but that's Italian Horror for you, and as a matter of fact &#x96; that's the movies for you. If someone is into violent slashers then this is perhaps the film you've been looking for though the movie isn't overflowing with gore and eye cringing kills which can be a letdown for gore fanatics.Stagefright is typically predictable like one would find in any slasher, but it offers something quite unique &#x96; it's artistic cinematic elements are fantastic, the music is a thrill ride to listen to, it's easy to watch, the characters are all wearing eccentric 80's fashion like you'd expect from a metropolis stage performer in that era and its environment is at least not a camp, beach, cemetery, small town, or anything you've seen one hundred times before in a film which requires the protagonist to take of their clothes. Stagefright is another run of the mill slasher, but it is Michele Soavi's run of the mill slasher and that is what makes it unique. It's cheese but it isn't like this movie is taking itself serious, so sit back and enjoy this reminder of what Italian slashers were like in the 1980's. "},{"Title":"Soavi's Delirious And Creepy Feature Length Debut","Date":"20 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There is no doubt that Michele Soavi's Deliria aka. Stage Fright of 1987 is a suspenseful and stylish slasher. As an avid fan of Italian Horror cinema, however, I have to say that the film is, in my opinion, slightly overrated by most of my fellow Italian Horror buffs. The film does very effectively build up tension, however, and while the story is simple it also fast-paced and intense and does not get boring for a second. A group of stage actors, entirely at odds with each other as well as with their arrogant director, are doing rehearsals for a play in a remote theater. They soon have other things to worry about than their little disputes, when the entire theater is suddenly stalked by a murderous madman... I can see why many of my fellow Italian Horror fans love this film. It is a very effective and immensely creepy film, no doubt, but I couldn't say it is an outstanding or brilliant film. Yet it does have many ingenious elements. The killer, who is referred to as the night-owl wears an over-sized owl-mask which looks extremely creepy. Also, the film is often quite artistically done, and the murder sequences are superb. The acting performances are quite good too, Italian Horror buffs will especially appreciate the casting of cult-actor Giovanni Lombardo Radice, who has an atypical role as a very gay dancer. The script was written by another cult-actor, George Eastman (Cani Arrabiati, Antropophagus, Absurd). All things considered, Stage Fright is a creepy and more than worthwhile Horror film, even if it is not the masterpiece some claim it is, in my opinion. Michele Soavi sure is a great director (his Zombie-extravaganza Dellamorte Dellamore of 1994 is without doubt one of the greatest Horror films of the 90s), and this is his creepy feature film debut. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Really Enjoyable!","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Here's my quick review of Stagefright.Here's the plot, it takes place at the rehearsals for a new musical production about Killer who wears owl mask. The show's manic director is pushing his cast to the limit with the worry of an impending opening night looming. One of the cast sprains her ankle and sneaks off to a nearby hospital for some treatment so she can continue with her work. What she doesn't realize until too late is that it's actually a psychiatric hospital and as they will all soon discover one of it's patients has smuggled himself back to the sound stage in the boot of her car. The impending terror scenario is made double fold when the irate director locks the cast in for the night to concentrate on their work and the unwelcome guest in their midst is actually an famous old actor gone completely berserk!Michele Soavi, man who has directed bunch of great horror films, doesn't disappoint on this one either. It's a old 'madman on the loose'-slasher flick but somehow it's fresher than most slashers that came out in the late 80's. You can still find every slasher movie clichés in it, but hey, that's the name of the game!Plot runs nicely and cinematography looks really well. Soavi creates nice claustrophobic feel to the place (not the word I'm looking for but I'm from Finland, so live with it you bastards!). I was expecting more gore but there is still plenty of blood and guts, my favorite is the first chainsaw scene, it looks awesome! Also so the main theme on 'Stagefright AKA Deliria' is really good with hauntingly beautiful female vocal.Only thing that I didn't like was the ending. I don't wanna give any spoilers away, but what the f*** was that?! It sure made me laugh. Was it all a play/movie or maybe it's made for a possible sequel? Well, Soavi is known for his bizarre endings.All in all, really enjoyable movie that I can recommend to any slasher/gore fans out there.Stagefright AKA Deliria gets 8 owl masks out of 10.Peace, Rob "}{"Title":"* * * out of 4","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Rehearsing for a new play, Alicia, (Barbara Cupisti) Betty, (Ulrike Schwerk) Danny, (Robert Gligorov) Corrine, (Loredana Perrella) Brett, (Giovanni Lamberto Radice) Laurel, (Mary Sellers) and Sybil, (Jo Ann Smith) are all displeased to learn director Peter Carter, (David Brandon) isn't happy with their performances. When she hurts herself in show, she and a friend quietly leave to get it treated, mistaking a mental hospital for the real thing. Returning back feeling better, a brutal murder keeps them in the building. Rehearsing still, they soon discover that the murder was an escaped mental patient accidentally brought back to the studio. With the cast and crew still locked inside, the slowly dwindling occupants fight back against the masked madman.With a lot to really love about this one and only an incredibly useless flaw, this is one of the best of the genre. Highly recommended to all Italian or giallo fans, as well as those into the late 80s slasher scene, while those who aren't that into any are urged to use this as a starting point for how great the scenes are.Unrated for Extreme Violence, Profanity and Brief Nudity. "},{"Title":"An excellent horror film","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stageright is possibly one of the greatest slasher/horror films virtually no one has ever seen, which is why I so strongly reccomend you do some searching for a copy. Stagefright tells a simplistic tale (one which verges on cliche, but fortunately manages to avoid the pratfalls of the formulaic slasher film) of a group of thespians whom are currently working on a theatrical production, a musical about a serial murderer. As this occurs, so does the escape of a crazed actor/murderer from the local insane asylum whom happened to brutally kill his co-star several years back in the same theater. He returns to wreak his vengeance upon the cavernous rehearsal hall's new inhabitants, donning an owl mask and weilding a variety of lethal impliments of destruction.As you can see, there really isn't much to Stagefright in terms of plot, but this aspect does not work against Stagefright, it proves to be an asset. Due to the lack of contrived subplots and red herrings, director Michele Soavi (this film was his debut, proving just how strong of a director he is) can concentrate on the magnificent atmosphere and carnage that ensues. Speaking of carnage, Stagefright not only offers some marvelous suspense/tension , but some great gore. The score only helps to accenutate the mood of the movie and while the characters may be two-dimensional, the aformentioned aspects of Stagefright surpass them. Stagefright is recommended definitively.Grade A "},{"Title":"The City as a Set, the Setting as a Stage","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" From the get-go StageFright is playing with expectations. Like many giallos, we open with a working girl plying her trade on the mean streets. Out of the shadows, hands emerge, pulling her back. Simon Boswell's frantic electro-jazz score begins playing. The killer, dressed in an absurd owl mask, leaps from the alleyway, rolling on the ground. Everyone begins to dance, in exaggerated fashion. The camera pulls back, revealing the city as a set, the setting as a stage. This is akin to what Mario Bava did in Black Sabbath, revealing the artifice of the film format. If we read the rest of the opening in this light, StageFright shows the Italian film industry in miniature. The director is an artist, determined to push taboos. The financiers cares not at all for the director's vision, only if his investment is returned. The actresses are pushed through the meat grinder, degraded. The entire production is rushed, its première only a week away. Considering director Michele Soavi worked for years in the Italian film industry as an assistant director, he can no doubt attest personally to the stuff that goes down on a low budget set.Despite its deeply European sensibilities, StageFright is not a true giallo. The identity of the killer is known from the beginning while the police play a small role. Instead, the film owes more to the most American of subgenres The slasher. With so many depended on formula, many slashers are set apart by their setting. An empty theater proves a fantastic setting for bloody slashery. The premise is right in-line with the genre A theater trope, doing late night rehearsals, are unknowingly locked in with a brutal killer. The unstoppable killer wears a silly mask and offs everyone in brutal ways, utilizing numerous weapons. The cast is large and loosely defined. An actress is pregnant with the sound technician's child, the leading man is flamboyantly gay, the director is trying to sleep with all of his actresses. It's not really important. StageFright even throws in an improbable spring-loaded cat.Despite fitting in perfectly with its slasher brethren, the style of StageFright is undeniably Italian. Soavi's studying under Argento is hugely apparent sometimes. Soavi's camera swoops around the theater, taking a frantic first-person perspective. The camera swings from a deadly pickax, crash-zooms on raised knives, and shows red paint mingling with spilled blood. The style is A-grade. When the killer finds the work shop, shown from his perspective, blatantly recalls Deep Red. Soavi even directly goofs on Dario, either copying or parodying the man behind a man reveal from Tenebre. Boswell's score isn't exactly Goblin-esque. The mixture of hard rock and electronic tones still recalls earlier Italian genre films, frequently powering the action.The film blatantly links horror with opera, mixing murder and dance choreography. The kill sequences continue the Italian tradition of stylized gore. An actress is stabbed repeatedly on stage, calling the audience out on their voyeurism. A man is impaled through a door with a giant, spiraling drill-bit, gore spilling on the floor. A woman is cleaved straight in two through a floorboard, a helpless body pulled out. StageFright doesn't mess around. Irving Wallace gets a chainsaw. We see an arm sawed off in clear view, followed by a full-on decapitation, the head rolling across the floor. For all its stylization, StageFright is intensely, explicitly gory.Unlike most slashers, who space their kills out over a ninety minute run time, Irving Wallace has eliminated most of the cast by the hour mark. Practically a very gory satire for its first hour, StageFright takes a definite tonal shift. The final girl is left completely alone in a theater with a viscous serial killer. The film becomes a series of jitteringly intense near-encounters. Alicia cowers in a shower stall, the killer attacking another girl in the adjacent stall. Because the design of the killer's mask, you can never be sure what he's seeing. The hallways strike you as very small, very tight. The theater becomes very quiet, Alicia aware of how much noise she is making.One extended sequence in StageFright will always stick with me. The music drops out, the camera slowly revolving around the entire auditorium. The killer arranges his victim's bodies on stage, smearing each with feathers, tossing a mannequin head off. Irving Wallace sits down, patting the cat in his lap, head down. The key to unlock door, Alicia's way out of this nightmare, sits in the slots of the stage. She crawls under the stage, slowly trying to wiggle the key down into her arm, worried about drawling the cat and the killer's attention. I truthfully, without hyperbola, believe it to be one of the most intense sequences ever put to film. After its torturous conclusion, the scene climaxes with a phenomenal jump-scare, one that always gets me no matter how many times I see the film. The catwalk encounter that follows is great as well, powered by the rock score and making good use of an axe and extension cord, but can't compare to the edge-of-your-seat intensity of the previous scene. Even if the rest of StageFright wasn't so good, the film would always be great because of that moment.The final scene returns to the earliest moments meta qualities. Soavi cribs from Argento again, the protagonist remembering back to an earlier scene, searching for a clue. The killer is put down, shot in the head. However, at the last second, blood oozing from the bullet wound, he looks to the camera and smiles. It's a winking acknowledgment of the cliché of the immortal slasher killer as well as pointing out, once again, the artifice of the film format. StageFright is a very underrated Italian horror effort, one of the eighties best, frequently overlooked. I adore this one. Cemetery Man' is Michele Soavi's masterpiece but StageFright was the film that proved he was a master. "},{"Title":"Slasher Plus Soavi Equals Perfection","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A group of actors is locked inside a theater after one of their crew members is killed. Unknown to them, the killer is inside the building and the first one to die has the only key outside hidden. This could be their last night alive.Michele Soavi has made one of the greatest horror films of all time with Dellamorte Dellamore, and this one -- his first feature -- is not far behind. The acting is superb, the directing keen, and while the slasher genre is riddled with plenty of bland entries, particularly by the time this came out, Soavi keeps it fresh and new here. I have the utmost respect for his work, and the slasher genre in general... could this be the ultimate slasher? Italian horror critic Jim Harper calls this film a well-constructed and visually impressive film that stands out as one of the highlights of Italian horror in the late 1980s. I could not agree more. Horror, and Italian horror specifically, has more misses than hits... and by the end of the 1980s was a dying subgenre. Soavi kept the fire alive, at least for a few more years than it would have survived on its own (Argento, as great as he his, cannot bear the entire burden of Italian cinema alone). The visually impressive part is quite true, as Soavi uses colors to his advantage throughout this one... a technique he likely picked up from Argento.Fans will recognize actor John Morghen, whom Harper calls waspish, the darling of the Italian horror world. Sadly, unlike past performances, Morghen dies off relatively early in the film and is not given the on-screen death he deserves. (Interestingly, I read an interview with Morghen where he has trashed the horror film and its fans... one wonders why he has made so many and why he shows up at conventions throughout America.) I have to give credence to Simon Boswell's rocking 1980s score. Some reviewers look back now, and knock Boswell for his inclusion of heavy metal into this and other films (such as Phenomena or the Demons films). Let's be clear, this is not Boswell's doing. The directors at the time did this. I don't really know why. But unlike the others, I don't mind it... it really gives a pumping rhythm to what could otherwise be a slower-feeling film.Fans of horror, slashers, Italian films, Soavi, etc. all need to put this on their list. And if it doesn't already exist, there needs to be a demand for a special edition disc. To my knowledge, there really isn't such a thing yet, and that's a shame. Soavi is often forgotten behind his predecessors, but he is much greater than generally perceived. "},{"Title":"A Classic in every sense of the word","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stagefright is one of the best giallos and slashers around.**SPOILERS**Rehearsing for a new play, Alicia, (Barbara Cupisti) Betty, (Ulrike Schwerk) Danny, (Robert Gligorov) Corrine, (Loredana Perrella) Brett, (Giovanni Lamberto Radice) Laurel, (Mary Sellers) and Sybil, (Jo Ann Smith) are all displeased to learn director Peter Carter, (David Brandon) isn't happy with their performances. When she hurts herself in show, she and a friend quietly leave to get it treated, mistaking a mental hospital for the real thing. Returning back feeling better, a brutal murder keeps them in the building. Rehearsing still, they soon discover that the murder was an escaped mental patient accidentally brought back to the studio. With the cast and crew still locked inside, the slowly dwindling occupants fight back against the masked madman.The Good News This is one of the best Italian slashers around. The setting is one of the better features of the film. The building is incredible, with several great stalking areas, long hallways, a huge stage for the production and so much more going on that there's a really great feel coming from the location. This one offers up many great moments from the location that really work well. This also has a great air about it, one that feels perfectly comfortable being such a film. It doesn't stay away from any of those typical clichés. This one gets sown and dirty with being a traditional slasher film. There's a whole lot to enjoy from this one due to how much it plays by the slasher rules. That means that it puts in appearances for almost everything the genre has to offer, and it makes the film seem that much more important because of it. This one also becomes more entertaining when it moves into the slasher territory, since this has plenty of goodness from its slasher moments. The stalking is among the best in the genre, as every single one is tense, exciting and wholly interesting, which is exactly what a stalking sequence should be. The chase up into the rafters is beyond glorious, as there's a long battle to get there, followed by several extended stalking scenes and there's even a couple of particularly brutal kills as well. This one gets more points for several scenes it doesn't seem obvious as to what's going to happen, and that is a fantastic skill to having in a film, much less several times within the same sequence. A later scene where the killer attacks a group of victims who have locked themselves inside a small room is another standout scene. The first murder is also a highly enjoyable suspense scene, as there's so much to love about the scene, with the ridiculously suspenseful build up to the nearly-invisible cover the pouring rain provides to the false shocks and the final one delivers huge. Another rather huge one is killing the actress on the stage in front of everyone, simply because they never show the switch on-screen, and then when the play starts, the reversal is glorious. None, though, can top the suspense bestowed upon the real highlight of the film, where the killer is perched on a stage with a victim below trying to get a key stuck in the floor without them noticing it. This is just unbearably suspenseful and is just nerve-wrangling to the extreme, and contains so many great moments that it just becomes all the better. There's even more creepy moments in here that it really does set the movie on edge. Even though the mask is a little weird, it's unique enough to make it original and memorable that fits in with everything that's going on and gives the film a sense of separation from the others out there. The last really big plus is it's blood and gore. The kills here are out-and-out graphic, where one is pulled into view from below sawed in half at the waist with a chainsaw, repeatedly hacked with an ax, decapitated with an ax, drilled through the stomach with an electric drill, set on fire and stabbed in the stomach, among so much more. These here all make it that much more important.The Bad News This one here only has one flaw in it, and that's the ending. This here doesn't feel at all like an effective ending, coming across more as a prologue to a sequel, minus the killer losing the fight, and really should've ended it with her being carted away by the authorities. It doesn't fit in well with the rest of the movie and still would've been the perfect amount for a slasher. Still, though, this was not enough to deter the full effect of the film.The Final Verdict With a lot to really love about this one and only an incredibly useless flaw, this is one of the best of the genre. Highly recommended to all Italian or giallo fans, as well as those into the late 80s slasher scene, while those who aren't that into any are urged to use this as a starting point for how great the scenes are.Rated UR/R Graphic Violence, Language and Brief Nudity "},{"Title":"Stagefright","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A stage production comes under siege of a serial killing actor(notorious for shopping up 16 different victims to pieces with an axe)named Irving Wallace who has escaped the holding cell of a psychiatric hospital. After a stagehand is killed with a pickax, the director quietly decides to continue his stage production out of desperation for his sagging career and a good payday. He informs actress Corinne(Loredana Parrella)to lock the exit/entrance door and hide the key. Of course, she's the next female victim to be killed, viciously stabbed by Wallace, who hides under the hawk head of actor Brett(Giovanni Lombardo Radice, really playing his prototypical homosexual prankster to the hilt in scene-stealing fashion). So the crew who decided to stay on and continue the play are trapped in the building! If that isn't inspired, I don't know what is. The rest of the film has the crew trying to stay close together and alive as Wallace roams the building with various weapons he confiscated from a workshop(including a drill which penetrates the stomach of one victim, a chainsaw which cuts one fellow's arm clean off and cuts two more poor helpless souls in half, and stabs another quite viciously with a blade). The female protagonist is Alicia(Barbara Cupisti), an actress fired from the leading role when she escaped from the building for a while to get her bruised ankle looked at(coincidently by a doctor at the psychiatric hospital;Wallace hid in the backseat of Alicia and her stagehand friend's car). They do remember a skeleton key being placed in an office desk drawer which might be their only means out of the building. Soon, the killer will have it and Alicia will have to use her brains to get out of the building or else.Director Soavi himself plays one of the cops stationed outside the building in the car supposedly to guard them from further harm..he has a novel with the photo of James Dean printed on it wondering to his partner if he resembles the Hollywood legend.Not exactly original, but a pulse-pounding gore-thriller nonetheless. Soavi was establishing himself here staying close to the genre of his predecessors. He'd later make his own path with Dellamorte Dellamore. Stagefright is very stylish with a rather silly ending that just won't quit. "},{"Title":"An escaped mental lunatic showing actors the true meaning of the word Stagefright","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I remember buying this movie 3 years ago for £5 along with the brilliant A Blade In The Dark along with the lackluster The Drom That Dripped Blood (UK titled Pranks) and the incredibly dull Drive In Massacre and I have to say I was very pleased with this one, I thought this movie was fun and cheesy.Firstly the plot a group of actors rehearsing for a what seems a bad horror like musical end up being trapped in a theatre with an escaped mental patient who was also once an actor whose hell bent on murder as they all do in these types of movies along with his weird and cheesy owl mask teaching these actors the true meaning of the word Stagefright.Although this movie is far from original well what Slasher is, but Stagefright never disappoints. Although fairly routine, a bunch of useless brainless people trapped in an enclosed area which strangely enough doesn't have any fire exits being picked off by the ruthless killer with an owl mask one by one until finally having the final showdown with the final girl. In my opinion the movie is spot on like the directing, the lighting and the music score. Some of the scenes in this movie I thought were great was the part when the killer sits on the stage surrounding himself with all his victims and when the final girl finds the key which is a few inches away from his feet and she has to go underneath the stage to get it, which I thought was really nerve racking. On a sour note, the film does sport a dumb cops parked outside filler subplot that didn't bring anything to the story except atrocious lines and failed humour. But on a whole this movie does have some faults like the acting is pretty laughable and some of they're actions in certain parts were stupid. Barbara Cupisti (Alicia) wasn't that great of an actress and the scene when she's supposed to have a sprained ankle but still manages to run away from the killer and climb up ladders, but I still rooted for her in the end and she was the best looking babe out of the bunch. David Brandon (Peter) well I thought he was a bit over the top.The best thing about this movie were defiately the deaths, the first death pickaxe in the mouth was definitely memorable, a man getting drilled through the door is just one of the highlights such as the head chopping bit, a girl getting cut in two along with some bloody stabbings.All in all this movie does have faults but if you're into Slashers that don't take themselves to seriously then try this out, it's not overlong which is a good thing, the suspense is high as is the body count. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Best Slasher Pic of the 80's---Hands Down!","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I won't budge on my opinion of this film!  It is the single best slasher film of the 80's.  No other film that I can think of created such a menacing, downright spooky atmosphere for me.   The plot revolves around a group of actors who are rehearsing for a musical that is about a serial killer.  However, the actors are unaware that a real serial killer has escaped from a near by mental hospital and has made his way to the theater by hiding in the car of one of the actresses.  The wardrobe woman is brutally murdered, causing the sleazy director to take full advantage of the publicity by locking the actors in the theatre and pushing the opening of the musical to just 2 days away!  His greed turns out to be a deadly mistake when the killer locks himself in with the cast and begins picking them off on by one in very gruesome ways.  First off, the custom that the killer wears, a giant owl (it will make sense if you see the movie) is freaky as hell!  The visions of the giant owl carrying an axe down the dark corridors of the old theatre are about as scary as anything you will see in any film.  But what is most effective about this film and what sets it high above any of the American counterparts that it was inspired by is the direction. Michael Soavi manages to create a dark, moody, and clausterphobic atmosphere that is indeed more scary and gruesome then the murders themselves.  The director really focuses on style and atmosphere, rather than making the murders the focal point of the film, like so many slasher movies from the 80's did.    The final showdown between the heroine and the killer and her search for the key to the outside creates an unprecedented tension for a slasher film. For coming so late in the 80's, this film succeeds at what other slasher released before it (Friday the 13th, Prom Night, My Bloody Valentine, Slumber Party Massacre) so desperately tried to be.  A 9.5 out of 10.  Near perfection for a slasher film.       "},{"Title":"Superior slasher","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Firstly, Stagefright Aquarius is not a giallo film. Gialli were not just Italian slashers, they were murder mysteries that owed more to Agatha Christie than Wes Craven. There is literally no mystery in this movie. The identity of the killer is never revealed and isn't even treated as a question. The movie also uses that old slasher stand-by of the inescapable location. A group of people are trapped with a masked killer and have to survive long enough to find a way out. We're not surprised when inexplicably, police park outside the place and don't even try to get in.That aside, Stagefright Aquarius is certainly a superior slasher. It's made with style, and even boasts a scene of actual suspense, which is more than I can say for all other slashers. It plays by the rules, as with a killer who you keep thinking might be dead but of course really isn't, but is just a lot better made than the typical US slasher movie. "},{"Title":"Stage Fright Aquarius 8/10","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stage Fright Aquarius is a truly remarkable artistic giallo film from Michael Soavi. The storyline, following a group working on a stage play, made a great spooky setting. This film almost seemed like an upper-scale U.S. slasher flick. I also loved some of the camera movement techniques that created weird disorienting scenes with the addition of the unsettling music score. Scenes involving the killer owl were great, just the right amount of carnage that wasn't over the top. How can I forget the girls in the movie, they are super attractive as well, all wearing skimpy outfits for their stage performance. One aspect of the film I found pretty lousy though was Pete's character. He received bad dialog and was written questionable motives. All and all, I watched the movie in one sitting and was absolutely glued to the television screen. Stage Fright Aquarius (8/10) is tense throughout and has an amazing ending that is definitely a nice cherry on top. "}{"Title":"A very satisfying thriller, visually and aurally, worth multiple viewings!","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  STAGEFRIGHT aka AQUARIUS is a very stylish chiller from Michele Soavi, whose critical reputation rests on this film and the later CEMETERY MAN. Certainly the film is derivative, and fans of this subgenre will surely comment that they have seen it all before; however, Soavi, like his mentor Dario Argento, is astute when he chooses the likes of ENNIO MORRICONE; GOBLIN, and now SIMON BOSWELL to score his films. Boswell's compositions together with the opening and end titles written by Stefano Mainetti propel the film along, and provide an aural edge to the onscreen visuals.  And if their contributions were not enough, the inspired, and uncredited use of Dmitri Shostakovich's 8th symphony, 3rd movement (allegro non troppo), reflects the imaginative touches that distinguish this film from many others. The play/film within a film works quite well, especially as the cinema is acknowledged to be the art of illusion; indeed this conceit looks ahead to the two DEMONS films, set in a cinema, where the audience are overwhelmed with illusion become reality. The acting is more than sufficient as the characters are written as types, and set up as victims, just as the heroine has a personality that sets her apart.  Her final scenes with the killer are very effective indeed; her fearfulness make her vulnerable, her vulnerability draws us to her, and in drawing us to her, we submit to the relentless onslaught the killer pursues. This is a film where the viewer/audience surely knows the outcome, but the satisfaction comes from the execution - literally - of the route that the filmmaker takes. I now have this film on a budget UK DVD which reveals little - I am playing it back on a 169 TV, and am very pleased with the quality of the sound (mono) and the visuals, plus some of the unusual, though rare basic extras. "},{"Title":"I don't like slasher films, but I loved this.","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film is a great example of how a director (usually an Italian director) can take a simplistic horror formula and create something novel, surreal, unsettling and lasting out of it.It's a bloodthirsty slasher film whose scope is limited to one location, a theatre.  The place is empty except for actors going through rehearsals... oh, yeah, and a psychotic killer escaped from the local mental hospital.As one of the various titles suggest, he's in a bird costume.  An owl costume, to be specific.  This could seem ridiculous to you until you actually watch the film... instead it's kind of hallucinatory.If you want to see a horror film where someone dies every five or ten minutes, always in a pacy, startling and inventive way, this is your baby.If you want to see a film that plays like a non-stop bad dream rather than as film narrative, this is also your baby.  SPOILER the 10 minute sequence near the end when the last girl character wakes up to find EVERYONE ELSE'S butchered bodies littering the theatre, but no evidence of the killer, is one of my all time favourite horror sequences.  It has P.O.V. roving camera styles that would have warmed Kubrick's heart.Soavi's carried on to make other fine movies.  I'm grateful he exists now that Argento's output has started going a little... stale.  Soavi's a similar director, perhaps even on a par (at least technically), but not a copycat of his mentor.Choice film.  Thanks to Pearce for showing me his copy. "},{"Title":"Economical and stylish debut film from Michele Soavi","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stagefright is the debut film from director Michele Soavi. Before it he had been assistant director to the likes of Dario Argento and Lamberto Bava, as well as appearing as an actor in various films. He went on to contribute three other horror films over the subsequent seven years. He was effectively the premier Italian horror director in those years and his final film in this sequence, Cemetery Man, feels like the final worthwhile Italian horror film, give or take a few Argento's in the years since. For whatever reason, Soavi has never returned to the genre since, which needless to say is extremely unfortunate. Credit has to be given to exploitation director Joe D'Amato who acted as producer for Stagefright. He seems to have given Soavi free reign to make his film, so long as it met certain commercial genre specifications. The result is a stylish effort that is not so much a giallo as an Italian-style slasher.Written by notable actor Luigi Montefiori (aka George Eastman), the story is about an escaped maniac who ends up on the loose in a theatre where a horror themed musical is being rehearsed by a drama group; in true slasher style, the killer starts picking them off one by one. The events encompass one night, where the rain lashes down constantly outside. Truthfully, the story is utterly by-the-numbers and not the selling point. What makes this one good is the considerable style and freshness Soavi brings to the well-worn slasher genre. The killer wears a large owl mask and the setting is a theatre. This gives the film a somewhat over-the-top operatic aspect, which not only ties it in with Italian culture in general but also makes it a twin of sorts to Argento's giallo Opera, also released in the same year. For a debut feature, this is very assured stuff from Soavi. There's plenty of inventive camera work, nice use of colour and some very well handled tension. Of the latter, a real standout is the scene where the heroine attempts to retrieve a key from under a feather covered stage where the maniac has arranged all his victims in a grim tableaux. Its inspired moments like this one that sets Stagefright apart from standard slasher fare. But Soavi never forgets to supply the bread and butter of this genre as well; to that end there are a plethora of varied gory murders. This mix of generic material with a distinctive and stylish approach means that Stagefright remains one of the better slasher films out there. "},{"Title":"An Avant-Garde Slasher Movie","Date":"14 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I don't like slasher movies. I don't see any appeal in the formula. A psychopath goes around killing teenagers, sometimes for several days, before someone puts two and two together and realises that the murders are committed by the same killer. And they usually happen in public places like colleges, which only demonstrates the police's worthlessness. And once enough people have died to fill a feature-length movie, a sole survivor, usually a young woman, defeats the killer. And then he comes back in the sequel.I don't like slasher movies, but as a film viewer I try not to go out of my way to watch movies I'll hate. Life is too short, the movies are too many, so I only watch movies I think (hope) I'll enjoy. Stage Fright had been on my radar for a while as a rare exception that I'd probably enjoy watching, and indeed I did. In fact it's a pretty awesome horror movie, a pure cinematic experience. But before I extol its virtues, a few words about the director, Michele Soavi.Michele Soavi, Italian filmmaker, got involved in horror early in his career; before becoming a director, he worked as an assistant for several famous horror directors Lamberto Bava, Joe D'Amato and the great Dario Argento, who made Soavi his protégé. He hasn't had a prolific career and his fame rests largely on the 1994 cult movie Cemetery Man. Stage Fright was his directorial debut and it was a pretty good start.On a stormy night, a group of awful thespians, badly in need of money, rehearse a play called The Nite Owl inside a creepy theatre. Alicia, the main actress (Barbara Cupisti), hurting from a sprained ankle, sneaks out against the orders of the dictatorial Peter, the stage director (David Brandon), and goes to a mental clinic to see if they can give her something to ease the pain. There a lunatic escapes, hides in her car and follows her into the theatre. In a situation worthy of classic suspense movies, the actors unknowingly lock themselves in with the killer and then lose the key. From here on the movie follows the formula to its predictable conclusion. But Soavi, with ingenuity and unusual camera angles, turns it into a unique experience.Where to start with my love for this movie? Let's start with the play within the movie. It's about a killer in an owlhead mask killing women. It's sensationalist (victims seducing their own killer), gory and sexy, like slasher movies. But the actual movie isn't. Soavi surprisingly keeps the nudity to a minimum, moving the characters away from irresponsible horny teenagers who are punished for being teenagers to working-class people with bills to pay. By making an artistic setting integral to the plot also seems like Soavi is saying that the genre can be more ambitious without losing its identity. His mentor, Argento, had already shown a propensity for protagonists involved with the arts &#x96; musicians, novelists, etc.Next the killer is memorable. He has zero personality, he's not charismatic, he doesn't talk. But once you see him you won't forget him. He's a mixture of the creatures we see in our bizarre nightmares and mythology; dressed in an owlhead mask, we quickly forget we're watching a man and not some evil spirit beyond human reason.Although the dialogue is poor, the movie has its share of twisted, original scenes. In one of my favourites, the actors are rehearsing a scene where the owlhead killer murders one of his victims. The runaway lunatic enters the stage, dressed in the mask. Peter, thinking he's the actor, urges him to kill the victim, which he easily does, and no one realises what has just happened until a few moments later. Here the movie pokes some fun at horror fans' morbidity. I forgot to say gallows humor is part of the movie's charm too.The camera work and sound take this movie up another notch. Soavi is no Argento, but you can clearly see the latter's influence in his use of colors and the attention given to the sets and lighting (perhaps at the expanse of the actors) The movie takes most of its place inside a theatre and Soavi fills it with strange objects and films it from several angles to accentuate its strangeness. The music, mostly diegetic, is cleverly used here, sometimes by the killer to taunt his victims, and in one of the tensest scenes noise to distract him while Alicia tries to get the theatre door's key.Although it's pretty low-key, I'm prepared to say that Stage Fright uses the art of cinema better than many so-called serious movies. It may not have complex characters, emotionally-engaging stories or powerful messages, but there are many movies out there that are little more than animated novels, that prefer to do things that novels and plays can do too instead of using the uniqueness of cinema to their advantage. Stage Fright may not have a lot of food for thought but it's unmistakably a movie in love with its medium; the effect it has on the viewer comes from a clever manipulation and mixture of sound, image and movement. Many moments of awe and terror exist in this movie that couldn't be reproduced by any other medium. I can't pay a movie a finer compliment. "},{"Title":"Strong slasher debut from Soavi.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  'Stage Fright' is an impressive directorial debut from Dario Argento collaborator Michele Soavi. Like most Italian horror the plot, characters and dialogue are nothing to write home about, the movie is really an excuse for some inventive and visually striking murders. Soavi shows he has learnt a lot stylistically from Argento, and I actually enjoyed this more than many of the latters post 'Tenebre' efforts. Soavi manages to give a refreshing twist on the often tired slasher genre, which is no mean feat, and something that hasn't been able to be achieved in the post-'Scream' slasher revival. While I liked 'Stage Fright', and recommend it,  Soavi found his true voice later on with the superb zombie movie 'Dellamorte Dellamore', and the profoundly weird Satanic thriller 'The Sect' (co-written with his mentor Argento). 'Stage Fright' is above average but doesn't compare to the originality of those two. "},{"Title":"Argento's protege does a very good job in his debut.","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stagefright (1987) is a crazy film about a psychotic running amok inside a dance hall/theater. Michael Soavi takes a turn in directing a giallo style thriller. Unlike his teacher (Dario Argento) this film in really gruesome in some parts. Bloody, creepy and very edgy in some scenes. I highly recommend this picture. I was surprised by the sheer graphic nature of some of the set pieces. Unlike most films of this ilk, a couple of nice set pieces does make a movie. The student has definetly learned a lot from the teacher. Stagefright has some nice photography and very good directing from a first time film-maker.Highly recommended.A. "},{"Title":"What a slasher flick!","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was good.  It did not move very slow at all.  I showed this movie to my aunt and she loved the movie so much, that she wanted to borrow it for a whole month.  That was a good idea to have the killer in an owl suit (hilarious) because it looks like he is smiling the whole time while he is killing people (but we know he is crazy anyway).  What a gory movie!  My rating is 4 stars out of 5 stars!  A must own and easy to own on DVD now. "},{"Title":"Pretty cool","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Let me start by saying that STAGE FRIGHT is a typical Euro slasher. When we hear that, we should be able to tell what kind of film it is, masked killer (an owl for a mask..... very original!), mass killings (pretty much of a typical Italian slasher, a lot of killings and a sole survivor), and a simple plot (everyone locked inside a studio, and must find the key to freedom before Wallace gets them). The movie is indeed entertaining, filled with suspense and some comedy, and there are some pretty kool deaths too(Guy drilled through the stomach, Peter loses his arm and head......gruesome!!). Theres only one thing in the movie that I find confusing, and that is the ending....but that don't matter too much. Overall, it's a pretty cool slasher and definitely worth checking out.9/10     *******SPOILER ALERT*********** -1 for the ending, how the heck did Wallace survive after gettin' shot right between the eyes?????? "},{"Title":"The greatest of all slasher flicks","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Mm-mm, what a movie. Stage Fright (as it was called when I saw it) is easily the best slasher flick I've ever seen. It has everything stylish cinematography; mean, nasty characters you want to see die; a likable heroine you want to see survive; many different weapons for especially-gruesome death scenes; a great cheesy '80s soundtrack, courtesy of Simon Boswell; and more blood than is usually shed in these things. Michele Soavi is the best Italian horror director since Dario Argento, and he even turns in a funny cameo as a cop in this, his directorial debut (if you discount his documentary on Argento).Plus, after many disappointing, silly endings in other slasher movies, we finally get one that really delivers. Yeahhh! Watch it on a date with someone who likes chainsaws. "},{"Title":"Scary horror classic","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Michele Soavi's Stagefright (1986) is a blood-curdling film - 90 minutes during which an array of sharp, limb-severing weapons are taken to a group of actors as they struggle to rehearse for a forthcoming play. Rehearsals begin to go badly when Betty gets a pick axe in the eye but the director spots the commercial possibility of the murder and vows to crack on during the night with the aim of opening the show in three days. Outside there's the world's most useless police escort; inside there's an escaped lunatic running around in a feathered chicken head and using every DIY enthusiast's favourite tools to separate people from their limbs. This Italian horror classic &#150; also known as Deliria or Aquarius or Bloody Bird - has a truly terrifying ending and at least half a dozen points at which shutting your eyes for a few seconds seems the most attractive option. If you already get a cold shiver down your spine every time you see a psychokiller in a chicken head, this film could send you over the edge.  "}{"Title":"Fun Slasher Flick!","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  AQUARIUS, or STAGE FRIGHT is a great little Italian thriller. The film starts out as a fun chase film, but goes a few shades darker for the macabre finale. Directed by Dario Argento's protege Michele Soavi, the film is about a group of actors making a horror-musical(don't ask!). However, an infamous psychopath has escaped the confines of the local asylum. Little do they know that he is really in the building, with a storeroom full of numerous sharp implements! You can guess the rest! This film is a fantastic slasher pic with style. "},{"Title":"One of the best slashers!","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  One of the best slashers, and an impressive debut for director Soavi. A very moody photography, and stylish visual ballet. The graphic violence is very gruesome too. The score is also good, and the musical scenes are impressive. Watch out the Finnish videoversion (butchered over 4 minutes!). "},{"Title":"Actors are stalked by a madman in locked theatre","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  first time effort for italian director michaeli soavi and produced by joe d'amato's filmirage. a group of actors rehearsing a play about a nameless killer find a new name attatched to the character-irving wallace when mr wallace escapes from the local mental hospital and kills a wardrobe mistress. the director locks everybody in the theatre overnight to rehearse the play so it can be brought forward to cash in on the murder publicity. but oh wouldn't you just know it,irving wallace gets locked in too and he wants to continue his killing spree. and wouldn't you just know it-the key was hidden by his first victim. despite the apparently cliche ridden plot this film really manages to shine. it has a bit of everything-strong gore,nice music,great style and surprise surrprise,some real moments of tension and suspense. for my money this is better than any of soavi's later efforts which may be in some way due to the involvement of joe d'amato. shortly before his death joe announced a stagefright 2-a return to horror after spending a while doing nothing but his successful line of hardcore porn films. this film is well worth seeking out but sadly the only version available on dvd right now is a german release with only german audio. hopefully a company such as anchor bay will sort this out in the near future. for now seek out the tape! "},{"Title":"A great suspenseful horror / thriller!","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was expecting A LOT less of this movie before I saw it but how wrong I could have been.  10 people get locked inside a theatre along with a complete nutter who's just escaped from the local nut-house.  Cue some great scenes of suspense and violence, great soundtrack and cinematography, above average acting and a neat little twist at the end, and fans of this genre should definitely not be disappointed.It's one of those movies where everybody (almost!) get picked off one after each other and in some sick way you appreciate it for this upfront, 'everyone is dead' attitude.All in all, I give this an 8 as I really enjoyed it and if you like a good, suspenseful horror / thriller which never has a slow point throughout, then I definitely recommend you see this! "},{"Title":"Proving the Horror genre is not dead","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Released in the days when it seemed everyone was making a 'Doomed people locked inside some building' movie to be released on video, Stage Fright is the ultimate. A movie which will be enjoyed more if not to be taken too seriously. This low budget movie made the best of its resources. Still enjoyable 12 years on - A prime example of how an 80's Horror movie should be. "},{"Title":"Really stylish work from Sovai.","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" (Credit IMDb) A troupe of struggling stage actors is rehearsing for a small-town production of a play. Everything seems to be as it should until one of the cast members turns up dead. In a panic, the others try to get out, only to find they are now locked in the theater with the killer! Which one of them committed the murder, and who will get out alive?I was really impressed by this one. This feels like something Dario Argento would do, but i'm not surprised. There is suspense galore in this one, with some truly impressive death scenes, full of gore. The killer himself is wild-looking. He has a giant owl head for a mask, how cool is that? This isn't a true Giallo, it's more along the lines of a slasher. Even so, the genre had become stagnant at this juncture. This movie is criminally unheralded for a time where the slasher genre was dying8.3/10 "},{"Title":"Still one of my favourite Foreign films!","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If you have seen this, great that you did, if you haven't seen this read this before you make snappy decisions. The plot is one that is straight-forward but has nice moments, a group of nine people trapped in a theatre due to unforeseen circumstances with Irving Wallace trapped with them, dismembering each of them one by one. Gore hounds will like this, Thrills a plenty, Great use of colour and musical score, as seen in Dario Argento's Suspiria, Tenebrae and Opera. Dubbing as quite good for a low budget foreign film since they did run into huge budgetary problems with post production. Make sure you get the Anchor Bay release as this is the uncut form, everything else is cut if i am correct. Australians, watch the cut Video release then compare with Anchor Bay DVD. Michele Soavi has done one polished film to remember for ages to come and i mean AGES! Rated R18+ (cut AND uncut) for Language, Violence and Gore "},{"Title":"OMG I love this film!","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I finally got my hands on this after 6+ years of wanting to see this film and wow, I was not disappointed. What a great piece of 80's horror. I love 80's-Italian horror like Demons and was hoping this would be about the same. WRONG! It was better! Some of the story had loopholes the size of Mars and some of the acting was sub-par (um, HELLO? Veteran horror actor John Morghen as a total flaming queer?) but it still wasn't enough to make me stop watching. The murder sequences in this film are some I wouldn't have expected and though the gore factor isn't all that much, the atmosphere is really great. If you're a horror fan, you need to add this one to your collection. You will not be sorry at all. "},{"Title":"Pretty good for a movie about a killer who wears a giant owl head mask.","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  (*** out of *****)Dario Argento understudy Michele Soavi's first film is a slasher gorefest about an escaped mental patient who locks himself up in a theatre with a group of actors rehearsing overnight for an avant-garde musical based on the very same serial killer who's stalking them.  The killer wears an oversized owl mask that, at first, looks kinda ridiculous, but, curiously, as the story progresses, starts to look creepier and creepier.  Other than some really violent murders, the first half is pretty standard -- you got your attractive and likable characters, your attractive and unlikable characters, and you even got your unattractive AND unlikable characters who you wouldn't mind seeing get offed early on.  But, Soavi shows some touches of style and direction in the second half (which he would go on to exhibit even further in Cemetary Man), and the suspense and gore is cranked up a few notches.  This was made the same year as Argento's Opera and, in terms of setting and tone, is similar in some ways.  Opera is much better in my opinion, but this ambitious little slasher flick is a good start for Soavi.HIGHLIGHT  Trapped underneath the stage, heroine Alicia (Barbara Cupisti -- also in Opera) has to work the key to the front door loose from a floor board directly underneath the unsuspecting killer's feet. "},{"Title":"Simply excellent","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This blending of Italian giallo and American slasher by the probably best Italian horror director besides Dario Argento is - without any doubt - one of the best suspense thrillers ever made. Although the story itself doesn't deliver anything really new, the movie is highly original, mostly thanks to Michele Soavi's slick direction and the beautiful camerawork. Simon Boswell's haunting score adds to the tension, and the murder scenes are very convincing. The most beautiful thing in the movie is the killer's mask a wonderful owl's head. Extremely stylish and always delivering thrills and surprises, no one should miss this one. By the way there are two versions of the film; a gorier one and a tamer one (that means that in the latter version, the murder scenes are shot less explicit than in the former version - so it's not about censorship, it's about marketing). Both versions are cool, but horror buffs should stick to the gorier version. 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A pleasingly gory, garish and nasty Italian horror slasher winner","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A bunch of actors and actresses are rehearsing a macabre rock opera about a notorious mass murderer in a huge theater. The group find themselves in tremendous jeopardy when the crazed killer escapes from a nearby sanitarium, sneaks into the theater, and gets locked inside the place along with everyone else by the play's director. Michele Soavi's stylish and assured direction makes the most out of George Eastman's familiar, but effective script Soavi keeps the pace quick and steady throughout, builds plenty of tension (the last third in particular is truly nerve-wracking), creates an appropriately mean and gritty no-nonsense tone, and stages the gruesome and brutal murder set pieces with real skill and flair. The jolting outbursts of unflinching savage violence pack a very strong wallop; grisly highlights include a pickax to the mouth, a drill through the chest, a woman getting cut in half, and a decapitation with an ax. The cast all contribute solid performances, with especially praiseworthy work by David Brandon as stern, demanding taskmaster director Peter, Giovanni Lombardo Radice as whiny homosexual Brett, Barbara Cupisto as sweet, plucky dancer Alicia, Robert Gligorov as the sensitive Danny, Mary Sellers as the slutty Laurel, Piero Vida as antsy investor Ferrari, and Jo Ann Amith as the fragile, pregnant Sybil. Although the plot features all the usual slice'n'dice clichés (the whole thing transpires on your standard dark'n'stormy night, the killer hides in the back seat of a car, the phone lines get cut, even the he ain't dead yet! surprise shock conclusion), Soavi's slick and energetic execution, Renato Tafuri's fluid, dazzling cinematography, and Simon Boswell's groovy, pulsating, syncopated score all compensate for the basic dearth of originality. A neat and impressive body count picture. "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of ****...A unique and off the wall classic!!!","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Thank you Michele Soavi!!! Regardless of lot's of people's negative reviews of this movie...there still is interest and I'm one of them!...I love this movie!!! Sure the plot ain't nothing spectacular and the acting is so bad it's bad (main reasons it gets ***1/2 instead of ****) but unpredictable deaths, consistent pace, effective Simon Boswell score(Demons 2), awe inspiring Direction, and a LAUGH RIOT ending sure make up for those two flaws.I really liked Michele Soavis fish in an aquarium approach to the film. The whole idea of getting trapped in a small building without a clue where the key is was freaking nerve wracking!!!...Let's just say that my first film is definitely going to be inspired by this bad boy and it's great set up.The direction in this movie is the main reason for seeing this. I mean..the predictable plot could have really been done wrong thus leaving a pretty awful movie...but not Mr. Soavi!!...So much creative angles, great use of color, and so much artsy imagery you'l forget your watching a slasher..it's rare that you would get a flick that has a bunch of ANNOYING morons getting offed one by one by a psycho while they look for a key and to have the whole direction feel ARGENTO/KUBRICK/HITCHCOCK inspired aura coming from it. NICE!!! So many scenes to love in this movie...The nurse feeding the fish...the scene where you can see the killer Irving Wallace run across the screen in the distance in the pouring rain...the stalk sequence with the SNOBBY actress in the wardrobe room...the infamous Directing the REAL killer scene...the scene with Irving Wallce finding all the power tools...the scene where the film's Heroine wakes up and looks for everyone (very Kubrick Inspired)...and last but not least THe Getting the key scene..that's all I'll say ...WOW!...very effective.THe kills are also very impressionable. The flick starts on the right foot by the first victim getting a ice pick in the mouth...which is followed by bloody stabbings, stomachs getting drilled, pregnant chick gets cut in half, chainsaw action, impaling's, and some Axe fun. All the kills are done with brutal and unapologetic fun...I almost felt bad for these morons (I said Almost)...the scene where the killer stabs the actress on stage is a rare treat and the whole set up for the Shower scene is very creepy and nerve wracking..you know a horror flick is doing something right when there's suspense and you DON'T GIVE A DAMN ABOUT THE CHARACTERS!!!...YIPPEE!!! THe mask is also a fine choice. Makes the Shapes mask look like FREd Flinstone. I LOVED THE OWL!!! Some pet peeves are the characters (SHUT UP ALL READY), some major plot points that obviously don't have LOGIC in there purpose, and NOT ONE hot chick...come on.But overall...it's a great slasher!!! ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"This one scared the cr*p outta me as a child","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stagefright is the horror movie I remember most during my adolescent years, and it freaked me out!!!There is an extremely high level of violence with Soavi showing in graphic detail power drills being shoved through bodies, severed torsos and the like - all of which initially serves to give the impression that Soavi is a director without any style, just a penchant for ultra-violent dispatch. However there are also a number of occasions where Soavi demonstrates considerably more style - particularly in moments that he blends the suspense with the illusion of the stage, like one sequence where the director directs the killer in the play how to kill an actress unaware that he is directing the killer who really is killing the actress. And once Soavi has gotten his string of victims out of the way he develops the film into a vividly drawn-out series of suspense sequences - in one scene the heroine is hiding in a shower cubicle as a friend is stabbed by the killer in the adjoining cubicle and she must do all she can to stop her friend crying out for help and giving her presence away; or where a cat trips a fan blowing away a pile of feathers revealing the key embedded in the cracks of the stage and the heroine's suspenseful crawl under the stage to try and get it while the killer sits directly above.Go buy a tub of popcorn and a pepsi, this movie is great. "},{"Title":"Arguably one of the best horror movies ever made.","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Rehearsals are in progress for a new play when,nearby,a crazy ex-actor escapes from the asylum.He enters the theater,and the actors start showing up dead.Michele Soavi's Deliria surely belongs to my list of all time favourite horror films.This extremely violent and stylish slasher is actually one of the most intense movies ever made.The gore is pretty extreme with Soavi showing in graphic detail power drills being shoved through bodies,bloody axe decapitations,severed torsos etc.Still,the film is incredibly suspenseful with some striking visuals.Soavi perfectly blends the suspense with the illusion of the stage,like one sequence where the director directs the killer in the play how to kill an actress unaware that he is directing the killer who really is killing the actress.10 out of 10.If you liked this one check out also obscure British slasher The Flesh and Blood Show(1972),which always reminds me Deliria! "},{"Title":"Beats Friday the 13th.","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I bought this movie after I've read all the good reviews on it, and must say that I did a pretty good deal. This movie is clearly one of the most atmospheric and scary slashers I've stumbled across. The killer is dressed as an owl, sounds ridiculous but it's pretty scary really. The characters are all pretty dreadful and you want many of them to die, which they of course also do. The settings are great, the big, old theater is an excellent backdrop for many pretty gruesome murders, which includes drills, chainsaws and some other goodies. This movie is pretty grim when it comes down to kill off the cast, so it might put some people off, but hey, it's ultimately their loss anyway. Overall a good slasher which probably deserves more attention than it has gotten.7/10 "},{"Title":"Superb, excellent, brilliant, astounding etc....","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A madman with an owl mask ridding the world of a few actors in bloody fashion. That's a way to sum up the story behind one of the best slasher movies ever. While the film is hardly groundbreaking story wise it more than makes up for it by delivering on all other levels. It's tense beyond belief, it's sufficiently gory and decently acted (and what's more, reasonably well dubbed). Soavi's directing is superb. He creates fantastic visuals by brilliant use of lighting and camera angles. Some particular scenes here are one of the best ever in a slasher film, such as Corrine's murder scene, one of the most unnerving scenes I've ever watched. Unbearably tense, stylish and with beautiful music playing in the background, well, it just gives me the creeps. In fact, the whole music score is excellent.I can't recommend this movie enough. If you're a fan of slasher films, or just horror films in general, this movie is mandatory viewing. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror movies.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  An amazing movie, perfect script, outstanding music and scenario.One of the best pure horror movies. Michele Soavi at his best. I go to see again the film. Take care! "},{"Title":"Scary,Magical,and Oblivious","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I saw this movie at a local video store I thought it would be nothing but a gore fest and yes I well say it is. But it is more then just that this movie is top notch edge of your seat thriller and though it may be a little colorful bloodwise that is it will still give you a run for your money.Plot 10 people are locked inside of a theatre with a madman and must work together to survive.Suspense 5.7 Violence 8.6 Nudity 1.0Bodycount 10 High points 3Overall Rating 6.9Pretty Good for a movie whose box cover says not for the squeamish "},{"Title":"Great, despite awkward writing, dubbing & acting...","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A troupe of struggling stage actors is rehearsing for a small-town production of a play. Everything seems to be as it should until one of the cast members turns up dead. In a panic, the others try to get out, only to find they are now locked in the theater with the killer! Which one of them committed the murder, and who will get out alive? Michele Soavi's Stage fright is a great, great horror film! Still Soavi's best film to date in my opinion. Sure the plot is crap and the dubbing, writing and acting are also really bad, but hey, the same could be said for lots of great horror films (Evil dead, anyone?). The characters are poorly developed to the point at which I didn't care who died and who didn't. This hurt the film, but only to a certain extent. The atmosphere Soavi builds is really genuinely claustrophobic and haunting, the death scenes are creative and gory, as usual Saovi's direction and taste for wild camera angles is present and quite appealing to fans of his work. Also check out his other genre pictures, especially Cemetery man, he's a director to look out for and I really enjoy his work. My rating for Stage Fright&#151;8.5/10. "},{"Title":"A troupe of stage actors is rehearsing when takes place  a criminal spree against  cast members","Date":"19 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The flick deals with a theatre of death in which a maniacal serial killer attempts to cover his trail by joining the cast (David Brandon , Barbara Cupisti , Mary Sellers , among others) of a play about mass murder . There happens several bloody murders and gruesome executions . A troupe of struggling cast members is rehearsing for a small-town production of a play. Everything seems to be as it should until one of the stage actors appears dead. In a panic, the others attempt to get out, only to find they are now locked in the theater with the murderous. As the other players soon have more to worry about than remembering their lines . Michele Soavi's first great success is compellingly directed with startling visual content . This frightening movie is plenty of thrills, chills, high body-count and glimmer color in lurid pastel with phenomenal results . This is a classic slasher where the intrigue, tension, suspense appear threatening and lurking in every room, corridors and stage interior and exterior . Interesting screenplay was written by 'Lew Cooper', one of numerous pseudonyms that writer/actor George Eastman uses , in actuality Eastman's real name is Luigi Montefiore . The thrilling of the story is to find out which one of them committed the murder, and who will get out alive.The movie belongs to Italian Giallo genre , Mario Bava (¨Planet of vampires¨, ¨House of exorcism¨) along with Riccardo Freda (¨Secret of Dr. Hitchcock¨ , ¨Il Vampiri¨) are the fundamental creators . These Giallo movies are characterized by usual zooms and utilization of images-shock with magenta shades of ochre and overblown use of color in shining red blood , translucently pale turquoises and deep orange-red . Later on , there appears Dario Argento (¨Deep red¨, ¨Suspiria¨,¨Inferno¨), another essential filmmaker of classic Latino terror films and finally Michele Soavi . Soavi was given a chance as an assistant director by director Aristide Massaccesi (aka Joe D'Amato). In their first film, Soavi acted in an uncredited part, and was the assistant director. Over four more films with Massaccesi, Soavi served as a bit part actor, screenwriter and personal assistant . As Soavi, wanting to get on his own, turned to his previous mentor Aristide Massaccesi to show off his work where the filmmaker offered Soavi a chance to direct his first movie, and finally made this ¨Aquarius¨ or ¨Stagefright¨(1987) , produced by the prolific Joe D'Amato , a typical low-grade terror , even his his second big film project called La Chiesa (1988) had a budget three to four times the budget of ¨Stagefright¨ , with Argento as the producer . Although ¨Aquarius¨ was a box-office flop in Italy, it was a success abroad . Despite the low budget , equivalent to under $1 million U.S. dollars, and low-production values, the picture turns out to be a passable slasher , including some exciting surprises . This genuinely mysterious story is well photographed by Tafuri, though being necessary a right remastering . Furthermore , includes a poor editing involving the soundtrack by means of synthesizer , however resulting to be sometimes atmospheric and frightening musical score composed by Simon Boswell, among others . The motion picture was well directed by Michael Soavi , remembered to this day as one of the many masters of Italian Horror cinema as a director, screenwriter, actor, and assistant director. Soavi first met writer/director Dario Argento in 1979 where the director took Soavi under his wing after learning of their same tastes with film making. Argento made Soavi the second assistant director for the movie Tenebre (1982) with Lamberto Bava as the first assistant director. Pleased with his work, Bava hired Soavi as his assistant director for the mystery-thriller A Blade in the Dark (1983) with Soavi in a supporting role. Afterwards, Argento brought back Soavi to work as his assistant director in Phenomena (1985) with Soavi acting in a small role. Argento rewarded Soavi by giving him his first assignment as director of a music video The Valley featuring music by Bill Wyman for the movie Phenomena, plus as director for a documentary on Argento's films. Soavi worked again for Lamberto Bava as assistant director in Demoni (1985) in which Soavi also appeared. Soavi began to look elsewhere for work where he was hired as an assistant director and cameraman for British actor/director Terry Gilliam with The Adventures of Baron Munchausen (1988). With new skills, Soavi returned to Argento as a supervisor for special effects in Ópera (1987) where Argento offered him to direct another film, a horror flick titled La Chiesa (1988) and filmed on location in Budapest . The international success of The Church inspired Soavi to direct another film, The Sect (1990). Soavi worked on a number of screenplays, and directed the horror-comedy Cemetery Man (1994) which was a huge hit in the USA. Afterwards, Soavi took a break from working to spend time with his wife and family. Recently, he returned to filmmaking with two made-for-Italian-TV dramas . Aquarius rating  Good, this is an imaginative and acceptable picture in which the camera stalks in sinister style throughout a story with magnificent visual skills. "}{"Title":"Mediocre, but not a complete waste","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film is one of Michael Souvi's first ventures in being the director. To say the least, Souvi has had some high points in his film making career. He's worked with Italian horror Maestro Dario Argento and American director Terry Gilliam (both of whom I have high respect for) as a second unit director and directed the morbidly funny Cemetary Man. Having seen some of Souvi's work, I had some higher expectations for this film. I was disappointed with this film. A brief synopsis of the plot should clarify some of why I was disappointed.It starts with a theater company preparing for a slasher/musical. The cast has most of your stereotypical theater types; the bad actress trying to steal her way into a better role however she can, the slime-ball director who would sell his mother to make money, the horny producer, the homosexual leading man, etc. Alicia (the nice girl, down on her luck) has the wardrobe girl take her to a mental hospital (it's the closest hospital) to get her ankle fixed. They inadvertently bring a psychotic killer back to the theater. As expected, the killer starts hacking his way through the cast while wearing an owl mask.The plot is pretty simple, and it's not too hard to determine who will get the chop next. The acting was moderate (some were better than others) and the music stank (then again, it was the 1980s). Some of the camera work was pretty well done. The finished product definitely was of professional grade, but the movie still seemed to lack something. I didn't really dislike it, but was not overly impressed either. From what I understand, director Michael Souvi didn't like the Italian version of this film. If it had the problems that I saw in the American version, I can see why.For people who enjoy slasher movies, but don't want any extreme suspense. "},{"Title":"Unremarkable horror flick","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I saw this years ago on VHS as a kid and didn't think it was too bad. Maybe this is just too dated for me now or I remembered it differently but the version I saw recently was a special edition with extra footage and in high definition and I couldn't be any more unimpressed. A deranged psycho and mass murderer manages to escape from an asylum by killing a member of staff and makes his way towards a actors studio. That right there is the first plot hole with this, if this guy is so deranged and psychotic, why would he only be serviced by one unarmed, wafer thin orderly and be able to make his way out before the alarm is raised? Several actors who are putting on a stage play about a mass murderer are required to stay late and work on various scenes and they are not able to leave until the director is satisfied. So at the directors request, the studio is locked up and the key is hidden. The recently escaped psycho manages to get locked in with them.From then on it's just a stock standard stalk and slash fare where the killer has typically anticipated every move and manages to be in every place the victims are, even though he's never been there before and is deranged. He never makes a mistake, a whole group of people never manage to gain the upper hand and the local police are all bungling idiots. I'm cringing watching these people stumble from one stupid death scene to the next. In savage irony one of the first who gets killed is also the one who was responsible for hiding the key. Despite all the gory death scenes I was simply bored to death in this. Plus it takes far too long for it to get going. With all of the bickering and bitching going on whilst on and off the set, I'm actually wishing for all these academy award hopefuls to die horribly, so when they do, it's no great loss.There are a few moments in this of genuine tension but they just didn't redeem the movie enough to drag this into a realm of interest.I guess for fans of eighties horror this would be a must see and a must own but for someone with just idle curiosity, borrow it or rent it only. "},{"Title":"debt bomb how lending imperils the world","Date":"24 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Michele Soavi's directorial debut is about what you'd expect a psycho killer targets a group of people in a theater. As often happens with Euro-horror, Deliria has multiple titles in English (Stage Fright and StageFright Aquarius). There's no shortage of gory scenes. Basically, it's what everyone hopes to see in a giallo movie.However, one scene really stuck out. The surviving woman is looking for a weapon. While rummaging through a drawer she brushes aside an issue of Time magazine. The cover story is about how excessive lending will cause debt. Well, we all saw what resulted from lending money to people who weren't creditworthy in the early 2000s. The US and Europe remain stuck with high unemployment and practically no politicians seem to have any ambition to do anything to mitigate the problem.OK, so that's not really related to the movie. I just like to see if I can say anything extra about the movie. It's a pretty fun flick. Interestingly, Mickey Knox (the cop) also appeared in The Godfather Part III. Oliver Stone named Woody Harrelson's character in Natural Born Killers after him. "},{"Title":"Oh the Drama&#x85;Again!","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Not to be confused with Alfred Hitchcock's 1950 crime drama (entitled Stage Fright), StageFright Aquarius is a product made possible by Italian director Michele Soavi. The name may sound unfamiliar to the majority of you; he worked as a director and producer on 1994's Cemetery Man and served as an actor for films such as in Paura nella città dei morti viventi (Gates of Hell from 1980) and Lo squartatore di New York (The New York Ripper from 1982) &#x96; both of which were directed by the master of horror Lucio Fulci. Soavi also had the privilege of working with Dario Argento; in 1982 he served as an assistant director in the infamous giallo Tenebre. Three years later he would appear not only as an actor but also a Second Unit Director once more in Phenomena and Dèmoni. StageFright Aquarius is the result of a man who has worked closely with the forerunners of Italian horror.The story opens with a dramatic theatre scene that's cut short by the play's director, Brandon. After he thoroughly berates the production's leading lady, Alicia, she secretly leaves the building to have a doctor treat her sprained ankle. Alicia, paired with her with fellow theatre companion Betty, have no choice but to seek help from the local mental hospital in order to receive treatment. There, they happen-across a dark room that houses a mentally disturbed patient. They learn of the man's back-story; Irving Wallace, an ex-actor turned criminally insane.After their return to the theatre, Brandon notices that Alicia was absent and promptly fires her. Her dismissal results in a grisly discovery in the parking lot &#x96; Betty, who was just moments behind her before entering the building, is now dead. The death requires the involvement of the police and two men are stationed outside of the theatre. At the request of the production's director, the key to the facility is hidden and everyone is forced to rehearse new material &#x96; unfortunately the key holder is butchered and the thespians inside are trapped and forced to deal with a maniac on the prowl.The sets and imagery portrayed in StageFright Aquarius are slightly reminiscent to the final portion of 1983's Curtains. The dark, quiet- as-a-church theatre provides an eerie setting that does an excellent job of elevating the mood. Some of the more successful Slasher films have focused on this aspect. Slasher films have the on-going issue of predictability, and while that's part of the charm and silliness, emphasizing the film's surroundings is crucial in setting it apart from the rest of the pack. The premise, and more importantly the outcome, may play out too clichéd to help capture the fancy of casual fans. Regardless of Michele Soavi's close ties with Italian horror, one shouldn't expect any sleaziness or exploitative themes expressed within. This serves as a surprise to me since Joe D'Amato (director of Anthropophagus and Ross sangue) was the producer of StageFright Aquarius. Thankfully the apple falls far, far away from the tree on this one. For those of you who haven't pieced this part of the puzzle together, I haven't made it a secret that I highly disapprove of D'Amato's work and think his films are garbage. When I noticed that he was attributed to this film, it filled me with extreme worry. StageFright Aquarius may fall under the Category B Slasher formula group of individuals are terrorized by an unknown/anonymous killer, one person is left intact, and a quirky ending leaves you raising your eyebrow. The characters, rather than team-up and face the lone-psycho, run away in fear and frantically pound on the tightly shut doors of the complex. When they do finally render the decision to fight back, they do so foolishly. This small detail has plagued the genre since its transference to film; a character's lack of intelligence has to exist in order to stretch out a film's run-time. Perhaps this is why the horror genre remains a target in the eyes of a critic &#x96; nuances are common in other genres of film but viewers become especially fed-up and insulted by a character's cowardice and stupidity when avoiding danger. StageFright adheres to this common problem and rather than steer clear of it, embraces it fully. Soavi has stated that the ending of the film was a homage to the typical Slasher finale. In my opinion, his endeavor as a whole is a tribute &#x96; because of this, I cannot find it within myself to express a harsh opinion on his efforts.In closing, StageFright is a comprehensive piece that won't go above and beyond your expectations. It's better than most low-budget Slashers but when you look at the competition, it doesn't say much. The acting and soundtrack especially are above average. The gore-factor is well executed too, and for 1987, quite plausible. If you're able to handle a theme that plays out rather commonly, it's worth a look. While I would mark this one as mediocre, upon further consideration, I wouldn't mind adding this one to my collection. It's not perfect by any stretch of the imagination but it does have an air of panache that's difficult to ignore. "},{"Title":"So-so slasher","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A friend recommended this horror film, swearing it was one of the best by Italian director Michele Soavi. Well, in all respect to my friend, if this is the best, I'd hate to see the worst. Now this isn't the worst piece of gore I've ever seen, but it certainly does not hold a candle (or hatchet or machete, etc.) to the horror classic of the 20th century. The kills are not that spectacular, the gore is not that gory and the surprises are not that surprising. What's most puzzling in the film is why anyone would put on - or go to see - the erotic play they were staging. The murdering in the movie is really the acting. Poor dialogue, characters you really don't care about and 80's music edited so horribly you'll wince at that alone. The Owl headpiece is interesting - and I can see how that can be frightening - but the ripping off of a costume for a killer's shocking appearance is no less straight thievery from how Jason got his hockey mask. Rent it cheap, just don't buy it. "},{"Title":"Saying this is highly overrated is an understatement.","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" NEW OPINION I just rewatched my copy of this movie, and it struck me that I had originally watched the thing with a mind biased by preconceived expectations. The second time around, I realized that this film, though definitely flawed, is still quite enjoyable. My mistake was watching it in the midst of an Argento kick. For one thing, Stagefright (Deleria) is not a giallo, but a slasher flick. Just knowing that makes a world of difference. Second, for someone with little exposure to Italian horror cinema (like my viewing companion the 2nd time around) this movie might across as a bit more shocking and impactful than it does to someone who has already experienced several works by Argento, Bava, Fulci, and others. All in all, I raised my rating 2 points, and can recommend this as an enjoyable (if you enjoy brutal murders,terrible dancing, and occasional lapses in plausibility) viewing experience. I am including my old review though, because I still stand by it to a good degree (Though maybe I am softening in my old age)OLD OPINIONI held high expectations as I sat down to view this film. I am a tremendous fan of Dario Argento, and I really enjoyed Soavi's other films Dellamorte Dellamore (I even liked The Church). This film though, just plain stunk. The famous atmosphere of the Italian Giallo genre was only scarcely present, along with any real scares. The tension from the suspense was so thick you you could cut it with a limp carrot. Not only that, the deaths were not only ridiculously implausible, but also poorly realized, with shoddy effects. If you are in the mood for a stylish slasher flick, get something by Argento, or one of the Bava's. Hell, get anything with an Italian director except this. But don't judge this director by this one piece of garbage, his latter work is very very enjoyable, just avoid this one. "},{"Title":"Not as good as you might expect!","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Despite all the positive reviews here, and being a fan of SOME slasher and giallo films, I found this to be a bit boring and poorly executed.In a particularly ridiculous scene early on in the film we are introduced to the killer when a couple of the actresses from the theatre production go to a mental institution to see a doctor as one of them has hurt their ankle (!). By pure coincidence a mental guy breaks free from his shackles, murders a warden and somehow manages to escape trouble free into the back of the car the actresses came in (!).In this type of film it's unfortunate for the audience to know who the killer is immediately as often that is half the fun. The fact that the killer decides to don a rather spooky owl mask for the rest of the film, and with the claustrophobic setting of the theatre that the group were locked in, it would have been a lot more fun to play 'guess the killer'.The death scenes were OK by slasher standard but not really worth noting. Apart from a struggle between one of the actors and the murderer, and the girl they are fighting over gets torn in half! Although this happens off-screen, it is amusing when the guy falls over and the top-half of the girl lands on him.There is pretty poor acting throughout and none of the characters were worth caring for. In fact, character development is so insignificant in this film that I didn't even realise the 'main character' was the main character until the end when she survived. This was also a rather ridiculous scene as the caretaker somehow manages to shoot the killer between the eyes despite being at an angle that from which it would have been impossible to do so, then (perhaps preparing for a sequel?) the killer wakes up! After being shot through the head! Very stupid.Two scenes stuck in my mind. One was where a girl was was acting out being murdered as part of the theatre show, then as she is repeatedly stabbed it cuts to various members of the group as they realise she Really IS being murdered. You really got the sense that they didn't know what to do next. The second was a nice shot where the killer sat exhaustedly on stage between his victims as feathers blew around the theatre and an excellent piece of music played along. Apart from that, this film can pretty much be disregarded! "},{"Title":"Tired, very tired","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"     I'm not sure if I missed something, or if the lousy condition of the video I rented or the fact that it was not widescreen is to blame, but, in my opinion, this film was very tired.  The plot, which revolves around a ridiculous murderer musical's cast being stalked by a mad killer is almost non-existant.  Basically-madman escapes, madman stalks isolated group of people, madman kills them (with various handy household items), actors try to escape/fight back, final girl finds the bodies of everyone, manages to survive, and comes face to face with a shocking twist ending.  Sound familiar?  Maybe because that's the same formula most slashers have followed since Halloween. The film does keep one of the things I like about Halloween-that the killer does not have a reason, and you know who he is the whole time.  But the shock ending really doesn't measure up.      Now, I know what you're saying-Doc, we don't watch *slasher* films for the plot.  Well, if you in it just for the gore, this movie is for you.  If you're in it for the familiarity, this will do, mostly.  In my opinion, and remember, we're talking junky old pan and scan video tape here, this movie lacks style, a semblance of acting, decent sets, decent props, likeable/semi-realistic (i.e. way to much who the hell would do that?) characters and the ending is just ludicrous.        So, next you tell me, The director's *playing* with the genre's conventions, The movie is deliberately surreal, blending fantasy and reality or It's a spoof.  Well, I didn't find it amusing as a spoof, the new spins on the formula didn't work, and the blending was just lame. "},{"Title":"One of the last greatest horror films...ever","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The plot goes as this--A group of young actors and dancers rehearsing a horror-musical based on the sadistic mass murders of a psychotic killer, discover that stage fright can be terrifyingly fatal when the real killer joins the cast!After escaping from a nearby mental institution, the killer - a berserk ex-actor named Irving Wallace who already viciously murdered 16 people slaughters the troupe's wardrobe mistress with an axe.Seizing on the murder as an opportunity to promote his play, the fanatical director moves the opening night forward, forcing the actors to rehearse all night by locking them inside the theater.  In the mayhem that follows, the keys are lost.  The group soon realizes that Irving is among them, planning a long night of terror and carnage.Stage Fright is directed by Dario Argento protege--Michele Soavi.  Who is also known for late Eurohorror works such as The Church, The Devil's Daughter, and the overrated (IMHO) Cemetery Man.With the exception of a few, Stage Fright is probably one of the last watchable horror movies ever produced.  Soavi employs great acting, loads of atmosphere and suspense, stylish directing, a really cool musical score, and a little bit of violence and bloodshed to spicen up the proceedings.For some other great Italian gialli/slashers try--Tenebrae, Bay of Blood, A Blade in the Dark, Terror at the Opera, and New York Ripper.  "},{"Title":"What is wrong with these reviewers???","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Wow. I am not sure what I missed, but it must have been a whole movie, because the pile of trash I just sat through is far from The 80's best slasher. In fact, I would rate it among the very worst, which is saying a lot. It seems to me that a whole lot of Soavi fans have grouped up here to give this piece of junk great reviews because they like the director. Well, no matter how good Dellamorte Dellamore was later in his career, it doesn't change the fact that Stagefright (or whichever of its million titles you may have seen it under) just plain stinks. Well, thank you very much, Soavi fans, for wasting an hour and a half of my life.Honestly, there is not one single element of this movie that is even tolerable, let alone good or great. The acting is unbearably bad, even for an Italian slasher. The intro was about the slowest, cheesiest and out-of-place thing I have ever seen. I sat down to watch a horror movie, not a pathetic play rehearsal. The much-hyped gore in this movie was there, I guess, but so poorly done that it was laughable. Not to mention that the atmosphere surrounding the deaths was so bland and the characters so unresponsive that no sense of tension was present at all. The ingenious killer was pathetic. NO, the owl mask was NOT a good idea. And the soundtrack. I honestly don't know how it could have been worse. It was SO overdone that I actually muted the movie whenever the scary music came on, because I was so embarrassed for the filmmakers. I am tired, and really don't know what to say except to avoid this garbage, despite what many of the reviewers here might say. And a note to those reviewers a movie is not atmospheric just because it's Italian; a movie is not great just because the director had some other decent projects; and a mask is not ingenious and original just because no one else thought to stick a featureless pile of feathers on their killer's head.In short, an utter waste of time. 2/10.  "}{"Title":"S10 Reviews Stagefright (1987)","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Michele Soavi (Dellamorte Dellamore0 steps behind the camera for Stagefright, his directorial debut. A struggling batch of actors is rehearsing a small but artistic production. The high concept play deals with a victim seducing her would-be killer who happens to be wearing a owl headpiece. But when an assistant is murdered in the parking lot, the lecherous director is bound and determined to capitalize on the death to sell the play. Together with his actors he locks the doors and begins to rewrite not aware that the murderer, an escaped mental patient is locked inside with them.Soavi takes the reigns after being an assistant to Dario Argento and comes up with a mixed bag. 'Stagefright' tries too hard to be something Argento might have tried to do. The production is grand enough but it almost becomes a parody of a giallo. Stagefright' doesn't generate much tension, there are a few effective scenes but for the most part all you get is a slasher maniac running around in a Woodsy the Owl headpiece hunting down characters with little backstory and even less likability. "},{"Title":"A whore, your supposed to be a whore, is that too much to ask? Slightly above average 80's slasher.","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Deliria is set & starts in a theatre where actress Alicia (Barbara Cupisti) is starring in a play about a killer, on stage she hurts her ankle so the wardrobe mistress Betty (Ulrike Schwerk) drives her to the nearest psychiatric hospital (!?). There Alicia receives treatment & they both set off back to the theatre, however what they don't realise is that they are giving an unexpected guest a ride. The mass murderer & ex-actor Irving Wallace (Clain Parker) has escaped from the psychiatric hospital & is hitching a lift with the girls, back at the theatre Wallace kills Betty & the police are called but cannot find Wallace. Sensing a lot of free publicity the play's director Peter (David Brandon) locks his cast & crew into the theatre to rehearse changes to the script which will cash in on Betty's murder, unfortunately the psycho killer Wallace is also locked in with them & proceeds to bump them off one-by-one...Also known under the titles Aquarius, Bloody Bird, Sound Stage Massacre & the more common English title of Stage Fright this Italian production was the feature film debut of Michele Soavi who appears in the film as the young cop stationed in the police car all night to keep on eye on the theatre & is an OK 80's slasher that should please fans of the genre if no-one else. The script by big George Eastman under the pseudonym Lew Cooper with Sheila Goldberg credited with 'dialogue' by the IMDb takes itself very seriously while some say that Deliria is a Dario Argento type Giallo, personally I think Deliria couldn't be further from them. A traditional Giallo is a gory murder mystery where the killer is revealed in usually an absurd plot twist like Tenebre (1982) but from the 12th minute it is made perfectly clear that Irving Wallace a convicted killer is behind the murders & therefore Deliria is more of a routine 80's teen slasher like Halloween (1978) or Friday the 13th (1980) & has next to nothing in common with the complex murder mysteries that Argento served up in his hey day. I quite liked the setting for Deliria, the character's are cardboard cutouts there to be killed off, the initial plot is convoluted & silly with Alicia going to a psychiatric hospital for an injured ankle which makes zero sense & there's a bizarre, cheesy & dumb twist ending which is totally at odds with the rest of the film. Deliria is an OK way to pass 90 odd minutes if your a horror fan but others may not be so charitable with it's flaws.Director Soavi show's a little bit of style here, there are some well directed scenes with some nice cinematography & lighting. The golden days of the Italian gore film were long gone when Deliria was made & as such it wasn't as gory as I was hoping, most of the violence is off screen but someone gets a drill through their body, someone is stabbed, someone has their arm cut off & is then decapitated, someone is cut in half & are seen sliced in two & someone is killed with a chainsaw. It sounds nastier than it actually is as the camera doesn't linger on the gore. There's a decent atmosphere to it & there's some suspense & tension in there as well.With a supposed budget of about $1,000,000 Deliria is well made with good effects, some decent stunts & solid production values. Despite being an Italian production it seemed to me most of the cast spoke English & are not dubbed, the acting isn't that good Jo Ann Smith who played Sybil the screaming sissy was really annoying & I was glad when she was cut in half. In fact maybe the killer Wallace was murdering everyone because he saw them rehearse the play & discovered they were such bad actors?Deliria isn't a classic from the Italian horror genre, it's too routine & predictable for that but it ain't half bad & slasher fans should like it at least. I thought it was good but not great. "},{"Title":"the best horror/thriller of the 80's!","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was not expecting anything from this but I saw this and it scared the crap out of me.The only scary movie in the 80's but thats my opinion.If you like this you will also like Halloween,this movie is a classic starringBarbera Cupisti,David Brandon,Micky Knox,and Robert Gligorov as Danny.This movie also won the fear category in the Avoriaz Film Festival,and if your squeamish,don't see it! "},{"Title":"Been there, slayed that","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A group of down on their luck actors get stuck in a theater with a killer in an owl mask while making a musical. This is one of the lesser slasher movies that seemingly by whatever the reasons is well-loved by some aficionados. Perhaps they can see something that I can't. Maybe they can see past the tediousness of the plot, the unlikability of the characters, the fact that anyone with half a braincell can see who the killer is going to be within the first 5 minutes. Yes the Director's Dellamorte Dellamore is near brilliant, but I'm not going to let him off the hook for the crap he slung on the screen before that film.My Grade DINSTEAD of this movie watch Halloween "},{"Title":"Disappointing run-of-the-mill 80's horror pap.","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  STAGE FRIGHT (a.k.a. DELIRIA), was Michele Soavi's first big foray as a Director. He was the protege of several famous Italian horror directors who took him under their wing, such as Dario Argento, Lamberto Bava and Joe D'Amato. You'd think that someone who was blessed enough to be the understudy to these legendary directors, would have put all of that experience and knowledge to good use.Wrong. STAGE FRIGHT is a laugh-riot, but for all the wrong reasons. Sure, Bava and D'Amato weren't Oscar-winning directors, but you remembered their movies from a particular style that they made you recognize. Soavi, on the other hand, is just one big hack.I was expecting a great deal more from this film. The actors are bad (obviously rounded up at the local theater playhouse), the music is plain nasty (I could picture someone banging out the entire soundtrack on a synthesizer) and the directing is pitiful (unless you call someone who follows a length of cable along a floor with the camera, a genius).What we are given is a thread-bare plot involving a group of struggling actors who are performing some low-budget trash about a serial killer in an owl costume murdering prostitutes (the genius title of the play is called The Night Owl). One of the actresses 'twists her ankle' and seeks medical attention from where else... but a Psychiatric hospital for the criminally insane! Needless to say, someone hitches a ride back with her and all Hell breaks loose when a psychopath is locked inside the theater with everyone.The death scenes are comical, if not laughable. A woman has a pick-axe driven through her mouth, a man is hacked with an axe, two people are chopped in half with a chainsaw, a man has a drill driven through his stomach, two women are stabbed with knives... the ideas are limitless. If not for making the death scenes somewhat spectacular, Soavi could at least have given us some characters to sympathize for. Unfortunately, all of the people trapped inside the theater are a bunch of whiny, sleazy annoying creeps, that you can't wait for each and every one of them to get offed.The heroine of the film who initially 'twisted her ankle', spends half of the time knocked out after she falls off a ladder. It is in the second-half of the film where she wakes up (after everyone has been butchered) and tries to escape the theater. The killer himself never speaks. Apparently, he is an ex-actor (oh, the irony!) who went nuts by chopping up people into little pieces, remarked one woman, and is continuing his work while disguised in an owl costume. The owl costume itself is the only cool thing about the movie. It's the only thing that looks even remotely real.You won't find yourself rooting for the heroine either. She does a lot of stupid things (like in one scene, whining about how she can't move because her ankle hurts, causing several people to get butchered, but in the next scene, is apparently okay to scale ladders and scaffolding). This heroine is also very indiscreet about getting caught. She rifles through a draw looking for keys in one scene, slamming the draws and throwing things around while unnecessarily drawing attention to her whereabouts. In another scene, Soavi has her trying to retrieve a key from underneath a stage floor, the killer sitting atop unaware of her presence below. As she inches along the floor underneath, she makes the loudest noises with her scuffling shoes, you'd have thought she would have removed her shoes first before trying to achieve the key.There is really only one 'scare' scene in the whole movie, and that was when she emerges from underneath the stage floor and is surprised by the killer. Other than that, there was nothing else that made me flinch in the least.Several misleading scenes cause you to believe that something exciting may happen. For example, when the killer explores the 'maintenance room' and eyes a drill press... I had visions of someone getting their head caught in it ala DRILLER KILLER. Alas, that never happens. Also, the poster of STAGE FRIGHT depicts several screaming heads and an axe breaking through what appears to be a fish tank. Well at the beginning of the movie, there is a nurse at the Psychiatric hospital observing fish in a fish tank. I thought that would come into play somehow, like maybe the killer would push her head through it. That never happens either.In fact, my biggest question pertains to the killer and the actor that plays him. The identity of the killer given in the film is Irving Wallace, played by a Clain Parker. Following his background on IMDB, it shows that Clain Parker played the same character, Irving Wallace in a film titled Eleven Days, Eleven Nights, which was filmed in 1986, one year prior. Are these two movies connected somehow? Is STAGE FRIGHT a sequel?Finally, the climax of the film is nothing more than a small puff of smoke. We all expected one last 'scare', but to have one so pitiful as the killer not being dead (surprise, surprise) and getting shot between the eyes by the maintenance guy was just stupid. The heroine didn't even seem to care - she just went back to retrieve her gold watch (obviously that was the most important thing to her), killer gets his head blown off, she proceeds to walk out with the watch, not even flinching. What the Hell? Are we supposed to believe that she has been so desensitized to the killings that she just doesn't care anymore? Right.What a disappointing movie. Soavi went on to direct a few more stinkers including DEMONS 4 and DEMONS 5. Obviously the teachings he received from the legends lead him on to far greater things... (cue eyeball roll).My Rating - 2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Stage plight.","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I really wonder why so many users get so much excited by this mediocre horror movie.Even if we did not know Soavi was a Argento's protégé,how could we doubt when we see deliria  aka stage fright (not to be mistaken with Hitchcock's work)?This is the same show off,the same gory scenes but there is a very strong differenceArgento's best works did have A SCREENPLAY.His peak the bird with the crystal plumage had a labyrinthine story,which encompassed Hitchcock's influence (rear window psycho) but featured a very personal approach.In deliria -a tribute to suspiria,with the actors replacing the ballerinas?-,there's not even the ghost of a tale.It's the umpteenth version of the  Jason style killer,a chamber Friday the 13th(Well ... look...who's going to die know?and who'll die the worst death of them all?)The killer dressed as a giant bird might be the only touch originality although it owns a great deal to Argento.The scene with the killer on stage surrounded by his victims as feathers are falling down all over the place could fill us with enthusiasm,but it's really purely formal and displays no necessity other than gratuitous estheticism.Besides,Mario Bava had already done a similar scene in la casa dell esorcismo (1975)but this director was eventually betrayed by his producers and hios movie died commercial and artistical death.Even the ending apes Friday the thirteen and all its offsprings that throve in the wake of Jason in the eighties of course it's not over when you think it is.And even when it's over,it might not be over,well you get the picture .The performances consist of screaming (for the girls) and swearing (for the boys).The suspense scenes have been seen at least one hundred times or more by the average viewer.Stick with Argento. "},{"Title":"Worst acted and worst plot-line ever seen","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Contains spoilers!! (although you couldn't really spoil what the director and cast already did to this turkey of a movie!) Not only was this the worst acted movie I've ever seen but the plot line had so many holes in it you could have driven King Kong and his bigger brother through them without touching the sides. The cast was completely wooden (the Thunderbird puppets had more life) - of the lot, I think the guy acting the director was the worst. You would have thought he'd learned to act the morning of the shoot. So melodramatic and over the top, he was woeful. And as for the actress who was expecting a baby - I think she must have gone to the Fay Wray School of Dramatic Art, except Wray could scream better (King Kong again!) The worst part of the plot was the scene before the ending where, after our heroine had cut the electric flex and the murderer had fallen to the ground, what does she do but leave the only weapon she had, the axe, behind?!?! Whadda ladda garbage!! "},{"Title":"When will I learn not to watch these stupid films????","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  **spoilers**Normally it's my intent to only submit reviews of zombie films to IMDb, but given my user ID, when a friend suggested watching this film I couldn't refuse.My goodness I wish I had.Stagefright is an 80s slasher film (an ITALIAN 80s slasher film). And contains all the elements you would expect.Unlikeable characters? check! Terrible synth/rock music? check! Killer who comes back to be disposed of one last time? check!And don't forget that low, low budget...However, Stagefright also adds into the mix a rare dose of arty pretentiousness, and even seems to be a movie with a message...The story concerns an intellectual musical about a killer in an owlmask. When one of the stars seeks medical help for a hurt ankle at a local psychiactric hospital (good call!) she returns to the theatre with a psycho killer hiding in the back of the car. The rest pretty much writes itself.After one crew member winds up on the wrong end of a nifty pickaxe to the face gag, the director decides to change the theme of the show to be about the escaped killer. The press he reasons, love a bit of death, and that should be good publicity for the show. He doesn't stop to think that perhaps punters may be PUT OFF going to see it as there's an escaped loony hanging around outside the theatre indulging his bloodlust on anyone who happens by.Except of course, opening night will never come as the killer's still in the building, and after donning the owlmask (WHY????) sets about despatching everyone in the building.During all this, 2 policemen wait outside, unaware of the carnage taking place inside. Savour their scenes, as the banter with the cops is pretty much the only entertainment you're going to get.OK, maybe that's unfair. Some of the deaths are pleasingly gory, and the musical numbers are hilarious, but really this film is awful.The dialogue is terrible enough to have you banging your head against the wall in frustration, the characters are all annoying, and their reactions to the deaths happening RIGHT IN FRONT OF THEM are not only completely illogical, but also bafflingly slow..... v e r y s l o w...By the time the show's obnoxious director drops to his knees screaming NOOOOOOOOO!!! at the site of another victim, you'll know exactly how he feels. (Mind you any film that actually has a character do this is worth seeing at least once)At the end, when only one of the cast is alive (more by luck than heroism, as she happens to be unconscious while everyone else is getting chopped up), the killer - who despite being a mentally damaged murderer has an immediate knowledge of how to use all the theaters lighting and sound equipment - takes time to deck the stage out with a grim tableaux of body parts and mannequins, then sits among it to admire his handiwork (whilst stroking a cat and wearing the owlmask!).Could the film be intended as a searing indictment of the media's exploitation of violence for profit?Who cares! What's more important is that the ending of Stagefright is one of the most cack-handed and inept pieces of film-making I've ever seen.In fact, this whole film is rubbish from beginning to end, not without it's amusement, but as a whole, it's incoherent, pretentious, pompous, stupid and doesn't even have a decent pay-off.So bad in fact, that I may have to change my user name...  "}]