[{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well, if you're a James Woods fan (which to me is the real reason to rent this) then you will love him in this movie. I haven't read the novel but I liked both this movie & Ellroy's L.A. Confidential. It is rare indeed to take a novel & translate it to the screen without losing something. Perhaps I'm lucky because I never read either novel before seeing the film.One of the reasons I watch this movie over & over again is that it IS funny yet disturbingly dark at times. In one scene where Woods is trying to get laid by an uptight bisexual poetess, you can just see the boredom & apathy on his face as she drones on & on about her  knight in shining armor. This ties in with an opening scene when he's trying to convince his soon to be estranged wife that it's better NOT to delude their daughter with fairy tales that is just AWESOME writing. I cannot paraphrase it all, but he basically says that innocence kills. The idea that some man will come along to make it perfect is what kills deluded women. Which ties into the story because he ends up on a case that turns out to be a serial killer who specializes in killing innocent women.There are some parts that are slow but over all this movie is well paced w/great actors and great acting. This movie is just as gripping as Training Day, just less well known. Either way, give it a try, you won't be disappointed if you like James Woods.  "},{"Title":"A great Friday night matinee...","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Extremely entertaining film about a cop (Woods) who tries to hunt down a criminal who is murdering women downtown in an apparently random order. I saw this on AMC one Friday night, very late, and I was blown away. Great acting, particularly by James Woods, and just a very fine film with a good fade-to-black ending.It's sort of dumb and predictable sometimes, but it's one of the best endings I can remember in recent years.4/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"The old high school","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Lloyd Hopkins is an L.A. police detective that loves to take chances in his pursuit of an assassin who he believes is responsible for a crime wave in which women are murdered in a horrible manner. Right at the start, we follow Hopkins into an apartment where the last victim has been killed. He discovers a lead in the local newspaper personal ads and in a book of poetry.Hopkins family life suffers from his long hours and a wife that doesn't want him to talk to his eight year old daughter about some of the cases he has covered. When she leaves him, Hopkins stays put because he is married to a job that consumes him. In the course of his investigation, Lloyd will encounter his share of crazies. At the same time, it's clear the perpetrator knows a thing, or two, about him.When he meets Kathleen McCarthy, the woman who owns a small book shop, he suddenly realizes how she ties up with what he is investigating. Kathleen is a strange bird, with secrets she is not willing to share with Hopkins.What comes out during the film is the corruption in the police department, something that is not new to the city of angels, and something we have seen again and again. The last scenes reveal who the real serial killer has been and his motives, but frankly, we have had no clue about this person, throughout the movie. That is a bit hard to take, although in the context of the investigation, it makes sense, since Lloyd has been following an invisible enemy.The best reason for watching Cop is James Woods. His take on Lloyd Hopkins is right on the money. Mr. Woods captured the soul of this man and knows what he is up to. Charles Durning makes a good impression as Dutch, the man in charge of Hopkins, and his friend. Leslie Ann Warren's Kathleen is not as successful. She relies on mannerisms to convey the troubled soul of this damaged woman.The direction of James B. Harris is right because he gives the viewer a good story. Mr. Harris co-wrote with James Ellroy, a notable crime author, whose book, Blood on the Moon, serves as the basis for the movie. "},{"Title":"Big coincidences in gritty L.A. crime thriller","Date":"14 March 2009","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Cop is based on the book 'Blood and the Moon' by James Ellroy. I have not read the book that the film is based on; although I am a big fan of the first three books in Ellroy's 'L.A. Quartet'. It is often said of Ellroy that his writing got better as it went along; and assuming that this film is closely based on the book, I would say that there's a good chance that is true as the story here is not exactly solid. The entire film hinges on one major and quite unbelievable coincidence that boggles the mind if you care to think about it. However, it's the style and atmosphere that saves it; and that's the main reason I loved this film! The plot focuses on your everyday hard-bitten cop, Lloyd Hopkins, who after investigating the murder of a woman in Los Angeles, comes to believe that a serial killer may be operating in the area. Naturally, the police captain doesn't believe a word of it and Lloyd is forced to investigate on his own; leading him to a revelation closer to home than he was expecting.Director James B. Harris creates a fabulous atmosphere for the film to take place in and ensures that L.A. seems to be every bit the gritty and sleazy location needed to facilitate a tale like this. Similarly, James Woods fits the central role like a glove and is always believable in the role; even when the plot is getting out of hand. The first half of the film is really rather good and plausible; but then the twist hits and it really requires a suspension of disbelief from the viewer. It's not that the twist could not happen; it's more the way that it does happen which comes off as silly. It's just far too convenient and the whole film is turned on its head from that point on. Still, the atmosphere is retained and the story continues to be gripping; which are the film's strongest elements. Certain elements of the film are rather nasty, and indeed the book was originally denied by many different publishers for being too graphic! Still, a lot of it focuses on dialogue and from what I know of Ellroy, this part of the film is quite faithful. It all boils down to a rather hurried and coincidental ending; but I really do feel that this is a film where the style of it is much more important than the plot line. For some it will no doubt be too much of a problem...but I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this to anyone that enjoys a good crime thriller! "},{"Title":"James Woods at his best.","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is one of those rare treats that you see on a TV channel from time to time. The plot is a standard and unsurprising affair but what sets it apart is James Woods' sardonic, cynical and hilarious portrayal of a tough, world weary cop who has no time for 'do-gooders' and over sensitive types. It just goes to show that the talented input of one actor can turn an unremarkable film into something special. Cinematic magic... If you liked the Onion Fields or is role in any number of films that would otherwise have been pants then you will like this film. Long may he continue to be on of the movie business's greatest assets... "},{"Title":" The good news is,   I'm a Cop, The bad news, . . . . I don't care! ","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sometime ago a sadistically violent novel written by James Ellroy was published under the title 'Blood on The Moon.' Having read the book, I was most surprised to see the story up on the silver screen under the marquee of  Cop. The tragic tale was so woefully violent, I wondered how it's stark terror and black suspense would transferred to the Big Screen. However, I was pleased when I saw that James Wood would be the hero and it would be directed by James B. Harris. Woods plays detective Sgt. Lloyd Hopkins a hard-as-nails police officer seemly obsessed with solving an unsolved series of murders dating back years. Seemingly at a dead-end, he is frustrated and on the verge of giving it up, when a ray of hope inspires him to continue. As he does, he enlist the aid of Kathleen McCarthy (Lesley Ann Warren) a Feminist poet and his police mentor Dutch Peltz (Charles Durning) who is in line to become a police Captain. Despite his unorthodox methods, Hopkins gets results even if it means stepping on toes and challenging his superiors. The movie is powerfully dark, suspenseful and dotted with terrifying scenes which are not for the faint of heart. Still any Woods' fan is sure to enjoy the power and skill with the main actor and I for one look forward to this film becoming a milestone for Woods. Excellent rendition of the book and if one wants to peek under the ambulance sheet, I suggest you read the novel. **** "},{"Title":"Sleazy James Ellroy cop thriller","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Based on the James Ellroy novel Blood on the Moon, James Woods is LAPD detective Lloyd Hopkins who discovers the terribly mutilated corpse of a young woman and immediately starts comparing the scene with previously unsolved murders. He becomes convinced a serial killer is at work here, preying on women for the last fifteen years. Soon, more gruesome murders occur and detective Hopkins becomes a target himself. Detective Hopkins is the kind of amoral sleazeball that makes Dirty Harry seem like a little angel in comparison. He's the kind of cop that blows your date away, leaves his partner to clear the mess and then asks the woman if she needs a ride home and have some fun.James Woods also co-produced with director James B. Harris, long time buddy of Stanley Kubrick and producer of THE KILLING (1957), PATHS OF GLORY 1958) and LOLITA (1962), who also wrote the script for this hard-edged cop thriller. I made the mistake expecting a really good film, mostly based on Woods' presence, the writings of James Ellroy, and Kubrick sidekick James B. Harris taking the directorial helm, but Harris hardly shines in that department. His direction is adequate, but not much more. Best to watch this as a gritty cop flick, trashy, cynical and sometimes a bit silly with plenty of misguided attempts at humor on account of leading man James Woods, always a plus, in any film. It's a reasonably well-executed cop thriller, but no classic. Expect an enjoyable slice of B-movie nonsense and you probably won't be disappointed.Camera Obscura --- 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best 80's Film Noir revival films","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" James Woods is our hardboiled detective as he navigates the dark web of a mass murderer. Woods' wife and child have recently left him, and he is under investigation at the police department. He is unwilling to give up the case, and no one is going to stop him.Cop displays Film Noir disillusionment and it's bleakest and the dark ending (not going to be spoil it) only adds to the Noir-iness. In the 1980's Film Noirs started to come out again, beginning with remakes like D.O.A., and new originals like To Live and Die in LA. In this revival, Cop is a crown jewel, a wonderfully mysterious tale of man willing to risk and loose everything to find a killer.As a Noir enthusiast, I highly recommend this film. It may be overacted at times, and the detective may seem a little to gung ho to be believable. But, Woods'es excellent performance is able to hold the film together. It is a thriller from start to end, and overall a very enjoyable film. Watch it, trust me. "},{"Title":"Cop","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 80's action in pure form. This is in the die hard mold, but less structure or bad guys. I must say before hand that James Woods is my favorite actor. He is amazing. IN this film he delivers the best 1 liner I have ever heard in my entire life. Ever. It's ends the movie in a hurricane of laughter. Laughter in a good way. Laughing at 80's movies. This one may have been made in 90, but it still has the 'pure cop with chip on shoulder' guy. I would also recommend The Hard Way with Michael J Fox. That's also one of James Wood's best performances.Back to Cop. Watch for the violence. Watch for the great 80's Dialogue. Watch for a plot that while have some serious issues, is still passable and forgivably based on the movies final line. That last line, which I will not discuss her MUST WATCH THIS. Is the best ending to ANY movie I have ever scene (ofcourse in the context of an 80's action/adventure/cop/type movie). Enjoy! "},{"Title":"rent if you're a Woods fan","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Which is why I rented it. An OK movie about a cop who goes outside the rules to track what he suspects is a serial killer. Like other reviewers, I laughed at stuff that was probably not supposed to be amusing just because Woods was so damn funny. He plays a fairly sleazy guy, which is what he does best. Charles Durning is also very good, as is Lesley Ann Warren, though I just wanted to slap her character a couple of times for being so stupid and whiny. The sudden, no BS ending is awesome--I love it when movies end with an abrupt blackout like that, and he gets a great ending line. I played the ending back a few times it was so cool and bada$$. This movie was actually surprisingly disturbing in parts, there's a really gruesome scene where Wood's character (I can't remember the cop's name, it was probably Jake or Jack or something snarky like that)finds a murder victim about 3/4 of the way through the film that really shocked me and gave me the creeps. Anyway, a good underrated film with a kick-a$$ ending. "}{"Title":"Better than it first looks.","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There are times that this feels like a TV Movie. In fact, if it were not for the presence of James Woods that is all this would be, a good TV movie. As it is, Woods acts his socks off without overdoing it. He manages to pull this up to a much higher standard, very watchable stuff, in fact. There is nothing really ground shaking in the script and, to be truthful, it kind of gets a bit lost at a couple of points. Like others have pointed out, the dark twisted aspect of the original book do not quite come across to the screen, but nevertheless is a very passable transition. In summary, not one to watch for your main film on a Saturday night, but certainly worth a look on any other night. "},{"Title":"Innocence kills. I see it every day.","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Cop is directed by James B. Harris, who also adapts the screenplay from the novel Blood on the Moon written by James Ellroy. It stars James Woods, Lesley Ann Warren, Charles Durning, Charles Haid and Raymond J. Barry. Music is by Michel Colombier and cinematography by Steve Dubin.LAPD detective Lloyd Hopkins (Woods) is investigating the gruesome murder of a woman and comes to believe it is the work of a serial killer whose crimes stretch back for 15 years. But with his superiors troubled by his methods of working and his home life crumbling apart by the day, Hopkins is short of support professionally and emotionally. Working alone as a rogue cop, Hopkins will stop at nothing to prove his theory right and nail the killer in the process.All of these little girls have one thing in common-disillusionment.Met with much indifference by critics upon its release, and chided by the Ellroy purists, Cop is a film that may be a flawed take on the source material, but none the less it's one that remains a compelling neo-noir dripping with cynicism, sleaze and violence. From the off we are given a clue to what lies ahead for us as a man is frantically trying to report a murder by phone, he gets the runaround by the voices at the other end of the line, only when he announces that he will have to use his stolen credit cards to make the call does he at last get put through to someone who needs to hear what he has to say. Enter James Woods on twitchy, sardonic and intense form. Who we then quickly find at the murder scene calmly sitting at the victim's desk leafing through her literature as her shredded corpse hangs from the ceiling behind him. It's cold, troubling and poignant, the marker is set and Cop as a film in this respect never loses focus.Harris and Woods (co-producers as well) paint a decidedly muddy L.A. that harks back to noirs of yesteryear. It's not enough that our rogue cop protagonist, an ultimate anti-hero, is deviant, shallow and perhaps unhinged? But the flow of support characters are seriously kinked in persona's too. Crooked, kinky, out-there, damaged goods, God bothering and simply sick. Take your pick, they are all in here getting a caustic prod from Harris and Woods. There's even humour here as well, some of it black, but often it's a fleeting ray of warmth when between Hopkins and Dutch (Durning great), the only person Hopkins (and the film) can count on as being normalish....To say Cop is solely a star vehicle for Woods is not unfair, for without him the movie would flounder on the rocks. An excellent actor who can put likability into the most compulsive of characters, Woods gives the film its heart beat. With Hopkins cynical and often led by what resides in his underwear, it's not hard to envisage some viewers losing sight of the fact that he is still a great cop, determined to clear the streets of a scumbag killer. Yes he does indeed skirt the boundaries of good taste as he goes about topping up his libido needs, and he thinks of nothing to breaking into somewhere to nab a clue, but the picture sneakily asks us if this is OK as long as Hopkins gets his man? Woods revels in the role and makes Cop an essential viewing for fans of the actor.Rage in the Womb.With Woods' dominance comes the flaws elsewhere. The killer's motives are sketchy enough as it is, but the perp is barely formed as a real being. Those warped support characters, too, are only that because we have had the smallest amounts of character morsels to feed off. That is except for Lesley Ann Warren's troubled feminist poet, Kathleen McCarthy, who gets much to do in the latter stages of the film, but is miscast and done no favours by the makers who reduce her to being an air-head. A bastion of feminism she is not! A victim of Harris choosing to extract the feminist thump from the source material to leave a sour taste tingling the tongue. Yet if you can forgive the flaws that evidently many others can not? Then this is still a biting and potent neo-noir picture. Crowned, for the record, magnificently without a cop out ending.8/10 from me, but you can knock a point off of that score if you aren't as biased as me with Woods the actor. While Ellroy worshippers will most likely need to snip another point off as well. "},{"Title":"James Woods excels in this tough and absorbing crime thriller","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" James Woods delivers a sensationally intense, wired and riveting performance as shrewd, sleazy and blithely amoral maverick loose cannon Detective Lloyd Hopkins, who obsessively investigates a series of vicious homicides that have been going on for fifteen years. Lloyd's pursuit of the serial killer puts his job on the line and pushes him over the edge. Tightly written and directed by James B. Harris (who previously worked with Woods on the outstanding prison movie Fast-Walking), with crisp cinematography by Steve Dubin, a harsh, gritty tone, unflinchingly raw and profane dialogue, a jazzy, shivery score by Michel Colombier, a tense and exciting climactic showdown between Hopkins and the killer, some seriously ugly violence (the murder sites are truly nasty), and a shockingly brutal and nihilistic ending, this bang-up little sleeper makes for an extremely gripping and suspenseful viewing experience. Woods effortlessly carries the picture with his usual arresting blend of live-wire energy and hard-boiled charisma. The supporting cast are likewise on the money excellent Charles Durning as Lloyd's loyal and protective partner Dutch Peltz, Lesley Ann Warren as a touchy feminist poet, Charles Haid as corrupt Deputy Sheriff Delbert Whitey Haines, Raymond J. Barry as stern, no-nonsense Captain Fred Gaffney, Randi Brooks as brassy hooker and drug dealer Joanie Pratt, Steven Lambert as the killer, and Jan McGill as Lloyd's fed-up wife Jen. A worthy 80's noir thriller winner. "},{"Title":"Pretty good action/thriller... KILLER ending!","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  James Woods hams it up beautifully as the cop with a REAL bad attitude, and Charles Durning adds a nice touch as his police buddy.Over the top, overacted and hard to believe, but pretty damn fun to watch, with one of the greatest smack you upside the head endings I've ever seen in my twenty-six years on this planet.  Check this one out and have a good time. "},{"Title":"Determined cop bucks his superior to discover and find a serial killer in this fine neo-noir","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Although the plot is not new, the story is well told. James Woods plays a cop investigating a homicide. His home life has fallen apart. His boss is restrictive. He has a friend and supporter in another officer played by Charles Durning.Woods begins to think that the murder is one of many when an anonymous note arrives in blood and refers to all the rest. The story is basically a police procedural in which he has to overcome the bureaucratic obstacles plus the basic lack of evidence from killings that go back 15 years.Apart from a significant role of Leslie Ann Warren, who plays an emotionally scarred woman, James Woods is pretty much the whole show. He carries it off, as he usually does.One theme, police corruption and indifference, is well worn. Another theme, that of women being hurt because they are brought up too innocent of the world around them, is novel. A pervasive theme is broken people, more or less. Almost every substantial character is bent or marred in some significant way. This includes Charles Haid's cop in the sheriff's department, Woods' wife, the police captain, the serial killer, a hustling woman that Woods picks up, Leslie Ann Warren, and Woods himself. Durning's character is more together.The cinematography is fine, the direction tight, the script tight, and the acting fine. The original material is from James Ellroy, who is a reliable source of neo-noir material. The director, James Harris, who also wrote or co-wrote the screenplay is an experienced hand, having directed, for example, The Bedford Incident; and he's produced some excellent films like The Killing, Lolita, and Paths of Glory. Hence, the overall production of Cop is very good. "},{"Title":"James Woods IS Cop...","Date":"23 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" James Woods is an American pop culture icon, as quintessential as a hot dog with all the fixings at a baseball game, as cinematically essential as the kick-in-the-testicles gag. He is to acting, what AC/DC is to popular music, straightforward 4/4 3 chord dead horse rock n roll that continues to inexplicably appeal to millions throughout the ages. Like AC/DC, James Woods, the actor, is what you see is what you getriff/verse/chorus/riff/verse/riff/chorus/bridge/riff/guitar solo/chorus/r jiff/riff/riff/end.Yet, like AC/DC, James Woods, the actor, can play both sides of the law, as comfortable in a stadium rally as he is in a sleazy biker bar, cleaning up for the mob, or cleaning up the streets. Playing to the ladies, or playing hero at left field, James Woods does quirky, funny, mean, craggy, dangerous, sexy, humble, bastard, horny, clueless, wise, fearful, fearless, hero, villain, gravitas and pathos; all in the time it takes him to lift an eyebrow, shoot a bad guy and spill a cup of coffee in his lap.None more so is this strangely alluring dichotomy of talent evident than in one of his early roles, one some call his breakout performance, in the terribly impolite cop drama conveniently titled Cop.Despite a flimsy paint-by-numbers plot that defies both the laws of corny coincidence and blind stupid luck, James Woods, the actor, is delightful as a bumbling LA detective who thinks he's Dirty Harry's batman, but comes off stumbling along like the bastard child of Inspector Closseau and Harvey Keital's Bad Lieutenant. The real genius at work here is that he plays it so straight, so filled with grittiness and profanity; it is nothing short of iconic. Likable, but dangerous, James Woods' Cop is someone a nice girl can take home to meet the parents, yet might just punch dad in the face and insult mom's cooking. Hell, he'll probably end up shagging both mom and daughter on the couch, while dad offers him a large glass of his 12 year old scotch.The film itself wears its late 1980s time frame well, its violence, sex and social politics proudly politically incorrect, bloody and so devoid of responsibility, it makes the Lethal Weapon films look like an episode of Teletubbies. Cop's final reel, a clankingly executed homage to Harry Callaghan's confrontation with Scorpio from the first Dirty Harry movie, proudly nails Cop's inconsequential colors to the post, cements its B-grade cult classic status, and indeed, sums up the talent of, the fascination with and the rebellious attraction to James Woods, the actor. the good news is I am a cop. The bad news is I just got suspended. "},{"Title":"This Cop Is One 24/7","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What lifts Cop beyond the range of a normal action film is James Woods's multi-layered performance in the lead. His investigation into a woman's death reveals a serial killer at work, one who's been plying his trade for about 15 years. The problem is that Woods can't convince the police brass of his suspicions, they don't want to alarm the public. He even has a problem with his partner, Charles Durning on the issue.The connection to these crimes has something to do with feminist author Lesley Ann Warren and what happened back in high school which coincidentally enough is the same alma mater for Woods. Warren's cooperation has to be dragged out of her, she's not able to comprehend that she is the key to the killings.Woods as the detective is at once dedicated, arrogant, tender, and quite the misogynist on occasion. Any one of these emotions is hard enough, but James Woods manages to achieve them all, sometimes all of them at once. Whatever else he is, he's a man convinced of the rightness of his course and nothing is deterring him whatsoever.Also in the cast is Charles Haid, late of Hill Street Blues who also is part of the mystery. He too is an alumnus of the high school. Haid plays a sleazy deputy LA County sheriff and plays it well.For fans of James Woods, an absolute must for them. "},{"Title":"Woods is too much!!!","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you are a big fan of James Wood's work than please go to your video store right now and rent this gem.  You see I'm more into the performance side of a film, not the writing or story (even though it does help). Trust me, you've seen it all before.  An over-the-top detective (Woods) gets caught up in a murder case which takes over his professional and private life. With the clues stacking up, Woods begins to believe that he is not only dealing with a murderer but a serial killer as well, who preys on females.  This opinion on the matter doesn't sit well with his captain or coworkers, except one, a long time friend named Dutch.  As the film moves along you begin to notice that Woods is a womanizer who usually ends up in bed with the witnesses.  Everything Woods did made me laugh.  I know this probably isn't right of me but he is just so FUNNY!!  Even in a serious murder mystery such as this, I still can't help it.  This film also contains one of the quickest endings I've seen in a long time.  It's great!!  Trust me though, I won't give it away.  Thanks for reading. "},{"Title":"I liked it.","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you want to watch a cool movie, I suggest you see it. James Woods did a great job as a hard egotistical cop out to solve a serial killing. Maybe it is like other cop thrillers, but this was made a while back before a lot of others. So, if you're not a 'critic' I'd say it's nothing short of intriguing. I came away saying it was a good movie, a couple of times. "},{"Title":"An overlooked, underrate thriller from James Woods.","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A compelling drama follows an LA cop's quest for a serial killer and is a James Woods tour de force.  Simple, yet intrguing and entertaining, this film showcases James Wood's in-your-face detective who won't let anything stand in his way.  He is deliciously charismatic in this role and this is surely a treat not to be missed. "}{"Title":"I have good news and I have bad news","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" But when it comes to the review of this movie, it's all good news. James Wood is Lloyd Hopkins, the jaded cop who throws himself into one particular case after his wife, Penny, leaves him. Adapted from a James Elroy novel, this crime drama turns out pretty good. And while not reaching the heights of L.A. Confidential in some ways, for me it come close and exceeded that great movie in other ways thanks to an understated acting chops of James Woods. That guy remains a criminally under-rated actor. In my mind, he's one of the greats. Plus the ending is so VERY good.My GradeAWhere I Saw it Starz Action "},{"Title":"Quiet deconstruction of Dirty Harry.","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  James Woods is the most underrated of all the great actors.  Maybe it's because he hasn't starred in enough 'classics', but there's something fundamentally troubling in his personality that discourages full recognition.  It's not because he usually plays villains - audiences have had great affection for the hateful throughout movie history.  Woods is too normal to be a melodramatic villain; he's a tensed up, selfish, narcissistic, arrogant jerk.  He has neither redeemable qualities, nor conventional charisma.  His look compounds these drawbacks with its strangeness - it somehow seems all wrong; his body is to wiry for his head and shoulders, his head is reptilian and bug-eyed.  And yet he charms by his total indifference to what we think of him.  (He's also very funny)Cop is too flawed to be great - its plot mechanics are too predictable; James Ellroy, having started with the daring proposition that Woods might be mad, and his investigations just an extension of this, is too afraid of loose ends to be truly scary (serial killer plots, ostensibly about the blackest modern evil, are paradoxically reassuring - they suggest pattern and order, and an identifiable problem, which once rooted will result in restoration); the visual style could be out of any dour 70s cop show (except for some gorgeous Kubrickian tracking shots); the music is hellish 80s synth orchestration; the climactic showdown is implausible and silly, although the film boasts one of the best endings in cinema.What makes this film essential is Woods, and Harris' direction.  Laura Mulvey once claimed that Hollywood cinema privileged the actions of the male hero; the woman was an object to be stared at and won.  Cop refutes this by having an archetypal male hero - a cop - whose actions shape the movement of the film, and yet who is riveted to the screen, subjected to the merciless exposure of the camera.  Woods cannot lie to us, every tic, flaw, line of thought is laid bare.  Even though he always seems in control, we are constantly aware that he is being stared at (even before this becomes a narrative element), that he is stuck in the frame.   Harris, producer of The Killing, Dr. Strangelove, Lolita etc., has learned much from Kubrick in this unforgivingly formal, analytic approach (see also Melville).The film subverts the usual maverick cop cliches.  Unlike Dirty Harry, Hopkins' concern for the cause of murdered women is undermined by his egocentric insensitivity towards the women who practically need him in his life.  There is a Freudian framework used, as Hopkins' neuroses (he is accused of having a fixation on murdered women) are linked to his past, but the final working of them out (it takes place in his old school) is not reassuring.  The force itself is perverted and corrupt, both in obvious (one sherrif is a drug-dealing, rent-boy pimp) and not so obvious (most of Hopkins' superiors are 'born agains') ways.  Hopkins is  like a Kubrick hero, an instrument of a corrupting social force.There are problems - the co-opting and infantilising of feminism, the possible homophobia; like the Searchers, the critique sometimes seems to become confused with what is being criticised.  But this is brave, dangerous, clever film-making that deserves to be better known. "},{"Title":"Lover-Boy Woods","Date":"5 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One cup of coffee away from a psycho ward or one cigarette puff short of nuclear meltdown, James Woods is always a fascinating study for an audience that thrives on the unpredictable. This movie could have used more of his patented bug-eyed nuttiness. As it stands, Woods plays the role of unconventional cop in pretty conventional fashion, which, coupled with a murky, uninvolving script and slack direction, amounts to subpar and generally uninteresting slasher fare. There are moments of genuine quirkiness, as when he seemingly ad-libs a cynical remark suggesting that sex rather than sensitivity is what motivates his interest in Lesley Ann Warren. But those moments are few and far between, and I suspect the film went from production directly to video release without a commercial run. Woods should give up the lover-boy fling and stick to his specialty--being the edgiest guy in Hollywood. That should be enough for anyone. "},{"Title":"Intense Atmospheric Thriller","Date":"6 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Similar in some ways to Sea Of Love with a comparably nostalgic theme, Cop exudes suspense and mystery almost from the start, and all the way to its final, spine-tingling conclusion. Though James Woods does a fine job as Lloyd Hopkins, the lone ranger cop trying to solve a murder, it's the story itself that held my attention, not Woods.With effective, logical flow in plot points, the story builds from a brutal, apparently isolated, murder to something far more extensive. My main problem with the film is when the plot veers away from the murder investigation into a character study of Hopkins or his domestic problems at home. I didn't care at all about him personally.Film direction is quite good. There's one segment in particular that effectively conveys a sense of mystery. Sitting in a chair in a character's living room with no one else present, Hopkins quietly ponders the room. The camera focuses first on one wall, then another. Hopkins fixates on one of these walls in particular. But there's not much to see. The camera toggles back and forth between Hopkins' face and an ever-closer shot of the wall. What does he see there? Dim light, shadows, and silence magnify the mystery here in preparation for a surprise.Casting is acceptable; acting is better. Lesley Ann Warren, especially, gives a fine performance. Cinematography revs up suspense and mystery with its dark interiors and shadows. Although the identification of the killer is something of a disappointment, the final ten minutes are riveting, as they take place in a large empty building at night. Background music is intermittent, but when present, ups the suspense quotient.Cop is less a whodunit than an intense atmospheric thriller. The viewer is supposed to latch onto the cop Hopkins and, in particular, the performance of Woods as if the storyline doesn't matter. But it's the story and the production values, especially cinematography and music that for me render the film worth watching. "},{"Title":"Good News & Bad News.","Date":"26 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" James Woods plays L.A homicide detective Lloyd Hopkins, an obsessive cop on the trail of a serial killer targeting women. Lloyd goes undercover and makes contact with a beautiful single woman(played by Lesley Ann Warren) who may have had contact with the killer, and therefore could be his next target. Lloyd falls for her, though she doesn't know his secret, and can't believe her life is really in danger.James B. Harris directs this mostly routine and undistinguished drama which would be as generic as its title but for two things James Wood's intense and compelling performance as a hard-driving cop and the memorable ending involving the final confrontation with the killer(I wont give it away, but wow!) Film still falls short, but those two things at least make it watchable. "},{"Title":"Engrossing enough mystery.","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" James Woods does extremely well as can be expected in this film based on a novel by James Ellroy of L.A. Confidential fame. The original title Blood on the Moon would have been a more striking choice, with the title Cop suggesting a certain generic quality about this whole thing, which isn't exactly far off the mark. This movie does have a large air of familiarity to it, overall, starting with Woods' character Lloyd Hopkins, an intense and driven individual who has his own way of doing things.Lloyd is a weary man determined to teach his daughter early on that the world can be a bad and ugly place, and it's Lloyds' assertion that innocence and naivety is what really kills young women - and he's proved correct in regards to a serial murder case he's stubbornly pursuing. Mostly, what we get here is good, solid, straightforward, no frills storytelling the story might be familiar, but the execution is still quite competent. Woods and his director James B. Harris, who'd previously worked together on 1982s' Fast-Walking, also served as the producers here.It does help the movie that it does have that rather glum, film noir style to it, enhanced by Michel Colombiers' moody music score. Although the story plays out in such a way that we can sort of see where things are going, it never makes things too obvious and in fact the true identity of the killer is not revealed until just before the final act. This leads to a pretty suspenseful finale in a school gym with Woods and the killer playing a game of cat and mouse - not to mention one of the most kick ass endings to a movie of this kind, with a memorable quote from Woods.Very good supporting performances are another heavy asset, with lovely Lesley Ann Warren as the feminist writer and would be romantic interest, Charles Durning, a steady presence as Woods' good friend on the force, Raymond J. Barry, as a ramrod straight and humourless superior, Charles Haid as a crooked deputy with a disgusting past and present, and Randi Brooks as the entertainer who provides Woods with some information. Woods makes for a commendably flawed yet compelling protagonist - not a gentleman who's one dimensional, as he's quite tender with his daughter, yet his dog with a bone mentality does get him into a great deal of trouble.A good and consistently watchable, if not really remarkable, movie.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Totally overlooked and classic cop thriller that deserves some respect","Date":"28 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Cop is an excellent suspense thriller based on the novel Blood On The Moon by acclaimed author James Ellroy. Cop is a very seedy, dark and violent detective story in the vein of the Clint Eastwood classic Tightrope. James Woods is a skilled police detective that takes a special interest in homicide cases involving women. In working on a recent case, he pieces together evidence of a serial killer who has been preying on innocent women since the 1970's. He gets no support from his superiors, except for respected senior officer Dutch(Charles Durning) who tries to keep Lloyd Hopkins(Woods)in line and out of trouble with his superiors. James Woods is incredible here and is a brilliant detective, but also volatile and a loose cannon that will stop at nothing to bring his man to justice. Hopkin's personal and professional life is in constant turmoil as he is at odds with both his superiors and his wife. Charles Durning is excellent here also and had strong chemistry with Woods. Cop is a real well crafted suspense movie that is very dark, violent and sleazy. The film is very gritty with a whole lot of blood, gore, sex and great dialogue. Cop is criminally under rated and this is a great film with a powerhouse performance from James Woods. "},{"Title":"Copped","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Convinced of a connection between a series of murders but unable to convince his superiors, a policeman goes rogue to catch a killer in this big screen adaptation of James Ellroy's novel 'Blood on the Moon'. The title was apparently altered to avoid audiences expecting a horror movie, but the title is also important for singling out what the film is really about the maverick cop protagonist. As played by James Woods, he is a fascinatingly flawed individual; in the midst of failed marriage, he takes to sleeping around with the women who he is interviewing, he has no respect for religion, and he uses profanities left, right and centre. The film trips up a bit by focusing so much on Woods (who is in every scene of the film) without properly exploring his background and uneasy home life in particular; when his wife walks out on him after a single fight and less than five minutes screen time, it feels completely random. The mystery at the heart of the film also really suffers due to all the focus being on Woods; the killer's retribution motivations are overly complex and the fact that Woods becomes fascinated with the case simply due to having a daughter himself feels like a stretch. As mentioned though, this is meant to be less a mystery thriller and more a film about Woods, and there are some great, quiet moments in which we see how his mind ticks, like when he notices a bug on a door frame and when he starts tampering with a note written in blood before it can be properly analysed. Woods also has a superb final line which, followed by a cut to black, ensures that the film concludes on a strong note. "},{"Title":"Cop","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Damn, this started out as a great film but never lived up to what it promised in the first 10 minutes.It's quite a decent watch overall but the first 10 minutes were the best. When James Woods enters the crime scene and there's the woman hanging from the ceiling...there was just something really sinister and atmospheric about that scene. It really surprised me and got my expectations up.I also really enjoyed the scene where he tells his daughter a bedtime story and it's about one of his cases. Then his wife has a go at him and leaves him.After that though, the story gets a bit muddled and isn't written that well, which means that everything that should have been quite mysterious in it, isn't. And there could have been a lot of touching moments but they aren't executed very well.An example of the poor writing is that, after his wife leaves him and takes the daughter too (in the first 15 minutes) they don't appear again for the rest of the film! They just disappear! It's a shame because this aspect could have been developed and given more meaning to Wood's character and the film overall.The killer also, needed to be written into the film better.Overall, a decent watch but could have been better and after the first 10-15 minutes it dips a bit in quality. "},{"Title":"A vigilante cop, a feminist and born-agains","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a good thriller with some very shocking scenes. It boasts several interesting characters which I found pretty believable. James Woods is Lloyd Hopkins a police detective who tries to catch a serial killer whose prey are young, &#132;innocent women. Hopkins has a kind of a fixation on this type of female (not unlike the Russel Crowe character in L.A. confidential). He thinks they have to be &#132;cured of this innocence at the earliest possible age and accordingly tells his own little daughter the gruesomest possible bedtime stories (a great scene with a great little child actress). Hopkins' wife says he is a disturbed person, and one has to agree with her.In the course of the investigation Hopkins finds out that the owner of a feminist bookstore, Kathleen McCarthy, played by Lesley Ann Warren, is in some way linked to the serial killer. Hopkins, of course, hates feminists but somehow, for the sake of the investigation, he gets into a relationship with McCarthy. This leads to a hilarious &#132;foreplay conversation with an ending that makes you rock with laughter. But real tragedy is never far away and even if the feminist character is a rather blunt caricature, her actions and her reasoning are an essential and convincing part of the story.A further interesting point for me was the reference to &#132;born-agains. They are not involved in the crime of this movie but seem to dominate the higher echelons in the police hierarchy. Hopkins' partner warns him about them and tells him that he is at the top of their &#132;to retire list because of his shaky family life. Hopkin's superior is a known born again (I go to church on Sunday and to prayer meetings three times a week, but for the rest of the time I put God out of my mind, he says something like that). It is a very good and sensible performance by Raymond J. Barry as it does not, like in the case of the feminist, revert to stereotype. That captain seems to be strict but correct, acknowledging the talents of Hopkins and criticizing his failings in a fair if tight lipped way. He puts Hopkins on suspension which leads to a violent ending many reviewers seem to appreciate.The production values and the pacing of this movie are above average, it delivers action and leaves time for introspection on different levels. I wish Al Pacino had had a look at this movie before he starred in Insomnia. "}{"Title":"Cop this exciting, must watch crime drama","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Au natural actor, Woods again is perfectly suited in one hell of an exciting cop drama/crime thriller that you rarely see. I'd almost say for it's time, the film was privilege or a treat, where Best Seller was also playing at the same time. Cop will blow you away, especially fans of this particular type of material, it's climax just as awesome as everything else in it, the end of the trailer kind of ruined a much climactic ending, though not as powerful as the one in 'Ten To Midnight'. What's happening here is some nutter's killing beautiful woman, one hottie in a blue top, Woods does on a stove, before her demise. Woods's character, which I loved is another hellbent and unstable cop who doesn't play by the rules, and to call him obsessive is an overstatement, especially with this case that really gets to him. He gets involved with a woman (Lesley Ann Warren) who could be the key to nailing the psycho, yet watching Woods is one of the best things about this 88 pic. Even when his wife and kid leave him in a deteriorating relationship, his mind is right back on this case. His captain hates him, and it was great to see Charles Durning as Wood's partner and friend, if also being a guardian angel to this out of control cop. Cop is quite grisly at times, and correct me wrong, there was a book, the movie was based on, written by Thomas 'Silence Of The Lamb's' Harris. Nonetheless it's a bloody exciting flick from the get go and I mean from the first reel of film, while the opening credits play over a black screen, with a V.O of an interesting call involving a reported homicide. If you love crime flicks, L.A Confidential, whatever, turns your eyes on this. You'll truly be rewarded and riveted by the great James Woods, who at times, had me laughing. Cop is 'The Silence Of The Lambs' of crime dramas. "},{"Title":"Bad cop.","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This nearly forgotten thriller from the late 1980s is all about James Woods. He wasn't as well known yet, but you can clearly see his talent and screen presence chewing up this often clichd police drama. Woods plays a homicide detective named Lloyd Hopkins who has a hard time playing by the rules as he attempts to make a name for himself by taking on the most sickening cases. In the time-honored tradition of all such movie detectives, Hopkins continually runs afoul of his superiors and steps on everyone's toes as he will do whatever it takes to solve a serious of murders of innocent-looking women over a span of several years. Every so often, when his home life is getting too tedious for him, he sleeps with a random female or blows away a robbery suspect. The concept is cool enough, but we've seen this kind of thing many times before... and since. From Dirty Harry to The Bad Lieutenant, a cop living on the edge is a very common theme.That said, Cop has some original touches to go with its fine acting across the board from a very good cast. Leslie Ann Warren, as a purveyor of feminist literature, gives a memorable performance as the ultimate object of the killer's affection. In an era when characters were allowed to be filmed holding cigarettes, she sets some kind of record for most lit, but least actually smoked. The late Charles Durning was always a welcome sight in a movie, and his performance here is no exception. Former Hill Street Blues cast member Charles Haid makes a very creepy deputy sheriff. Also rounding out this cast is Dennis Stewart as a homosexual street hustler. Remember him as the rival gang leader from the Grease movies? Of course you do! The biggest problem with this film is the contrived nature of this killer. The plot his held together with threads weaker than dental floss. From the killer's motivation, to the way Woods connect the dots, this film's plot has some major credibility issues. Were huge gaps of this story left on the cutting room floor? I dunno. Just savor James Woods as he tears his way through this movie. 6 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"If you really want to see a movie about a cop, see Beverly Hills Cop instead","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" While Cop may be drama and Beverly Hills Cop may be an action comedy, one thing's for certain the Eddie Murphy vehicle is vastly superior to the marginally watchable Cop, and Murphy's performance is way better than Woods'. Cop, mostly a one-man show, is basically a one-note story. The acting is sub-par, nothing really seems to be at stake, there's no bite or suspense, and aside from the serial killer that isn't seen until the very end, the movie really doesn't have a villain, which I think, would have helped things greatly. The material, and James Woods, have the potential to be great, but for some reason, this movie doesn't really go anywhere, and as a result feels a bit long.** out of **** "},{"Title":"GREAT ACTOR, BAD COP","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  James Woods is a great actor and this is one of his best roles.  It's nothing more than a B picture, but Woods is great as Lloyd Hopkins a bad cop in a bad city.  He's the kind of cop who picks up on the bad guys girlfriend after he shoots him dead on the street.  It's got a lot of good scenes with Woods at his best and a knockout ending.  It also has sexy Randi Brooks and Charles Durning for support.  Lesley Ann Warren also does a fine job as a chainsmoking Lesbian poet.  This movie is highly reccommended.  Put it in the VCR and hold on.   "},{"Title":"A formulaic thriller with a GREAT fade-to-black.","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Full disclosure  I love James Woods and I love James Ellroy.  I rented this film based on those two factors.  It's not a great movie.. although I thought it was very good.  The pacing was good enough to keep it interesting, although the whole serial killer angle was a little too detached.  As a genre film, it's no better (but not necessarily any worse) than, say, Kiss the Girls, Sea of Love, Copycat, or others of that ilk.I didn't think the acting was too good.  Or rather, Woods was too good, and the rest of the actors around him just couldn't compare.  The synth soundtrack did make it feel dated and 80s but not too much. Anyway, let's get to the ending (don't worry, I won't give it away) this is one of the greatest fades-to-black I have ever seen in a movie.  Some may think it is too abrupt and didn't leave a denoument or closure.  I think it was an amazing exclamation point to an average film, and it is definitely what I will remember about it.  Only The Taking of Pelham, One, Two, Three comes close in terms of final scenes.See it for the ending, it makes the rest of the movie worth it.  "},{"Title":"Watch it for James Woods!","Date":"15 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Based on the book Blood on the Moon by James Ellroy, 'Cop' directed by James B. Harris, is a thriller, that hardly offers any thrills. But what stands tall in this film, is it's lead star, James Woods! Woods stars as obsessive, insubordinate homicide cop, who, becomes involved in a bizarre murder, which alienates him from both his colleagues and family.'Cop' has an interesting premise, but the writing isn't sharp enough. Sure, it begins well and offers some interesting moments. But, after a point, the writing falters and fails to come up. James B. Harris's direction is just about okay.On the whole, apart from a power-packed performance by Woods, this flick is mostly unconvincing. "},{"Title":"Competent but flawed","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  James Woods plays a stressed-out but determined detective on the hunt for a serial killer who has a vendetta against some former female college students.Not only is he stressed with his crumbling marriage, but is also ham strung by his boss at the police precinct who is a born-again Christian and won't allow Woods the kind of resources he demands in order to trace the serial murderer before he strikes again.By the end of the film Woods has been suspended from the force for repeatedly over stepping the mark, but at least he has his prey in his sights and won't let something as the Law get in his way.......Not a particularly original script and it sometimes stalls & loses emphasis and a sense of direction. But for all that Woods hold the story together quite well in his customary man-on-the-edge way.Woods has always been one of my favourite actors, he plays his characters with a great deal of intensity, passion and understanding (especially in the Oliver Stone movie, Salvador). And as a consequence his part as Lloyd Hopkins in this film is well suited & crafted for Woods' considerable depth.Hopkins is arrogant & difficult not only to work with but also to live with. He is pushy and very confrontational and insists he gets his own way now rather than later, very much like Clint Eastwood's Dirty Harry Callahan character.In particular he hates to see women ill-treated and so this particular murder mystery is to his liking and won't rest until he has tracked down the scum ball that murdered these students.He has a heart of gold when he is with his little daughter. But he is also scared & concerned about her future and hopes that she will learn right from wrong and not fall into the shadows of crime & sleaze that he witnesses every day where he works.But for all his morality & self-rightousness, he is also a cheat, a womaniser & just as sleazy as some of the scum that walk the streets that he so detests. So he is a man of contradiction, compassion and anger all rolled into one, which is just the kind of role best suited for Woods.Unfortunately, none of the supporting actors are blessed with such dynamic or rounded characters, most of them are predictable & stereotyped, so we soon learn or hazard a guess as to what will happen to them during the unravelling of the movie.There are a couple of cameo roles from Charles Haid (typecast again from his days as a cop in Hill Street Blues), Lesley Anne Warren and Charles Durning. But none of these characters are strong enough or offer any dimension to the film. A lot has been said about the unusual ending. I guess in one respect it could have been done better although the very final scene (the fade to black and the sound of fired bullet casings clinking off the floor) is excellent and quite shocking.Overall then, Cop is a routine thriller with only James Woods lifting it from the mediocre and into a competent drama. Woods does a fine job as always but there's not much else going on and is perhaps 20 minutes or so too long.***/*****  "},{"Title":"Helps If You Like James Woods","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Detective sergeant Lloyd Hopkins is a cop on the edge . When he comes across a murder scene he suspects a serial killer is at large and his fears are soon confirmed . He immerses himself inside the case leading to serious friction in his home life and within the department This is another of these cops on the edge movies that were popular in the 1970s and 80s . Reading the comments on this page it's apparently based on an infamous novel by James Ellroy . I say infamous because it caused something of a stir on its publication due to some graphic violence . The violence seen in this adaptation might be rather tamer or more likely it's because audiences are somewhat more desensitised by on screen violence . What the film does portray very well is the gloomy psychological pressure Sgt Hopkins finds himself under as he pulls out all the stops to find the serial killer . Director James B Harris doesn't manipulate the audience or resort to cheap tricks to build up the tension and some people will criticise the somewhat dated and murky 1980s look of the movie but the prize asset of the movie is James Woods who is always a natural talent for playing edgy , maverick intense characters and here he proves it once again . If you don't like serial killer movies and more importantly don't like Woods then you won't enjoy this modern day film noir but Woods carries the film and makes it something slightly above a tired formula "},{"Title":"generic psycho-cop thriller","Date":"12 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A maverick (aren't they all?) LAPD homicide detective exercises his itchy trigger finger and leaves almost as many corpses as the serial killer he's hunting. The cop is played by James Woods, showing his usual psychotic intensity in a role that, quite frankly, doesn't deserve the effort. The problem is that the character was written as a man driven to the brink by his own ruthless determination; but he's obviously already over the edge to begin with, leaving the film with nowhere to go except through the same, stale motions of the modern police procedural, with its rampant violence, gratuitous sex, and self-righteous disregard for the straight-jacket of regulations. In the end it's little more than another Chuck Bronson vendetta scenario with some half-hearted feminist sympathies worked into the plot (and then trampled beneath the more obvious misogynist undercurrents). The film was clearly designed for undiscriminating fans of mindless action, and as such will hold your attention while doing its best to insult your intelligence. "},{"Title":"Lacking in polish...","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Despite being based on a novel ('Blood On The Moon') by prolific and acclaimed crime writer James Ellroy (probably best known for writing the novel L.A. Confidential, which was later turned into the Oscar winning film of the same name) Cop is a crime thriller that just lacks, well thrills and crime in large doses. It's more a drama than anything else, only the drama isn't that well handled or particularly interesting.Despite some good ideas the script (by James B. Harris) lacks any real cohesion and is for the most part rather contrived, worse than that the dialogue is also pretty flat and uninteresting, with the characters all painted as rather one dimensional. In fact is seems as though writer Harris didn't really have any room for any of the characters except for Woods central cop, with the rest all pretty much falling by the wayside. As such most of the characters are lacking any real...character.As for the direction, also by James B. Harris, it's workmanlike but hardly inspiring, the nature of the story requiring a certain edge and grit to the direction that Harris just doesn't manage to deliver. That's not to say that either the script or direction are outright bad, they aren't, it's just that neither has the impact, style or strength to carry off this type of film or story, and because of this it all just comes off as rather flat and unexciting. Performance wise James Woods is very good in the title role, which is good because it's basically down to him to carry the whole film, a feat that he almost, but not quite manages to do. He does receive some assistance, with both Charles Durning and Charles Haid giving good, solid performances despite their rather underwritten roles.However the other actors aren't so lucky, with Randi Brooks, Raymond J. Barry and Steven Lambert merely passable in their roles, while Lesley Ann Warren's performance borders on schitzophrenic, with neither her radical mood swings nor motivations ringing true. Jan McGill as Wood's wife meanwhile is just so outright bad that it's no wonder that Wood's character doesn't seem all that effected when she (thankfully) leaves him not long after the film begins (I'd be relieved too). All in all Cop isn't a bad film, it's just not a particularly good one either. It has it's moments and is a good showpiece role for the always entertaining (and underrated) Woods, it's just that the story and the film itself doesn't stand up to his fine performance. If it had spent more time detailing the characters and concentrating on the plot then it may well have been quite an effective little thriller, however as it stands it's merely just a passable one with a strong central performance.7/10 One Man's Opinion.    "}{"Title":"Watered-down, not hard-boiled.","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  James Ellroy fans will probably want to check this out.  They especially are the ones who should avoid it.Ellroy writes complex, psychologically damaged characters.  James W. Harris's screenplay loses all that.  It's watered-down and dumbed-down, making this just another average cop thriller.Stick with L.A. CONFIDENTIAL or BROWN'S REQUIEM instead.  "},{"Title":"Melodramatic and mostly routine cop vs serial killer movie...","Date":"11 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" While this could easily be an above average TV movie from the 80s, when compared to most big-screen cinematic police dramas of the same period, it is woefully weak and nothing more than barely standard fare. With a few well-done moments, and generally good acting on the part of James Woods and Charles Durning lifting it up, the mundane direction, uninspired plot, often silly dialog, completely unrealized and lousy villain, and with plot telegraphed throughout, all sink it.It's actually embarrassing to watch such a feminist stalwart as Lesley Anne Warren plod through a myopic rendering of what is supposed to be a feminist writer and poet, yet who comes over as nothing more than a cardboard characterization of a housewife in search of a home. I don't fault her, but rather the director/writer, who came of age in the late 40s and seems to be pretty much a leftover from the pre-feminist era. He did do good work in The Bedford Incident and Fast Walking, both male oriented films, but seems out of touch on this one.Not recommended except for true James Woods fans, as he's still good here no matter what. For those who want a taut period serial-killer drama, there's several dozens of other films made within 10 years of this one that are much, much better. "},{"Title":"Seriously flawed","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" James Woods must've been desperate to pay the bills when he accepted the lead role in this seriously flawed suspense/action flick. For a man of such immense talent, this is a total waste.Scripters and director James B. Harris have done their very best to destroy what was probably a good plot, based upon the novel Blood on the Moon by James Ellroy, about an obsessive serial killer whose love for a prudish, feminist poet type drives him to commit horrid crimes while an uptight detective hunts him in the name of all the disillusioned young women...................................well, maybe the plot wasn't so good to begin with, but certainly Harris and company have done a great job in smothering what value there may have been. Any remnants of a storyline are washed out as the focus is pure vengeance. But it's a little hard to care about the way the characters feel when you don't care for the characters themselves.Charles Durning, Lesley Ann Warren and Raymond J. Barry also conspire to throw away their collective acting prowess along with Woods. Apart from all the short comings afore mentioned, there really can be nothing else to say about what is a definite failure.Saturday, February 15, 1997 - Video "},{"Title":"Casting couldn't have picked a worse actor than James Woods for this part!","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've never disliked James Woods until this movie, but his portrayal of a cop was so absolutely ridiculous I couldn't stand it, nor can I stand him as an actor any longer. The other actors in the movie were at least sub-par to par. When you picture a tenured city cop/detective high up within the department, you don't picture a flamboyant man-boy, who might remind you of Pee-Wee Herman, trying to pull off the part. How many delicate Jews do you know that are in law enforcement in the real world? It just doesn't work, he tried too hard to act like a tough guy, but his feminine mannerisms were prevalent through the entire film. What stood out most to me, which I couldn't stop obsessing over were his skinny little fingers touching everything so gingerly throughout the entire James can act,not in this movie however, he needs to stick to what other nice Jewish boys do in reality, play a part of a doctor or lawyer. That set aside the story was decent with the exception of a few far fetched scenes regarding police department policy. As well as a few dragged out parts that I think were meant to be dramatic, what they achieved instead was pure cheese. "},{"Title":"Pathetically weak thriller starring the aptly named James (wooden) Woods.","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I strongly recommend that you do not watch this film. The plot (roughly) is a cop on the edge, trying to catch a serial killer. No one else believes in him and the powers that be are trying to get rid of him. Meanwhile his wife has left him and taken their daughter with her. I really can't describe how mediocre this film was. James Woods does a passable James Woods impression and not much else. Tension is never built up and the ending must be one of the most stupid anti-climaxes ever. The thing that really annoyed me was the stupid line he uses at the end. What was that about? This kind of film has been done a million times before and each and every one of those million is probably better than this. Save yourself the 2 hours and do something else instead of watching this movie. "},{"Title":"A terrible movie","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  James Woods did his usual good acting job, BUT, this movie is supposedly based on the James Elroy book  'Blood on the Moon', and I can see no similarities between the two. Just like LA Confidential, (which also sucked) writers took a really good book and turned it into a really crappy movie. None of the characters are even remotely the same, a really taut, gripping book was turned into a formulaic, pathetic mess. And after a while, James Woods acting stops helping. James Elroy is one of the best writers in America, and it's about time a film was made of one his books that will do him justice. "}]