[{"Title":"Hail Mary full of grace, how's your garden grow?","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" The Curse is a grotesque vision of H. P. Lovecraft's Colour out of Space. Most Lovecraft adaptions suck (save the Gordon-Yuzna-Combs collaborations), but I happened to like this one. And it looks like I'm in the minority on that. Why do people hate this movie so much? Yes, it has flaws. David Keith's direction isn't great. He's an extremely likable actor and he should stick to what he's good at. I feel like the prologue part should have been saved for the epilogue. It would have been a fitting end, it was not a place to start. Some of the acting is also hammy, mostly the supporting cast. As actors go, Wil Wheaton does a fine job, as does his sister. And they're the only characters you are supposed to care about. The mother character freaks me out as she changes during the film. Horror Director Lucio Fulci produced, and maybe influenced, this one. There are scenes of gore present that rival Fulci's own. Not of the flesh-ripping variety, but of the lets see what disgusting things we can do to food type of gore. The Curse is not a film to eat during. I suggest that you ignore most of the comments, see the movie, and make your own decision as to whether it's good or bad. "},{"Title":"Atmosphere, atmosphere, atmosphere!!","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" There certainly are elements in this film that could have been left out, and the film would have been better off for it; why the cheap monster/demon makeup?(The increasing blisters are great though..) Why having that obnoxious fatso-brother appear in the film at all? And let's face it, the special effects in places were not exactly state of the art either, neither were the editing. So why give it an 8 then? Well my rating couldn't have been any lower, and this is based solely on the fact that the film positively reeks of unique and creepy atmosphere, atmosphere so dark that I put it up there with the Kane-scenes in Poltergeist 2, and the atmosphere in Exorcist 3. There truly are some psychotic and memorable scenes. Two that stands out are when the mother of the family tries to  connect the dots on Cyrus's back, the other is when she sits quietly in the living-room sowing, and then starts to jam the needle and thread into her hands! Excellent! Not to mention the infested fruit and vegetables! All in all,there is in this film a disturbed and unsettling tension that you seldom get to witness in other horror flicks of the same decade, and certainly not in contemporary and crappy Hollywood blockbusters, that's for sure. If you are just curious, rent! If you are a true horror-fan, buy! "},{"Title":"pretty creepy","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" while i give this an average score, it is a pretty good version of the story. in fact i was driven to write this review because i am currently reading the colour out of space (and yes, that is how the title is spelled) . i saw this movie a few years ago, but some of the parts will be stuck in my mind forever. the acting is par, (it isn't that bad, but isn't that good), the film work is par, but it does what Lovecraft's story did, it has turns in it that will stay in your mind for a very long time. perhaps the most disturbing thing i saw in it (other then their use of meal worms for certain effects) was the melting effect, if you watch this movie, that will stay with you for a very long time indeed, especially when the movie comes to its climax. it was a very good scare, and i recommend seeing it like i did, at 200 in the morning with no lights on, after all that is the best way to experience Lovecraft and his works. though it does not match the book by any stretch in terms of dialog, or even setting and writing, it is still very close to the original in terms of the way the plot develops. and after all what movie has been totally true to its literary counterpart? anyway, if you want a bit of a scare, and don't have a weak stomach, or are in to a Twighlight Zone type of scenario, this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"Big Suprises Come in Small Packages!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  At first when I saw it at the movie store I thought it was gonna be lame and boring, but something told me to rent it.  When I saw it I was suprised. It was an enjoyable film to watch.  Now it's not the best horror movie ever made but it was good enough to buy and put in my movie collection.  So if you want a good creepy movie, rent it, it's worth it! "},{"Title":"Bizarre 80's science-fiction...","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  This movie is about a family living on a farm in the country a husband, wife, and two sons and a daughter. The father, being an EXTREMELY religious type, finds out that his wife is cheating on him. Not long after that, a meteor hits the backyard (how stereotypical can you get?) and begins to pollute the water and the vegetables. Those who eat the vegetables and drink the water slowly turn into hideous, slime-spewing homicidal mutants!!!Duh-Duh-Duhhnn! I'm guessing that maybe this meteor is supposed to be a punishment from God (or so the husband says.) Everyone but the younger brother and his sister eat the food and drink the water from the farm. First, the fruits and vegetables start to rot/become infested with insects/fill up with brownish fluid. Next, the chickens attack the daughter, and the horse kicks one of the brothers. After that, the cows become sick and start spewing up maggots. By this time, the mother, who was infected first I'm guessing, starts to break out in these nasty little blisters. Eventually, she starts talking in gibberish, eats with her fingers and tries to stitch a cloth to her hand, then she tries to kill her husband. The husband puts her in the shed for the next few days. The next person to show signs of infection is the brother, who starts acting like more of a buttmunch than usual. A dog on their farm kills a traveling salesman's assisstant, and the wife ends up munching the salesman's guts. When the husband finds out he moves his wife to the attic. Meanwhile, the main character (Will Wheaton) tries to figure out how to save his sister from his now-criminally insane family. That night, his father finds him in the shed looking for his mother. Then he notices that his son has a backpack filled with evil, sinful, store-bought food. His father tells him he's unappreciative and tries to beat him. When that fails, he tries to kill him. The brother is able to hold him off until the house starts collapsing. A friend of the family comes by to save Will Wheaton and his sister, but Will says he has to save his mother. He goes up to the attic, and in one of the most creepy scenes of the movie, he watches his mother rot away into a puddle of black goo. He escapes just in time to watch the house sink into the ground, sending his unholy kinfolk into redneck hell!I liked this movie, it WAS poorly acted, but it was far-fetched to begin with. There are some genuinely nasty moments that will make your skin crawl. For instance, after the chickens attack the little girl the camera zooms in as their eyes collapse in the sockets and start bleeding this nasty yellow goop. Or the scene where the cow's udder splits open and locusts fly out. Or the scene where the mother cuts open a head of lettuce to reveal it's putrid, rotting innards (and lettuce doesn't even HAVE innards!). The film is very dark in atmosphere and there is a sense of impending doom throughout the whole film, not unlike that of Poltergeist. I give it 6 1/2 out of 10 because the acting, other than that of Wheaton and Akins, was horrendous.  "},{"Title":"A really gross and creepy little down-home horror flick","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" A meteorite crashes on the farm of the severely dysfunctional Hayes family. The Hayes family are a really messed-up bunch stern fire-and-brimstone religious zealot patriarch Nathan (essayed with eye-rolling hammy brio by Claude Akins), his smart, but unhappy foster son Zack (a likable performance by Will Wheaton), lusty, faithless, frustrated wife Frances (a deliciously histrionic Kathleen Jordon Gregory), crude, browbeating, moronic son Cyrus (a perfectly hateful Malcom Danare), and cute little daughter Alice (the adorable Amy Wheaton). Some gunk from the meteorite contaminates the water. Pretty soon the crops, animals and even several members of the Hayes family begin to mutate in various disgusting and disturbing ways. Zack must save Alice from his now monstrous and dangerous family. Director David Keith, loosely adapting H.P. Lovecraft's short story The Colour Out of Space, not only vividly evokes a thick and pungent down-home hillbilly atmosphere, but also does an expert job of creating and sustaining a spooky and unnerving tone. Moreover, Keith stages a few shock set pieces with considerable flair and skill; an attack by hostile chickens and the infamous worms-in-the-apples sequence are especially nasty and memorable. The over-the-top apocalyptic climax is a lot of wild fun as well. The sound acting from a sturdy cast constitutes as another major plus Cooper Huckabee as affable, concerned doctor Alan Forbes, Steve Carlisle as smarmy real estate agent Charlie Davidson, and John Schneider as friendly water company representative Carl Willis. Roberto Forges Davanzati's sharp cinematography and Franco Micalizzi's folksy, throbbing, flavorsome countryish score are both up to speed. A good'n'gross horror romp. "},{"Title":"From the works of H.P. Lovecraft  The Curse!!!","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" The Curse (1987) was a film that was loosely based upon the short story The Colour from Outer Space. This seminal horror/science fiction prose was written by the master of horror H.P. Lovecraft. The problem with adapting his original material is that the film makers tinker with success. Whilst a few directors such as Stuart Gordon and Dan O'Bannon have been successful in translating his stories for the silver screen, most of them are pure nonsensical tripe that's best avoided (except for John Carpenter's trilogy of the apocalypse that captures the aura of Lovecraft perfectly).The Curse had all the makings of being a decent film. But the director and writers just don't fully understand the works of H.P. Lovecraft. Dumbingt down the man's work for a pedestrian horror film just doesn't cut it. Whilst it get's an A for effort it get's an F minus in execution. Bad acting, sloppy direction and lousy dialog dooms this movie from the get go. Better luck next time.Not recommended, unless you're a H.P. Lovecraft completist. "},{"Title":"Another lost 80's VHS gem, disturbing and atmospheric.","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" H.P. Lovecraft's The Colour Out of Space was the direct influence for this 1980's science fiction/horror creepy classic. Wil Wheaton (Stand By Me) is a young boy who lives on a farm with his mother and bible-thumping, patriarchal stepfather, Claude Akins and his family, when a sinister meteor falls from the sky which seems to infect the water supply, causing vegetables, cattle and victims to rot from the inside out. Meanwhile, greedy developer, John Schneider wants to buy up the property in order to construct a new dam.This is 1987, the classic year for 80's horror, and this little film is no exception. It harbors a real deviant and nihilistic quality that makes it disturbing to watch. Icky, gooey slime oozes from vegetables, animals and human beings suggesting the worst effects of a diseased and tragic aftermath of cosmic proportions in the typical Lovecraftian sense. Wil Wheaton portrays the sympathetic protagonist as he must not only confront the terror at hand, but deal with being alienated by his step-family's cruelty and oppression. With everyone against him and time running out, poor Wil, being the only one intelligent enough not to drink the water or eat the food must convince authorities that something extremely weird is going on. A gloomy ambiance looms over the mood of this lost 80's gem thanks to Director/Actor, David Keith. Nothing about this film is comforting or reassuring. Spielberg look out! "},{"Title":"Great little schlocky horror movie!","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" As a Lovecraft fan, and an eighty's horror fan, I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Yes, it's sometimes a tad slow, and the effects are low budget by today's standards, but when the icky, nasty stuff does happen, it's gleefully gross and morbidly funny.The characters who suffer the most are the ones you WANT to see suffer, (well, most of them, anyway), right from the get-go. I love that; seeing mean, awful, stupid characters just having a horrible time. And they don't die quickly, oh no. They're embarrassed, injured, made to look really stupid and THEN killed.If you've ever wanted to see a giggling woman sew a sock onto her hand, this is your chance. Or a little girl pecked half to death by chickens, which she could've very easily just ran away from. Sure it's ridiculous, but it's fun to watch.To my mind this stands on the same ground as Critters or Pet Cemetery Two. Its production values are low, the script is predictable, and the pace isn't great, but it is super fun to watch if you like that sort of thing.Plus, if you're familiar with Lovecraft's work, this is The Colour Out Of Space, minus the color itself. To be fair, when this was made, doing credit to an indescribable, animated color would've been very expensive, and it was obvious that this was made on a shoe string. "},{"Title":"Oddly entertaining","Date":"24 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" If anyone who is a total skeptic, then you ought to check out this movie. Wil Wheaton fresh from Stand By Me, plays the son of an overly religious stepfather(Claude Akins, 1926-94) and brother who works on a farm. One night, a meteorite falls on a farm, while his wife has an affair with the farmhand. In the morning, they check it out. It happens to be not a meteorite, but something else. More sinister. Because when it landed, it dissolved into the ground. So when the farmer began to water and fertilize the crops, it's when the curse starts to take place. The produce became filled with worms, the cows and chickens get sick, and looking rancid. And the stepfather become oblivious to the fact that the curse is infected him and his family. Only the brother and sister escape the fate before it overcomes them. Since the mother was already the first victim of the curse, she has the opportunity to take out the unsuspecting developer who has been wanting to buy the land of her current husband. This movie is very absurd to say the least. A very moderate cast. The Wheaton team, and John Schneider did very well. Silly though. 2 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"It's in the water!","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" A decent, but unspectacular late 80s cheesy low-budget b-grade horror feature starring Wil Wheaton (not too long after the hit movie Stand by Me). The peculiar plot is a very loose adaptation of a H.P. Lovecraft short story, and from that the film's pacing can plod about (quite talkie and then there was the family dramas) and throw around some ridiculous and elaborate occurrences. It's the performances that drives this one home and some icky, if tatty make-up FX work latter on (not including some very low-end special effects), but other than that there's not all that much to it. The idea isn't bad, but the execution (outside some well-shot scenes) is sloppy (like the use of slow motion towards the end). A respectable Wheaton makes for an agreeably sympathetic performance and a lively Claude Akins is the opposite as his aggressively headstrong, bible totting step-father. There's good support in the shape of Kathleen Jordon Gregory, Cooper Huckabee, Steve Carlisle and John Schneider. The setting of a remote farm does create a claustrophobic hold, where there's never a sense of feeling secure and surprisingly the night time sequences did draw upon some atmospheric spells. A fruity, small scale Horror/Sci-fi production, which can be a little dull. "},{"Title":"Should have entry level cult status.","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" A first effort we were told at the Premiere in Knoxville TN for the Director David Keith. While not a pop crowd pleaser, it did catch the Lovecraft dead dark black kinda occult emotion. I will never forget this black-dead-space emotion, which I had never felt before, coming off the big screen in the Tennessee theater in Knoxville, TN; the small screen of TV may not give the same effect. For those fond of art horror films it could be a cult film for its ability to go for the emotion of the book rather than modifying it to be just a typical Hollywood film. The gross out scenes, bugs on people, hurt the otherwise cult feel of an other-world creation as the house environment is attacked by a force. "},{"Title":"A Perfectly Absurd, Horror Comedy -)","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" I like 80s horror flicks, they're so unintentionally funny ) It could be either the comical makeup of dead people walking or the monsters or certain scenes intended to be scary but instead leaves you rolling on your stomach.To me, The Curse, is mostly funny(intentionally or not), part horror but either way, still an absurd movie! Absurd because we've an inconsistent story that messes things up. There's an alien object that crash lands on earth and changes the lives of a farm family for the worse. Which is all fine, but this object is erratic in its destructive nature, thereby giving its victims enough time to flee. It seems to kill people or animals only when it's in the mood -)There're certain characters too, after being in important scenes, just disappear from the proceedings after a while, and we've no clue as to what happens to them.However there're on screen moments that are quite scary, coupled with eerie background score that heightens the anticipation. And some of the acting also contribute, bringing the fear factor alive in the movie - like Wil Wheaton as Zack, Claude Akins(as the god-fearing, strict stepfather of Zack) and Kathleen Jordon Gregory(as Zack's mother). Kathleen's performance, especially, is the highlight of The Curse.Also, let's not forget the enough doses of skin show that adds to the excitement or fear...whichever way we want it pVerdict If you've always enjoyed illogical or senseless horror, The Curse perfectly fits the chill, oops...bill ) "},{"Title":"Pretty good little horror movie!","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" A comet lands on a Tennessee farm, melts, and contaminates the water supply. No spoilers here but hilarity ensues because of the water pollution! I have grown to like Claude Akins and he does well as the super-religious head of the farm family. Wil Wheaton is good as the son and we see things mainly through his eyes. As a horror connoisseur, I didn't expect much from this 1987 production but I was pleasantly surprised. The suspense builds, and when the crap hits the fan, the effects are pretty good. This movie is definitely better than the 4.1 it has right now. Not a bad effort at all. I have seen tons of low-budget horror flicks and this one is well above average. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A good gross 'em out rural horror flick.","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" Actor David Keith made an unusual but creditable directing debut with this positively nasty adaptation of the H.P. Lovecraft story The Colour Out of Space (which had been previously filmed as Die, Monster, Die!). It takes the dying of the family farm quite literally. Young Wil Wheaton, who'd recently made an impression in the excellent drama Stand By Me, is promoted as the star of this story about a small group of country folk and their yucky fate after a very strange meteorite lands on their property and oozes a substance that contaminates their water supply. It slowly but surely mutates some of the family - as well as the livestock - and drives them into a frenzy. Wheaton is appealing in the lead role, and is one of the few characters in the story with any brains. He knows the water is bad, but his Bible thumping, overbearing stepfather Nathan (Claude Akins) refuses to acknowledge that anything is wrong - at least, until he sees what's growing inside of his produce. Keith and his crew do a fine job of creating some *very* effective down-home atmosphere; this is both filmed in and set in the town of Tellico Plains, Tennessee. They also make this a decidedly grim affair, which only gets more creepy as it goes along. However, that's not to say that they miss the potential for humour, as witness the connect the dots sequence. Visual and makeup effects are generally well done, with the blisters that grow on peoples' faces growing bigger all the time. The music by Franco Micalizzi is quite good throughout. The cast features an interesting bunch of actors. In addition to Wheaton and the entertainingly hammy Akins, the actors include Malcolm Danare (Christine) as obnoxious, bullying slob stepbrother Cyrus, Wheatons' adorable younger sister Amy as his sister in the film, the solid Cooper Huckabee (The Funhouse) as the doctor who tries to do the right thing, and in an amusing case of What is HE doing here?, John Schneider of 'The Dukes of Hazzard' fame plays the straight laced water company representative. Steve Carlisle is hilarious as unsubtle slimeball Davidson (then again, very little in this film is subtle) and Kathleen Jordon Gregory is memorable as the increasingly demented mother Frances. The film isn't without its problems viewers can find the characters infuriating, and the script (by David Chaskin) isn't too coherent (just where does Schneiders' character come from during the finale?) overall. Still, horror fans should find this a pretty agreeable gross-out experience (that bit with the apples is fun) that is slickly made and full of cool moments. Associate producer Louis Fulci is actually film director Lucio Fulci. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of  the Better Bad B Low Budget  Sci-Fi Movies","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" I am 71 as I write this review, and have to admit to having an affinity for low budget sci-fi horror films since my early teens. Starting with House of Wax (1954), and Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1956), I have always been partial to stories where something strange is going on, often called the paranoid plot, and only the main character or hero believes it is not coincidence, but something dangerous or evil.This film, while just so-so in its execution and production values, fulfills the above criteria. Only Wil Wheaton and his sister Amy realize there is something wrong with the water after stuff from a meteor leaks into the ground. When people and animals begin to develop strange symptoms and behaviors, the others are either in denial or attribute it to false causes, such as punishment for sexual sins. There is a creepiness that I found riveting, despite the films many shortcomings. And the special effects, particularly during the first half, while slight, were gross and scary looking. I have always preferred monsters that look only a little off from normal people. The overdone collapse of the house near the end was ridiculous, and hurt the movie. Still, I enjoyed the slow buildup and, unlike many other reviewers, found the movie and the idea original and suspenseful. If you are expecting a work of art, stay away.Other Good B Low Budget films in this category are The Baby (1973), Population 436 (2008), Night of the Creeps (1986), Pulse (1988), and Grandmother's House (1988). I won't even try to list the bad movies in this category, since there are so many, and I can't remember the names of most of those I have seen. The 8 rating is only comparing the film to others in this category, not mainstream movies in general. "},{"Title":"The Poo From Outer Space","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" The Curse is hardly a stellar movie, but it provides some gross entertainment all the same. This film gained some recognition most likely because of names like Will Wheaton, Lucio Fulci and H.P. Lovecraft being attached to this production. In my country, this film was a bit more appropriately titled The Farm, since that's the main location of the film anyway and some evil sh!t is going on there. So, a meteor crash lands nearby a farm. The thing melts, seeps into the ground and soon the water, the vegetables, the live stock and - naturally also - humans become infected with the alien substance. And that's where the movie provides us the most fun with gross make-up effects of larva-infested blisters & mutations. And if you become infected, it won't take long before you'll start acting like a raving maniac. The film builds up to a satisfying climax; albeit fairly incomprehensible what happens to the farmhouse, it does provide a bit of spectacular entertainment. There was a time were I would have been more rigorous in judging this film, but now I can safely say die-hard B-horror movie lovers will sure have some fun with an outing like The Curse. "},{"Title":"poorly put together","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  This being director David Keith's first directorial effort I was willing to be a little forgiving in it's production.  After viewing the film I now understand while he has gone on to only direct one other movie, he's not very good.  Even so, The Curse needs a lot of fixing up in both direction and editing just to get to mediocrity.  The biggest problem is the flow of the movie, its feel is very rough as it jumps from scene to scene.  This could be fixed with establishing shots.For example when Wil Wheaton's character views the Orb on the second night.  We have a shot of Wil looking out his window, cut to a shot of the Orb outside, cut to a shot of Wil outside, looking at the Orb.  How did he get there so fast??  A way to fix this is to have Wil looking at the Orb, get up to leave the room (to establish that he's going to go look at the Orb) and then cut to the scene of the orb, then cut to him looking at it.  Doing little things like establishing shots can make a movie look a lot more professional.But as I said even if this was done the film would only be mediocre.  Claude Akins and Wil Wheaton do as much as they can with the script they are giving.  In my opinion only Cooper Huckabee performs above expectations and Kathleen Jordan Gregory gives a fine, if a bit over the top, performance as the mother, the first person to be infected.  The rest of the cast ham it up way too much.  This was probably done so people wouldn't take the film to seriously and therefore they wouldn't notice how bad it was, but they end up just being distracting.  John Schnieder is in the movie for his name only, he has very little screen time and isn't very integral to the plot.The movie does have a couple of good moments, mostly dealing with the mother as she slowly turns into a hideous creature.  But they are too few and far between to alleviate the boredom that sets in beforehand.It is also obvious that the movie ran out of money before it could be completed (or I hope it did) as the ending doesn't tie in very well with the prologue.  Granted it doesn't have a Hollywood type ending and I give it credit for that but it needed to be done much better.Overall The Curse is a pretty dull movie and rates a mere 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Flawed but nonetheless scary","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  Granted, this like most adaptations of Lovecraft is quite changed but from those i've seen so far this has been the most faithful. The Colour Out of Space was quite an eerie tale scribed by the master of supernatural fiction and this movie captures that. Yes, there are some very cliche things in this film and David Keith couldn't direct a PSA but yet this movie manages to work. The movie is just freaky. It scared me quite a bit and I don't scare easily. It's not too proud to be grotesque. Had Cluade Akins and Wil Wheaton not been in the cast it might have been just another hackneyed contrived 80s slasher film but their performances coupled with a unique and affecting score make it work. I was quite uncertain as to whether I wanted to see this or not. Now I'm glad I did.  "},{"Title":"Dhydes, Preach it Brother!","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  Hey Dude, Its glad to see someone else shares my opinion about this movie, The Curse rules people! Stop trashing it, C'mon. I dont feel so weird now, that I know someone else found this movie to be scary. Cause this movie did freak me out big time, When I was a kid. Now I can just laugh when I see Frances Play connect the dots on Cyrus's butt....hehehehe. Its hilarious when nathen keeps Slapping Zack around, everytime he opens his mouth. So what this movie is cheap, Its a 80s horror movie, Horror movies arn't supposed to have a huge budget. This movie  frightened me very much like back in, 1988, when I was like, 7. Now I love this movie, it rocks. I dont understand why all these people are giving this movie such bad reviews. one thing I dont understand is, how come the lady who played Frances never made any other movies except this one. She should of. I dont get how someone can make one movie 15 years ago, and never make one again. Its weird. But, Anyway, I wanna suggest something to the IMDB. In the Memorable Quotes section for this movie, you gotta put the line when Cyrus says  What are ya doin back there  to Frances. And She answers Connect The Dots , That scene is so funny, so you gotta put it in there man. take my advice IMDB. your right DHYDES, this movie is a great metomorphis type Horror movie. Another movie that you should have listed is The Exorcist, Thats the best Metomorphis style horror movie, next to the Curse, I think. Those were the only movies that ever really scared me( The Curse and the Exorcist). they're both very similar in many ways, cause they both deal with innocent people getting all messed up, getting all gross, and acting crazy. So, with that said, go see THE CURSE. dont listen to all the other bad reviews. It Rules! "}{"Title":"A great film of evil metamorphosis","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  What suprises me when reading these comments is the wide array of differing opinions.  Either you hated it or you loved it.  I for one, loved it.  I watched it when I was in junior high and it freaked me out.  Every piece of fruit I ate for weeks had to be cut, and if I cut it, I stood as far back as possible.  My brother has since bought the movie and whenever we make it out to see eachother that movie comes along.  It doesn't quite freak me out the way it used to, but it still gets to me.  Its a great film of metamorphosis, a type of film too under-produced.  If you found this film scary I would guess you found other movies of metamorphosis scary, such as The Fly or Leviathan.  This movie will never win an oscar, but its got something indescribable and disturbing.  As a huge horror film fanatic, I would list The Curse on my top 3. "},{"Title":"This movie rules!","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  I love this movie, I watch it all the time. When I first saw it on HBO around the time it first came out 87-88 it scared the hell out of me. The thing I think that really scared me about this movie was how in the beginning all the character seemed so innocent, so pure. then all of a sudden they started acting acting crazy, losing their minds and starting doing all these weird things. The character that frightened me the most was Frances. That whole thing about the water being contaminated freaked me out alot when I was little. After seeing this movie I was afraid to drink water for a long time. this film gave me nightmares for weeks. I would say that I was traumitized a little by this movie as a kid. I loved horror movie back then and still do. But this has to be one of the only movies that truly scared me. I finally saw this movie again a few years ago. And I wasn't scared of it anymore. I thought I might be. But I wasn't. Instead of being scared when I saw it, this time I laughed my ass off. The funniest part in the movie has to be the part when Frances plays connect th dots on cyrus's butt. Thats one of the coolest things I've ever seen done in a movie. I laugh everytime. So I recommend this to anyone who like cheesy 80's horror movies. but remember you probably won't want to drink any water for a while after seeing this movie, cause i know I didn't. Watch this movie!  "},{"Title":"John Schneider is awesome!","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  I viewed this movie because John Schneider was in it.  He was so cool but the movie wasn't really scary.  That's ok though cause it doesn't look like something he'd watch with his family.  Keep it between the ditches y'all and Grrreat job John! "},{"Title":"All in all pretty good","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" I watched this movie for the 1st time yesterday.. I thought that it was a pretty good movie, but no one can dis-regard the fact that it is a classic 80's cheesy horror movie... having that said I must admit that I did love the movie though. There were parts where you could tell it was fake, then other times things looked real. I think that it is something that if you get the chance to watch it, you should, but I'm sure tons of other people disagree with me. It wasn't Wil's best. I think Wil done just fine in the movie, I just think that everything else could have been better like the camera direction and the special effects and stuff. All-in-all, if you want to scare your younger relative, make them watch this movie. "},{"Title":"I still have nightmares","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  I can't understand how some people diss this excellent piece of horror history. I remember seeing it when I was around 8 or 9. I still have some nightmares about rotten food, and whenever the water tastes funny, I think of these f*d up religious freaks turning into monsters. Yes, the special effects suck. Yes the acting is bad. But don't you folks have any imagination? Does someone have to explain to you what happens in a book? Free your minds, you gullible yanks! Without expanding your mind and freeing some space up for imagination, we would only have a hellish society left. Which coincidentally reminds me of some weird dictator-led nation with stars n stripes... "},{"Title":"Lol","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" Lmao!!! You guys think you have it bad watching this thing, I actually spent half my life in the little hick town it was filmed in.Now that is bad. Oddly only a small glimpse of the town is visible in the movie, in the scene where you can see an old barbed wire fence outside of the car window as John Schneider drives down the road... well the hill just above it has contained 3 apartment complexes since around 1992 and I currently reside in one of them.In another scene you can see out the door of the Inn (if you can call it that) the old historic Co-Op building which used to be a Railroad Station that was used in the Civil War (tracks have been gone since 1990 or so).Fortunately I did spend the other half of my childhood in various other places across the country.Unfortunately, I am currently residing in good Ole' Tellico Plains Tennessee again ..... can't seem to stay out of this place .... aaahhh... omg it is a curse!!!! "},{"Title":"The Curse","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" A struggling farmer believes God has blessed him when his crops begin to grow substantially after a large meteor lands in his field, dissolving into his soil and water supply after the local doc, Forbes(Cooper Huckabee), pokes a hole in it. The infected water(it's molecular structure altered by the introduced alien substance from the glowing meteor) causes people and livestock to act irrationally, soon turning violent. Hysteria, dementia, violent mood swings, and skin mutations all result from the infected water.The fruit is worthless internally despite looking ripe and healthy externally. The local realtor and city councilman, Charlie Davidson(Steve Carlisle) woos a TVA water employee, Willis(John Schneider)hoping to get a contract for building a dam in their community.Poor Zack(Wil Wheaton) has to rough it on his own once his mother, Francis(Kathleen Jordon Gregory) becomes under the weather and his sister(Amy, Wil's sis) is assaulted by manic chickens, as Nathan(Akins) and his antagonistic jerk son, Cyrus(Malcolm Danare), both even worse after being infected, torment him through insults and harsh treatment..you see he's not their blood(..his mother married Nathan, it seems, because they needed support he could give) which means they feel little pity or affection towards him. Nathan is a hard, strict, bible-quoting fanatic who doesn't want anyone butting in to matters he considers private, even if disease and death spread because of the infected water, or what's evident before him, the fact that his family are afflicted with a plague.Tolerating Claude Akins for the duration of this film proves to be difficult because he's such a loud and repugnant creature you just want to see suffer in the worst possible way for the problems he causes. And, Wheaton is certainly easy to sympathize with because he's caught between a rock and hard place, little wiggle room to remove himself as madness evolves all around him. Of course, those involved in attempting to cover up something which could prove harmful regarding future prosperity will get their just desserts. Some really spine-tingling make-up effects showing what the mutations and disease cause to humans(and particularly the fruit and cattle)such as opening wounds bursting forth maggots, slimy puss, and beetles! The climax, as the house literally begins imploding while sinking into the earth, is a bit too much. The hideous nature for which causes mother Francis to deform into a ghastly monstrosity is really potent stuff. I'm sure Akins and Danare's fate will be met with applause. I do consider The Curse a success in regards to how it can effectively make your skin crawl, but other than that, I find this rather foul in all respects. It seems to suffer post-production problems, in script particularly, as characters vanish, while others make such preposterous choices which could cause irreversible results(..not to mention a ridiculous ending which leads us to believe that nothing was done in regards to the crisis of the film, written off as no threat or danger to the communities surrounding the farm whose soil and water could cause a national outbreak).This is part of a series of films unrelated to each other. "},{"Title":"Watch out for Nate's smack attack, Zack!","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" Poor old Zack (Will Wheaton) his mom, Frances (Kathleen Jordon Gregory), has gone and married Nathan, a super-strict, religious zealot farmer (Claude Akins) who punishes every infraction with a lightning-fast slap or two around the chops (seriously, this guy has the reflexes of Bruce Lee). Zack's older step-brother Cyrus (Malcolm Danare) isn't much better, an obnoxious fat slob who takes every opportunity to drop the youngster in the s**t (sometimes literally!). Matters only get worse for Zack after a strange meteor crashes onto the farm, contaminating the water supply with space goop that spoils the crops, causes the animals to turn hostile, and turns his family into violent raving loonies with very bad skin.Loosely based on H. P. Lovecraft's short story The Colour Out of Space, The Curse is a trashy slice of '80s B-movie schlock that no-self respecting fan of bad movies should miss. The dreadful directorial debut of actor David Keith, whose career behind the camera has, rather unsurprisingly, not exactly flourished, the film delivers one unintentionally hilarious scene after another. Viewers are treated to a crazed chicken attack on Zack's l'il sis Alice (Amy Wheaton), a manky mutated tomato squirting a torrent of juice over Frances's face, a mouldy cow erupting in a spray of maggots, Zack's mother melting into a pool of liquid, and a ridiculously over-the-top finalé in which Zack must rescue his younger sister from the farmhouse, which is inexplicably collapsing in on itself, while fending off attacks from his demented step-relatives (Cyrus attacks Alice, while Nathan, impaled on a pitchfork, still manages to show Zack the back of his hand a couple more times before carking it).The amazing thing is, as bad as this is, it somehow spawned a sequel (of sorts)&#x97;Curse II The Bite, in which a guy's hand turns into a snake.6.5 out of 10 (it's too much fun to rate any lower), rounded up to 7 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"80s Cheesfest","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" The Curse is enjoyable when it tries, and only has a few decent points about it.**SPOILERS**Working on a farm, Zack, (Wil Wheaton) starts getting upset over stepfather Nathan Hayes, (Claude Atkins) and stepbrother Cyrus, (Malcom Danare) continuous religious indoctrination, despite his mother Frances, (Kathleen Jordon Gregory) and sister Alice, (Amy Wheaton) interjections. When a meteorite crashes nearby, they are at a loss of what to do and finally decide to ignore it when it doesn't test as such. When they try to continue on, they slowly start to realize that there is something wrong, and Dr. Forbes, (Cooper Huckabee) is able to trace it back to the meteorite infecting the drinking water. Knowing this, the unaffected family members try to get away from the infected ones.The Good News This one is slightly disappointing with a few good qualities. The slow build-up works at times, mainly due to the fact that it's a series of small events with seemingly no relation to each other suddenly starting to build up. From the mentions of the water to the freak-out at dinner to the apples, cattle and skin suddenly start going rotten, this one builds nicely and has some sense to do it that way. It slips in slowly and finally, they all add up once it sinks in as to what is going on. There is some really nice make-up work in here, especially the subtle wounds on the face. They slowly show up and become more prominent, another product of the slow build-up and once the creature transformation occurs, it becomes a really great job. The fact that this has a couple of high-quality action scenes is a great plus. The landing of the meteorite is a spectacular fiery spectacle, complete with high quality crushing in the countryside and leaving a flaming trail of trees in the path. The big one is the final assault in the house at the end, which has several of the film's few kills, a really great brawl mixed in with several fights and the action-packed spectacle that ensues when the house starts to fall down as others inside are still fighting. That makes the sequence all the better, and these make the film watchable.The Bad News There are a few flaws with this one. The most obvious one is the utter lack of action in the film. This one decides to spend almost all of the beginning concentrating on the talking, and outside of the meteorite crashing, nothing happens until the middle section. That leaves the beginning with absolutely nothing, and that is drawn down even more by the film's constant religious banter. This is aggravating on several areas, since there's a valuable chunk of the movie taken up with a time-wasting factor, plus all it does is just get to the point where it isn't a character trait, especially once it becomes obvious that they're using that as an excuse to keep the plot moving. It could've been ended early during the first questioning section, but by playing the religious card, it keeps it going for no reason. These here all combine together to make the film seem really dull. The special effects are really hit-or-miss, with some being passable and others just being atrocious. The subtle special effects for the face are great, but once they start to go in between the two, the intermediate stage of the monsters look rather cheap and really terrible, and with the constant shoving of it in the viewer, it soon becomes laughable. The last big one is that there's a severe lack of kills in a monster movie. This one really only knocks off a couple, while the others are responsible from others. This makes the creature seem less like a possible threat due to the fact that it really doesn't have much time to really get out and give it a chance to become threatening. These here are what really keep the film down.The Final Verdict There isn't a whole lot to love about it, but there is a couple good points in here to make this feel watchable. It's worthwhile only for those who enjoy the cheesy creature features of the time, while those who aren't that big on those should be well advised to seek caution with this one.Rated R Violence and Language "},{"Title":"Sounds like Lovecraft's The Colour out of Space","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" I stumbled across this one while cruising horror flick site. The plot and characters and developments sound like a near crystal clear copy of 'The Colour out of Space' by H.P. Lovecraft. In that story, a meteor, from the cosmic gulfs, lands on the family farm and begins to change humans and animals into monsters. Similarities include the crop rotting, the animals rotting and the people rotting. The mother is locked into the upstairs attic room as she goes insane and transforms into a hideous pile of putridity. Phuckin' A. In the story, everything turns into a gray powder and disintegrates. One of the farmer's kids falls into the well and gets transformed into a human jello pop. Creepy stuff.If The Curse is nearly as good as it sounds then I'm gonna have to scoop it up. "}{"Title":"Nathan, what is wrong with your chickens?","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" I've got to admit THE CURSE is one of the best comedies I have seen in a long time. Too bad they wanted it to be a serious horror film! A meteorite lands in a small farm in Tennessee and soon poisons the well water. This in turn creates a virus that starts driving everyone mad as their skin beings to peel off. Hey, its another movie Eli Roth ripped off! An uncredited adaption of H.P. Lovecraft's The Colour from Outer Space, this film is only notable for three things. First, it marks actor David Keith's directorial debut. Second, it stars a young Wil Wheaton and his sister Amy. Third, it may be the only film in history to feature a hot woman trying to get it on with Claude Akins only to have him yell, No! Keith is actually a decent director but the film yearns for a widescreen release. If one wants to look deeper into the film, it can be seen as a battle between religion vs. science. When Akins wife gets sick, his plan is to keep her locked up and pray until she gets better while the local doctor wants her to get medical help. But I doubt Keith and co. wanted that much. They wanted to show a movie where people turn gooey and maggots spew characters. And they do that with fine color (interestingly, Lucio Fulci worked on the film in aiding Keith so maybe this is his influence?). For some reason the film opens with what should be the movie's punchline. A fine dumb viewing for late night and not much else. "},{"Title":"It's not all that bad","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie years ago before Wil Wheaton became a star. The thing that struck me the most was how much it resembled 'The colour out of space' by H.P. Lovecraft. One of my favorite Lovecraft stories. I'd like to know if they tried to adapt it or if it was just a coincidence. It wasn't really all that gross, even for 1978 and the acting wasn't any worse than most low budget movies. I'd love to see a Lovecraft story given the big budget treatment. I thought the transformation of the mother through the course of the movie was really creepy. The curse certainly isn't the best horror flick out there but it isn't bad either. As for the Christian stereotypes, c'mon people, that's the way the part was written and Claude Akins does a fantastic job in that part. Besides there really are people out there like that. Just as there are of all stereotypes. As for a rating, I'd give it a 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This movie SUCKS!","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  Anyone that could sit throught this film and actually LIKE it is beyond me! This is soooo bad! I was laughing! The only reason i watched it was bc my cousin forced me to, bc she bought it only bc Wil Wheaton was in it then she watched it and regreted wasting 5 bucks! Why did Wil even waste his great acting talent and his GORGEOUS good looks on this?! Oh well he must of REALLY needed the money! My advice is stay very far away from this film! It's not worth it! 0/10  "},{"Title":"Claude Akins Deserves an Oscar!","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  Well, that might be going a little overboard, but I was really impressed with his performance in this EXTREMELY low-budget horror flick. Although the lack of cash sometimes shows through (especially in some of the meteor & makeup effects), THE CURSE  was an extremely resourceful & effective attempt at backwoods sci-fi/horror. The awful transfer from film to video gave it an authentic drive-in movie circa 1978 feel, almost like a home movie, which for some reason was very creepy to me. And there's a point in the film where all logic seems to go out the window & ALL the characters all start behaving irrationally and illogically; for me, this was quite scary and really fits the theme of the film of people losing their minds and becoming raving zombie lunatics. THE CURSE is an extremely grotesque & graphic film, and for me it seemed very real-- I credit this to the location shooting & the authentic rural atmosphere that the director created. Any serious horror fan, particularly of films from the late 1970s and early 80s, should give this a look. I'm glad I did. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Saying this movie stinks is like saying Robert DeNiro is Italian","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  To say that The Curse stinks is like saying Robert DeNiro is Italian.  I found the way this movie stereotypes Christians offensive.  For Claude Aikens to have been in this movie means that he probably needed money to pay his bills.  Save your money and time and start a belly button lint collection instead.  "},{"Title":"Pretty bad, but I expected a lot worse. Is that a compliment? Not really&#x85;","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" An overly obsessed religious man (Claude Atkins) is trying to provide for his family by holding onto his farm, and make sure his family obeys his orders. An unknown object flies out of nowhere in their yard during a hectic storm, and things start changing for the worse. This is pretty trashy stuff on virtually no budget what so ever. Actor David Keith takes a break from the acting world to direct this one. How did he do? Not so good&#x85; I've seen a lot worse, believe me, but that doesn't mean this is a good horror film. It's incredibly cheap looking with many unlikable characters. The so called Father is a sanctimonious idiot who refuses to succumb to any type of reasoning. The brother is a fat pig, and the Mother is unsympathetically weak and naive. It's the real life sister and brother combo (who ironically play brother and sister in the movie as well) of Will & Amy Wheaton that manage to be likable. The gore is mostly consisted of lame gooey effects, and is more laughable than anything else. We do get a rather gruesome scene of a chicken pecking away at a girl. That's really about it. Will Wheaton shows off the talent that he brought to the table in Stand By Me, and manages to overcome such a crappy script. He wasn't great, but considering he had nothing to work with? I commend him. Claude Atkins's character is written as a religious nut who is pretentious, but I thought he was completely moronic. What type of idiot is adamant on drinking water, even if it's been heavily tampered?? He was just written so idiotically that I couldn't wait to see his character perish. Final Thoughts It never bored me, but it's an incredibly stupid movie. The poorly written characters and the fact that it took everything seriously really does this one in. This could have been a great cheese fest, but it went the serious route. I can't recommend this one to you guys, unfortunately 3.5/10 "},{"Title":"A very fun and exciting Sci-fi horror shocker!","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" A young farm boy named Zack Hayes (Wil Wheaton) has a dysfunctional family run by his bible-thumping step-dad Nathan (Claude Akins). Until one night, a meteorite crash lands near their farm and suddenly unleashes a goo carrying alien parasites and contaminates the farm's water supply. The stuff makes the crops look all fresh and huge but disgusting on the inside, the animals turn evil and zombie-esquire and some of the farm people turn into zombie-like creatures as only Zack must fight them.An entertaining and gooey sci-fi horror thriller inspired by an H.P. Lovecraft story called The Color of Space with decent special effects, disgusting moments you won't forget like the apples with worms scene and of course great performances by Wheaton and Akins. Sure the acting of the other actors isn't very good with the exception of Wheaton and Akins and the plot could have been more coherent but this is an enjoyable and gross b-movie from producer Lucio Fulci that's still worth watching.Also recommended Slither, Night of the Creeps, The Thing (1982), From Beyond, Re-Animator, Deadly Friend, C.H.U.D., Slugs, Undead, Tremors, Pet Semetary, Maximum Overdrive, Night of the Comet, The Deadly Spawn (a.k.a. Return of the Aliens), Xtro, Die Monster Die, Contamination, Doom, Critters 1 & 2, Killer Klowns from Outer Space, The Gate, Terrorvison, Videodrome, Society, Lifeforce, Event Horizon, Creepshow, Evil Dead II, Bad Taste, Insemenoid, Bride of Re-Animator, Beyond Re-Animator, Dagon, The Blob (1958 and 1988), The Stuff, Resident Evil, Day of the Terrifs, From Dusk Till Dawn, The Fly (1986), The Pit, Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1957 and 1978), The Faculty, X-Files Fight the Future and Species. "},{"Title":"I didn't think it was too bad actually.","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" The Curse is set in the small American town of Tellico Plains in Tennessee where the deeply religious Nathan Crane (Claude Akins) & his son Cyrus (Malcolm Danare) lives with his current wife Frances (Kathleen Jordon Gregory) & her two children Zachary & Alice (real life brother & sister Wil & Amy Wheaton). One night Zach sees a meteorite crash onto land near the farmhouse, they call Alan Forbes (Cooper Huckabee) the local doctor & part time meteorite specialist in to check it out & any potential health risks. Forbes finds none although the meteorite is very strange & unlike anything he's ever seen, the following night the meteorite melts into a river of slimy goo which infects the farms water supply with horrifying consequences from killer chickens to the bodily mutation of those that drink the infected water...The directorial debut of David Keith who is better known as an actor it comes as no surprise that in the twenty years since The Curse was made he has only directed two other things, judging by the results here he obviously decided somewhat wisely to concentrate on his acting career... Anyway, the script by David Chaskin, whose only other previous script was for A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge (1985), was filmed under the title 'The Well' & was supposedly based on a short story by H.P. Lovecraft interestingly called 'The Colour Out of Space' & is just a little bit different that makes this stand out from the countless slasher films that were being made during the 80's, unfortunately however that still doesn't mean it's any good. It's funny because while I was watching The Curse for the first time last night since it was originally released in the late 80's & knowing of it's bad reputation I sat there thinking we all complain about films, in particular horror, not being original yet when something that at least tries to be different comes along like The Curse they almost always get bad reviews because of them being silly or stupid, I'm not really sure where I'm going or what I'm trying to say with that statement but it feels relevant. The film moves along at a reasonable pace at less than 90 minutes in length & at least I never got bored with it, the character's & dialogue are poor but just about suffice & most of all it entertained me & as far as I'm concerned that's what films are all about regardless of any other consideration & it's as simple & straight forward as that. On the negative side there's a distinct lack of exploitation or gore & the character's & story aren't quite good enough on they're own to save The Curse. I also didn't get what the meteorite was in the end & there was no consistency in it's explanation, at first everything was explained in a scientific way with the goo altering the molecular structure of living things but at the end it suddenly appeared to become some supernatural force as it ripped the farmhouse apart without much explanation of how it did so.Director Keith does alright, it looks OK although there is one terrible special effect when the meteorite originally lands. If you look closely at the left hand side of the screen during the shot when the meteorite hits the ground for the first time the resulting explosion & fire illuminates the rod/stick thing that is attached to the model meteorite & is being used to 'move' it along the obviously model set! Overall though the special effects are OK, there's an unfortunate & somewhat frustrating lack of gore, someone gets some fingers stuck in their neck & someone is stabbed with a pitchfork but generally speaking it's pretty tame. There are a few quite effective scenes here including a gross bit when someone bites into an apple & it's literally full of crawling maggots which has to be right up there as your worst nightmare, I think I'd be physically sick & wouldn't be able to eat another piece of fruit ever again!Technically the film is OK, it's reasonably well made without being spectacular or anything. The IMDb states that The Curse was an American production but I was interested to see several familiar names from the Italian horror industry listed in the credits including Ovidio G. Assonitis & Lucio Fulci on the production side of things & the fact that some of it was actually shot in Rome in Italy. The acting is OK, apparently actor Wil Wheaton said the only good thing about The Curse was that his sister got a job because of it, I think there will be some out there who see even less good points in it. The cast list also credits someone called Steve Davis with a part, I can safely but regrettably inform everyone that it's not the famous British snooker player...The Curse is one of those strange films, it's one of those films where the general public opinion is that it's complete crap & to be fair I would have a hard time arguing with that assessment but, & there's always a but, for whatever reason that I can't really explain I liked it. I'm not sure what that says about me but I reckon this just might be misunderstood... "},{"Title":"Who the Hell is Will Wheaton?","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" And more importantly, who the hell cares?!?!? When a film boasts in HUGE letters on the cover that it stars somebody you've never heard of, be skeptical.So, why do all these ultra low budget film makers have to torture poor H.P. Lovecraft stories? I mean, is there any excuse for it? I put forward that , no, there is not.This little diamond of poop managed to rope Sheriff Lobo and Luke Duke in to it's crap-trap. And wow! They got Will Wheaton (so?!?).Okay, it was based on the Colour out of Space (sort of), so, being an HPL fan, I had to get it. Well, I got it....I even went in skeptical, and knowing it was a lame 'un, but still was disappointed. "},{"Title":"Rotten to the Core","Date":"1 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** Smelly movie that has to do with this septic tank, or so were told, dropped from a passing plane over the Nathan Ranch that smells up the entire property as well as rots away Farmer Nathan Crane's, Claude Akins, fall apple harvest. Unfortunately not filmed in the 1950's and early 60's versions of Smellavision and Aromarama the film lacks the true impact, in the audience smelling it, and realism that could well had and make in a cult classic as long as it's oder lingered on. Instead we get this really awful and smelly film where everything gets contaminated and turns to, for a better word, horse and cow manure.As for Farmer Nathen he does little to elevate the problem by blaming the smell as a curse for the sins that he and his family committed over the years. If he would have acted sooner this entire mess could have been cleaned up by the Tennessee Environmental Agency that attempted, unsuccessfully, to put a lid on it. Meanwhile as the smell started to engulf the entire Nathen residence it was handsome and concerned, for the public at large, environmental agent Willis, John Schneider, who took matters into his own hands to keep the smell from spreading.*****SPOILERS***** Not that convincing of an ending with Agent Willis risking his life as well reputation in being clean cut by saving the two remaining members of the Crane family Zack and Frances, Wil Wheaton & Kathleen Jordon Gregory, for a fate far worse the death as the Nathen Ranch disintegrated into a giant cesspool. But what he got or didn't get for all his efforts is, in nobody believing him, a new set of clothes to replace those that he lost, by the awful stench not being able to be laundered out of them, saving them. "}{"Title":"Will Wheaton plays totally clueless boy","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" Oh Sheldon! If you ever want to make fun out of Will Wheaton, just play this movie. Totally vulnerable and clueless boy who is probably not able to even pee by himself is really horrible thing to watch. He is totally enslaved by the redneck religious abusive father and not able to do much. I could not even feel sorry for the character. He is just useless.Then there is some Lovecraftian moment - a giant white frozen poo falls on the garden, spoiling water, then farmland, then plants, then animals and in the end the redneck themselves. It probably eats or something even their house, but that part of the movie is somewhat obscure to me. But the connection to Lovecraft is really weak, it might be pretty much just generic zombie style stuff.The movie starts with the premise of somewhat larger story with a possible dam to be built in here, probably poisoning much more people, but this story somewhat disappears in really weak run around the house ending. It was a huge disappointment to me. "},{"Title":"Tries really hard, but doesn't quite make it","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" One of the fun things about going through the horror section at the video store is looking at the cool artwork on the sleeve and reading the synopsis on the back. So many of these films promise so much, especially the ones from the 1970s and 80s. The problem is that so many just don't deliver. There are plenty that do, thank goodness, but so many end up being a complete waste of time and money. Then there are those that have the potential and you can tell the people involved tried top make a decent horror film. Such is the case with this low budget 1987 film based on an H.P. Lovecraft story. The concept, though not entirely original, is a good one and in the right hands can be made into a really effective horror film. But this time I guess it just wasn't meant to be and what we're left with is a nice try.Pros Good performances by most of the cast. Paces moves along. Some nice shots of the Tennessee landscape. Good make-up and gross out effects. Some creepy moments. A decent score. Actor David Keith does alright for his directorial debut.Cons Script has some major plot holes, mostly in the second half. The unlikable characters, like Cyrus who's so obnoxious you'll want him to get it, seem to be given more screen-time than the others. Does take a while for the really horrific stuff to happen. Tries to be really scary, but doesn't go far enough and comes off cheesy at times.Final thoughts Whether it was because of the low budget, a lack of time, or even a lack of talent in some of the film's departments, 'The Curse' is a good, but not totally successful attempt at horror. It should liven up a dull afternoon for most horror and b-movie connoisseurs, but don't expect to be blown away. It is better than some of it's so-called sequels. 'Curse II The Bite' is worth a look however.My rating 3/5 "},{"Title":"* out of 4","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" Working on a farm, Zack, (Wil Wheaton) starts getting upset over stepfather Nathan Hayes, (Claude Atkins) and stepbrother Cyrus, (Malcom Danare) continuous religious indoctrination, despite his mother Frances, (Kathleen Jordon Gregory) and sister Alice, (Amy Wheaton) interjections. When a meteorite crashes nearby, they are at a loss of what to do and finally decide to ignore it when it doesn't test as such. When they try to continue on, they slowly start to realize that there is something wrong, and Dr. Forbes, (Cooper Huckabee) is able to trace it back to the meteorite infecting the drinking water. Knowing this, the unaffected family members try to get away from the infected ones.A talented young actor like Wil Wheaton deserves a better vehicle then this cheap looking and poorly directed mess. The special effects are inept and the script bares almost no relation to it's source material, H.P. Lovecraft's The Color Out of Space.Rated R for Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"I would rather go to the dentist than watch this film again!","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  Maybe I wouldn't rather go to the dentist, but this film still isn't very good. Nothing about will shock you like it wants to, after the first victim is swallowed by the CURSE, you'll know every line, every plot point, everything that's going to happen. Whoever wrote this must have just watched about a million old cheesey horror films. Not worth the celluliod it was made on.On a scale of ONE to TEN, THE CURSE gets a 3, because the guy from Stand by Me is in it! "},{"Title":"Not so much a curse as it is bad luck.","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" This movie had a somewhat good premise, just needed more. Then again is it not the story of almost every horror movie. They have something that could be good and screw it up with perhaps not enough killing, a story that goes off track or something that just causes the movie to derail. This movie needed more bodies to be killed of course I am a gore fan and while this movie has that it needed more killing. The story has a farm wife that is unfaithful and a very strict farm dad and two kids in tow. Well a meteor or something strikes and gets into the farm's water supply and what it does when consumed is not pleasant. Basically, the entire movie though is watching the farmer deteriorate both in body and mind. The son trying to keep his sister from eating or drinking the tainted food and water and his need to escape the farm. Like I said, add a bit more here and there and you have a winner as what happens to the family is rather disturbing. You feel for the boy and wish for him to escape, but you also wish the father would go on a major kill spree too. "},{"Title":"An okay horror flick, for dedicated horror fans only.","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" A meteor hits a farmland owned by a farming family with a icky brown substance leaking out of the melted rock into the soil, causing the fruits & vegetables to rot & poison the water, which in turn causes the farm animals to go insane & those who drink the water & eat the food to grow oozing boils & turn into violent, monsters. Pre-teen Zach & his little sister, not to mention the towns doctor are the only ones who seemingly realize that something is off, but can they stop the deadly infection before it reaches outside the grounds of the farm? Or will they too along with the world become infected?THE CURSE is a long forgotten about horror item that emerged during the horror movie craze of the 1980's. Throughout the years, THE CURSE has received somewhat of a mixed reaction from horror fans. What should be noted is how THE CURSE is actually an uncredited remake of the forgettable 1960's BORIS KARLOFF horror film DIE, MONSTER, DIE! & is based on the H.P. LOVECRAFT story THE COLOR OUT OF SPACE (Though he doesn't receive credit on this film) only updated to modern day with the New England setting being shifted to Tennessee. While far from being what one would call a good horror film, THE CURSE isn't really all that bad & actually has a lot of things going for it, while many horror fans might be turned away from the film due to it's slow burning story in the first half, those who stick around for the films second half will not be disappointed, especially gore hounds, as the film goes completely bat crap crazy with it's story, by going for broke & featuring some insane special effects which are really hideous, goopy & gory, featuring plenty of rotting flesh & hideous body meltdowns & puss filled boils & gory monster make-up. The characters while an interesting bunch, are somewhat eccentric & act a little weird even before the infection takes place. The film also sports an interesting twist at the climax Despite being featured extensively in the film, the character of the handsome, doctor who looks to be set up as the hero of the film & the only one, minus Zach the pre-teen hero & his younger sister to recognize something is badly wrong on the farm, only to be knocked off, with a minor character in the film, that of the agent sent to investigate the strange happening winding up being the hero!On the downside, while the script by A Nightmare On Elm Street 2 writer David Chaskin isn't to bad, the direction by first time helmer, actor David Keith (best known to television addicts for his role on STAR TREK THE NEXT GENERATION) is somewhat mediocre. Keith who is making his directorial debut here, somewhat fumbles when it comes to setting up suspense & tension. Many sequences in the film that could have produced a modicum of suspense & tension & delivered some really good scares, is robbed of it's impact, due to Keith seemingly not knowing on how to set up shock sequences & despite the beautiful setting, Keith also fails to inject much if any atmosphere in the film & he also fails to answer a burning question of whatever became of the farmhand who was helping the family on the farm & who was having an affair with the sexually frustrated wife of a strictly religious husband? He's featured quiet extensively in the first half of the film, before dropping out of the second half with no mention as to what has become of him. The acting is somewhat bland, with the late CLAUDE ATKINS the only one who really stands out as the religious stepfather who denies everything weird that is happening, even when his whole world comes crashing down around him. WILL WHEATON (who reportedly thought the film was stupid) is badly miscast as the hero & his real life sister Amy's character could so easily have been written out of the story & it wouldn't have made a difference to the films plot, since her character is utterly forgettable & adds nothing to the films plot. in fact one could almost assume that the only reason her character was here at all, was because Wheaton wouldn't sign on to the film unless his sister could also secure a role, with the film-makers ultimately obliging.Supposedly based on the social crises of the 1980's farmers during the Regan era! (?) The late LUCIO FULCHI served as a second until director.In the end, THE CURSE remains a watchable film at best, while the film has many moments to help it stand out, there is also just as much going against it than there is for it. In fact the film is for dedicated horror fans only, even if you're may like horror but don't don't get much out it & were curious about the movie, or if you're a fan of Will Wheaton & were yet to see the film & were curious about what it is like, I'd advise you not see the movie, since chances are good you'll just hate this movie down right. In this day & age of horror movie remakes THE CURSE could definitely benefit from one. The ending leaves a set up for a potential sequel, but despite the fact that it was later followed by three sequels, none of them are related to this film or one another & serve only as an anthology franchise. The first in name only sequel was the much better made CURSE II THE BITE**1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Insane Christians In A Cheap B-Movie!","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  Not that I have anything against Christians, but anyone can see this film insults them in every way.  One of the commentors said that THE CURSE was biased against Christians.  This is very true.  And THE CURSE is one of the WORST B-Movies ever made.  However, there are aspects so bad about this film that I couldn't help but laugh myself crazy!  It starts off with the element of foreshadowing and finishes with the element of stupidity.  The acting is terrible, so is the writing.  I found David Chaskin's Nightmare On Elm Street 2 to be better than this garbage.  Avoid this one, as it is dumb.  I don't think any other die hard horror fans would like this.  It has some good moments, but overall-what can I say?  Even Wil Wheaton said later on that The only good thing about this movie is that his sister was in it.  Ain't that the truth.  Watch CURSE III or IV if you want better low budget B-Horror.  I have yet to see Curse II, but even that sounds better than this garbage!**1/2out of****Some good moments, insane Christians, bad acting, writing, directing, etc. "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  A talented young actor like Wil Wheaton deserves a better vehicle then this cheap looking and poorly directed mess. The film is about a metrorite crash landing near a farm and poisoning the water causing Wheaton's family to go insane and turn into blood thirsty killers. The special effects are inept and the script bares almost no relation to it's source material, H.P. Lovecraft's The Color Out of Space. "},{"Title":"This is considered an actual film???","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  This is more like an attempt to see how long a human's mind can be stretched. Had I not been used to this kind of stuff, I probably would have went insane. The acting was absolutely terrible, the special effects were sickening, and it looks like they spent about $2.50 on the makeup. It's not as awful as Pod People but it comes VERY close. I can't believe MST3K didn't recycle this. "},{"Title":"Joyous 80's Memories","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" The Farm (much better title than The Curse, if you ask me) was one of the first horror movies I secretly rented during the late 80's, so obviously it always remained something special, and, to me personally, and a movie with great nostalgic value. Of course by now, nearly twenty years later, I realize it's not the greatest horror masterpiece ever made, but it's definitely also not as terrible as some of the reviews around here lead you to believe. The Farm is loosely based on a H.P. Lovecraft story called The Colour Out of Space, revolving on a meteorite crash-landing on the fields around a remote farmhouse and causing crops to grow to enormous sizes (but inconsumable) and organisms to mutate into aggressive monsters. The rudimentary premise is already solid, and David Keith then also adds the engaging sub plot about the stricken family's internal issues. Nathan, the family patriarch, is a religious fanatic who raises his stepchildren with strict rules and believes the rotten crops are God's punishment for the adultery of his wife. Meanwhile the farm also faces financial pressure, as a sleazy local real estate agent tries to buy all unprofitable companies to make room for an upcoming and large-scaled building project. The Farm is competently paced and contains a handful moments of admirable suspense. The intro sequence showing a random guy going berserk and repeatedly yelling It's in the water, it's in the water is rather uncanny, albeit unrelated to any of the other events shown after the opening credits. The make-up effects are delightfully cheesy and more typically 80's than anything you've ever seen before. There isn't any real carnage on screen, but a nice variety of decaying humans (with erupting volcanoes on their faces) and maggot-infested fruit and vegetables. The exaggeratedly destructive finale is somewhat inappropriate and feels like the writers couldn't find another way out the messy plot, but the whole thing luckily never becomes too ridiculous. Wil Wheaton's name parades the VHS cover (understandably, since he starred in the box office hit Stand By Me one year earlier) but it's mostly Claude Akins' performance that impresses. Akins is truly terrific, and even genuinely menacing, as the Bible-quoting and kids-smacking stepfather. Another interesting bit of trivia regarding The Farm is the producer's name. This is the only non-Italian movie ever produced by Lucio Fulci, THE maestro of gory zombie flicks like The Beyond, City of the Living Dead and Zombi 2. Presumably to sound more American, he's credited here as Louis Fulci instead of Lucio. "}{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  The Curseis a total,almost unwatchable garbage,I can't believe the positive reviews people give it here.The acting is bad,the special effects are lame,and the script is obnoxious and stupid.More boring than scary The Curse is one of the lamest horror movies I have seen.Why such great director like Lucio Fulci produced this one is beyond me.Watch it to make fun of it.Not recommended. "},{"Title":"Another terrible stupidity...","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  This poorly made,incredibly cheap horror flick is really stupid.Not scary at all,it offers us some laughable special effects and nothing more.This is the sort of movie that keeps you thinking that they must have intended it to be bad-this couldn't just be some sort of accidental mistake.I found two reasons to watch this piece of crap1)Wil Wheaton(Stand by Me)2)Lucio Fulci,who was an associate producer of this movie.To sum up,all I can say is,that you will laugh till it hurts with The Curse-you can believe me! "},{"Title":"Wheaton gets the beat down he deserves for STTNG","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":" At first, Zach (Wil Wheaton sadly of Star Trek The Next Generation fame) and his sister are the only two people in a very religious family that suspect that the meteor that recently fall from the sky is affecting the water in detrimental ways. However when the animals start acting crazy and the humans shortly following suit, the devout father begins to think it's God's curse for his wife cheating. As if that wasn't enough the family also must deal with a real-estate developer who wants to buy their land.Any Star Trek fan who wants to see Wheaton get a beat down (most likely all of them) will enjoy this film in parts (I must admit those parts were a bit cathartic for me. Other than that slight recommendation, this is just a sub-par B-horror film with laughable special effects. Maybe good enough for a rainy Saturday afternoon, MAYBE.My Grade D+MGM DVD Extras no real extras, but it comes with The Curse 2 on Side B "},{"Title":"A C-Movie Only for Fans of Trash Movie","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Review":"  A meteor falls in the farm of the religious man Nathan Hayes (Claude Akins). The local Dr. Alan Forbes (Cooper Huckabee) decides to call the appropriate authorities to investigate it. However, he is convinced by a speculator, who wishes to buy the lands, and by his sexy wife Esther Forbes (Hope North), who wants to move from that place, to analyze the meteor by himself. A dam will be built In this place and the value of the lands will increase, and Esther will receive an extra bonus from the speculator, if the Hayes sell their lands. Meanwhile, the meteor releases a strange substance in the water table, contaminating the water of Hayes` farm. The young Zachary Hayes (Wil Wheaton) notes that something weird is happening with his mother, but Nathan disregard his observation. Zachary`s family is affected by the water. This movie is a trash C-movie. I bought the VHS just because of Wil Wheaton, from Star Trek, but it is only indicated to fans of trash-movies. The special effects are very poor.  My vote is four.Title (Brazil) `A Maldição , Raízes do Terror' (`The Curse, Roots of Terror')   "}]