[{"Title":"Trading Rape for Action in #4","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 4 is easily my favorite of the DW series, even though I really like most of the first entry. But you see, I find graphic, luridly depicted rape in films distasteful. I could take it in the first film, because there was at least some thematic and emotional need for it (though I still think it was overboard and gratuitous). Parts 2 and 3 escalated the rape and humiliation sequences and writer/director Michael Winner actually seemed to be trying to get us to enjoy the sight of tortured, crying, beaten, naked woman as much as he obviously did; combine this with zero plot, zero character development, and inept action, and you had some really, really bad flicks. Number four was directed by J. Lee Thompson, a frequent collaborator with Bronson since 1976's St. Ives. Thompson took the usual DW revenge formula, eliminated the obligatory rape sequence, and ratcheted up the action. So what we have is a Death Wish picture more similar to Murphy's Law than any of the other films in the series. Of course Bronson's 80s films are often the butt of jokes (to those who remember them at all, that is) but I happen to enjoy them immensely--there's just something I dig about this charismatic, elderly guy running around shooting bad guys; I can't even explain it. If you dig the salt and pepper Bronson as well, then give DW4 a try. "},{"Title":"Bronson Lives","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" My friends and I started watching Bronson movies for the pure humor. It wasn't long after the fact that I found Bronson to one a biggest bad a$$es in movies. In This movie he is well over sixty and he still takes down three gangs and an arcade.My Grandpa can't move much let alone blow people up with a wine bottle bomb. SO if you want to laugh at some really bad acting, but at the same time see a legend at work and have a chance to be exposed to the man know as Bronson. I think this is a good movie to start with. Start here and work your way back. You will find your way to some great movies. My favorite is Once Upon A Time In The West or Hardtimes.Bronson Lives "},{"Title":"Violent, Fun, Charlie's Back!","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a good fun movie. The story is basically Charles Bronson killing gangsters! Imagine Grand Theft Auto 3 as a movie, and you got The Crack Down! The ending to the film is even somewhat of a remake of Yojimbo! I definetely recommend this movie to action lovers! This will not let you down! For God's sake, there's a roller rink shootout!!!! 5/5 STARS "},{"Title":"Just Enjoy It!","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sometimes reviewers get so caught up in their own little vision of what entertainment ought to be that they can't loosen up and just enjoy a movie for what it is. Case in point is Death Wish 4 The Crackdown. Charles Bronson returns as mild-mannered vigilante Paul Kersey, only this time he's taking on a powerful drug cartel, his girlfriend's daughter having died of a crack overdose. Backed by a mysterious publisher named Nathan White, Kersey yet again transforms himself into a one-man army dishing out justice where justice is due.Of all the Death Wish films, this ranks not only as one of the best, but as the most complex. The plot takes an interesting twist or two, particularly when it appears White is not who appeared to be and Kersey pits rival drug dealers against one another. It's also fun to watch Kersey employ his inventive methods of thinning the herd (as he put it in a previous Death Wish). The scene where he passes himself off as a wine salesman, for instance, is great. Who would have thought an explosion that massive could result from such a small bottle-disguised bomb? And besides all of that, who doesn't want to see drug dealers get what's coming to them?Is Death Wish 4 slightly cheesy? Perhaps. Are the characters deep and the production values high? No. Is it completely outlandish to see a senior citizen pickin' off bad guys? Sure. But nobody ever claimed that this movie was going to win awards. Producers just wanted to give their intended audience a good time, and in that task, they succeeded. "},{"Title":"Excellent. 80's entertainment at its best","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Every once in a while we stumble onto film that has a bad reputation for some unknown reasons, but we can't help but love it. DW4 is that kind of a film. Don't get me wrong, I can watch and appreciate films like Ben Hur (1959) or To Kill A Mockingbird (1962), but unlike great deal of the critics community, I keep an opened mind and don't confine myself to these sort of films. Death Wish 4 opens with a brutal and nail biting sequence (I won't spoil) and doesn't let you of the hook until the final minutes. Paul Kersey is now living happily with his girlfriend and her daughter Erica in LA Until one evening Erica dies of OD. Kersey decides to revenge those who in the drug business with the help from rich and respectable newspaper owner who's daughter also died from use of Cocaine. This time the direction goes to the legendary director who gave us in the 60's such classic as The guns of Navarone (1961) and Cape Fear (1962) and he managed to take the DW series into a good direction. The action is great and dialog is a bit cheesy at times but very entertaining. Here we have all the elements of an action film that we loved over the years Corrupted cop, twist at the end etc&#133; Charles Bronson is as his usual great here and in the supporting cast Perry Lopez shines as the sleazy mob boss Ed Zacharias. I highly recommend this film and give it 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Naive , Inept And Dull Anti-Drugs Film","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Despite being absolute garbage DEATH 3 was a hugely entertaining franchise movie . It might have been entertaining for all the wrong reasons but it was amusing enough for me to give THE CRACKDOWN the benefit of the doubt when it was broadcast earlier tonight .It starts well enough to continue the campy feel of the third film . A woman walks through a darkly lit car park . Her car fails to start then she looks to see The Masked Magician standing there . She tries starting the car again the fear written upon her face . Now David Blaine stands alongside The Masked Magician . Morbid panic sets in . The woman realises as this rate the worst thing in the world is going to happen - yes now David Copperfield stands alongside the duo who want to use her in their next trick . Thankfully Charles Bronson turns up to execute these rude magicians only to find he's shot himself and .... it's all been a dream If you've ever attended a class featuring the mechanics and science of screen writing then you'll been warned straight away that never EVER start a film off with a dream sequence , a rule that has just been broken here . Strangely this explains why the opening sequence feels so unreal . It's a dream therefore it's supposed to be surreal so kudos for the production team for at least understanding internal continuity . Unlike DW3 this movie does take place in a recognisable world but the longer it continues the longer you wished the franchise had died in the previous movie for two reasonsThe first reason is that it's deadly dull . Say what you want about DW3 but at least it's amusing if not laugh outloud funny as you're able to point out how it would be impossible for the events on screen to happen in  our world  . Not here where there is a sort of reality involved . There are some ridiculous moments to THE CRACKDOWN such as Bronson having a machine pistol that has a magazine capacity of several hundred rounds but you've seen that type of goof in so many movies it has become part of cinematic convention . Nearly every 80s action thriller suffers from the same flaws The second reason the movie is so bad is the entirely naive attitude towards cocaine . I wish to state I have never tried a class A drug but I know many people who have . I think nothing less or more for them having done so . Drugs are bad I do agree but the almost obscene rant that his movie takes against users and dealers is not even bad enough to be amusing . Teenage girl takes cocaine for the first time and dies . Hands up anyone who knows someone killed by cocaine ? We're all in the same boat then aren't we ? On top of that Bronson's character spent the first three movies killing muggers , rapists and other human garbage so why does the movie take the offensive stance that someone being killed by drugs is the same moral equivalence as someone being murdered ? As you can imagine Charley boy kills all the bad guys and for some strange reason never realises there will be a few other coke cartels coming along in a few minutes . Maybe being a vigilante he possess a clear insight that if you kill drug dealers no one will take their place unlike what happens in say the real world ? Oh dear I'm starting to realise maybe DW3 was a fly on the wall documentary compared to this ! Just shows what a badly thought out and naive movie it is after all "},{"Title":"nothing new, but entertaining","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After death wish 2 and 3 came out, the series seemed, to well, have a death wish. 2 was unremarkable, and 3 cared more about a very high body count then anything. Unlike in 3, the relationship between Kay Lenz's character and Kersey doesn't seemed forced, doesn't seem like ti was tacked on like the third entry. the fourth entry seemed to be a better level then the previous. Not as good as the first, face it, hardly any action flick with a vigilanty storyline as been as good as the first death wish, the 4th one makes kersey a little more human. You want him to find those responsible for the death of his girlfriends's teen daughter. You cheer when he gets the bad guy. Personally, I would to have loved to have seen a little more interaction between Bronson and Soon Tek-oh, perhaps one of the most underrated supporting actors in movie history. Overall a decent little flick that doesn't try to outsmart itself. "},{"Title":"not as good as Death Wish 3, but still pretty good.","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" WARNING This review has MAJOR spoilers! In this one, Paul Kersey is back in L.A. and his girlfriend's daughter dies from a drug overdose. The dealer who gave this girl the drugs kills the girl's boyfriend and then Paul goes out and kills the dealer. Paul gets ticked off because his girlfriend's daughter is dead, so he goes out and kills the main drug lords. He does some cool stuff in this one.In one scene, he puts a bomb in a bottle of wine and it explodes, killing the bad guys. In another scene, he throws a guy off of a huge building. The guy's date is complaining about how long it's taking him to go, and she says I hope he drops dead. Well, she got her wish. The guy falls onto the limo that they're in.This movie is great. There's a shootout in the roller-skating rink. There's a huge gang war. The opening scene is great. A girl is getting raped by three punks, but Paul goes up to them. Who the (insert f word here) are you? asks the punk. Death. replies Paul. He then shoots the three punks.The last scene is the best. Paul kills the main villain with a rocket launcher. How freakin' cool is that? This is some good stuff! You have to see this if you're a fan of Bronson. 9/10. Rent it, or buy it. I've got it on VHS. I bought it with another Bronson movie(Assassination)for about 6 bucks.9/10. "},{"Title":"Average vigilante flick, there's better out there.","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 4 The Crackdown is set in Los Angeles where architect & ex vigilante Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) has been happily living with his girlfriend Karen Sheldon (Kay Lenz) & her teenage daughter Erica (Dana Barron). While out with her boyfriend Randy (Jesse Dabson) Erica is given some cocaine by a dealer, later that night Paul & Karen get a phone call to say Erica is in hospital because of an overdose. They rush to be with her but it's too late & Karen dies. The following day Paul is contacted by supposed newspaper publisher Nathan White (John P. Ryan) who says that he too lost a daughter to drugs & that all drug dealers & smugglers deserve to die & if Kersey wants to dole out a little justice to the drug dealers in Los Angeles he will finance it & give Kersey all the information he has, never one to turn down the opportunity to kill some scum Kersey agrees & sets-out to bring the Los Angeles drug trade & those who run it down all by himself...Directed by J. Lee Thompson after Michael Winner declined to come back to the series after directing the first three Death Wish 4 The Crackdown is a better film than Death Wish 3 (1985) but isn't quite as much fun or quite as entertaining. Death Wish 4 The Crackdown is more of a straight laced thriller in the style of the often imitated Yojimbo (1961) in which Bronson plays two rival drug gangs off against each other in order that they will literally wipe each other out but with a few Death Wish style touches like rape, dirty cops & yet another person close to Kersey getting killed. I mean it's just dangerous to know this guy as your likely to either end up raped or murdered. Unlike Death Wish 3 which was a really silly & mindless exploitation flick Death Wish 4 The Crackdown tries to have a little social relevance & bases it's unfortunate events around drugs, the perils of taking drugs & the evils of pushing drugs. In fact the film starts off quite anti drug with a tour around an LA county morgue in which most of the bodies there are drug related & Karen a journalist trying to write a story about the dangers of drugs but even her editor saying no-one cares anymore but this moral preaching & social message is soon completely ditched in favour of a fairly entertaining action thriller as Bronson plays the two gangs off one another & if you throw in a couple of neat twists then this really ain't too bad. Death Wish 3 had everyone know who everyone else was & Bronson was the face of vigilantism but here he stays in the shadows & the two drug gangs don't know who he is which makes for a more plausible if not entirely realistic film too. There's also a terrific dialogue exchange here that is maybe the hight light of the series where a dirty cop threatens Bronson & says 'I can be very nasty' before Bronson blows him away with a concealed gun & replies without a hint of irony 'so can I'. The pace is generally good but although it's an improvement on the previous film in terms of plot, themes & narrative there's a loss of entertainment value somehow, it's just not as much fun even if it does work better as a film.The film looks alright, it's much more competent than Winner's Death Wish 3 but again somehow it just loses a little entertainment value because of it. The violence is kept to shoot-outs & bloody gunshot wounds along with a brief rape at the start. I have to hand it to John P. Ryan who gives it his all & just check out his 80's clothes at the end. The action scenes are workman like & are not particularly memorable but get the done. Bronson also scales down his arsenal here too so there's no rocket launchers or huge machine guns.With a supposed budget of about $5,000,000 this has solid if unspectacular production values, the action scenes are alright if a little flat & I would have liked to have seen more things explode. Explosions are good. Again Bronson stars & actually comes across as quite tough while John P. Ryan is a total hoot here.Death Wish 4 The Crackdown is a decent enough vigilante flick with a hint of Yojimbo thrown in there, it's not brilliant but it's not too bad either. Fans of the series should like it, followed by one more sequel Death Wish V The Face of Death (1994). "},{"Title":"Using The Vigilante","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In Charles Bronson's fourth outing as vigilante killer Paul Kersey in Death Wish 4 The Crackdown, he's hired by mysterious millionaire John P. Ryan for his professional services. The daughter of female companion Kay Lenz just died from an overdose and Bronson killed the person responsible.Ryan tells Bronson he's had a similar tragedy in his family, but with his connections and Bronson's skill he can really do a lot of damage to the drug trafficking in Los Angeles. So Bronson is off to do his thing. But all is definitely not as it seems. Especially since he's now taking on a higher level of crinals than just street punks as he did in the previous three Death Wish movies. In the three previous Death Wish films Bronson has gone up the scale in terms of ingenuity in his public service homicides. He's not just a guy with a large gun any longer. You would definitely think that Bronson did this full time instead of just a sideline with his real job being an architect.But let's just say the wool is truly pulled over his eyes in Death Wish 4 The Crackdown in a way I certainly couldn't believe. It makes the film quite unreal and down right dumb at times.It's the weakest of the Death Wish series and let's let it go at that. "}{"Title":"It's those DAMN DRUGS ! ! !","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was quite a change from the non-stop video game-like action from Death Wish 3 (which is my personal favorite in the DW series). But overall, this is a very good movie. Charles Bronson's acting seemed a bit more inspired in this one than in DW3, and its a very enjoyable and well written movie. It did at times seem like a Nancy Reagan Just Say No propaganda film, but that didn't bother me too much. I liked the surprises in the plot line, and there were a few things that I didn't expect which I enjoyed. The scene in the parking garage near the end is probably my favorite, as well as the scene where Chuck goes off on the drug dealer how many kids have you killed with this SHITT? as he throws the drugs at him and kills him. Definitely worth watching, and if you are a fan of the DW series, this ranks in the top two or three movies........ "},{"Title":"A nice one in Bronson's Cannon line-up","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Now if you expect to watch some Academy Award material here, stop reading and buy and rent something else. But if you want action-book material on the telly, this might just be the right stuff. Kersey is back, this time fighting two cocaine-gangs. Lee Thompson's directing is much more adequate than with several other Bronson-vehicles, the picture has a story to tell (whereas part 3 was just video game material) and fortunately it brings in Kay Lenz in a supporting role instead of trying to fit in Mrs Bronson (Jill Ireland) again. With nasty villains and one or two dumb police-officers we have an evening with some nice twists, shoot outs and a really good and original opening scene. Production values must have been up as well. Apart from the original this one outranks # 2.3 & 5 by far. Recommended. "},{"Title":"and,here we go again","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" OK,by now the series is getting tiresome.Paul Kersey is back,now living happily in Los Angelos.but not for long.Soon Kersey is pulled into action again against 2 rival drug cartels who are responsible for the deaths of many children as a result of their drugs.You see,Kersey's girlfriend has a teenage daughter,who just happens to overdose on cocaine,sold to her by one of the pushers that works for one of the gangs.so Keresey sets out for revenge.there is a bit of a plot twist,which you might not see coming if you haven't seen the movie.however,overall,the movie is much inferior to any of its predecessors.it's seems slow and long,and contains scenes that stop the flow.not really that good of an effort.It's not Bronson's fault.he fits well in to the action hero mould and is credible,but the story lets him down.the most i can muster for this movie is 5/10 "},{"Title":"Nostalgic installment, with some essence of plot","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" With the D W complete body of work being shown on consecutive nights on the cable AMC Channel -- I was able to see the original and this one a couple of evenings apart, both for the first time in several years.Again, I found myself drawn to a couple of distractions, namely, an unimportant and curious one Why entitle II and V with Roman Numerals, and 3 and 4 with Arabic ones? Just wondered. Also, couldn't help but ponder from reading Puzo's book and seeing the movies Who lost more close friends, family, etc., to murder, Don Corleone, or mild-mannered architect/conscientious objector, Paul Kersey?The original gave a plausible reason for Paul's ability with guns, although he had eschewed them following his gun collector/father's death in a hunting accident.But as these series installments proceeded, and you look at them anew now, there are other fascinations Charlie performed these roles beginning in his 50's to a period where he had been eligibile for early social security payments for over a decade.Further, he rotated between both coasts, having no trouble becoming ensconced comfortably every time, with successful business activity, a host of friends (many of whom met their demise), and a dual schedule which would keep either a full-time businessman or a full-time mob button man busy at his singular profession -- but Paul handled both with little detraction from either by the other.And his affinity for hand guns (and undoubtedly rifles) as previously explained aside -- Paul also seems to have had the ability to acquire capabilities with regard a wide variety of heavy weaponry and ordnance exceeding a level reached by, say, even General Patton. Finally, while I've always lived several hundred miles from each coast, my best friend is in L.A., and I have friends in New York City, and have spent regular extended periods in both. In these flicks, unlike any experience my friends (or I) have had, or know of anyone who has -- Paul keeps a dual schedule in both his lives whereby he seems never to be impeded by traffic jams or any big city delays - whether engaged in architectural duties, dispatching hosts of villains, and evading detection just about every time. He also seems to have the time also (along with the cleverness of a CIA/FBI operative), to infiltrate when and where necessary to further his objectives of vengeance.A fascinating body of work, even more so decades after original release. Among them, though, this one has more intricacy and some essence of plot/some twists/etc., not much evident in the others. "},{"Title":"Playing with our expectations in the cracktown","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Death Wish films strongly follow a formula that was set by the first film Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson), an easygoing architect either in New York City or Los Angeles, at some point with a female significant other and usually some kind of daughter figure, experiences violence towards his loved ones by anarchic gangs. The violence often involves rapes, severe beatings and murders. Fed up, especially since law enforcement can't take care of the problem very efficiently, he goes into a vigilante mode and starts racking up dead punks. He takes on an alternate identity and utilizes impressive armories, all while remaining suave and easygoing. Meanwhile, law enforcement tends to play under-the-table games with him, since the public tends to be sympathetic with vigilantes taking scum off the streets and the police realize that the vigilante can circumvent the system and do the job with no bureaucratic hassles.Death Wish 4 The Crackdown is no exception to using this formula. But new writer Gail Morgan Hickman and new director J. Lee Thompson use the formula in a very creative way for fans of the series--they let it ride along implicitly and then play with our expectations based on it. (By the way, Thompson was new to the Death Wish series, but he had directed Bronson six times previously, beginning with St. Ives (1976), then in The White Buffalo (1977), Caboblanco (1980), 10 to Midnight (1983), The Evil That Men Do (1984), and Murphy's Law (1986). They later went on to work together in Messenger of Death (1988) and Kinjite Forbidden Subjects (1989).) So we begin with a typical Death Wish scene--an attractive woman ambushed in a lonely parking garage by three thugs and raped, only to be interrupted by Kersey bearing high velocity leaden gifts. But it turns out to be an opening out of A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) instead, as Kersey was simply dreaming. Awake, he gets on with his architectural life. We see him with a serious girlfriend who has a daughter, and we figure it spells trouble for their wellbeing. It does, but the trouble begins abruptly, in an unexpected way.And then, after briefly flirting with the usual Death Wish route of Kersey hitting the streets and seeing what the punks look like for himself so he can mop up the gutters with them, Hickman and Thompson make a left turn, and Death Wish 4 has Kersey functioning something like a mob hit-man instead. He has a mysterious benefactor feeding him with information on crime bigwigs instead of piddly gang members, and in an echo of Death Wish 3, he effectively enters a guerrilla war with them, only this time Kersey has no help; he's a one-man army. Thompson continues to play with our expectations in many ways, including a fairly shocking occurrence near the end of the film (after a very fun scene in a roller disco).In addition to the clever meta-level stuff, the set-up of the film results in it basically being a series of action vigilante/hit-man set pieces. There are still a number of stories threaded throughout to provide unity, but the set pieces have all of the creativity, uniqueness and thrill of going through the various levels of a great contemporary video game. It wouldn't be surprising if Death Wish 4 were one of the inspirations for a modern game or two (even though the film isn't exactly kind to video games--again, see the roller disco scene).On the forest level, Death Wish 4 certainly isn't unpredictable, although on the trees level it very often is. But that's not needed in a Death Wish film, anyway. The basic requirement is for Bronson to be able to kick butt in entertaining and suspenseful ways, and Thompson gives you as much or more bang for your buck on that end as any other film in the series. "},{"Title":"The best Charles Bronson...","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, I saw this film for the first time the other day, and I was really amazed. It´s a non-stop action movie. Charles Bronson goes out to catch the big ones this time, not just four or five punks!!...The opening scene is the best of the film. And the rest of it has the same rhythm.Don´t miss it!!. "},{"Title":"Penultimate entry in the original five film series in which Kersey takes the law on  his own hands ,  searching for vengeance against drug traffickers","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sequel to successful crime thriller that created the Vigilante genre with Bronson as the main star as architect Paul Kersey turned the one-man vigilante when his family is attacked by furious band formed by some ominous punks , as his wife is murdered and daughter reduced to living vegetable ; he then stalks the slums of N.Y. and searching crooks , hoodlums , muggers , pimps making the neighborhood safer and bumping off delinquents and street scum . This fourth entry with excessive violence concerns about Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson was about sixty-five years of age when he appeared in this one), a middle-age New York architect and become again into vigilante . Nowadays , he lives in Los Angeles along with his girlfriend (Kay Lenz) and her daughter . Paul takes on the members of a vicious Los Angeles drug cartel led by Ed Zacharias (Perry Lopez) to stop the flow of crack after his girlfriend's daughter (Dana Barron , though Kay Lenz is only 13 years older than Dana) dies from an overdose. Then Paul Kersey wiping out the bands suppling drugs . This fourth outing from the novel ¨Death wish¨ by Brian Garfield in which an architect taking the law into his own hands and acting as judge , jury and executioner ; it contains suspense, noisy action-packed , intrigue , thrills and lots of violence . Bronson with his usual stoic acting displays efficiently his weapons such as ¨Harry the Dirty¨ and killing mercilessly nasties . Screenwriter Gail Morgan Hickman re-wrote the entire script while filming but Charles Bronson constantly had problems with the dialog . It's certainly thrilling , though the morality may be questionable , even in this time, as the spectators were clearly on the Kersey-Bronson's side . This movie represents the seventh of nine teamings of director J. Lee Thompson with star actor Charles Bronson . Both of whom worked together nine times , this sequel was the only 'Death Wish' movie of the five film series that they made together . The two first collaborated on St Ives (1976), White Buffalo (1977), Cabo Blanco (1980), Ten to midnight (1983) , The Evil That Men Do (1984) Murphy Law (1986). After this movie, they made Messenger of Death (1988) and Kinjite (1989). Furthermore , it appears a nice secondary cast , as George Dickerson , Soon-Tek Oh as obstinate cops , John P Ryan , Danny Barron , Danny Tejo , Mark Pellegrino and as heinous drug baron , Perry Lopez . It packs a screeching musical score composed, orchestrated and performed by John Bisharat , Paul McCallum and Valentine McCallum ; the studio, Cannon  Yoram Globus, Menahem Golan along with executive producer Pancho Kohner wanted a more muscular sounding score for the action scenes and decided to re-use much of the music from their past action efforts Missing in action (1984) and Invasion USA (1985). The original film ¨Death wish¨ had great commercial hit , it was followed by various extremely violent sequels to this successful 1974 movie , that's , of course , the best from the series . This first big hit motion picture was middling directed by Michael Winner such as the successive films with his main star, Charles Bronson , usually giving wooden performance . In the mid-70 Winner , in need to other hit smashes attempted with the sequels , but both , Bronson and Winner , looked increasingly passionless and mechanical in the later years of their partnership in this cheap as well as worn-out final series. The worst sequels in which Kersey goes on to torture robbers , all of them inferior and the violence could be deemed exaggerated , they are the followings  ¨Death wish II¨ by Michael Winner with Jill Ireland , Anthony Franciosa , JD Cannon and Vincent Gardenia , ¨Death Wish III¨ by Winner with Ed Lauter , Martin Balsam and Deborah Raffin . However , Michael Winner showed no interest in directing Death Wish 4 because he had heard that Charles Bronson had a terrible experience filming Death Wish III (1985). And this ¨Death Wish 4  The crackdown¨(1987) with Kay Lenz directed by J.Lee Thompson and finally ¨Death Wish  The face of death¨(1994)that would be the last and it was then not made for about another seven years , being starred by with Leslie Anne Down , Michael Parks , Chuck Shamata and poorly directed by Allan Goldstein . In addition , an intended but unfilmed sixth movie was also to have a subtitle 'Death Wish 6 The New Vigilante'. "},{"Title":"Unfairly Underrated Entry In he Series","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 4 The Crackdown, is a surprisingly entertaining entry in the series, Despite not being Directed by Michael Winner who directed the first 3 movies, Of all of the Films in the Series this one is one of the best however it seem's to have one of the Lowest Critical Ratings (the lowest Being Death Wish 5) Which i really don't understand because i really Found this one Entertaining, but I think i know where the critical Lambasting came from, when the Film came out, it was 1987 during that time It seemed that Drugs particularly cocaine were advertised as a major problem in Society (Without a doubt Drugs are a Major problem, but they are not the only problem in society)and During this time both TV And Film were Advertising this and I think people were tired of hearing about it, and Death Wish 4 is no Exception regarding making Anti-Drug Statements , However the Drug Statement Is not the Only thing that Critics had with it, it was also the Fact that this was 4th film in the series and I guess they Just Got tired of the series (Oh, But No one Gets tired of the James Bond Or Godzilla Series!) Personally I'm all for Sequel's As long as they are entertaining and add some things that are new, and Death Wish 4 Does that.The Plot Once again involves Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson)Now Living with a Girlfriend (Kay Lenz)in L.A,everything Seems to Be going Good for them until Kersey's Girlfriend's Daughter Dies From a Cocaine Overdose, Kersey Goes out to find the Pusher who sold her the Drugs and Kills him, however the next day Kersey gets a mysterious phone call from someone Claiming to know who Kersey is, and telling him to meet the caller at a specified address, he goes to the address and meets a Reporter who's Daughter also died from a Cocaine overdose, and with Kersey's Help wants revenge on the entire drug underworld. He offers Kersey Info on all the Drug Dealers in L.A as well as access to more weapons. Kersey Accepts the offer and goes on the Hunt to Destroy the entire Drug underworld.Death Wish 4 The Crackdown, Is a welcoming Change to the Series, instead of having Kersey just killing Muggers and Rapists, we have him taking on an entire Drug Underworld in a reasonably Clever way, by setting up Rival Drug mobs against each other, the paranoia and Confusion between both the Drug Mobs is exciting and somewhat funny to watch, and the action this time is a little Lighter than the 3rd film but thats balanced out with Clever Set Pieces, Suspenseful Moments and Funny One Liners delivered from both Bronson and the Supporting Cast, but the action is still enjoyable despite it being a little toned down, and Bronson definitely seemed to be having more fun in this one than in the 3rd film, and another thing is there is not one rape scene in the entire film, well except in the opening scene there is an rape attempt but nothing graphic or as Shocking like the previous films (Thank God) If there's anything bad about the film it's very minor, The film isn't exactly original but things like Originality Don't Matter as long as they are not Blatantly Copied and in Death Wish 4 as far as i know it's certainly not, I did miss Jimmy Page's Score however, and the ending seemed Like a repeat of the 3rd film only not as good, but its not Unsatisfying. Bottom line the positives outweigh the Negatives.OVERALL 6/10 "},{"Title":"A very tired Bronson now going after crack-heads.......","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The fourth installment to the death wish series, 'The Crackdown' was just a tired Charles Bronson (whom I greatly admire) trying to put his Paul Kersey game face back on and blow away some more scum. Mostly drug traffickers and gangsters. Whoever had their hands in the script of this movie should have tossed it out and rewritten another script that would be based on the vigilante theme that had encompassed the three previous films. This was more 'hired assassin/professional killer' than vigilante on the streets. I know Mr. Bronson had expressed his tiredness of going on with the series by the third installment and I could imagine how he felt about this one... 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Still works but...","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" CHARLES BRONSON has another go at it in the character of vigilante PAUL KERSEY in this fourth installment to the ever popular, but violent series. The story kicks off with Kersey hoping to forget his violent past in which he wiped out scores of punks & muggers who killed his friends & family, but that still does not prevent him from having nightmares over the sprees he went on. Living in L.A. with his new girlfriend who works at the local newspaper & who also has a teenage daughter, Kersy hopes to re-start life & settle down & hopefully get married, but if things went that easy do you think we would have a movie? The problems start when his new girlfriends daughter dies over drug over dose & her boyfriend also a drug user, is killed by a dope dealer when he threatens to reveal the organization the dealer worked for to the cops. Deciding to even the score & prevent more kids from falling prey these drug dealers, Kersey with the help of a rich man who provides him with the names & addresses of all the drug dealers of L.A. wipes out each & every single drug family & operation, but finds out that his employer isn't as innocent as he thought. This installment still had a lot going for it, the characters were well written, the story was interesting & moving & there was lots of violent action & dead bodies of the bad guys & some of the good guys dropping all over the place, but this series was starting to get tired at this point, the passion & emotion that came from the first two films that we felt for Kersy when he lost his wife, friends & kid are gone, making this just another plain action film to cash in on the success the series had & the story is just a basic rehash of the previous three films, i.e. Punks kill Kersey's wife & kid, Kersey seeks revenge on punks who caused their death etc. Bronson is good as always, but there is nothing new here. I say it's worth a look, especially for fans of the series & all out action buffs, but if you never were a fan of Bronson or the other Death Wish movies or just don't care for the action genre in general, then I would pass on this one. Followed by a sequel, DEATH WISH 5 THE FACE OF DEATH *** (stars) "}{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 4 The Crackdown was a pretty good motion picture in the Death Wish series. There were some pretty funny parts. Like at the very beginning when Bronson eliminated those three men with stockings over their faces in the parking garage. Some more funny parts are when Bronson hits one of the gangsters with a tire iron and slams the car trunk down on the guys head, when Bronson goes into that restaurant with a bomb disquised as a bottle of wine and blows up the restaurant, when that one gangster's girlfriend tells him to drop dead, when the girlfriend tells the limo driver that the gangster is probably in the john playing with himself, when Bronson sent the gangster out of the window and the gangster fell off the balcony and the girlfriend stated that he is such a jerk and that she wishes that he would drop dead. "},{"Title":"The Best Death Wish Sequel","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The original Death Wish was a very good film. However, of all the Death Wish sequels, this one is by far the best, which isn't saying a lot. Nonetheless, if you put your brain in neutral and relax, you may be pleasantly surprised. For an old timer, Bronson dishes out a lot of violence and the body count is quite high. Of course this film is about drugs and, not surprisingly, nearly everyone in this movie dies (expect for Bronson). Most certainly worth a look if you are a Bronson fan (like me). However, I still contend that his best films from the 80s are Death Hunt (1981), Ten to Midnight (1983), and Murphy's Law (1986). Although not in the same class as these films, Death Wish 4' is still a very entertaining (and downright funny at times). Recommended. "},{"Title":"I'm the guy that set you up.","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is only a thinly veiled hint of humanity left in Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson). After three Death Wish films, he is just a killing machine. The blood-lust of the right-wing in America plays itself out in a constant stream of flowing blood as the evil drug lords are murdered.Sure, his girlfriend's (Kay Lenz) daughter (Dana Barron) dies from a drug overdose, but both are such a small part of the story that it appears they were tacked on to give Kersey some justification for revenge, rather than just a penchant for killing.I play to immerse myself in this series this weekend to vicariously expunge my blood-lust for the evildoers in Washington.As a bit of trivia, last year's Death Sentence is also based upon Brian Garfield's novel that spawned this series. "},{"Title":"Silly, but enjoyable if you're in the mood.","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Golan-Globus produced Death Wish sequels have never been movies that were very popular with critics. The original Death Wish was hardly a film longing for a sequel, as it's hardly believable that one man could face such bad luck not twice, but a total of 5 times. Death Wish 4 may be B-grade cheese to the max, and although if you look at it on a serious level it pales in comparison to the original in just about every way. But if you judge it as a simple, OTT 80's action movie then it's surprisingly entertaining. Perhaps it may have faired better as a standalone film rather than a sequel (the same goes for all the other Death Wish sequels) but as it is, it's fun to watch and is certainly better than that trash which shall remain unnamed starring Robert Ginty.Death Wish 4 makes no attempt to hide what it is at heart, which is a cheesy vigilante actioner with a thin plot that's just basically an excuse for more scum to kill and it does it's job at that just fine, with most things being well handled and the pace never slowing down. Visually, other than the laughable wine bottle explosion, there's nothing wrong with the production values. Considering this was made in the years that Cannon were starting to fall apart, the overall look of the movie is rather good. The lighting is crisp, and the shootouts and death scenes are pleasing and professionally handled. And fortunately, the movie doesn't take itself completely seriously and has some priceless dialogue such as He's such a jerk, I wish he'd drop dead 2 seconds before the character in question suddenly comes falling to his death. Bronson is Bronson, and his style works perfectly for the character of Paul Kersey. All the bad guys give suitably over the top performances which is fine for the kind of movie they're in. Much of the movie is entirely predictable but that's okay, including a twist in the third quarter which I'm sure everybody will see coming.Overall, Death Wish 4 may be a bad movie on paper but as far as cheesy vigilante actioners go, it works and is certainly one of the better ones out there. If you like Chuck Norris's movies of the 80's, then you're sure to like this. As flawed, predictable, preposterous and derivative as Death Wish 4 may be, it's a fun way to kill an hour and a half and I'd rather watch this over all the new PG-13 big studio crap posing as action movies coming out these days any day.I watched this on the Region 1 MGM release DVD. For a 17 year old, relatively low budget movie the transfer is excellent and everything looks clean and crisp.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had enjoyed the previous Death Wish movies.  Clearly they would never win any awards for thoughtful movie making, but they were fun nonetheless. This one was not.  Perhaps it is because the previous villains were violent thugs and here the villain is those damn drugs.  All I saw was the usual bad acting coupled with violence that, this time, didn't pull me in. "},{"Title":"This is Paul Kersey...Just say 'no' to drugs","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" By late 1987, Cannon Films was financially stagnating and cutting into its movie budgets. Having turned out infamous failures like the Tobe Hooper epic 'Lifeforce' and the Roman Polanski-directed 'Pirates,' Hollywood's leading independent filmmaker was nearing bankruptcy. Cannon was in great need of box office profits, which made company heads Menahem Golan and Yoram Globus turn to its reliable Death Wish franchise. The Death Wish series, beginning with Dino De Laurentiis's 1974 original, had already generated two sequels that led the American box office in their opening week. Most recent was 'Death Wish 3,' a farcical romp that has Charles Bronson running through the streets of East New York with a machine gun and chasing after thugs who wear reverse Mohawks. While lambasted by critics, 'Death Wish 3' topped U.S. movie receipts during its first week in 1985.Although 'Death Wish 4 The Crackdown' is a better-assembled film than its predecessor, it shows clear signs of a movie company that was breaking apart at the seams. It went through a troubled production in which Gail Morgan Hickman's script was damaged by continuous rewrites and Bronson favorite J. Lee Thompson had to direct on a shoestring budget. Despite an interesting concept, 'The Crackdown' suffers from cheap production values and the slapdash impression it leaves on viewers. It also does not have the flair of three previous Michael Winner-directed entries, which combine a grimy atmosphere with moments of droll humor to offset the action.'Death Wish 4' is very much a product of the Reagan anti-drug era with Paul Kersey (Bronson) setting off a feud between rival Los Angeles drug traders. Kersey has returned to L.A. and hooked up with a new girlfriend, newspaper columnist Karen Sheldon (Emmy Award-winner Kay Lenz), who looks after her teenaged daughter Erica (Dana Barron). One evening, Erica is taken by her boyfriend to a local amusement center, where she is given contaminated drugs by a pusher. She dies in an emergency room, after which Kersey finds and shoots the pusher dead in good ol' vigilante style.Kersey is then contacted by 'Nathan White' (John P. Ryan), a millionaire who claims to have lost his daughter through cocaine addiction. Toting information on the two leading drug families in Los Angeles, White offers Kersey anything he needs to kill off the Zachariases and Romeros, who make a fortune off teenagers' drug habits. 'Death Wish 4' models itself after 'Yojimbo' and Leone's 'Fistful of Dollars' by having Kersey provoke an all-out gang war. The script also offers a twist by revealing 'Nathan White' as another drug boss who is looking to seize control of the entire crack-cocaine trade in L.A.Compared to the atrocious scriptwriting and technical work of 'Death Wish 3,' 'The Crackdown' is a much better film. J. Lee Thompson's direction is generally solid, with better performances from a more accomplished cast. Unfortunately, Thompson's work stands out like a sore thumb and doesn't quite fit into the series. Michael Winner made numerous poor decisions in the first three episodes, but he created a mold for the series that was unquestionably his. It was also impossible to build on 'Death Wish 3,' a nutty send-up of the entire vigilante genre.Gail Morgan Hickman's patchwork script begins to unravel in the second half, when a promising story turns into another brainless actioner. DW4's opening half-hour revolves around Karen Sheldon, who begins investigating the drug trade after Erica's death. For one reason or another, the strong work of actress Kay Lenz comes to a screeching halt and we don't see her again until the finale, when she's conveniently taken hostage and turned into a bloody mess. Since 'The Crackdown' was made for fans of Bronson, it is the veteran actor that we mostly see, but DW4 only rehashes past roles where he's a gunslinger in a huge shooting gallery.Cost-cutting measures due to Cannon's financial problems are also seen across the backdrop. Paul McCallum, Valentine McCallum, and John Bisharat are named as composers, but 'Death Wish 4' is littered with stock cues; there are strains of Robert Ragland's music from the 1983 thriller '10 to Midnight' and recycled themes from 'Assassination,' another 1987 Cannon-Bronson flick. This gives the movie a cheap, direct-to-video feel. DW4's photography by Gideon Porath ('Kinjite Forbidden Subjects') is glossy and well-done, but many of the action sets are ruined by Peter Lee Thompson's careless editing. There are also occasional low-budget treats such as a window shattering before an actor reaches it and a newspaper article that repeats the same words several times.While the original 'Death Wish' is in another league and socially important, 'Death Wish 4' ranks as one of the lesser sequels. Bronson still plays his character effectively, but The Crackdown's sloppy writing and overall cheapness ruin what could have been a good follow-up. 'The Crackdown' sports an experienced director and sturdy cast, but it will only interest Bronson fans and rank as one of Cannon's last, desperate acts. Then again, 'Death Wish 3' was meant as an endpoint and the series needn't have gone any farther.'Death Wish 4' is retailed on disc by MGM Home Entertainment and gives only the bare essentials; it presents the movie in full frame with mono audio and subtitles in English, French, and Spanish. The theatrical trailer is offered as a lone extra. 'Death Wish 4' is in good visual shape with strong color, while the sound is unusually flat for 1987 (where's the stereo?). Fans have yearned for widescreen versions of parts 3, 4, and 5, but if 3 isn't getting better treatment, 4 and 5 sure as heck aren't.* ½ out of 4Roving Reviewer - www.geocities.com/paul_johnr "},{"Title":"Kersey has his eyes set on a much bigger game.","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's been a couple years after the last outing. Paul Kersey is now happily living in Los Angeles with his girlfriend Karen Sheldon and her teenage daughter Erica. Though, that changes when Erica dies from a drug overdose one night. Naturally this led Kersey to find out who was responsible and punishes them accordingly. This weaponry and information Kersey holds, is backed by a wealthy publisher, Nathan White whose daughter supposedly died from drug use too. His goal is to wipe out the drug lords and pushers of L.A. with Kersey leading the way. Hot on his trail are two suspicious cops that might have Kersey figured out.Like I'm sure Charles Bronson is feeling, the series is starting to get quite laboured and be nothing more than a milking exercise. So what do we get up to here? The weakest of the franchise? I can live with that. What starts of as an imaginatively crunching opening, goes downhill kinda fast and falls away from vigilante motivation. The well thought out material takes on a different slant and so does our weary protagonist. For some that might be a welcome change to the dried-up formula. Drugs are the topic of concern here, and Kersey feels like nothing more than a tool being pushed around, rather than just having a personal agenda of frustration to let out. This is quite an interesting characteristic look on how his obsession is starting to work against him and be played on by puppeteers. Selfishness and righteousness are becoming one and the complex pattern leads to only more trouble for Kersey. The only difference between him and those killers is the moralistic mind-set he demonstrates. Sounds great! Well, it's too bad the stolidly basic script doesn't complement the dense idea, but likes to manipulative spell it out for you instead. Maybe I'm reading too much from the tin-pot premise.Since Kersey is here to basically to stop drugs getting onto the streets and intoxicating the easy-influential young minds that these people prey on. Yep, drugs are bad and Kersey is here to put a stop to it. Which makes it come across like Kersey's actions are rational. This one goes even bigger than the last film in its stunts and these are no more than just thugs Kersey is facing. What we got are well-organised drug traders that are ruthlessly deadly and are important figures. So, that's no easy job. But now since his packing heavy weaponry that makes it easy. Yeah, right. How improbable can you get! I missed how he went about things in a simple and brisk manner. Oh well times have change and it shows how comfortable the character has become of it. The long-winding fantasy story is totally incomprehensible that it threw up a twist that shockingly caught me off guard. In parts the twisty story actually works in the format of 'Yojimbo'/'Fistful of Dollars'. Again you don't want to get close to this character&#133; how unlucky can one man be?! Charles Bronson's performance is rather frosty, although there's a little more effort there in his tough guy image. The underrated actor John P. Ryan is greatly versatile and embodies in his role with great ticker. The pairing of the two makes the picture worth a look. The rest of the support cast are okay in their middling characters. Perry Lopez was considerably lively as one of the big birds of the drug trade and Kay Lenz is given little as Kersey's reporter girlfriend. Also making small recognisable appearances are Mitch Pileggi, Danny Trejo and Dana Barron. There's a real sleekness to J. Lee Thompson's generic direction and he knows how to go out with a bang. The action scenes are well presented, but extremely routine and there's a Hollywood polish about it. It's lacking something and that's probably a sting in its tail. The film is fluidly shot, making good use of the variedly authentic locations. While, the breezy music score is lacks that edge and is raggedly dull in its escalating cues.It's not great, but I don't think this is terrible (despite believing it to be the weakest of the series). There's hunk of entertainment there if you're not looking for anything grand. "},{"Title":"Death wish 4 EXELLENT!!!","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This one a really good movie, i liked some much because Paul Kersey is back killing muggers and I enjoy when he does that. I don't know what other people thinks about it but i thinks this movie and the others of the series are cool!!!.Is another Charles Bronson's Classic. This guy is really great doing this action movie, i only have seen Death wish but i temporally will see another of this actor.The part i enjoyed the most was when he tricked to both Mafia sides to fight be twee them. That was hilarious!!!I really love Death wish series because I am the greatest fan of Death wish, I know all about it movie. "},{"Title":"Death Wish fused with J. Lee Thompson's reactionary politics","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For a while--up until the film meets its absurd climax in a roller rink--Death Wish 4 is a fairly entertaining rebound from the abysmal third installment in the series, primarily because director J. Lee Thompson (who also collaborated with Bronson on 10 to Midnight) keeps the action moving at a tight clip, and the story--while derivative and straightforward--is a somewhat intriguing departure from the norm. Paul Kersey is going on Attempt #4 in his efforts to lead a normal life, but is thwarted when his girlfriend's daughter dies from an overdose; after killing the pusher who sold her the drugs, Kersey is drafted by a Los Angeles millionaire to wipe out two gangs of drug traffickers. From a reality standpoint, this plot is no more ridiculous than Harrison Ford taking on the cartels in Clear and Present Danger. As in other films, director Thompson isn't interested in exploring the nature of victimhood more than eye-for-an-eye justice hammered down on the stereotypical villains of society, and his Right-wing political ambitions somewhat obscure the low-grade thrill of the movie. To its credit, Death Wish 4 has a strong first hour, some eccentric supporting performances of varying quality (George Dickerson, from Blue Velvet, acts like a boy afraid to board a school bus), and a third-act twist that should have been obvious but caught me off guard. Bronson is fairly animated and brandishes heavy artillery as he blazes a path into the considerably better Death Wish 5. "},{"Title":"Lame, implausible Bronson vehicle.","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Can a single man wipe out all the drug lords and stop all the drug-trafficking operations of L.A? Well, yes, he can, but only IF those drug lords have security systems so lax that a man can get into their mansions and tap their phones disguised simply as a waiter(!), and IF those operations consist of men who are lousy shots, or warn enemies before they shoot them, or stop to take their coats off in the middle of a fight - when they have the upper hand.   (*1/2) "}{"Title":"More like The Slowdown","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  By this time, Cannon Films' overspending and multiple box office flops were rapidly catching up with them, which promptly resulted in the slashing of their film budgets - most famously with SUPERMAN 4, but also with this one. It's extremely cheap-looking; apparently not that much more was spent than B movie companies still in the theatrical business were spending around this time. It leads to a lot of shoddy moments, like an explosion in a restaurant that is clearly superimposed instead of actually filming an explosion taking place there. There are other goofs, like how you can see the squib-firing cables trailing out of the pantlegs of characters who get shot. Or how a window shatters a second before someone actually runs into it. Clearly, veteran director J. Lee Thompson's heart was not into this movie, possibly because of his advanced age at this point of his career. The action scenes are pretty lifeless, not helped by them being incredibly inept in their editing (by Thompson's son) at times. It's too bad Michael Winner didn't stay with the series. Even given the sometimes questionable decisions in his career (including in this series), he almost certainly would have pumped up the energy here. The only bright spots come from a few unintentional humorous moments - It's those damn drugs!, a bomb exploding SEVERAL times, or how Cannon relentlessly promoted itself in the video store scene.Bronson himself doesn't seem very energetic. The screenplay really doesn't give a lot of extraordinary things for him to do or say here. Curiously, the screenplay was written by a woman, and in fact this female touch sets things up in the beginning that actually have a lot of potential. However, the screenplay abruptly changes track and ignores further exploration of these things to become a dumb shoot-up. I wonder if this was actually how it was written, or things during the production resulted in last-minute rewrites or reedits - it would certainly explain how Kay Lenz's character suddenly disappears early on, and doesn't show up again until the last few minutes! "},{"Title":"a bit too long","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey (Bronson) is back to wipe out an entire drug cartel, to be honest, two. He's got a new girlfriend with a daughter but once the daughter overdosed it's time to hunt. Better than part 3 but this time it do moves slowly and clocking in over 90 minutes it's a bit to long. Storywise it's only the name Kersey that makes references toward the 1974 original, this is more a typical Cannon (the distributors) action movie then a revenge flick. On part of the effects, this maybe is the best of the franchise. And for the freaks, Danny Trejo is to spot in the Italian restaurant.Gore 0/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 2,5/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"The Vigilante Is Back, And So Are The Thrills.","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After his girlfriend's daughter dies from a drug overdose, Paul Kersey finds himself involuntarily recruited by a publisher to take down two drug empires in the Los Angeles Area.Beginning with the third film, The Death Wish series really began to ramp up the action, and it really shows in this fourth installment. Death Wish 4 The Crackdown is an exciting film that is another good entry in the franchise. While it's not as good as the original film, it still is an enjoyable film that is worth watching, especially if you are a fan of the series, or a fan of Charles Bronson for that matter. While the formula was somewhat beginning to age, it's somewhat averted because of the kind of bad guys that Kersey battles in this film. Instead of battling just common street thugs, he actually is taking on organized crime, which is nice to see as it's different from the three previous movies.By this point, you'd probably expect Charles Bronson to be running out of steam, but he shows here that he's still capable of doing good even at his age (he was about 67 at the time this film was made). In this film, the way he pulls off the action sequences in this movie is really something, it's definitely much more convincing than some of the movies of today that Sylvester Stallone does. Bronson was probably the greatest action film star who ever lived, as he could turn just an average (or even a below average) action film and turn it into something enjoyable, and it's always fun to see him go after bad guys and triumph.This movie features a rather interesting supporting cast. With people such as John P. Ryan, Perry Lopez, George Dickerson, and even a young Danny Trejo. John P. Ryan plays Nathan White, the publisher who recruits Paul to take down the drug empires in Los Angeles, but is White all who he seems he is? Perry Lopez (who was superb in Chinatown) was good as Ed Zacharias, one of the two drug leaders in L.A. George Dickerson plays Sid Reiner, a policeman who is less sympathetic than Ochoa and Shriker, and is determined to prove that Paul is the vigilante. But as expected, it's Bronson who shines the most, who makes another good turn in his most famous role.Like I mentioned, this movie has Bronson taking on a different kind of enemy. Rather than shooting common street thugs, he gives a go at his first wave of organized crime. He gets the job done with more than just bullets, but also with grenade launchers and exploding bottles of wine. And like the previous movie, there is a big kill count in this one, while not as many as Death Wish 3, this film still contains a large amount of kills. So basically, Los Angeles turns into what New York turned into in the third film, a war zone, with numerous kills left and right, with Bronson doing most of them.This installment has a new film director, J. Lee Thompson. Thompson had previously worked with Bronson on other films like 10 to Midnight, The White Buffalo, and Murphy's Law, and that is a combo with chemistry. In a movie different from that of Michael Winner, Thompson puts a lot of emphasis on the action and not so much the drama, as there isn't exactly a rape scene in this movie (save for the beginning), which was something that appeared in the three previous films. Bronson and Thompson made some good works together, and this film is definitely one of them.All in all, while Death Wish 4 is definitely not the best film in the series, it's still worth watching. If you enjoyed the previous installments, then you should watch this next one, as it's another worth entry in the franchise, and it's more proof of Bronson's ability to shine in action roles. Although I do find The Great Escape, Once Upon A Time In The West, and The Magnificent Seven to be Bronson's best films, I still found lots to enjoy in this film, as it's exciting, thrilling, tense, and overall a good time.8/10 "},{"Title":"All Action, Less Story","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This Bronson film is not a crime-thriller like the first two films. This 4th film is more like Death Wish III - it's all action and not much of a story. Like the 3rd film in the series, this 4th film has Paul Kersey (Bronson) kicking the bad-guy's. The movie is good if you want a movie that is mainly all action - gun shooting and things being blown up - then Death Wish 4 is a good choice to watch. Film bonus You will get to watch an 80's arcade room shot up in this film.I personally am more into the first two films which are good crime-thrillers and great vigilante stories. Starting from Death Wish III forward - the film saga turns into simply shoot-them-up action without the great stories like the first two flicks in the series.5/10 "},{"Title":"Paul Kersey Not great, but pretty damn good.","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" That quote right there is this movie in a nutshell.'The Crackdown' is the second-most entertaining of the series, behind Death Wish 3. It's actually a little smarter than the second and third ones, but it still has its moments of hilarious stupidity and trashiness, which is a good thing. It also tones down the rape considerably (a trend that began with 3) and ups the action. A lot. Which is a fantastic thing.We follow Paul Kersey (once again played by the one and only Charles Bronson) as he sets out to avenge the death of his girlfriend's daughter, who died of a drug overdose. Before, Kersey's enemies were idiotic street punks who lived to spread the message of anarchy and trouble-making through the streets of New York and Los Angeles. Now, his enemies are a variety of L.A. mob figures who are also responsible for the drugs that killed the one-dimensional daughter. Kersey seems to be an assassin-for-hire in this one, as he's hired by tabloid owner Nathan White (played by John Ryan) to take down the mob.This movie's budget is noticeably lower than that of its predecessors, but aside from one obviously cheap shot of a restaurant being blown up (if you call a sheet of fire running up the screen effect 'blowing up), it doesn't affect the overall viewing experience much. The action scenes are still fantastic and the violence is still brutal. Charles Bronson is a welcome presence, as always, and while his role by this installment may be tired and routine, he still gets the job done without dropping his quality too low. Plus you get to see Bronson use an M-16 equipped with a grenade launcher as he takes on baddies (the grenade, of course, he saves for last).Take it for what it is a fun, moronic, hour/forty-minute ride through the dirtier side of 80's cinema. It's definitely one of the better Death Wish films. "},{"Title":"Watchable, but that's about it","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's probably been brought up many times before, but once more for the road why does Paul Kersey insist on meeting new people? I understand that the guy hates being lonely, but when everyone around you keeps getting murdered you should consider a cabin in the mountains. It also doesn't help that this time around we really don't care about the victim. The surrogate daughter seemed nice I guess, but we saw her for like two minutes. When Kersey's relatives died in the first two parts, you had already gotten to know them and understood why he'd want his revenge. Here it's just meh, we never see anything that would suggest an actual bond. Charles Bronson really seems bored with the whole thing now, visibly wondering why he's still doing this stuff. And probably also why his character won't die. If you witness a mobster killing someone, he kills you. He doesn't say hey guy I've never seen before, want to help us bury him for some bucks?. Death Wish 3 has its stupid moments, but it thrived on them. The stupidity of this one makes you groan. That shouldn't suggest it's without its moments though. The sequence at the oilfield for instance ends with a very nice Once Upon A Time In The West-pastiche, there's a fairly unpredictable twist thrown in there (you figure it out just too soon) and the ending is even pretty awesome and partly redeems all the stuff that desperately requires redemption. Generally Death Wish 4 is a pedestrian B-movie, but it's easy to sit through. "},{"Title":"Just going through the motions","Date":"1 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In terms of craft this is a major step up from part 3, but it's a lazy film from talented people that just seem to be going through the motions. I'm not expecting a masterpiece called Death Wish 4 The Crackdown, but franchise fatigue bogs this bore down. The over the top camp of part 3 has been toned down to near flat-line levels and the plot twists are either telegraphed a mile away or nonsense. Simply nothing is memorable. Cannon films was near bankrupt by the time part 4 went into production and reduced the budget from the already threadbare budgets of the previous films. The result is having the script limit the story to a few lame locations that they either got for cheap or probably knew the property owner - like the oil field. After a decade of being in low budget exploitation director's jail, this is a easy money grab and a lazy job from J. Lee Thompson. "},{"Title":"A more saner Deathwish, cracking down more on reality","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Here's a far different Death Wish, to the former three. Yes, crack has claimed the life of another person, Bronson's close to, that being the daughter (Vacation's Barron) of his new girlfriend (Lenz). So Charlie goes undercover to bust the bastards, after being enlisted by a guy (John P Ryan) who lost his son to crack. Of course, much more realistic to bubblegum pic, number 3 (my favorite) this entry, sees a wearied Bronson, doing what he does best, playing Mr Cliché tough guy, where the movie really goes into the drug problem, but more so just has Charlie, kicking arse. He masquerades as a bartender to a playboy drug kingpin, who became his cop partner, in J Lee Thompson's next flick, Kinjite, where later Charlie is played for a sucker. Just watching the party scene, we can patently see, Charlie would rather be somewhere else, but if you're a desperate or more so is the case here, typecast actor, you have to take what you can get. Too this Death Wish has a nice twist near the end, I liked, something you never would of expected in this, though this film is far from the superior original. I think with watching this forth one, here's a good time for Charlie to hang up his boots and be done with this franchise, in what is an interesting and not badly made pic. Sadly it wasn't, with the desperate and final entry six years later, the sickest Death Wish yet. Death wish fans will still be content here, especially when Charlie brings out the big guns, reprising his role, as Mr Vigilante Paul Kersey, one of his greatest acting performances, ever. "},{"Title":"It has a nice pace and plenty of cool moments.","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Having seemingly retired from vigilante-ing, Paul Kersey (Bronson) continues with his architecture work. He's in a loving relationship with reporter Karen Sheldon (Lenz), and he has a great relationship with her daughter, Erica (Barron). But the streets keep calling Kersey back, as a new wave of drug violence, primarily cocaine and crack, are causing havoc in L.A. When Erica becomes a victim, Kersey snaps back into his old ways, and soon punks everywhere are fearing the name Frank Lloyd Wright...er...Kersey. Apparently, his reputation precedes him, as a wealthy bigwig (Ryan) hires him to work his magic on two rival gangs, one run by Zacharias (Lopez) and the other by Romero (Moroff). Kersey then pits the two gangs against each other, thereby cleaning the streets in the process. But two cops, Reiner and Nozaki (Dickerson and Oh, respectively) are watching Kersey's every move. You'd think they'd appreciate the help, but anyway, Kersey must go it alone against the evildoers of the night. Can he do it...again?You've gotta love Bronson and the Death Wish series, and this installment makes it easy to see why fans have such loyalty. It's a very enjoyable movie, that simultaneously stays current, shrewdly using the then-current crack epidemic to leverage another series installment, while maintaining an awesome anti-young punk attitude later perfected by Clint Eastwood in Gran Torino (2008). Bronson and director Thompson , while technically eligible for their AARP cards, prove the point that young punks suck and old badasses rule. Plus we liked the idea that at this point in his vigilante career, he might consider hanging it up, but he ends up working for someone else. We thought that was a cool way to advance the series-wide plot line. From the second he says I feel like she's my own daughter, about Erica, we know...it's on.Plus it's great to see him in a variety of different situations - a lot of which are hugely nostalgic to 80's buffs like us - such as a video store (with posters for fellow Cannon titles Breakin' - interestingly it's for its title Breakdance - and Field of Honor, among others) and not just an arcade, with Spy Hunter and other games, but a combination roller rink/arcade, as a separate location. It doesn't get any more awesome if you're looking for a cool place to hang out in the 80's. But when Kersey rips through with his machine gun while chasing the baddies, you know he cares not for frivolous fun, he's out for blood.Well-directed by the veteran Thompson, with a nice pace and plenty of cool moments, Death Wish 4 The Crackdown (get it? Crack? Crackdown? Eh?), released by Media, proves to be a reliable winner. "},{"Title":"Missed the point","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is back in LA. This time he's been with his girlfriend Karen Sheldon (Kay Lenz) for 2 years. Her daughter Erica Sheldon (Dana Barron) dies from a drug OD, and he's out for revenge. Then a rich and powerful newspaper man Nathan White (John P. Ryan) hires Kersey for his dead daughter who's also lost to drugs.The action starts pretty quick. There isn't much deliberations any more. He's after the boyfriend, and the dealer right away. He got his first kill before 15 minutes.When White offers the cartel, he actually takes a few days. It just doesn't have much tension anymore. It moves slowly as he has to investigate the cartels. The action takes awhile to get started.They just miss the point. We don't want Kersey to tap their phones, investigate the gangs, and maneuver a gang war. We don't care about double dealing. We just want him to kick butt and ask questions later. "}{"Title":"Not Quite Sudden Impact.","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson returns again as vigilante Paul Kersey, this time back in L.A., and after the drug dealers responsible for the overdose death of his girlfriend's daughter. Paul is helped by tycoon Nathan White(John P. Ryan) who wants to hire Paul to use his skills to eradicate the drug families in the area. Paul agrees(and in a situation similar to Fistful Of Dollars) goes undercover to bring both crime families down, only to learn that it isn't as simple as that...Interesting to chart this series compared to the similar Dirty Harry films, but this franchise declined in quality compared to the other, though Charles Bronson was still quite capable of handling the action, the script and production were weak, with an unconvincing plot and uninspired action scenes making the film seem redundant; unusual ending, which could be looked at as both Bronson/Kersey giving up...though there would be one last film to come. "},{"Title":"A True Vigilante Never Retires!","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The massively cool anti-hero of this legendary movie franchise was about 65 years of age when he filmed Death Wish 4. In these present times and around the world &#x96; and most definitely in the year 1987 &#x96; this is a more than respectable age to enjoy retirement, but not of course is your name is Charles Charlie Bronson! While the vast majority of guys his age are planning Wednesday afternoon fishing trips and watching reruns of The Little House on the Prairie, Bronson is still too busy sweeping the filth off the big city streets in his very own and inimitable style. The fourth in the series didn't have good old Michael Winner in the director's seat for the very first time, but with J. Lee Thompson as his replacement, Charlie could nevertheless depend on one of his best action movie buddies. The two already made numerous and similarly themed movies together, including Murphy's Law, The Evil that Men Do and 10 to Midnight. Once again, honorable architect by day and angel of vengeance by night Paul Kersey loses a loved one (the teenage daughter of his new girlfriend) to a crime related incident. He not-so-inconspicuously kills the pusher who sold the girl her last and fatal dose of drugs and hereby catches the attention of millionaire Nathan White. He also lost his daughter to a drug overdose and wants to hire Kersey to clean the Los Angeles streets once and for all. Can Charles Bronson single-handedly eliminate the two main cartels that are together responsible for 90% of the LA drug-traffic? Well, he sure can! In good old Death Wish tradition, you shouldn't look for logic or plausibility in script but merely enjoy the spectacular action sequences and the giant bad-guys body count! There hardly are any cars or buildings that Charlie doesn't blow up, and even though he's up against two &#x96; supposedly &#x96; professional and well-organized crime networks, he even finds the time to squeeze off a handful of dry humorous one-liners (I was making a sandwich he says to a hired killer who catches him hiding out in the kitchen). You particularly got to love how Bronson goes straight to his target without much of a plan and a minimum of preparation. It's rather questionable that anyone could just infiltrate a major drug lord's private mansion simply disguised as a waiter during a birthday party, or as a factory worker in the top-secret merchandise shipping lair, but if you're only interested in waterproof preparation plan you should watch Ocean's Eleven instead of the Death Wish series. It also helps Charlie that apparently none of his opponents can shoot a gun properly and that they all underestimate the bare-knuckle fighting talents of a 65-year-old. The script, from the hand of Gail Morgan Hickman, attempts to bring a couple of admirable &#x96; but nevertheless predictable &#x96; abrupt twists near the climax and there's a quintessential 80's sequence set inside a roller blade disco. Ah, good times! Personally I don't understand why so many people around here claim it's one of the worst movies ever made. Do you honestly expect to see a masterpiece of plotting and/or suspense when you settle yourself down in front of something called Death Wish 4 The Crackdown? All of Charles Bronson's eighties flicks deliver exactly the same brainless and violent entertainment. This one isn't an exception at all. "},{"Title":"Mindless mayhem .......","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Formula story of Bronson seeking revenge, this time just saying no to drugs with an unlimited supply of automatic weapons. This one doesn't just throw logic out the window, it drops logic over a cliff. Kay Lenz does little more than cry, look scared, and disappear for three quarters of the film. The presence of John P. Ryan helps, but there is zero suspense, and everything follows a very predictable plot until the very end. It almost seems as though the writers realized they needed something to wake up a dozing audience, and gratuitously obliged with an unexpected finale. If you've seen one Death Wish, you've seen them all, and Death Wish 4 the Crackdown certainly confirms that statement. - MERK "},{"Title":"It's cracking down for the fourth time.","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There's ridiculously funny things in this film from start to end, and sadly though for the people who made it, they're unintentionally funny. Scenes that are down right bad pops up relentlessly, either they are drenched in bad acting, sloppy editing or illogical actions are not important, because its all glued together. Charles Bronson's endless vigilante crusade is so uninvolving and unnatural in its own seriousness that the only escape for enjoyment is to see the complete ridicule of it. The story is the same as in all the 'Death Wish' films, as Bronson's character becomes close-victim of some reckless bad-guys' murder, and decides to take matters into his own hands by showing up everywhere, and killing everyone. Great entertainment if one can laugh in the face of it. "},{"Title":"enjoyable movie even with the same old plot lines.","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" one can usually rely on charles bronson to give a deadpan performance as the iconic vigilante paul kersey now synonymous with the death wish series that rocketed him to stardom in the late seventies up to the eighties. since the sequels have always done well at the box office, you wonder how many more the studios were going to churn out. it's always nice to see veteran actors like bronson kicking ass and shooting them up at the ripe old age of 60+. here, bronson is dealing with drug lords and turf wars between two rival mafia gangs, all the while romancing a reporter whose covering the story. as usual, there's plenty of violence and hackneyed dialogue to carry the story along. it's just another death wish sequel which shows bronson waging a one man war against the evil-doers poisoning and corrupting the city. entertaining but it does get tiring after you've seen all the sequels. "},{"Title":"* out of 4","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey is back in Los Angeles, and he is dating attractive reporter Karen Sheldon, who has a teenage daughter named Erica. While Erica is at an arcade with her boyfriend Randy Viscovich, Erica dies of a crack overdose. Later, Randy goes back to the arcade, with Kersey following him. Randy confronts JoJo, the dealer that Erica got the crack from. Randy tells JoJo that he's going to the police. To prevent that, JoJo kills Randy. Kersey shows up and blows JoJo away, and watches JoJo land on the electrical roof of the bumper-car ride, where JoJo is electrocuted to death. Next, Paul gets a note and a phone call from publisher Nathan White, who tells him that he knows about the death of JoJo. Nathan explains to Kersey that after Nathan's wife died, his daughter became his whole life. Then she became addicted to drugs, and died of an overdose. Nathan wants to hire Kersey to wipe out the drug trade in LA -- and in particular to target Ed Zacharias and Jack Romero, rival drug kingpins who are the city's two main drug suppliers. Kersey asks for a few days to think about it, and after a few days, he accepts Nathan's offer. Nathan supplies Kersey with weapons and information so Kersey can go after Zacharias and Romero.Disappointing end to the Death Wish trilogy. The bad script makes the film fall into an unsatisfied conclusion.Rated R for Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Set up for slaughter...","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" *******Spoilers within*******Paul Kersey(Charles Bronson) comes out of retirement and straps on the big guns to take down the drug dealers responsible for the overdose of his girlfriend's daughter, for a little more fun Bronson decides to single handedly wipe out the two drug-lord families in Los Angeles. Death Wish 4 is a watchable retread of Death Wish 3 although this time the vengeance angle is a stretch because Bronson is indifferent to the drug-lords and therefore some necessary edge is lost. However there is some fun to be had. The climax in particular is ridiculously stupid with people not noticing that Bronson is carrying a machine gun. Also the main bad guys are pretty thick headed and Bronson is starting to get up there in age. Although the ending is hysterical, with Bronson losing another loved one, only to shrug it off as if nothing happened. I for one found this to be an adequate actioner with many silly moments to make this work as B.movie cheese.* * out of 4-(Fair) "},{"Title":"I can get very nasty if I want to be..BAM..So can I","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" (Spoiler Alert) Charles Bronson as the Vigilante Killer Paul Kersey. In this forth installment of the Death Wish movies Paul Kersey not only takes out the local street hoods but has him using and manipulating the top organize crime gangs, that are dealing in illegal narcotics in L.A. Kersey get them kill each other off without them ever knowing about it! This whole plan was hatched by very wealthy businessman and distraught father Nathen White, John P. Ryan. Seeing that he and Kersey both have something in common, their daughter were crime victims, White supplies Kersey with information and guns and explosives to do in both L.A drug gangs, the Zacharias & Romano, and thus stop the flow on the streets of dangerous and illegal drugs. Kersey reluctantly goes along with White's plan; he already did in the sleaze ball drug dealer JoJo (Hector Mercado) who was responsible for his girlfriend's daughters, Erica Dana Barron. Coming up with a proposal, as well as threatening to go to the police and exposing him, White has Kersey take the bait and methodically wipe out, with their help, the Zacharias and Romono gangs. Paul does it his usual way by blasting shooting and it one case dropping one of Zacharias' men off the balcony of a high-rise building where he landed on the hood his waiting limousine. Kersey to his surprise later finds out that he was actually working for another mob drug kingpin, White the so-called distraught dad! Kersey was doing his dirty work by taking out his, White's, competition. Kersey also does a little cleaning up of the corrupt LAPD by blasting dirty cop Let. Nozaki, Soon-Tek Oh, who found out who he really was and keeping it quite until he, Let. Nozaki, did the job himself in killing Kersey, them breaking the good news to his boss, not the LA Chief of Police, drug kingpin Eddie Zacharias. After what looked like the Battle of the Mobsters the Zacharias and Romono mobs were wiped out in a free-fire fight outside L.A at a deserted oil field. We're treated then to still another bloody shoot-out between vigilante Paul Kersey and the surviving Nathen White Mob, in and out of a local skating rink. In that shootout Kersey's girlfriend newspaper reporter Karen Sheldon, Kay Lenz, gets shot to pieces by White who then Kersey blasted clean out of existence with his combination machine gun/rocket launcher. After offing JoJo at the start of the film Death Wish 4 it seemed that Paul Kersey was ready to go back to his peaceful and serene life as an architect and living with Karen, after burying and mourning her daughter Erica. It''s then that Paul was recruited by a higher power to do, like the saying goes, what's a dirty job but somebody has to do it and nobody is better at doing it then Charles Bronson/Paul Kersey. "},{"Title":"'Death Wish 4 The Crackdown'","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As the 'Death Wish' series went on, the movies became more of an excuse to watch Charles Bronson shoot some bad guys. 'Death Wish 4' is no exception, as there is hardly any plot worth talking about. It is basically the same plot of every 'Death Wish' movie. Only this time, we get to see an hour and a half of Bronson shooting some drug dealers.There is no sense in complaining about the cheesy script or subpar acting, because this movie is definitely not set out to change your life or anything. When you watch these kind of movies, you know what you're getting. That is, some mindless shoot-em-up scenes and action. 'Death Wish 4' does just that (even in bad taste at times) and nothing more.Rating 5/10 (2 Stars) "},{"Title":"Hee hee!","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For some reason, nothing cracks me up better than a Death Wish movie, DW4 being a prime example. You gotta love the scene where Bronson smuggles into the drug front warehouse, and begins blowing away all of the scientists, who scramble for some AK-47s. His acting is so bad! The plotlines are so implausible! Even better is the restaurant scene, where the writers make a big deal of him toying with his wine-bottle bomb. He walks into the restaurant and approaches the goons at the table. From there, I would swear that the rest of the scene was just improvised. Boise. What was that whole scene about, anyway? His plan sucked so bad, he might as well have just lobbed a grenade into the window from a moving van. The best, however, is the final scene, where the drug kingpin kills his woman (a fate that befalls any woman he beds).She's lying on the ground, possibly alive, yet he doesn't even go over to check. He just grimaces at the guy, and - completely over the top- blows him up with a rocket! He then walks away. never giving a damn about his honey. Everyone in the room was in hysterical tears after that scene. Only Bronson can play such a flat character.  "}{"Title":"Booooooooring","Date":"16 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's another sequel that destroys what was accomplished by the first movie . There is nothing memorable here . It's dull . It has weak acting. It's badly directed , which is surprising since J. Lee Thompson (Cape fear) is the director . Charles Bronson is just too old to play convincingly in action movie anymore . The Death wish 4 is also so stupid at places that it even isn't funny.The second one at least had some violence . The third one at least wasn't boring . Here ? Here is nothing . Cheap , cheap at every level . Boredom from beginning to the end. The movie tries to impress viewer with some twists near the end , but they are too obvious to work.I give it 1/10.Watch out for Danny Trejo (Desperado) in a small role of Zacharias gang member. "},{"Title":"Hey Paul!!! Get over it!!!","Date":"19 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is really no different than any of the First Blood films. It started out with a man in which you really felt for and how fate dealt him a crappy hand. But then the character morphed into nothing short of a cold blooded killer who does not know when to stop. The first Death Wish had style and was gritty plus the fact it was believable that a man could go on rampage to fight the scum on our streets. Since then the series has become a joke. I have always admired Charles Bronson, and in his early days he was in some films that are now classics. The Death Wish films from Part 2 on in my view tarnished his image.He must have been paid a lot of money to be in these sequels or he had trouble finding work. "},{"Title":"A violent film with an anti-drug message","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson continues his one-man rampage against crime in this film which does have its fair share of action but is a one-dimensional feature. Bronson's character, who lost his wife and daughter to senseless violence earlier in the series, sees history repeat itself here as his girlfriend and her daughter are victimized by violent crime. Bronson's crusade against drugs and dealers is the entire plot as he manipulates one gang against the other, with no shortage of gun fights, explosions and a high body count. The action scenes are populated with cardboard street thug types and the contrived plot motivations only serve to showcase Bronson's skills with a pistol or semi-automatic weapons. The movie is an okay urban drama which offers a great deal of mayhem and murder while highlighting the dangers of drug use. "},{"Title":"Most Realistic Death Wish Ever Made","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" And it was great for it, I give it a 7 because of some of the tacky violence but overall it made sense.Made on a modestly low budget that part of the film is evident, but the realism was never so well done.Part 3 went with the over the top 80s style, which was fun to watch but in the end, like in Commando, you're watching it for the sheer number of kills you can count.Death Wish IV plays out like the story would in real life, of course with some exceptions but it goes about it very down to earth.Kersey is recruited by what he thinks is a wealthy man who because of personal reasons wants to have the drug lords in L.A. killed. The wealthy man we are led to believe has bought all this police information on all these drug lords, that's viable, Kersey tracks em down one by one and having them standoff against each other.The only glaring notion that the film is purely a film, is the ending, the cop just lets him go and Kersey after shooting up a Rollerskate rink and blowing up the main villain in open ground and then he just leaves.But throughout, the film is a tour de force and should not be missed, I'd rated it as the 2nd best of the Death Wish films in terms of drama and action. "},{"Title":"Death Wish 4The Crackdown","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I can be very nasty when I want to be. So can I.Los Angeles architect Paul Kersey(Charles Bronson) is commissioned by a wealthy newspaper magnate(whose daughter was a victim of cocaine abuse which led to her death) to rid the city of a criminal drug empire polluting the streets with cocaine that is the root cause for many teenage deaths. Kersey's girlfriend(Kay Lenz, a newspaper reporter, herself on a mission to uncover the ones responsible for the current drug trafficking affecting the city youth on the street)loses her daughter to a cocaine overdose..this only motivates Kersey even more to return to his vigilante ways once again. He starts from the bottom of the organization and works his way up, killing anyone of importance in the Zacharias empire, soon instigating an already tumultuous turf problem with the Romero crime family. Yes, this movie's loud and in-your-face message of how drugs are destroying today's youth is just an excuse to give Bronson a reason to shoot and blow people up, but who better to destroy than criminals and thugs feeding the streets with cocaine? I rarely place much stock in plot when it comes to dumb 80s action movies and DEATH WISH IV has the usual loud noise and explosions, Bronson gunning down plenty of goons at the end inside a skating rink/arcade using a giant cannon equipped with enough firepower to take out twenty people. Mean-spirited conclusion doesn't allow Kersey to save the girl. J Lee Thompson steps into Winner's role(Bronson and Thompson collaborated on 10 TO MIDNITE & MURPHY'S LAW previous to this movie)as director, THE CRACKDOWN mostly a series of action sequences where Bronson moves in and destroys anyone related to drug families, hangouts and areas where drugs and money are trafficked, their whereabouts provided by John P Ryan's Nathan White. There's a twist at the end which places Bronson in a sticky situation..a betrayal which will only fuel Kersey's anger, increasing an extra body count besides the disposable gangsters annihilated in both Zacharias and Romero crime families. "},{"Title":"Hilariously Bad","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you wanted something that was all formula and no... acting, execution, dialogue, originality, believability, cinematography, interest, logic, decent stunts...You found it!A very cool roller rink in LA on Venice near La Brea, run by a great family down there, was the location for the end. It was wonderfully underutilized.It was somewhat enjoyable in its suckiness.Hope they cashed in good!Because that's all they made it for. "},{"Title":"just awful--stick to the original film instead","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish is a violent film that has a lot to say about violence. It really ticked off the ultra-liberal do-gooders, but was a brilliant film. Unfortunately, it is films like this that make these doom and gloom leftists seem right! This film is not about an ordinary guy pushed to do extraordinary things as in Death Wish. No, he's sort of like the Terminator--using firebombs and shoulder launched missile to take out the bad guys! So, there is no subtlety--just mindless violence and trashy special effects designed to appeal to the lowest common denominator. This movie was deliberately written to attract and please dumb people who don't want to be bothered with good writing or intelligent plots. Avoid it like the plague and stick to the original great film. "},{"Title":"The Best Story of All the Sequels","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 4 (1987) ** 1/2 (out of 4)Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is now living with a new woman and her teenage daughter. Everything is going fine until they're called to the hospital one night and the daughter dies of a drug overdose. Soon, another man who lost his daughter to drugs asks Kersey to take out not only the dealers but the Mafia guys at the top who are supplying the cocaine. Soon a gang war breaks out with Kersey killing members from both sides.The DEATH WISH series is one of the most interesting in the history of cinema because all of them are just so different. The first one was a very serious political movie that asked a lot of serious questions. It's easy to see why it was so controversial and its subject is still a hot topic. Part two was an extremely violent exploitation movie that was also controversial due to how brutal and graphic it was. The third film in the series was like a live action cartoon with the over-the-top characters and bizarre gun battles. This fourth film in the series actually contains the most believable story of all the sequels but at the same time it might have worked better as its own film and not lumped in with the series. After all, how many people can Kersey constantly be losing? Director J. Lee Thompson once again takes a low-budget movie and adds some life to it. This is certainly true during the opening sequence, which is quite effective and especially how Bronson is introduced. The entire story is actually very well-written and it plays out rather nicely until a switch that happens towards the end, which drags the running time out even more. I thought the idea of going after drug dealers was rather good and especially playing the mob against one another. Obviously Cannon wanted to use the popular DEATH WISH title but at the same time I think the film works better on its own and not being connected.Bronson turns in a rather energetic performance as he certainly has no problem playing the tough guy. The supporting players, for the most part, are all good in their roles. Once again we're treated to some nice cinematography, a good score and plenty of very good action scenes including one large shoot out in an oil field. The biggest problem with DEATH WISH 4 is that it gets a bit long-winded as it plays on. I think the film would have benefited had around ten minutes been taken out. Still, overall it's a fairly good entry in the series. "},{"Title":"I was making a sandwich.","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is only a thinly veiled hint of humanity left in Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson). After three Death Wish films, he is just a killing machine. The blood-lust of the right-wing in America plays itself out in a constant stream of flowing blood as the evil drug lords are murdered.Sure, his girlfriend's (Kay Lenz) daughter (Dana Barron) dies from a drug overdose, but both are such a small part of the story that it appears they were tacked on to give Kersey some justification for revenge, rather than just a penchant for killing.I plan to immerse myself in this series this weekend to vicariously expunge my blood-lust for the evildoers in Washington. "},{"Title":"Another entry to the tired Death Wish franchise; new director but no new injection of life or believability.","Date":"20 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson returns as vigilante Paul Kersey in Death Wish 4, an entry which marks the arrival of a new director to the series. Michael Winner, of course, had made the first three movies in the canon (as well as three other Bronson titles) but their relationship deteriorated during the shooting of Death Wish 3 and they never worked together on another assignment. This time around, Bronson reunites with another of his frequent collaborators - veteran director J. Lee-Thompson - whose early filmography includes old classics like The Guns Of Navarone and Ice Cold In Alex. Towards the twilight of his career, he settled into a niche in the exploitation genre, churning out potboilers like the slasher flick Happy Birthday To Me and various rough 'n' ready Bronson films (Caboblanco, Ten To Midnight, The Evil That Men Do, Murphy's Law, etc.) Death Wish 4 is set in Los Angeles, where Kersey now resides with cutting edge journalist Karen Sheldon (Kay Lenz) and her teenage daughter Erica (Dana Barron). He suffers from nightmares about his violent vigilante past, but has re-established himself in the architectural business and grown close to Erica who is herself an aspiring architect. This being a Death Wish movie things are destined to work out badly for Kersey and, true to form, Erica dies when she takes a bad batch of crack cocaine. The distraught Kersey swears to unleash his fury against the city's cocaine pushers and the faceless drug lords behind them. He is approached by a millionaire named Nathan White (John P. Ryan) who lost a child of his own to crack cocaine. White persuades Kersey to vent his grief by embarking on a killing spree against the major drug cartels in the city, wiping out the unscrupulous suppliers and cleaning up the streets in the process. The usual carnage ensues with Kersey finding himself continuously under fire from his enemies; to add to his troubles, he also discovers that there may be more to White than meets the eye. J. Lee-Thompson marshals the film with typically muscular energy and slickness, but can do little to salvage the episodic script by Gail Morgan Hickman. The bad guys are completely cardboard characters, set up solely to be disposed of in various bloody ways by Kersey. There's no real flow to the story &#x96; just a sequence of violent and melodramatic set pieces, efficiently done by genre standards but not remarkable or original in any way. Few of the performances are worthy of note. By this point in his career, Bronson's granite-like face seemed incapable of registering any emotion other than dull stoicism; his purpose in the film is to deliver action and mayhem, pure and simple. Kay Lenz is wasted (as are virtually all the female characters in the Death Wish series) and the mysterious Mr White is too unimaginatively written to give the dependable John P. Ryan a chance to shine. Overall, another disappointing addition to the series. "}{"Title":"*1/2 OUT OF FIVE","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Charles Bronson stars as Paul Kersey the vigilante who loses another loved one and goes on yet another rampage this time targeting drug dealers in this sub-par sequel. Death Wish 4 just doesn't have enough energy to work as an action movie powerhouse which it aims for. A poor effort but John P.Ryan lends some class to the role.  "},{"Title":"Talk about beating a dead horse!","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Deathwish 4 is one of those films that just didn't need to be made.  It is long, boring, and painful to watch.  I just kept asking myself, Is this movie going to end?  After DW3, the franchise should have been laid to rest, but I guess Charles Bronson has to pay his bills.  A sad sad film that should have never been made.  One of the worst I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"I was making a sandwich....","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey, LA architect and part-time vigilante, is fed up with violence and wants a quiet life.However, when his Girlfriend's daughter dies of overdose, he has no choice but to go to war on drug dealers...This basically includes numerous things, like Kersey killing the drug dealer right at the beginning, fooling you for a minute thinking the film is over almost as quickly as it begins, Kersey witnessing a nurse straddling his step-daughter to be, and trying to convince the audience this is a realistic way to perform compressions..It all gets too much for Kersy, so he goes to work for a cut-price Vincent Price who wants the two big drug outfits int the state to kill each other.Kersey dons his tight fitting leather jacket and does the big action set pieces, in small doses, because he is getting old you see......This movie has it all, Cannon knew it was making it an unrealistic follow up to a cult movie, so they decide to turn Kersey into a Rambo/Dirty Harry hybrid, and it works, even though it's more over the top than the last outing.Bronson is great in his best known role, and the action never lets up, no mater how absurd it is.Witness Danny Trejo get so scared of a bomb disguised as a bottle of wine, he literally turns into a dummy before it explodes.Witness, Kersey, so terrified of a phone call after he kills JoJo, it takes him a while to put it back on the receiver.It's obvious that this was rushed in the editing room, enabling Cannon to release it at the height of Bronsons eighties resurgence, and it works.All of the cannon produced movies made in the latter part of the eighties starring Bronson were garbage, but garbage that got you going, garbage that makes you wonder why, when it's on TV or cable, you just have to watch it again.Let's be honest, if you ever watch this film, and say out loud 'those shelves are in a convenient place to get smashed during a fight', you have come to the right place. "},{"Title":"Paul Kersey Vs. 'Those Damn Drugs'","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Generally speaking, I am a fan of the Death Wish series with one of my personal favorite actors, the great late Charles Bronson, in his most famous role as architect-turned-vigilante Paul Kersey. The original Death Wish of 1974 was a controversial masterpiece and THE absolute classic vigilante film. Death Wish II of 1982 was merely an exploitative and ultra-violent revenge-fest, but an immensely entertaining one, and an absolute must-see for every Bronson fan. Death Wish 3 of 1985 was incredibly stupid and illogical, but it was the last film in the series directed by the original director Michael Winner, and still a highly-entertaining, super-trashy and ultra-bloody film that a Bronson fan should find enjoyable on a lower level. This, unfortunately, doesn't apply to Death Wish 4 The Crackdown. Death Wish 4 was directed by J. Lee Thompson who had worked with Bronson on several occasions (Their collaborations include films The White Buffalo, Caboblanco, 10 To Midnight, The Evil That Men Do, Murphy's Law and others). Death Wish 4 is not only the worst of their collaborations and by far the worst part of the Death Wish series, it is the worst film Bronson has ever starred in.The main problem of this film is that Paul Kersey is not shooting thugs and rapists anymore it is now 'Those Damn Drugs' that Kersey fights, and he is therefore taking on the entire L.A. drug syndicate. In the beginning, Kersey has once again settled in L.A., and is happily living with his new girlfriend, a journalist, and her daughter. As we all know, being close to Paul Kersey immensely lowers one's life expectancy, and it is not long until his new step-daughter overdoses on cocaine. Not a good idea for the distributors of 'those damn drugs' to mess with Paul Kersey's family'...Death Wish 4 The Crackdown is ridiculous and absolutely predictable in its plot, even in comparison to the silly, but enjoyable third part of the series. Even the next (and last) film in the series, Death Wish V The Face Of Death easily surpasses this unworthy entry to the series. The film's anti-drug message (typical for the late 80s 'War On Drugs' time) is almost unbearably annoying, and all this film is good for is its unintentional fun factor. To me personally, a film that has Charles Bronson and a share amount of violence in it can never be a complete waste of time, but this is definitely the worst film I've seen Bronson in, and the last I'd recommend. Only recommended to hardcore Paul Kersey enthusiasts, and even those are probably better off jumping directly from part 3 to part 5. "},{"Title":"Franchise has almost completely lost its way","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Audiences may expect little from a third sequel to Deathwish, and in this sense the virtually non-stop action of Deathwish 4 The Crackdown may not fail to disappoint.But it is a shame that a franchise which began with such a strong first movie should remain content to iron-out the same formula over and over again with ever diminishing returns. Deathwish 1 was a simple film, but the sociological undertones, for which it owed an obvious debt to classic double-existence stories like The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr Hyde, were nicely worked to create something more than a violent vigilante romp. Moreover, it had a commendable quality of understatement Bronson's acts of murder only number four or five persons, and he is eventually caught out and wounded. The murders are more 'realistic' than spectacular, and his edgy, slightly unhinged appearance reflects, to some degree, the mental challenges he is going through.Sadly by this film Bronson has become a one-man army of seemingly thoughtless brutality, capable of infiltrating the apparently all-powerful drug-dealing families of Los Angeles without difficulty. The attempts to dress-up the plot, involving a fraudulent philanthropist, a bent cop and a female press reporter, are totally incidental, and the film gravitates predictably toward a confrontation with Bronson's former 'boss'.Rather crucially, the action scenes in themselves categorically fail to meet the high-octane standard of other late 80s action films, and coupled with Bronson's deadbeat persona they make for an undeniably dull spectacle.It seems a shame that the late Bronson may well come to be remembered less for his earlier work and more for the endless string of Deathwish and Family of Cops movies that he made in the 80s and 90s, as these franchises have become something of a running joke among mainstream audiences. "},{"Title":"Another Awful Golan-Globus exploitation","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This has SPOILERS Here comes another Golan Globus production. The Israeli team made cheap, mostly awful action packed movies that did make profit in the theaters. They were everywhere in the 80's. This movies continues to the down spiral of the sub-quality of the Death Wish series.Our favorite viligiate Paul Kersey is now living it up as an architect in LA, California. He is involved with a woman who has a teenage daughter. One night, the daughter has a date with the popular kid at school. They go to a skating rink/arcade center. They buy some drugs and the poor girl dies from an overdose of poor quality drugs. Well Kersey true to fashion investigates to find out that the dead girl's date is confronting the guy that sold them the bad drugs at the roller rink, the date gets a knife in his stomach for his troubles. So Kersey in true fashion takes out the pusher.Now Kersey is lead to a nice mansion that is apparently inhabited by a concerned citizen. This mysterious man, makes Kersey a proposition in aiding to rid LA of the drug traffickers. He gives Kersey both weapons and info on both the Zacharias outfit and their rivals the Rommero Brothers. Well Kersey in his 65 year old body, takes out the key officers on both sides, to make it appear that each side is getting after each other. He bombs an Italian eatery, he throws a man of of an apartment window, he takes out a whole fishery front cocaine manufacturing plant, this part is fantastical to believe, they all are. This eventually cultivates into the Rommeros and Zacharias forces meeting with weapons drawn. They proceed to wipe each other out with the assistance, of you know who, that's right Kersey. A side plot is that Kersey becomes a corrupt cop killer once he is fingered as being involved in killings, he cunningly takes out the cop, when approached with the evidence.Then Kersey goes back to the mansion, only to find out that his mysterious benefactor is not there, and to his dismay the house never belonged to him, but to a old man who was on vacation. How this came about I have no clue. Kersey finds out that the man elicited his help was actually a drug dealer himself. He used Kersey, the one man Rambo team, to take out both opposing drug gangs. To further add insult they kidnap, Kersey's girlfriend, who had been doing her own private investigation into the manner of death of her daughter. Well Kersey comes back and true to form takes out everyone, into of course you guessed it, his girlfriend also dies. All his loves die in the Death Wish movies.Now I say this movie reeked. It was dismal. It defined logic. One sole man takes out whole drug gangs, virtually by himself. Bronson, I think, was just making this to collect a paycheck and to avoid retirement. He wanted to show that he at 65-66 could still kick people half his age butts and kick them singlehandedly in their combined groups. Bronson was not bad, but the plot sucked, the other actors were pretty much dismal,and the direction was off. "},{"Title":"Fill in the blank This movie is pure ______ .","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" SPOILERS!! This is the first Death Wish film that I have viewed, and now have no desire to see any of the others, although other posters state that this is the weakest in the series. Dana Barron drew me to this film, but Barron fans don't bother as she dies five minutes into the film.This film ranks up there with The Howling 3, Unbreakable and Ghoulies 2, as the worst films I have ever seen.The dialogue involved in this script is so awful, I don't know how to describe it. Maybe it has something to do with a female trying to write a testosterone filled script.The highlight of this yawner is the rival gang showdown in the middle of nowhere. What begins as about eight guys exchanging lead, becomes a 20-25 man gunfight. Where the hell did all these thugs come from!?! Are we lead to believe that they were summoned from thin air? "},{"Title":"Bronson makes like Yojimbo in this tired sequel.","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death Wish 4 is a tired film. Even Michael Winner knew the well has run dry, so Bronson hands over the directorial reins to his good buddy J. Lee Thompson. They should have retired this film franchise after the third one because this is a waste of time. Boring action set pieces and a old hat plot makes this a lousy picture. A bad film and not the good bad. A real stinker.Not recommended.D- "},{"Title":"Together with part 5 the worst of the series","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a total insult to the legendary first Death Wish(10/10).None of the charms of that movie are in this one,the brilliant score of part 1 is totally gone and is now very bad.The story is also inferior compared to part 1.Bronson was probably hopeless so he made this movie.Not even he can save it from total disaster.The moral is,although also in part 1 not my vision,really sick and really wrong.So,don't watch it.Or watch it just as I didI HAD to see it because I saw all the other ones.  1/10 "},{"Title":"Laughable.","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is such a bad movie, it's not even funny. Charles Bronson (Apple proof of when social security screws you over.) stars once again as Paul Kersey the vigilante who this time is paid to wipe out two drug dealing families, (and soon to be three in a lame twist.)Taken as a whole Death Wish 4 is just utterly bad, the actionscenes are all poorly mounted, the dialog is unintentionally hilarious and what's more the movie doesn't even have a plot, it's just Charles Bronson killing dumbasses who are dumb enough to get wiped out. How hard is it to take on a 66 year old anyway?The one redeeming quality is it's unitentional humor, when Bronson approaches a baddie, he says How many kids have you killed with this Sh*t !  It's a true statement for Bronson, only that kids in this sentence represents acting careers. Truly terrible, but then again, it's really funny. * (Out of Four)  (**** Camp rating) "}{"Title":"The Worst of the Series.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Charles Bronson once again (yawn) finds himself in a situation where he straps on the old vigilante outfit (yawn) and goes back out to dish out some justice. STOP!!! We are fine. You have made too many already. And when will women learn to stay away from this guy. Every woman he is with ends up dead. Bronson's acting is horrible in this film and it makes you wonder if he was ever a good actor. The answer is yes, but that has all gotten swept under the rug when he agreed to continue these Death Wish movies. The 1st was good, after that it became annoying. So to sum it up, don't waste your time. Check out Bronson's older stuff. Much better.  "},{"Title":"overuse of weapons","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The seriousness of the first two films is thrown out the window with this one.  The beginning of the film was serious, but degrades into a Sly/Arnold movie which was popular in the 80's.  It had plot twists and surprises. His choice of weapons has a lot to be desired;  you need a rocket launcher to shoot someone.  Bronson's acting is dry and unimaginative.    He should quit while he's ahead. 4/10 "},{"Title":"A Great Comedy","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  However its not meant to be one.but how can you keep a straight face to this.Bronson is too old for this type of film.its not helped by a bad script. Though John P Ryan is wonderfully over the top.its silly but funny.after Death wish 3 i thought it couldnt be worse.i was wrong.1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"SPOILERS Paint by numbers b-action movie","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've never seen the original Death Wish or any of its sequels, and forutently (or unfortuently so) I caught this on the TV.  Bronsan, who plays his Paul vigiliante character flatter than a flat pancake is hired by some old rich guy to take out two rival LA drug barons.Whilst everyone else seems like they've just graduated from TV-movies, Bronsnan just seems to be doing the movie for the money and moves from one set-piece to another with hardly any emotion or character.This movie tries to out-cop and out-do the Stallone, Schwarzneggers with hard action sequences, but most of them seem to be done ad-hoc, what's the deal with the exploding wine bottle scene?The old rich guy ends up double-crossing Brosnan when he kills off the two gangs, but Brosnan still in vigilante mood takes out the old man too, who it turns out was another drug baron.Whilst the movie is quick to jump on the lets give the hero a big gun and make him shoot anything that moves bandwagon, it doesn't impress or make the film any more enjoyable.  It is terrible, but its terribly similar to other films that came out professing to be against those damn drugs!By the end Brosnan goes over the top and kills off the old man with a grenade launcher after the man kills his woman - but she is still moving after she is shot, and brosnan never checks on her, he just kills the man and moves on.  Its a shame he never moved on from these awful Death Wish movies.By the end I was begining to realise why in an episode of the simpsons, an advert for Death Wish 13 comes on with Brosnan exclaiming I wish I was dead...was so true.Is it worth renting? Hell no. Is it worth watching? Perhaps, if your up for a laugh.Overall A TV-Movie. 1/10  "},{"Title":"Good joke","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" First I noticed the that this is not directed by Michael Winner, which made me scare a bit for the quality of the film. After all Winner and Bronson are THE guys who created Death Wish movie series.The acting and directing are clearly worse than in the previous parts. Really bad photography That means camera movements and pictures. The script made me laugh Not again... I wonder what Bronson has thought while acting in this. Maybe he thought that this is art. MAYBE not. But if you think this as a comedy, as I did, and remember the former parts, it's actually funny, at least to some point. It is a light parody of the Death Wish movies. As an independent movie, apart from those, it's nothing. It doesn't even have a script.I'm sure the director has thought of this as a joke. For example there is an educational scene about drugs One guy has died after a drug pipe exploded on his face! And the corpses in the mortuary move their eyes quite visibly! But maybe it's good that he hasn't even tried to do anything comparable to the originals. This is an interesting bad movie, because it seems that it's made bad on purpose! Everything is campy and bad in this movie. Even the music and sound effects! This is the kind of movie that you can make food, go to toilet, or talk in the telephone during watching, and don't have to press pause. Actually you don't have to even watch it. I hope that in the fifth part I'll see Bronson slaughtering the guys who did this. "},{"Title":"The WORST of the series","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Paul Kersey (Bronsan) goes wages a war on crime when his new girlfriend's daughter dies of a drug overdose. Death Wish 4 is hands-down the worst of the series. Bronsan seems very tired of his recurring role and with the garbage he has on his hands with this screenplay, I can't blame him in the least. A GREAT disservice to fans of the previous Death Wish movies. Skip this one.Where I saw it Encore ActionMy action movie Grade D-INSTEAD of this see Any of the first three Death Wish films "},{"Title":"Death Wish 4 The Crackdown","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first film was a success, the sequel was terrible, and the third film was even worse, and this one had Michael Winner leave and director J. Lee Thompson (Ice Cold in Alex, Conquest of the Planet of the Apes) take over. Basically architect Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is back in Los Angeles with reporter girlfriend Karen Sheldon (Kay Lenz), who has teenage daughter Erica (Dana Barron). One night with boyfriend Randy Viscovich (Jesse Dabson), Erica indulges in using crack cocaine supplied by JoJo Ross (Héctor Mercado), and dies from overdose. JoJo kills Randy, but Paul goes after him and brings out his vigilante side once again by blowing him away, and soon after he gets a call from publisher Nathan White (John P. Ryan). Nathan heard about Paul killing the drug dealer, and he explains that his daughter got hooked on drugs and died of overdose as well, so he is offering Paul to wipe out the whole LA drug trade. After asking for a day or two to think about it, he accepts Nathan's offer, gaining all the weapons and information he needs to eliminate all the key people in the drugs trade of LA. There are plenty of people along the way to kill, but the particular targets on the list are main drug suppliers and rival kingpins Ed Zacharias (Perry Lopez) and Jack Romero (Mike Moroff). On the trail for Paul, confident that The Vigilante has come out of retirement, are police Detective Phil Nozaki (The Man with the Golden Gun's Soon-Tek Oh) and Detective Reiner (Blue Velvet's George Dickerson). It turns out though that Nathan is not who he says he is, the real White shows his face, and the fake one had another agenda all together, he wanted his enemies out the way, and then Paul. In the end, after being lured into a trap with Karen as bait, and after she is shot dead, Paul kills the villain blowing him up with a grenade gun, and the police man lets him walk away. Also starring Danny Trejo as Art Sanella. Bronson is still a bit too quiet and stiff, one or two of the death sequences were reasonably explosive, but some you could see the rubbish effects to create them, e.g. dummies, so not a crime thriller to bother with. Pretty poor! "}]