[{"Title":"Sick Flick","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"87 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It seems fitting that in the wake of the excellent Lord of the Rings films, that we should have a look at just what started director Peter Jackson on the road to being one of the worlds greatest visionaries. Before LOTR's, Jackson's biggest financial hit was the Michael J. Fox horror comedy 'The Frighteners', and his biggest critical success being the haunting 'Heavenly Creatures', starring a then not-so-famous Kate Winslet. But it wasn't an easy ride getting to be the director of the most anticipated trilogy since Star Wars. Jackson started small, very small, and clawed his way up the movie ladder using nothing more than pure determination and a raw talent for film-making.Jackson's first feature was Bad Taste, a low, low-budget horror comedy movie made over two years about aliens killing humans for their fast-food business back in space. No real plot, no real actors, no real crew. Only an insane imagination and devoted friends willing to help out. There's not even much of a script, because what Jackson sets out to do is sicken his audience with some of the most gruesome deaths ever seen and make them laugh until the back of their heads fall off. And he succeeds.Narrative and plot structure are not on the vile menu here. Instead, Bad Taste is a testament to sick jokes, low-budget gore and technical brilliance on a shoestring. Jackson made his own steadicam, crane and other camera rigs to create the impression of a bigger-budgeted movie (he fails to do so, unfortunately) and even undertook the task of making all of his own make-up and prosthetic effects, including mechanised masks and realistic machine guns. This is an even greater achievement when you consider just how much gore there is in the film, but the finale, in which a huge mansion is rocketed into space, defies the rules of its low budget and minimal crew.Even the cast were so minimal that the same aliens can be seen, if you look hard enough, being killed over and over again throughout the film, and Jackson himself takes on two roles; the unstable Derek and a mad alien called Robert. In one scene, Derek and Robert engage in a cliff-top fight with each other, balanced precariously on the edge and with no indication that one is a body double. Jackson's creativity and knowledge of movie trickery is undoubtedly on display here, but the low-rent sickness and bloody gore on display would suggest otherwise. At first it is hard to imagine that Jackson would go on from this to directing one of the best films of all time, but when you look closely, examine just what Jackson could do with no money and no crew, you begin to realise that a true genius was at work here.Bad Taste is a delirious testament to the 'just-get-out-there-and-do-it' school of film-making, as that is literally what Jackson did. Shooting whenever he had the money for film stock and making props and special effects in his parent's garage. Apparently, one of Jackson's greatest problems was keeping his actors consistent in appearance over the two-year period, making sure haircuts remained the same and that one actor had a permanent five-o'clock shadow. Bad Taste is true to the spirit of independent film-making, one man making the film he wants, when he wants and with whom he wants. In fact, it would never and could never have been made under the supervision of a studio, and even if it had the spirit would have been killed off.Bad Taste works for me because I admire the way in which it is made. When I first saw it I was in my teens and I liked it because it was a demented, gruesome, funny film, so maybe the teen crowd is the right one for Jackson's brain-eating, vomit-spewing, chuck-up-a-thon, or maybe it's also for twenty-somethings after a night on the lash. Either way, Bad Taste should be seen as an example that if you want to make a movie and know how - there is usually a way "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time.","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"53 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This extremely bloody and hilariously funny gore comedy from the director of Braindead and Meet the Feebles is about some aliens,who gather in a small New Zealand town to harvest human beings as a food source for their struggling intergalactic fast food.Four agents of the Alien Investigation and Defense Sector(A.I.D.S)are called on to stop them.Bad Taste was filmed on a shoestring budget over a period of four years,using second hand equipment,and produced by and starring all Jackson's friends and work colleagues.The amount of bloodshed in this film is really high,but the gore is presented in such a way that it just makes you laugh hysterically.There's vomit eating,brain eating,exploding heads,flying guts and even exploding sheep.A must see for horror,splatter and gore fans! "},{"Title":"If this is not a classic of its genre, what is?","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"45 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When it comes to splatter-flicks it's hard to find a bigger milestone than Bad Taste. I laugh my ass off when I think of the ignorant and unaware Tolkien-fans who are about to watch it in order to check out what Peter Jackson has done before The Lord of the Rings. If they haven't seen Bad Taste they're in for a bit of a surprise even though mere name says it all. The foolish plot of Bad Taste is unessential - film is made to show audience as much everything that's sickening and repulsive as it's possible from an alien that splits into two pieces when its being hit by a car and then fiddles his own entrails, hero who's squeezing pieces of brain back into a cracked head and a bunch of lunatics from outer space who are eating steamy and lumpy vomit. This is not the most disgusting flick ever made. That's because luckily the gore effects are so hilariously clumsy that instead of making you throw up they make you laugh hard. This is still a bloody disgusting film. I love Bad Taste and I've seen it too many times but obviously it's impossible for me to judge people who don't like it.Peter Jackson has directed so much better movies after this with more money and real actors. Nevertheless, in one way Bad Taste will always be his very best work - no matter what he has done and will do in the future. Jackson had mom and dad (!) as special assistants to the producer and his pals as an actors. You have to respect a movie that was originally made during several years with no bigger commercial motives - just because of the fun of making a motion picture. This is a film that is good because it looks cheap, clumsy and stupid and has a ridiculous plot, awful script and absolutely terrible actors. Usually those are faults and the main reasons why a film is lousy but in this case it's all part of the fun. Movie history has rarely seen as horrible acting as especially Terry Potter and Mike Minett as Ozzy and Frank are having. Actually Doug Wren who's playing the alien leader is the only one who I can call an actor with a bit of a talents. Peter Jackson's own unhealthy character Derek who forces himself through alien's anus with a chainsaw is an amusing bloke too. Taste couldn't possibly get any worse, so if you don't possess an extremely sick and perverse sense of humor don't bother. Phenomenal trash 10/10. "},{"Title":"Truly amazing no-budget splatterfest.","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"44 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" BAD TASTE, the worldwide cult hero Peter Jackson's first picture, concerns four bumbling government agents whose job it is to rid scenic New Zealand of any alien scum that may be invading their otherwise peaceful country. After being called upon to explore an entire town that has been mysteriously deserted, the men fall upon a shocking discovery aliens from outer space have abducted much of the human race and are planning on using their flesh for intergalactic hamburger meat! It seems humanoids are the newest taste sensation all throughout the galaxy. Now, our heroes, with the aid of the city's one surviving human, are on a mission to save Earth from these extraterrestrials' fiendish plot--in the bloodiest, slapstick-iest, most outlandish ways imaginable.BAD TASTE took four years, a shoestring budget, and a tiny devoted cast and crew to complete. Shooting took place mainly on weekends, while the amateurs tended to their daily lives the rest of the week. The unmitigated commitment the crew had towards the production of the film really shows, as they all must've given their utmost towards not just getting the movie complete, but making it look spectacular. Jackson's camera-work and special effects are nothing short of mind-blowing, and the fast-paced editing really gives this 16mm wonder a big-budget, professional look while still maintaining a goofy, campy feel.Sure, the acting may be a bit over-the-top, and the meandering script does seem largely improvised, but these shortcomings only add to the picture's fun, crazy atmosphere, helping to make it even funnier. The soundtrack is oftentimes a little overbearing and awkward as well, but again, it doesn't in any way detract from the overall enjoyment of the film. All in all, if you're a fan of gore movies, alien romps, or just good ol' fashioned black comedy, then you don't want to miss BAD TASTE. Just make sure you have the stomach for it, or it might just get torn out and eaten! "},{"Title":"I'm a Derek, Dereks don't run.","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"33 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bad Taste is one of the weirdest, stupidest, most idiotic, b (if that) movies I've ever seen.  Why then do I own this movie?  Because Peter Jackson has created one of the funniest splatterfests period (especially the hilarious machine gun scene and the pine cone tossing).  It takes a while for the hilarity to start but so did Dead Alive (another Jackson great).  Enjoy as Derek, Ozzy (wearing a Tales From the Crypt t-shirt), and the rest of the boys take on extra-terrestrial buggers who've come to Earth in search of meat.  The plot is also a little hard to follow the first time around.  After watching Bad Taste many times however, I have no idea how he was chosen to direct the Lord of the Rings (which rocked).  So, Peter Jackson, for that...I salute you. "},{"Title":"It's always the low-budget films that hit that special spot...this is THE BEST!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"30 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being a fan of films high on the gore scale, and reading many reviews for this film, I finally decided to give this film a whirl...to this day, I still don't regret it! If you like gore, this is for you. If you like comedy, this is for you. If you liked the Evil Dead series, no doubt you will LOVE this film! For the full-effect, pick up the limited edition DVD. I swear, even if you have to pay 25 or even 40 bucks for this version, it's worth every penny! However, if you hate getting songs stuck in your head, then don't listen to the end theme! It's a cool eighties-style song, really good for a low-budget pic, but IT WILL GET STUCK IN YOUR HEAD!!! The entire film has great pacing, never slowing down for one second! This is also a great film for those, like myself, who want to get into filmmaking. This is one of those few films you never get bored watching, whether it's ten times or a thousand times!!! This is a must have for everybody!!!  "},{"Title":"I'm a Derek...Derek's DON'T run!","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Directed by the New Zealand king of low-budget gore - Peter Jackson, who also takes the starring role in his debut film as 'Derek', the leader of the alien prevention group 'Alien Investigation and Defence Service' - A.I.D.S(!), who are called into action when a group of aliens land on earth with the intention of kidnapping humans and using them as the main ingredient for their fast food restaurants! Naturally Derek and his crew are none too happy about this and set about stopping them in the only way they know how - violently.As you can imagine with a plot like this and with Peter Jackson involved you can expect extreme gore mixed with extreme cheese, for example there is this one part where an alien has been severed in two from being hit by a car, his remaining top half fends off Jackson's attacks with a chainsaw by throwing pine cones at him! Also throughout the film Derek becomes increasingly demented after having a particularly nasty fall off a 90ft cliff, although miraculously surviving this, he has a nasty crack on the back of his head which keeps flapping open and letting bits of brain fall out (nice) and at one point he replaces his emptying skull with an alien's intestines who he has just slaughtered! As you can probably tell from these examples this film is pretty gross and if your like me you will find it very funny as well.Watch this film even if it is only to see one of Derek's compadres' rip off an aliens head with his bare hands and drop-kick it successfully out of a window to which he casually comments The old magic is still there. "},{"Title":"Cannibalistic living dead space cretins with bad aim vs secret agent earth morons with good aim","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's all about the aim in this tongue-in-cheek (or should I say, tongue in cranial cavity) shock-horror gross-out fest from early in Pete Jackson's career. It's hard to imagine how Mr. Jackson went from this to incredibly campy comedy of guts and brain chunks to the brilliant Lord of the Rings Trilogy in 20 years, but, if you take a look at the films he made along the way - Meet the Feebles, Heavenly Creatures, Dead Alive, etc - you will see the common threads.Like most of Jackson's work, this film sets out to make the best possible use of the available talent, sets and budget, and does so with verve. In this case, Jackson worked with very little of these three elements, and yet managed to pull off a hilarious bit of campy horror-comedy, with remarkable no to low budget special effects and plenty of the slapstick (with cow blood and chicken guts) that characterizes most of his early films.To describe the plot with more than two or three sentences would require spoilers. In other words, there isn't much of one. The film opens with a group of mulleted New Zealand special agent security guys investigating a massacre of an entire village by aliens which first appear to be extras from a living dead movie, then later somehow become more intelligent, agile, and.... inhuman. The film is decorated with an amazing array of creative gore and slapstick death scenes, and once the bullets start flying, the alien's demonstrate their fatal flaw - they have less talent with guns than the average criminal in a Matt Damon film.To his credit, Jackson knew what he could get away with considering what he had on hand, and didn't try to make a serious film. The camera work is, as always, excellent, and the make-up compliments the absurdity of the plot quite nicely. The result is hilarious, but only if you grock his sense of humor. I would recommend Dead Alive first, because it's humor is more (literally) in your face and obvious. This is definitely worth an evening, but, unlike the rest of Jackson's repertoire, it is a disposable film - worthy of one or two viewings, max. "},{"Title":"Splatter fun for all the family!","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"19 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Goofy and ridiculously exaggerated horror-comedy, obviously made by a group of unprofessional movie-lovers and friends. Dig this big potato-headed aliens slice up an entire little town in order to serve them in an intergalactic chain of fast-food restaurants! Four eccentric lowlifes are after them (they form a government agency called A.I.D.S &#150; Alien Investigation and Defense Service). Peter Jackson (yes, THE Peter Jackson) desperately tries to hide the fact that he doesn't have the story by showing a whole lot of nasty gunfights and immature butchering. Buy hey&#133;who's complaining? Bad Taste is great fun and one of the most hilarious horror-comedies ever.  Nobody in the cast knows how to act, the make-up effects are cheesy and the cinematography is laughable. Jackson himself plays Derek, an obsessive freak that constantly has to re-install his own brain after he lost some cells in a fall of a cliff. There isn't one `scary' moment to detect in Bad Taste, but the vulgarity and nastiness-level is pretty high&#133; Chainsaw dismemberments, crushed skulls&#133;you name it and Peter Jackson shows it! Even drinking someone's fresh vomit is possible in his wicked imagination! As Jackson's budget slowly increased, so did his filmmaking skills. He continued to make fresh New-Zealand horror with `Meet The Feebles' (brilliant and imaginative puppet adventure) and `Braindead' (perhaps the goriest film ever). When you see him here in Bad Taste, you'd never say he'll win an Oscar for best director once but it only gives more cult-value to the film. This is an ideal motion picture to watch with a group of friends, with lots and lots of alcohol and pizza. You're not missing out on anything if you haven't seen it yet, except for a real good time. "},{"Title":"Ha ha ha","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"25 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Gore Oh yeah. Acting Who cares? Action Sure. Humor What's funnier than life-sized Sgt. Pepper cut-outs of the Beatles in a car? Nuff said. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Human meat for intergalactic hamburgers","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Bad Taste' is the first movie made by Peter Jackson. We can see that he didn't have many experience in that time, because I could see many of the errors from the script or from the ' production', (if we can call that a production, because it is very very simple)being the most notable one the toy guns, that we can clearly see that is plastic. The only thing I don't understand, is why the movie was banned in the Australian state of Queensland.The plot is very simple An intergalactic team of a fast food chain 'Crumb's Crunchy Delights' comes to Earth, because they want to popularize the human flesh in the space. They arrive in New Zeland and the the country's Astro-Investigation and Defense Service is called in to deal with the problem. The things stays complicated because of an aid worker who comes to Kaihoro the same day to collect change from the residents. The aid worker called Giles is captured by the aliens, and some complications starts to begin,specially because are many, many of them. "},{"Title":"For low budget enthusiasts only","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is defiantly an oddity. I've sat through a lot of b-movies and mst3k episodes in my time, and this pushed my limits. Amateurish and crude, funny at times, incomprehensible at others, I can't say it has enough to recommend it. The plot and characters are paper thin even for this type of movie, the inspired moments are few and far between, and the script feels like it doesn't know when to end. It's obvious that this movie was made for next to nothing and by an inexperienced but ambitious filmmaker who had a preoccupation for gore and crude humor (Part Sam Rami, part Monty Python, part just plain gross). To put it in the same category of films like Dead Alive and Evil Dead (both of which I love) seems a bit unfair to the term B-Movie, this feels more like a C-Movie. It's not Manos the Hands of Fate or anything, but it's still extremely crude film making wise. Years ago this would have been available to film enthusiasts who spent money and time track down a bootleg copy, but now, thanks to Jackson's current success, the film has been released to mass audience on DVD. It's nice that it's available, but unless you're a Peter Jackson completist or a very forgiving genre fan , stay away, this probably should have been left in the world of bootleg VHS.Those who are interested in Jackson would be better served by checking out movies like Heavenly Creatures, and the Frighteners. If you think you would like to see this movie, perform this test; first rent Dead Alive (which looks like Oscar material compared to this movie), if you can stomach that and want more then next you want to go rent Meet the Feebles. If you still feel the need to go back to Jackson's roots, by all means go check out this movie but be warned, these people giving this movie 10 stars are obviously hardcore low budget genre enthusiasts or insane, possibly both. "},{"Title":"'You put a bad taste in my mouth...'","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before Peter Jackson went on to huge success with A-list Hollywood films he was quite the horror film director (just watch Dead Alive!) and this ultra low-budget flick was his cinematic debut.A half-baked group of 'agents' must save the world when some aliens arrive to harvest humans for their fast food chain.From the premise alone one can tell that this flick is very campy, and rather darkly funny too! Jackson essentially made Bad Taste over a series of weekends, using his own friends for the cast and crew. Needless to say it's very low-budget, and it looks it, but in the end the cheap FX only heighten the sense of absurdity and comedy that makes this movie so damn amusing! One thing that young Jackson does well though is produce some great gore FX. As with his later gem Dead Alive (1992) there's plenty of blood flying in this early film too. It also has a number of memorable comical gags and everything is wildly over the top.Bad Taste is just as crazy as it sounds, but comes off all the more an entertaining riot because of it. A real cult classic.*** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"So so","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I seen this movie years and years ago on VHS. The movie is excellent on gore and low humor but this cannot save the film from a pointless,stupid plot and quite frankly was boring for an exception of the gory parts. When I seen this as a teenager I thought wow not on the acting or plot part but the gore. Thie gore is what impressed me the most about this film and I did get a few chuckles so not all is lost. I give the movie a 7,it gets a 7 because the gore really impressed me in a ghoulish way. I judge a movie by gore,plot,humor,acting,special effects. It gets a ten on gore,a 6 on humor and the rest of them like 2 or 3. Not the best film but if your a ghoul like me you'll appreciate the gore. "},{"Title":"Super-Cheap. Super-Gory. Super-Bad!","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's face it - When it comes to its hilarious, old school, grind-gore effects (that are really quite over-the-top and need to be seen to be believed), Bad Taste is a small-scale Alien Invasion picture that would have, otherwise, been forgotten long ago and dismissed as pure rubbish without them.With so much going against it (terrible dialogue, dumb situations, badly-staged violence, incompetent direction, predictable story), 1987's Bad Taste would be Peter Jackson's first feature film as a director and, with that, it, unfortunately, showed his amateur status clearly at this very early stage in his career.All-in-all - The appropriately titled Bad Taste was at least worth a few honest-to-goodness belly-laughs. The absolute highlight of its z-grade hilarity was the priceless moment when the aliens' asses were exposed to the viewer. Talk about funny! Set in the remote, New Zealand town of Kiahoro, Bad Taste was produced on a shoe-string budget of just 200,000 NZ dollars.Besides not giving a sweet-damn about the fate of any of the characters in the story, this viewer also thought that the film's rock & roll soundtrack stank, big-time.Oh, well - What the heck, eh? I still thought that its cheesy effects were a lot of fun to watch. "},{"Title":"No such a big deal, until the bullets start flying","Date":"10 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I heard about this film a couple of times, people told me how great it was, that it was a classic. I was introduced to Jackson with Braindead I believe, followed by The Frighteners. I watched some other films directed by him afterwards and found them quite decent (except for King Kong). So I said, why not? I used to enjoy guts the more the better, and found Jackson inspiring enough.Well, after 10-15 min of Bad Taste, I was wondering if I'm too old for that kind of stuff, because I couldn't find anything interesting about this film. The jokes seemed too simple or stupid, the gore was nowhere to be seen really and the general feeling was of, let's say, disarray.Then, towards the middle of the movie, the real action gets started. Forget any sense, plot or logical arguments here when you have heads exploding, guys drinking vomit and bodies being chopped in half, you don't need anything else.I must say that the FX's are impressive, old school and very, erm, nice.Alas, taking in consideration the resources and the date this was released, you have to give Jackson his credit.Add +1 to my vote if you worship gore. Another +1 if you are into classic stuff. And one more +1 if you like to see Peter Jackson acting.If you want to watch this just because you loved Lord Of The Rings or Heavenly Creatures, run away, fast. "},{"Title":"Your stomach will be churning!","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Aliens have landed on earth led by Lord Crumb, with the intention of selling mankind as hamburger meat to their intergalactic buddies. So we are now added to their menu, though the earth's government issues a full-scale alert and calls in The Boys- Frank, Oz, Barry and Derek to take care of the problem. Can they stop Lord Crumb turning the human race into Crumb's Country Delights or will The Boys meet the same fate as mankind. In all this leads up to bloody showdown between the two sides, literally.Peter Jackson's roughly made cult classic Bad Taste is purely vulgar trash, but hey that's its charm. A lot blood and guts went into this production, do I need to say more. There's no real purpose, or story behind this shamble or better put madness. It's all about grossing you out with a huge excess of cheesy gore, sick humour and outrageous violence. Yummy! And to think I was going to eat dinner while watching it. Sure it's incredibly dumb and tatty, but this is one of those films that its so bad that its good entertainment. It looked like they had a great time making the film, and it definitely shows on screen. Well, the conviction was there since it took Jackson and his pals four years to make this low-budget splatter and the crew had a whole a lot things to do other than one particular role. Like Peter Jackson who directed, co-written, acted, edited, cinematography and did the special effects. From that it surely does deserve its strong cult status. Everything about it boarders on farcical, the performances are truly uninspired, or they are just too damn relaxed. It's hard to say if they were mocking themselves as its like they just read the script for the first time and putting no real effort in their lines. Maybe the dialogue was made up on the spot? And those thick accents, well they came across as drongos (excuse the Australian slang) using a lot bad pun and wit. Although, the memorable fashion statements, takes the cake. Camera work is totally sluggish, the soundtrack is pumping for all different moods and there's nice dummy, uh I mean stunt work. The film is filled with a terrible amount of clichés and homage's, but the thrills are top grade. You get over-the-top gung-ho action with brain splattering and body parts flying everywhere! These moments are hilariously set-up in a twisted slapstick way. Although, the winner of this film is the repulsive gore and decent alien make-up and effects. Which is a big contrast to the pleasantly lush New Zealand scenery! This deliberately idiotic feature mixes gore and comedy to great effect. Highly amusing, but definitely not for the faint hearted or squeamish! Jackson went onto to make two more wicked cult films after this, the grotesque Braindead and the overly filthy Meet the Feebles. If you dig this film, you might as well check out those films too. "},{"Title":"My How the Mighty Have Risen","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've always respected and admired Kiwi director Peter Jackson and his grand designs. While some of his films are somewhat overrated (I take particular issue with The Frighteners (1996)), I could always appreciate his vision. When I decided to take on Meet the Feebles (1989) earlier this month I was taken aback by just how clever the man was when he first started making waves in schlocky horror movies business.Bad Taste (1987) was the director's first full-length film shot on a minuscule budget of just $30,000 New Zealand Dollars or just over $25,000 American. To put that into perspective Kevin Smith's Cannes Film Festival winner Clerks (1994) had a budget of $230,000. That's a paltry amount in comparison to the average multi-million dollar budget of a summer blockbuster. Yet while Bad Taste can't compare to the flip-flap of the Hollywood glitter machine, for what it was at the time and still is, Bad Taste isn't...terrible.A group of wannabe commandos discovers the dastardly plan of a particularly nasty group of aliens. Vanishing the entire town of Kaihoro (which translates to Foodtown in Maori), the aliens plan on taking the morbid, bloodied mounds of flesh back to their home planet. The ultimate goal; turn them into meat for their fast food franchise. It's now up to Ozzy (Terry Potter), Barry (Pete O'Herne), Derek (Peter Jackson) and Frank (Mike Minett) to put a stop to their plan before they expand to other parts of the island, and maybe the world!On the face of it, Bad Taste plays like a lesser version of The Evil Dead Trilogy (1981-1992) made memorable by its exotic island location. The Ocean is never far from the action and the flora of New Zealand's northern island makes for something nice to look at when the camera-work becomes stilted. The dialogue edges just north of bland and there's something to be said about the sound mixing which is out of synch in places.Still, no one watches a movie like Bad Taste to read lips and Peter Jackson's script requires a lot of running, hiding, physical confrontations, gunfire and blood gushing. Jackson himself has the majority of the memorable scenes; most involving attempts to stop his brains from leaking out the back of his head. He and his friends also double for Blue shirted aliens disguised as humans. They're dispatched in clever and often over-the-top ways in the tradition of Nobuo Nakagawa.Fans of blood, guts and gore will no doubt enjoy Bad Taste as it is indeed an exercise in bad taste. Yet even to the casual viewer Peter Jackson's freshman project has something to offer. The all male cast achieves a sense of camaraderie without needlessly focusing on things like character development. Also the acting isn't completely horrid, just amateurish.Finally to all the potential filmmakers out there who fear rejection due to lack of talent I say take a look back and watch Bad Taste. You'd be surprised how far a man like Peter Jackson has gotten. For that matter watch the maiden voyages of other brilliant directors like Martin Scorsese's short film The Big Shave (1968), Rian Johnson's Evil Demon Golfball from Hell!!! (1996) or Stanley Kubrick's Fear and Desire (1953). Talent isn't something you're born with but something you earn through practice. In the case of Jackson's story about fast food loving aliens, consider Bad Taste a work in progress.http//www.theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Bad Taste (1987) ***½ 91 min.","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dir. Peter JacksonStarring Terry Potter, Pete O'Herne, Craig Smith, Mike Minett, and Peter Jackson.This is truly a splatter classic. It even has an entertaining story as well. Aliens invade Earth (Kaihoro in New Zealand to be exact) to kill humans and sell them as intergalactic hamburger meat to other aliens. It's up to AIDS (Astro Investigation and Defense Service) to stop them. From the first scene on, you know this is going to be a fun ride. The movie lags a bit during the action sequences but is really quite campy as an overall movie. Truly shows what you can do with a silent Bolex 16mm camera, a few friends, and four years of laborious weekends to make a movie. Go and see it today!  "},{"Title":"Awfully gory film leaves a bad taste in our mouths!","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Peter Jackson's strange (and graphically violent) movies are far beyond the limits of Troma (THE TOXIC AVENGER) and Herschell Gordon Lewis (BLOOD FEAST), so it's simple to see why BAD TASTE excels much further in its gruesome detail, but it's way too overdone. It's absolutely notorious for all its disgusting glory, making controversial and realistic films like CANNIBAL FEROX pale in comparison. Every scene in this 85-minute long movie doesn't bore and manages to keep you entertained for a long time, despite a pointless plot. The insane comedy is a nice touch to the mega-splatter genre, and it's downright painfully WEIRD! Jackson steals the show as Derek, who yells MOMMY!! while falling down the cliff hitting the rocks below, as well as keeping his head up and going. He also gives us the most sickening finish...EVER!!! Sure, any buff who watches movies like BAD TASTE would rate a perfect 10 on the scale, but that isn't always a good thing. While it is a seldomly fun time, it's nothing more but a mind loser that stands in your way. A 6 would be more appropriate. "}{"Title":"ambitious low budget debut","Date":"31 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Aliens have invaded and taken over the population of Kaihoro, New Zealand. A group comes to investigate. Barry shoots one of the aliens. Derek (Peter Jackson) is in control on a hilltop and calls in Frank and Ozzy to Kaihoro. They find aliens who are processing humans for food.This indie is Peter Jackson's debut feature. He throws everything into this. Some of it works. Some of it doesn't. It is above all ambitious. He leaves little on the drawing board. The brain eating and other general grotesque creature feature stuff are great. It's always fun to have the gross squishiness. The gun action and fights are less compelling. It is shot very flatly. Peter has yet to absorb the HK action style. The story would be more compelling if the characters start out together. It would allow them to develop chemistry. These characters don't have enough personalities. They seem to be under-written. There is some good camera work. Overall, this is an ambitious debut. "},{"Title":"Gore showcase with bad humour and worse acting","Date":"16 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nowadays he's one of the world's most famous directors after his incredible success with the LORD OF THE RINGS trilogy, but everyone has to start somewhere and BAD TASTE is Peter Jackson's beginning. Shot over a period of 4 years as an amateur film and clearly inspired by the likes of THE EVIL DEAD, Jackson's film is equally inventive although totally different in tone. Instead of being a horror film, this is a comedy out and out, with the emphasis on dumb humour. Not really my cup of tea, but at least I could enjoy all the effort that went into this &#x96; especially the large-scale climax, with the flying house, which must have taken some doing! The simple story of an alien invasion is handled well on what is a very low budget. For much of the movie, the aliens look human, only changing into their rubbery true forms near the climax. The heroes facing them are men of action, so there's plenty of shooting and fight scenes, some heavily in debt to Schwarzenegger's COMMANDO, although this time around Jackson amps up the gore to unbelievable levels. Brains are splattered everywhere, blood fountains through the air, bodies are chainsawed and torn into pieces &#x96; it's all very nasty stuff, although thoroughly unbelievable and played for laughs at all times.One scene, the infamous vomit-drinking moment, is specifically designed to make the viewer be sick, and is pretty hard to watch (because of the sound effects, for the most part). This film's biggest detraction is the quality of the acting, which unsurprisingly sucks &#x96; particularly Jackson himself, who proves to be an intensely irritating screen star. Thank God then that his directing is good, showing promise even here. While I can't ever see myself sitting through BAD TASTE again, far preferring BRAINDEAD, fans of horror and gore flicks will no doubt have a ball with this silly outing that just goes to show what you can do with special effects and passion. "},{"Title":"Hilarious gore fest.","Date":"13 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Shot on a shoestring-budget, you can clearly see it is rather amateurishly shot (which is also excused by the fact that this is Jackson's directorial debut), but the gore effects are pretty impressive considering the low production values, even if it was made nearly three decades ago. The amateurish acting (except for the alien leader), along with the cinematography and special effects were done in true 80's style, back when movies didn't rely on CGI but instead on real special effects, which adds to it's charm. If this was made 10 years ago, it would've been much less charming. The movie is pretty simple, which means you can just turn your brain off and enjoy the movie for what it is; A comedy splatterfest with no gimmicks, or hidden messages. The gore is so over-the-top that you can't help but find it hilarious every time brains gets splattered all over the place. The film doesn't try to take itself serious in any way, which just further adds to it's comedic values. The character of Derek is the funniest one in the film, and he has some pretty hilarious one-liners; I'm a Derek and Derek's don't run, The headshot's the only true stopper, I'm born again (the last remark should be taken into context with the climax).Overall, not a bad movie, even though it may at first glance look like one. It's understandable that this movie has gained a cult-following. I would definitely recommend it to fans of gore and horror, if they haven't already seen it. "},{"Title":"Michael Wilmington, Tribune movie critic says it all.","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This picture is about murderous alien zombies, headed by the unspeakable Lord Crumb, who invade Earth, intent on subjugating humanity for use on the menus of their intergalactic fast-food franchise. And it's also about the anti-alien SWAT squad battling them four rambunctious New Zealanders who eventually seem little better than murderous psychopaths themselves.It's a personal film to the max. Jackson wrote, produced and directed Bad Taste as well as editing it, doing the makeup and playing two roles, a demented commando and a crazed zombie alien. (At one point, through camera magic, the two Jacksons battle each other on a steep mountainside.) As Derek the commando, Jackson suggests that, had he continued acting, he might well have become New Zealand's Rick Moranis. (Fortunately, he didn't). As a movie maker, he proves that he was a natural from the first moment he pointed his camera at a band of fear-addled humans or bloodthirsty ghouls.Bad Taste must be one of the most accurate titles in cinematic history. This movie is intended to make part of the audience reel and another part scream--though it's bad taste done, obviously, with a wink.Most of the movie is a series of wild chases, terrifying fist fights, nauseating sight gags and bizarre gun battles, studded with gore and homages to Night of the Living Dead, Evil Dead and The Texas Chain Saw Massacre. But throughout, despite the budget, it's staged and shot with deep-focus bravura and brilliance, non-stop verve and relentless energy.Like Dead Alive, Bad Taste means to scare us and make us laugh, go past all our defenses. You're probably shockproof if you aren't offended by the grislier moments of Bad Taste--like the scene where Derek, woozy from his zombie battles, peels back his own skull and sticks in some mashed brains he finds on the ground. But, if you aren't entertained, you've probably never seen a horror movie. "},{"Title":"Somewhat of a bad taste","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, even Peter Jackson had to start from somewhere...This movie is pretty bad. It's actually a watchable movie, but I really can't comprehend the critics claiming how awesome this movie is. Yeah, I do give credit on how this flick was made in the 80's with a very low budget and resources. And how it took like 4 years to make and how Peter Jackson put effort in it's completion (including making the props). But let's get real, if this movie was made by some film student that didn't make a name for him/herself. I wonder if the critics would be all over this movie in a positive light. This movie is inspiring in a way, how someone that made this sort of movie can actually become one of the most successful directors out there. For a director that is a beginner this movie ain't so awful. However the structure and cinematography to even the choreography is just plain downright bad. Maybe this is suppose to be one of those movies that is so bad, it's good. Or it's getting some really positive reviews because it's directed by Peter Jackson and has that old retro cult vibe going for it. This movie is different from other alien invasion movies with random people trying to stop a alien invasion in that there is development for this flick nor a exposition. It just starts with couple of youngsters trying to stop cannibal aliens by killing them off. Overall this is a watchable flick with the mentality that it's Peter Jackson's first movie and it was made with very limited resources.6/10 "},{"Title":"Pass the Popcorn review","Date":"22 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I sometimes jokingly remark how Peter Jackson's career was perfect until he directed the Lord of the Rings trilogy. It's hard to imagine that this director, who now specializes in big budget Hollywood movies, started off by creating twisted and gory low budget movies &#x96; his directorial debut, Bad Taste, being the prime example of this early, strange phase. Bad Taste was by no means an easy experience for Jackson, since the filming took 4 years. However, the hard work paid off and Bad Taste can be used as a valuable lesson in do-it-yourself low budget film making. It's amazing how, in spite of rather limited resources, Jackson managed to make it all work and look good &#x96; he created the masks and firearm replicas for the movie himself. He even constructed his own counterweighted steady-cam. Bad Taste is a definite must see for every aspiring movie maker, if only for Peter Jackson's creativity.The movie follows 4 agents (called 'The Boys') of some sort of secret service, who investigate alien activity in a small town. Apparently, the aliens have killed the whole population and replaced it. Things become more complicated when the aliens kidnap a charity collector passing through, and it's up to The Boys to save him, by using any means necessary. As you can see, Bad Taste's plot is fairly simple, there isn't much story to it &#x96; the movie is mainly action and dialogue driven. Due to this fact, the movie gets boring from time to time and I find it to be the worst from Peter Jackson's early phase. I also find it to be the least funny one. While there are quite a few amusing scenes, it doesn't even come close to other early classics like Braindead and Meet the Feebles. But at least there is enough violence and gore in it to make it interesting. The movie does get pretty graphic. Did you first notice the guy missing the top of his head or the Peter Jackson cameo?The effects in the movie (influenced by the cult special effects artist Tom Savini) are surely its best quality. You'll see heads exploding, limbs being torn off and even some chainsaw action. The scene which impressed me the most was the one where a character, played by Peter Jackson, fights with another character &#x96; also played by Peter Jackson. Actually, if you're not informed prior to the watching of movie, you may not notice he plays two different characters since they don't really look alike. Who knows &#x96; maybe Jackson has an acting talent waiting to be further developed? Speaking of acting, the actors did an OK job for this kind of movie, no one is laughably bad. On a side note, I think it's important to remark that all of the dialogue was dubbed in post production; that, however, isn't much of a bother since it isn't very apparent.While I wasn't really keen on Bad Taste (like I said &#x96; I found it to be somewhat boring and I prefer other early Jackson works) I would definitely recommend it to everyone. It's a gory, funny trash/cult flick about some guys fighting off a bunch of butt shaped aliens, set to an 80s heavy metal soundtrack. Why wouldn't you watch it?Rating 6/10 Read more at http//passpopcorn.wordpress.com/ "},{"Title":"It's about time Jackson was funny again","Date":"15 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before Peter Jackson almost exclusively worked with a CGI backdrop in the land of Middle-Earth, he began his film making career in the realms of low budget comedy-horror. Utilising the 1980's trend for splatter cinema, and no doubt the influence of Sam Raimi's tongue-in-cheek zombie film, The Evil Dead (1982), Jackson's debut feature film was entrenched in a very American tradition, but beholds the humour of his native New Zealand - which incidentally is part of the British commonwealth, meaning much of the uniqueness of British comedy is transposed onto the antipodean nation, the influence of Monty Python being one particular aspect of the film that made it such a surprise success. Bad Taste was clearly a labour of love, with Jackson bringing friends and family in to contribute to the making. The nature of the films production adds something quite special to both the narrative and the humour. The home- made special effects and props (Jackson used his parents oven to bake the handmade armoury used in the film) work both as farce and as actually quite an achievement of authenticity.Set in a small, isolated town, a group of misfits, The Boys, ordered from a shadowy government department, have been sent to investigate an invasion, where aliens have wiped out the inhabitants. What transpires is an alien fast food corporation have discovered that human flesh is the galaxy's newest taste sensation, and are accumulating cardboard boxes of flesh to market and sell to planets. At the centre of the government group is geeky scientist, Derek (Played by Jackson himself - he is also in the role of the alien Robert), who can only relate to birds. He salivates at the sight of dismemberment and artillery. As the group discover the truth about the alien invasion, their mission is to stop them from leaving the planet. On a narrative level, Bad Taste is as simple as they come. But underneath this simplicity is a wealth of brilliantly formed characters, with their own idiosyncrasies, and a range of beautifully crafted one liners and references.There are some stand out moments created with gruesome, cheep, but effective effects. The aliens seem to be mostly influenced by the zombie cinema of George A. Romero, with their slow moving mannerisms, and like Romero and Savini, Jackson delights in slicing them up with sharp tools and exploding them with guns. One alien has the top half of his head chopped off, a scene that displays Jackson's talent for editing, as he seamlessly cuts from the actors legs stumbling, to the rubbery half-head spurting copious amounts of blood and gore. Derek provides some of the most grotesque, Grand Guignol elements after he falls from a cliff, leaving a skull flat that exposes his brain matter. After this event, he constantly battles to keep the brain inside his head, strapping it closed with a belt. These scenes merge those ideas the comedy of the absurd, with the horrific splatter of giallo or the ridiculously over- the-top gore films of Herschell Gordon Lewis.Considering the limitations of the incredibly low budget (according to IMDb, the films budget was estimated at 30,000 NZD), the film looks good. Of course the film stock, the acting and the special effects aren't up to some of the more expensive American productions of its type, but with an insanely funny script, and the excessive nature of the violence, it is a film that should be loved. I do remember first seeing this film on video around 1989/1990, no doubt initially attracted by the latex alien on the video cover flipping the bird. It was soon the talk of the playground, as school friends would delight in the gore. But more specifically, I, along with my peers, were fundamentally reacting to the outlandish and on-the-money comedy, which holds up today as much as the first two Monty Python films. Gross-out comedy on this scale, has not been so much fun as this since. It's a shame Jackson hides away in Middle-Earth so much these days, it's about time he was funny again.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Stay where you are then, and I'll give you an eye witness description of this, intergalactic w*nker!","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I expect you're wondering what you're doing soaking in Reg's eleven secret herbs and spices. Tomorrow we're having you for lunch!Yes, the aliens have turned the villagers into tasty burgers, and Derek (Peter Jackson) must defeat them before they spread to the whole world. This time the good guy has the chainsaw, but will he be able to defeat the evil corporate aliens who are just trying to supply their fast-food chain?And, yes, this is the same Peter Jackson of Lord of the Rings fame.Be prepared for some really bloody scenes, and humor that borders on the outrageous. Borders, heck, it is outrageously funny.Oh yes, lots of gooey, icky stuff coming out of bodies. "},{"Title":"It is what the title says, in the funniest possible way!","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the '80's and early '90's visionary director of 'Lord of the Rings', 'King Kong' and 'The Lovely Bones' Peter Jackson was making the type of films some countries don't even allow today, outside of Asia and the US. It may come as a shock for fans of his work this last decade to witness 'Meet The Feebles' or 'Braindead' and vice versa for fans of his old outings.'Bad Taste' is an action-sci-fi-horror about a small unit of dimwitted rejects from the fictional governmental department the Astro Investigation and Defence Service (AIDS LOL) who are stationed in various locations around a deserted coastal town, which has been wiped out by alien invaders.Upon two of their unit being marauded by groups of the aliens disguised as humans, they regroup and head in to gather intelligence where they discover Earth has been targeted by the ruthless leader of one of the galaxy's biggest fast food corporations, hence the title, 'Bad Taste!'The film is possibly one of the tackiest and most absurd ever conceived, yet boasts of its absurdity because it is so notoriously fun to watch and has some pretty fantastic (although dated) practical special effects, and people will even watch it over and over again to remind themselves how bad it is.What people don't seem to get is that it's a balls-out parody that simply doesn't count on inter-textual references to be understood. Instead it counts on the childish humour of a bunch of male friends most likely trying to test their girlfriends' gag reflexes, almost like a fictional Jackass or Dirty Sanchez movie. It's a boys film that cuts out all the unnecessary plot and dialogue and goes straight for the knives, guns, bazookas, chainsaws, blood and guts and vomit gags, nothing more, nothing less.I may be biased in voting it a 7 out of 10 but still I tried to be fair. It's badly acted, badly produced, badly offensive and pure bad taste in every way possible but still, the performers in the movie are likable and they provide you with a lot of laughs. Peter Jackson must have made this from his garden shed back then, but if that's the case, what an effort. Love it! "},{"Title":"As gory as anything you would want to see!","Date":"8 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before Peter Jackson astounded the world with his landmark zombie shocker Braindead, this unbelievably gory horror/comedy was perhaps the single most unique piece of film-making ever to come out of the genre. No one expected to see martian vomit being eaten or humans being marinated or, for that matter, a skull cracking open to reveal soft brains inside. Everybody, however, saw all these images courtesy of Jackson - a director who goes as far as he wants when making a movie. The plot - an army of intergalactic intruders come to a sleepy town to turn the population into fast food for their restaurant chains deep in space - plays second fiddle to the bloody special effects and flamboyant direction on display here. This is one movie that is definitely not for the faint-hearted - the ending, a nasty scene in which Jackson is born again, has to be seen be believed. "}{"Title":"Bad taste... definitely.","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Peter Jackson's first movie, didn't expect a lot, but... I would say that this was a good exercise for Jackson and Co., they grabbed a camera and started to have some fun. On the gore subject would say that some of the murders are still shocking. On the comedy section yes it's fun at some point, but definitely you have to be on the mood for watching some stupid jokes and have some laughs, don't expect much the only thing you need to enjoy, is to stop thinking for 90 minutes. The story is fine but definitely there were (lots of) moments that I felt treated as a guy that really haven't got any brains, with really dull (kind of children) jokes. Definitely this movie has been consider a cult film because of Jackson's new works. For Jackson's fans and people that want to give their brain a (90 minutes) rest. "},{"Title":"Cult as it, it's best","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Could a title be any more direct? New Zealand maverick Peter Jackson made a splash (well, more of a splatter) with this film debut, a slapstick gross-out comedy about an alien fast-food franchise that turns a small town into a cheap source of meat. All that stands in the extraterrestrials' way is the Alien Investigation Defense Service (yes, it's a tasteless gag), a bunch of would-be Rambos who take on the aliens with axes, rocket launchers, and chainsaws. Jackson mines vomit jokes, dismembered corpses, and brain-spattering gore for over-the-top laughs and succeeds with inventive low-budget effects, crack timing, and sheer exuberance. Not bad for a film made on weekends with homemade props and a bunch of energetic mates. Jackson topped himself a few years later with the even more outrageous and hilarious bloody gut-buster Dead Alive. The limited-edition two-disc set also includes the documentary featurette Good Taste Made Bad Taste, a revealing making of shot at the time of production and featuring behind-the-scenes footage of Jackson's home-made special effects, and a 16-page booklet with cast interviews. "},{"Title":"Dereks Don't Run!","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nowadays, Peter Jackson is most famous for directing the Lord Of The Rings films. And even though they are overrated, in my opinion, they are highly entertaining and well made films. For my fellow lovers of trashy cult-cinema, however, Jackson's true masterpieces will always remain the gory and hilarious low-budget classics from the beginning of his career. His directorial debut Bad Taste of 1987 is such a film. This is a gory and hilarious splatter-satire that Jackson shot with a bunch of friends and an extremely low budget.Aliens, who nourish both on human flesh and their own vomit, have come to New Zealand. It is now the turn for a bizarre defense-squad consisting of four freaks to save New Zealand from the uninvited invaders... The character are played by friends of Jackson, most of whom never appeared in any other movie, and the performances are therefore quite awful. This is not necessarily a fault, however, since everybody is obviously aware of the quality of their acting skills, and it seems as if everybody involved with this was having great fun. Jackson himself plays the greatest of all characters - a carnage-loving lunatic named Derek, who keeps his head from falling apart with a belt. The cheesy gore effects are sometimes nauseating and disgusting, but always hilarious and never even nearly shocking or disturbing. Famous sequences include a disgusting vomit-eating scene and a guy eating another guy's brains out of his head with a spoon, all that accompanied by extremely funny and over the top sound effects. My favorite scene in this film is not even of gory nature, however. It is when Derek drives out of the woods in his bizarre car - I won't give away what this car looks like, but if this won't make you laugh, nothing will! All things considered, Bad Taste is a must-see for everybody with an affection for satirical gore flicks. Jackson went on to make the bizarre Muppet-like Meet The Feebles in 1989, and the super-gory Braindead, which I recommend even more, in 1992. If you like gore and a good laugh, Bad Taste is not to be missed! "},{"Title":"The title says it all.","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Talk about your bad taste! This thing is so poorly done ( The acting is atrocious! ) that it actually is rather funny. Goofy is perhaps the best description. The players? All Hogan wannabes. And bad ones at that. The photography? Amateurish in the extreme. The plot? A truly fun idea that is botched to such a degree that it IS hilarious. The best part, in so far as both fun and technicalities are concerned, would have to be the aliens. That makeup and costume is so off the wall and down right flaky as to be way cool. This thing isn't worth the trouble of watching if you honestly want good sci-fi. But if you're looking for goofy alien antics and laughable acting, well, maybe it won't leave to bad a taste in your mouth. "},{"Title":"Amateur Mayhem","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I imagine that without the popularity of the Lord of the Rings films, Bad Taste might not have received the distribution it otherwise would. For film-goers that enjoyed Jackson's light touch in earlier films, Bad Taste is of interest as it was Jackson's first feature length film and made on a shoestring budget. The Wikipedia article states It was shot primarily on weekends over the course of four years, at a total cost of around $11,000 (toward the end of the shoot the New Zealand Film Commission invested around NZ$250,000 into the film to ensure its completion).I was initially confused about whether the introductory character, Derek, was played by Peter Jackson as he fought the alien played by Peter Jackson (I didn't believe such camera-work was achievable on this picture). The humorous approach works well, as it allows the viewer to gloss over the unavoidable irregularities and have a good laugh. There is a frenetic mix of comedy, horror and action to be had. Everyone is having enough fun that the light atmosphere is maintained throughout, despite what must have been some uncomfortable or disgusting situations for the actors at times (Jackson reserves the messiest shots for himself). The recurring theme of this film for me is how good it is for what it is. It can't amount to much but the camera-work, prosthetics, and special effects manage to rival professional films of the era. It just goes to show that with the right combination of talent and encouragement, an amateur film maker can turn out something fairly watchable.Another film in a similar vein is Star Wrek In the Pirkinning which could be considered a modern equivalent (be warned it makes a lot of references to Star Trek and Babylon 5). "},{"Title":"Good For A Jump","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometime before he spent hundreds of millions of dollars on his Tolkien trilogy, Peter Jackson, it seems, spent four years' worth of weekends shooting (and scrounging money for) his first sci-fi/horror film. The result, 1987's Bad Taste, is truly well named. In this one, a gaggle of bloated aliens takes the form of lumbering humans, lands in New Zealand, butchers an entire town and proceeds to turn the former inhabitants into fast-food samples. Good thing a quartet of New Zealand's finest from AIDS (the Astro Investigation and Defence Service) is on the case, ready to kick ET ass and spill some alien guts! (One of the four is Peter Jackson himself, who I couldn't at all recognize; he seems to have been a lot thinner--and beardless--back then.) What ensues is completely over-the-top violence, much of it cartoonish and thus a bit less difficult to stomach. This is the kind of movie in which if a character has his head split open and some of his brain falls out, he merely picks up the goopy scrap, plops it back into his noggin, ties up the head flap with a belt and carries on, albeit a tad more addled than before. Truth to tell, I didn't at all mind the incredible amount of gunplay, the chainsawing of aliens in half, the dismemberments and beheadings, but the sight of those aliens scarfing down a big bowl of aqua-colored puke was a bit much; a good scene to recall if you ever want to (in the words of Robert Barone) jump-start a vomit. Another problem I had with Bad Taste was that it took me a little while to acclimate to the superthick Kiwi accents; I could've used English subtitles! Still, despite all, this is a fairly mind-blowing 90 minutes that will probably leave you, by the end credits, slack jawed, goofily grinning and perhaps a bit queasy... "},{"Title":"Some kind of genius!","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's something hilarious, yet Pter Jackson genius is what will grab you!You will not be scared by this movie, not at all! You will laugh and be disturbed by the special effects!What matter if you see dead actors coming back in next sequence or if night become day from a frame to another?The fact is a movie made by a couple of friends with a 16mm camera and home made special fx (such as cigarettes burning the film to obtain the flashing of gun's shots!) couldn't be better than this!That make you think about the money spent now to make much worse movies! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly well done","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For a movie with no money, no actors (as such) and no professional film makers, this is a surprisingly competent movie. My friends and I were discussing it briefly the other day. When you think about it, this movie is shockingly bad but excellent because of the enthusiastic performances, the poor taste of the jokes and the inventiveness of it all. The light atmosphere of the whole thing lifts it above other splatter movies which have an overall nasty tone which takes away from the humour. This movie feeds off the obvious awful face value of itself and delivers a fun adventure that you are swept along with. The splatter element is great too as we see the camera linger on gory images of half-exploded heads and sawn apart bodies. The climax is great as Derek saws his way through Lord Crumb. I have never seen such an enjoyable climax that is also so gross. Jackson is the real star of this movie. He has put so much effort into this production and it shows. His alien creations are inspired and his enthusiasm shines through every scene. Well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"ooh don't be eating your take away when watching this","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" yeah i totally agree with the other chap pie thats commented above me..all i would like to add is the acting is typically austrailian as in cheesey in fact there's as much cheese as a mozzarella avalanche but the effects in it a gruesome & realistic..if they had of put a bit more effort in it & less cheese this would of been a head turning movie but i will still give it 9/10 cause its just so bizarre just a shame about the cheese oh and to add to it please don't forget about the year in which the film was made in somewhere around 1989 or 1990 so whatever you do leave your take away alone or you wont be enjoying it or you'll be vomiting anyway sit back & enjoy the movie OK & stop thinking of cheese....regards Keith also please contact me if you want more details but i think the other guy above me said it all..bye "},{"Title":"Jackson's early brilliance shines through despite budgetary limitations","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A director's greatness is not always evident in her/his early films - James Cameron's directorial debut, 'Piranha II The Spawning', being a case in point - but Peter Jackson's ingenuity and imagination really shines through in his first movie, 1987's low-budget horror comedy 'Bad Taste'. The story concerns an alien invasion in a small coastal town in New Zealand. Humans are being harvested by these intergalactic interlopers for an otherworldy fast food chain named Crumb's Crunchy Delights, and it is up to 'the boys' - the intrepid Derek and his friends - to step in and save the day.While not in the same league as Sam Raimi's similar 'The Evil Dead', 'Bad Taste' delights and disgusts in equal measure - bad taste is exactly what you get, in great abundance! There is all the brain-eating and vomit-drinking you could possibly wish for! 'Bad Taste' is also reminiscent of Jim Muro's 'melt movie' 'Street Trash', which preceded 'Bad Taste' by one year.One of the best things about 'Bad Taste' is its energetic, swooping camera-work, which was handled by the director. On a very limited budget, Jackson delivers an hilarious and memorably outlandish outing which culminates in a house taking off into space... 'The Rocky Horror Picture Show', anyone?! Jackson's freshman film does not rise to the giddy heights of his uproarious third movie, 'Braindead' (released in the US as 'Dead Alive') - which is a flick about 'a guy, a girl, and a house full of zombies' - but it is a thoroughly agreeable ride nonetheless, replete with an exploding sheep! All together now 'I'm a Derek, and Dereks don't run!'. Indeed. "}{"Title":"Watch and enjoy with a bowl of cereal.","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lord Crumb and his army of aliens has landed on earth with the intention of selling mankind as intergalactic hamburger meat. Earth's government issue a full-scale alert and unleash their first line of defense The Boys - Derek, Frank, Oz and Barry... Will Lord Crumb succeed in turning the human race into Crumb's Country Delights or will The Boys stop him? I can't say that I knew a lot about this film before watching it and I can't say that I saw this earlier than this year (though I could blame that on the fact that the movie has been banned in my state for quite some time). What I can say is that this is an experience for all horror fans. I'm not implying that a slasher fan is going to love it, or a ghosts fanatic will too but this is at the very least, a one-time viewing for all of the movie-going public.From information that I've gathered, this film was just a bunch of friends getting together on the weekends to make a movie. I'm not sure if a script was present but supposedly this film was totally improvised whilst being filmed. Now, you may have just thought that I contradicted myself by saying that there may have been a script and yet the movie was improvised but I mean it in the way that there is a script with no real dialogue, just details on what kind of path the movie would follow. Technically, if they did have something like that, I guess you wouldn't call it a script in the first place. Let's just say that the movie isn't exactly the works of Shakespeare but works well enough for the film that it is.All of the acting is campy and not all that serious. I don't think anyone really needs to question the acting in the first place as it's not really required and would have probably been a lot worse if taken into the serious approach. I'm not sure if these guys have acted in anything else, possibly just small films that aren't backed by major studios but gt a thumbs up in my book. Peter Jackson playing the main role in the film as Derek kind of surprised me. I can't say that I'm a huge fan of Jackson's work in movies such as The Lord Of The Rings or even Braindead/Dead-Alive (not to say this movie didn't have its moments) but I can certainly see why he got so famous.All of the gore is lovely to watch and is presented in a more comical manner. It's not the type of film I'd go Ughhh! at (do I do that to any film?) though the more relaxed viewer may find the gore highly disturbing. I can see why and don't blame them, though they deserve it for not keeping a healthy horror movie diet.Overall, the movie is pretty good. Don't be fooled by the Director of The Lord Of The Rings promoting on the region 4 DVD as it is pretty much as far from the Lord Of The Rings movies as possible. Watch and enjoy with a bowl of cereal. "},{"Title":"The name says it all","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Isn't it amazing what you can do with a couple of kegs, a make-up studio and an afternoon to kill? Peter Jackson shows he has a sick sense of humor in the gore fest Bad Taste. This movie reminds me of a high school drama project that was submitted to American Funniest Videos and had me laughing since the opening scene. I am usually not a fan of gore movies but Peter's over-the-top farce puts this one solidly on any cult must have list. Derek is hilarious, Peter himself was good, and what Muppet fan (like myself) in their right mind can not like the tag team Frank and Oz. As a horror gore flick it failed - only one scene involving some recycled blue goo had any quease factor at all, and once the hurl moment passed I was laughing as hard as ever. This is pure trash and worth repeated viewings, especially to help wash the Bad Taste out of your mouth after watching what passes for modern slasher movies. "},{"Title":"Gross but great. Cheap but funny....","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...and of course the great Peter Jackson. Well all of those ooohhh this is such a bad movie comments seem to be saying that the movie was really badly done. Well duh! It was SUPPOSED to be like that. The irony of this movie seems to go over the heads of some people - it's a mick take not a serious thriller/horror or a period drama.OK so before I go off on a rant about some of our less well educated film goers lets get back to the film shall we? First off - GORE. Lot's and lot's and lot's and lot's - yay! A ketchup factory, mixed with an abattoir and a big load of chunky chuck chuck. mmm.... sweet, sweet chuck. slurp.2nd - Acting. Well... if I was being nice then I would say it's a comedy the acting was deliberately bad if I was being cynical I'd say How exactly can anyone say that the acting in a movie about alien fast food merchants is not believable? It's not like they've got something to compare it to. or perhaps The aliens weren't believable... oh yes that makes a lot of sense since the habits of aliens are well documented after all. To be blunt, it would be nice if critics engaged the brain before opening the mouth - at least then they might not make themselves look silly.OK - so apart from aliens and gore (and Peter Jackson) what else is there... well it's hilarious - if you can't laugh at this, you can't laugh. And that's it really, a nice little movie, a nice little budget, a nice BIG laugh... and if you live in the UK you can pick it up for less than a fiver. (if you don't... unlucky ;-) oh yeah - nearly forgot to mention... drum roll please... The Exploding Sheep. Believe me, it deserves those capital letters. Off you go then - find it, buy it, watch it and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Great Low-budget film-making.","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Peter Jackson is a cool guy. What can you say but that. His film are not always amazing but they are always and with out doubt good. It's funny, my friends and I always loved Peter Jackson growing up, Meet the Febbles, Bad Taste and Dead Alive were always favorite of ours. It must have been hard to make films like that at the time. I can't imagine the judgment and distaste brought upon them. I will always have a soft spot for filmmakers who came up from nothing. No Connections, no money, no nothing just a bullet proof passion to make films. Three Cheers for Peter Jackson! He seems like a filmmaker loyal to his friends an after view the special edition of Frighteners I got to thinking. The desire to make Lord of The Rings cam from the passion to keep his friends employed and that a pretty great thing. "},{"Title":"B grade at it's best! Loved it.","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has been a cult movie for me and many of my friends for about the last 13-14 years. I couldn't believe it when I first saw it, I loved the simplicity of the actual filming and it shows that you don't really need to spend millions on special effects to have people watch and enjoy a film. Who would have guessed where Derek would end up in the film making industry? I still love to watch it and always get a good laugh from it. I think it will end up still being on the favourites and must watch list for a long time to come. It's one of those films like The Holy Grail or Bad Boy Bubby, where your friends just pull the one liners from it all the time. My fiancé is yet to be subjected to this film, just need to find a copy of it somewhere... "},{"Title":"Aliens, Action, Gore...need I say more?","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A team from the intergalactic fast food chain Crumb's Crunchy Delights descends on Earth, planning to make human flesh the newest taste sensation. After they wipe out the New Zealand town Kaihoro, the country's Astro-Investigation and Defense Service is called in to deal with the problem. Things are complicated due to Giles, an aid worker who comes to Kaihoro the same day to collect change from the residents. He is captured by the aliens, and AIDS stages a rescue mission that quickly becomes an all-out assault on the aliens' headquarters.When Peter Jackson hit it big with Lord of the Rings, everyone wanted to know what his previous film list was, what they got was a string of obscure films like Meet The Feebles, Dead Alive and Bad Taste. Prior to his LOTR fame, his most successful film was about a kid that went to the past and two ghosts.Bad Taste is a horror, comedy, action, alien invasion, splatter film. That manages to give exactly what you would expect, a gorific fun time. The realism of the film comes from the fact that the film had such a low budget, and it's a skillful act to make a great film out of nothing, Jackson and Raimi did this the best.This is just a film to have fun and enjoy, don't think to much about it, all you need to understand is there are aliens, and there are the guys who must kill them. Where there is a lack of plot and story, Bad Taste makes up in gore and fun. I wouldn't say that the gore is as bloody as Dead-Alive, but here it is a little bit more realistic, unlike the cheesy tongue in cheek style of the equally great Dead- Alive.Jackson instead of his usual cameo appearance in his films not only plays one of the leads in the film, but an alien. While I don't see many Oscars coming his way for acting, it was funny to see him play a character who's a little nuts. Due to a piece of his brain falling out. As well as an alien, with absolutely no dialogue.While it's not a flat out comedy, there are numerous funny moments, the funniest one that stick out in my mind would be the sheep...it is just so random. If you have enjoyed Jackson's previous works like Meet the Feebles and Dead-Alive, then Bad Taste is a great way experience. "},{"Title":" The bastards have landed!","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Five years ago, my friend Shaun Mudd and I watched Bad taste on Sci-Fi. But fortunately, we only watched half of the movie because, that was when we switched from a certain pro gramme to Sci-Fi.Bad Taste, as we could see; it was a very old horror sci-fi flick with a lot of comedy in it e.g- one of the guys threw the alien's head out the window when he was told to get rid of it. And some suspense too.Eg- TWhat lay in those bloody boxes? HUMANS!!! Most of the effects were rather cheesy but there were some good ones, especially with the swinging of the mallets from the beginning of the film when I decided to review Bad Taste.The most gruesome thing was when the Axe went into one of the alien's heads and then SPLAT!And the acting was totally wooden.But, there were some real good shots that would keep viewers interested.E.g- The annoying nerd Derek falling down a mountainside ,followed by a cliff and then WHAM!And you should hear the back of his skull split open and some of his brains fall out! EEEW! And when he turned around, he realized that he had been lying on a seagull's nest. THOSE DEAD SEAGULLS WERE NOTHING BUT PLASTIC TOYS! AWWW! The story was in a completely deserted place in New Zealand and a couple of guys names Ozzy (Terry Trotter), Barry (Pete O'Herne),Frank (Mike Minett) and Derek ( Peter Jackson) headed for Kaihoro. The only people that were around were these non-human-like people in their characteristics e.g.- they ran like idiots, they kept walking when their heads were shot off and they hardly felt any pain.The name of the aliens was  The Blucean Freaks. These aliens shared a cannibalistic manner, they were very strong at times and their spaceship was cleverly disguised as a modern house and they also ate people; and their leader was Lord Crumb (Doug Wren). Shaun and I were most disgusted to see one of the alien's throw up and they all had to drink his vomit from one, big bowl that went around them.There was also some action in this film e.g- Frank ( Mike Minett) shooting the aliens all in one go followed by one of the guys doing a cool dance while he was being shot at. The aliens missed him! LOL! I loved that neat shot when one Frank shot at the tree a couple of times and tons of aliens fell out.There was some charm when Derek heard the gunshots while he was lurking outside the property, he did a little tap dance and some of his brains fell out of his skull and he stood on some of it. Another gruesome part was when Derek drove into one of the aliens with a van, the alien split in half with the large intestine on the bonnet dragging the creature and when Derek stopped, the gut snapped.Finally, these aliens turned into aliens. They were long headed, large shouldered, huge stomachs and bony backsides which stuck out. There was a lame laugh when two aliens got into one of the guy's car, pretended to drive and when they turned on the radio; they blocked their ears. And suddenly, BOOM! They died and the car too.The guys rescued the dude named Giles Rosalind (Craig Smith) who was about to be the aliens' lunch followed by Derek making a neat outline of himself when chainsawing through the front wall. I laughed so loudly when Ozzy kicked one of the aliens in its nuts and it fell down on the ground holding them.And soon, UH-OH! Derek picked up some alien brain, put it in his head and he began to behave like one of them. Suddenly, the house was ready for take off, the guys got out and the house took off the lord crumb not knowing that Derek was inside with him! Then Derek made a hole in the ceiling, came tumbling down and went through Loed Crumb's body, popped out of the bottom of it,landed on the floor and said he was born again. When Shaun and I saw that scene, we noticed right away that the alien was just a costume. it was not at all realistic.Overall, the film kept Shaun and I entertained a few years back and recently, it still kept me entertained for the second time.A fun movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Oh no!! Derek's strikes again!...","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Much before Lord of the Rings, Peter Jackson had done several unknown films, like the unique and visceral Braindead (one of goriest and fun film ever) or the crazy and brutal Meet the Feebles (a Muppets parody) and the first one, the fabulous and grotesque Bad Taste, Peter and his friend's take for almost 5 years too complete this film! Its an ultra low budget film, but incredible well done, with lot of good humor. About the story, there's a league of National Air and Space Defense formed by Derek (Peter Jackson), Barry (Peter O'Herne), Ozzy (Terry Potter) and Frank (Mike Minett),and the objective of that league is too defend earth of intergalactic menace, in this case there's an intergalactic chain food that tend to transform humans in hamburgers, or if you prefer Crumb'sCrunchy Delights, lol! For all fans of gruesome, silly, gory, humorous, non sense and hilarious films!! The one and only cult classic Bad Taste! And remember, Tomorrow we're having you for lunch!!!!!! ) "},{"Title":"Exciting and funny, but don't expect too much","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I approached this film with the entirely wrong expectations. Sure, I was ready for the silliness of the gore and the (SPOILERS) Cannibal aliens, and I knew all about the vomit scene beforehand, but still I expected utter hilarity. I was all too wrong. Here the movie is too much like a conventional action film, although it breaks every rule in having a Derek hero who goes Nutzoid, but the prolonged combat sequence is simply not too funny. Fans of MONTY PYTHON in particular, take note Jackson puts astoryline above humor, and the one time he lets that grind to a halt is over the pretty unfunny vomit scene. The HOLY GRAIL fans are definitely not being pandered too here, the heros are simply TOO effective the forces of evil are taken down with some suspense at the end, but the Boys just seem to be playing paintball with nimrods the rest of the time. In short, watch for Derek and some pulse pounding, but not to get a laugh a minute. "},{"Title":"Bad Movie??","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must admit I've always been a tad scared of horror movies, and I've never  had the stomach to watch gore/splatter movies. After watching The Lord of The Rings I wanted to watch what else Peter Jackson had directed/produced. I bought Bad Taste and, boy, was I surprised... Ok, it's amateurish and it had bad acting, but who cares? It's just so much fun that even my stomack could stand the gore. Next I'm going for Braindead, and it might be that my stomack can't stand the gore in that movie, but if it's as funny as Bad Taste, i just think it might...Rent/buy Bad Taste now!! Rating 10/10 "}{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is as you'll all know from the director of Lord Of The Rings. And it's completely different, positively different in my opinion.It's not at all like the mega-budget, hollywood-style LOTR series, it's in fact far more special, personal.This movie is very low-budget, but the special effects are pretty well done. Especially for 1987. Besides well done the movie's special effects are semi-original as well. Also the acting is quite well; Peter Jackson (director, writer, actor, make-up, etc) does a good job here.What made this a cool movie for me was the tone and tempo of the movie (quite well-paced, slow, but not annoying) combined with the humor that comes when heads are shot off and when people try to keep their brains inside their skull.All in all a pretty piece of work, quite unique, a must-see for any filmfan. You may not like it, but at least you've watched a movie that's a little different for a change (aka not the standard Hollywood-crap). "},{"Title":"There's no glowing finger on these b*****ds","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this, in my opinion and the opinion of the Lord, is one of the Funniest movies that i have seen, it is also one of peter jacksons best along with Meet the Feebles and Braindead. if you watch this movie then you will see why he was chosen to direct LOTR.   "},{"Title":"It sure is a fun film to watch.","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I bought Bad Taste not so long ago and I wanted to see it cause it was Peter Jacksons first film and Peter Jackson is one of the greatest Film makers of all time and I must say this is his best work.   It may not have an incredibly clever plot but it sure doesnt get boring and it sure is a great bit of fun, its funny, gory and action packed. It took four years to make this film and it sure was'nt a waste of time this is the ultimate Cult Film ***** (out of 5)If you like these sort of films be sure to check out these awesome filmsNight of the Living Dead (1968) Dawn of the Dead (1978) Day of the Dead (1985) Braindead (1992) The Evil Dead (1983) Evil Dead 2 Dead by Dawn (1987) Army of Darkness (1993) Alien (1979) Aliens (1986) Return of the Living Dead (1985) Return of the Living Dead Part 2 (1988) A Nightmare On Elm Street (1984) The Hills Have Eyes (1977) Friday the 13th (1980) The Shining (1980) Cannibal The Musical (1993) An American Werewolf In London (1981) Halloween (1978) Dark Star (1974) From Dusk Til Dawn (1997) Deliverance (1972)And Many Many More                                                  "},{"Title":"One of the greatest splatter films of all time","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The now very famous and respected Peter Jackson made his debut in 1987 with an all-time splatter classic. Shooting on 16mm (giving the film a grainy, oldschool edge), Jackson made this gory farce a sight to behold as the boys (a.k.a. the Astro Investigation and Defense Service) must battle aliens who are even more stupid than they are (pretty bad) and who also plot against the earth to turn humans into intergalactic fast food treats. And what a treat this is for gruehounds with all of its ultra-graphic disembowelments, accidental sledgehammer fu, gutbusting shootings, and chainsaw-swinging, machete-hackin', head-splattering action, with the awesome,  classic chuck-drinking gross-out as only an added splendor to its twisted agenda. Yes, this (intentionally) hilarious movie is a winner. Seek it. See it. Just don't show it to your eighty-year-old grandma with an extremely fragile heart condition. "},{"Title":"It's all about the love.","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Is this film badly made? Yes. Are the effects obviously fake, and utterly unconvincing? Yep. Does it reek of first-filmishness? Hell yes.But it's got something that so many more polished films today lack, something that, IMO, sets it above at least 80% of what comes out of the film industry today.The men who made this film obviously did so as a labor of love. Peter Jackson spent years making this movie, not because he had any reason to expect it to do well -- in fact, given that it was a tiny film made in a tiny country isolated from the major film industries of the world, he had every reason to believe it would rarely be seen beyond New Zealand's shores -- but because he felt deeply compelled to make it, regardless of the reception it received.This film is exuberant in a way that the films of a more accomplished, experienced director can never be. There's a passion underlying its modest surface that makes it a thing to behold, and worthy of our respect. The film has got The Love.Beyond that, if you just relax and let the movie be its own goofy, twisted, playful self, it's extremely enjoyable. It's so easy to judge, comparing it to films that it was never intended to resemble... but not as easy to look beyond the butcher's scrap special effects and see the glow of pure joy underneath. Jackson's later work more than demonstrates his skill with slick special effects and his ability to handle a big budget; this film points to the seed of those qualities that make him worthy of commanding those resources.Meet the Feebles was the film that piqued my interest in Peter Jackson years ago; Heavenly Creatures was the one that sold me on his abilities. But Bad Taste is the one that converted me into a fan and admirer.  "},{"Title":"Rather disappointed","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I bought Dead Alive (aka Braindead) on VHS and i just loved it! I done know why, but gore IS funny! After seeing it, I decided to try another of Peter Jackson's old movies. I chose Bad Taste instead of Meet The Fibles (or what-ever it's called). When I watched the movie I was rather disappointed. I knew that I shouldn't expect the same quality and humour as Dead Alive, but I still aimed too high. In my opinion the acting is pretty bad. I don't know if that just the way they talk in New Zealand, but the dialog sounds really fake. The movie just reeks of the word amateur. And another thing After seeing Dead Alive, you'll never think of gore the same way again. As a result of that, you'll think there's hardly any of it in Bad Taste. So if your looking for another gore feast after seeing Dead Alive, this probably isn't the way to go. "},{"Title":"splatter-fest gem","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw BAD TASTE over ten years ago.  I watched it constantly.  I loved it.  It became one of my own. But, who would've known what lay ahead for Peter Jackson?  Who could have predicted LORD OF THE RINGS?  BAD TASTE is where it all started.  See it.  And enjoy the kick ass soundtrack.  It's one of the best. Ted's Grade A "},{"Title":"blood, blood and blood. and some aliens.","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i was like, 'i must see this one!', and i saw it. it's a great movie. i met this dude, and he said that braindead (that also is a peter jackson direction) is better - that's wrong. bad taste was one and a half million times better than braindead. in fact, braindead is s*** if you compare it to bad taste. yes, that's right - s***.the movie is about four dudes that saves earth from aliens. a lot of aliens - brain eating aliens. when i die i want a alien to eat my brain, just because it was så cool in this movie.  "},{"Title":"Feel good movie of the century","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Four years of work, a budget that could buy you two rolls of toilet paper, and a crew with virtually no professional experience. But what this movie does have, different from most movies nowadays, is the love poured into it which seems to be trademarked to Peter Jackson. And that shows. Funny, culty, gory, but above all sunny. Cheers! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest low budget horror movies ever","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Peter Jacksons 1987 horror movie is one of the best horror movies i have seen.  It stays very pure to the genre, and mainly and most importantly, is up for laughs throughout the entire film.The very tongue in cheek view that the film has adds to the greatness of it. If there are any budding low budget film makers out there who love horror movies then you will love this film with all your heart.  And both of Peter Jacksons characters are really, really cool!  When you discover te film, look on the back of the box for the synposis and you will think, could there be a more stupid plot to any film ever, and the answer is no.  The reason that the film is so stupid and random is becuase the film was completely improvised, over 4 years, there was no script for the film.  You can really tell this, as it seems to take very unpredicted turns.Peter Jackson, if you look through the end credits, did practically everything in the film, including directing it, producing it, starring in it, editing it and doing all the gore effects which are some of the best low budget gore efeects i have ever seen.  They won many awards, and you can really tell, but they still seem very professional and very well done.To conclude, i think that everyone who loves horror movies such as Sam Raimi's Evil Deads and other Peter Jackson films will love this film. It's the kind of film you watch and then want to go out and make a low budget horror movie yourself.  When your watching it, watch out for exploding sheep! "}{"Title":"Bad Taste (1987)","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  BAD TASTE, is 1 of the most sickest movies i have ever seen. i mean sick,i think that people drinking another man's vomit it just gross!!! and also seeing someone being gutted and a woman having a abortion is just sad!! also this movie has flying guts,splattering brains,exploding sheep,guzziling vomit and lots and lots of blood! this movie is defitnently not a kids movie it is for people 18 years or older i think that people should ask for an i.d. and the video store for it....and the movie sucks too the graphics are horrible!! so don't waste ur money buying this movie is like flushing ur money down the potty "},{"Title":"A Horror Classic","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is a certain genre of films that are very hit and miss. It's the horror comedy genre. It can be creative and fun like in 'Evil Dead 2' or it can flat on it's face like some unbearable 80's films. 'Bad Taste', however, is quite different. Made during four years in New Zealand, it's a weird blend of Looney Tunes, horror films and low budget action. It is a huge accomplishment in low budget film right up there with films like 'Clerks' and 'El Mariachi' but it does have many faults too. The basic story is of a group of agent type people who have to save Earth from the threat of aliens who want to use humans as burger meat in outer space. They bumble through the film trying to catch and kill the aliens and leave a trail of gore certainly wherever they go. Of course, this film has developed a new legion of fans thanks to Peter Jackson's latest film being some sort of blockbuster. It's something to do with middle earth and rings and wizards, don't ask me! The high points of this film is just the way they accomplished things on such a cheap budget. The action at the end is very impressive for such a low budget and the cliff top battle between Derek (Peter Jackson) and Robert (Peter Jackson) is amazing mainly because they really make it look like Peter Jackson is fighting himself but the two sides of the fight must have been filmed very far apart. The Derek character is thin and with short hair but the Robert character is very chubby with a beard and long curly hair (Looking more like the Jackson we know now). However, the huge low point of this film is the character of Derek. Peter Jackson has no problem acting as Robert but the Derek character is, as I believed a review site called him, Rick Moranis on speed. The first 30 minutes of the film are ruined with him putting on increasingly stupid expressions. It improves in the second half when he becomes a homicidal, half dead maniac. The directing by Jackson, on the other hand, is nothing to complain about. He proves he's a brilliant director 14 years before 'Lord of the Rings' and the look of the film is very different to most low budget films. What originally was envisioned as a 20 minute short turned into an 80 minute movie. Although, you can see a bit of cutting would have helped. I felt the last half an hour was a really great time but the first 50 minutes only had great moments few and far between. Still, it's a sick, demented film that is sure to please many movie lovers. It becomes crazier as it goes along and proves that there is no limits to low budget filmmaking when you're as good as Peter Jackson! "},{"Title":"only so-so in comparison to Dead Alive","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Boy, is Bad Taste sure a lot of hype.  Psyched to see this much-heralded low-budget gorefest for quite some time, and being a fan of Peter Jackson's off-the-wall horror comedies, I suspected this one--his maiden voyage--couldn't miss.  It's not that it's a terrible movie per se, but it is certainly poorly executed (beyond the limitations of its low budget, I mean), and even at 90 minutes, the plot and action drags insufferably at times (the long goo-eating scene; the seemingly endless front-yard shootout...*yawn*), and much of the dialogue is incomprehensible (a lot of the humor is lost in thick NZ accents).  However, the absurd violence is frequently hilarious (watch as Jackson--who plays an alien hunter--packs his brains back into his skull) and a mere preview to the complex slapstick he'd utilize in Dead Alive and The Frighteners  Bad Taste ultimately plays out like a 10-page list of ideas stretched to feature length--it's outrageous and excessively gross, but also slow-moving...and not very endearing.  Use it as a warm-up for the vastly superior Dead Alive.5/10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bad Taste is absolutely disgusting, tasteless (well, duh), devoid of any resemblance of a plot or characterisation, and ridiculously violent.And I absolutely loved it.Bad Taste is one of the funniest films I have seen this year. The DIY visual effects are a treat, and the action is genuinely suspenseful. A completely unrecognisable (well, he is much younger) Peter Jackson plays two roles as well as writing and directing (and he probably does a lot else as well).This film will have you laughing and wincing at the same time. Literally- that's what happened to me.8/10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious Hype","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is bad, I mean really bad.  I don't care what the director has currently accomplished.  I am all for cult classics and old movies which are GOOD, but this one isn't.  I need one more sentence even though this movie isn't worth the effort.  Sorry. "},{"Title":"Did you have to drink some chuck?","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Peter Jackson's BAD TASTE is both incredibly gross and laugh-out-loud funny. The plot...wait,what plot? Just sit back and gape in amazement at the absolutely insane things happening on the screen. Wonderful use is made of New Zealand's landscape and the actors look like they're having a bloody good time. Completely and totally wrong,and that'sthe best praise I can give it. "},{"Title":"AMAZING!","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I saw that movie first I thought Not bad, it's funny and there are many worse films at the moment, then, I watched the making of... that's the reason why Bad Taste deserves a 10. Note that the director Peter Jackson (Lord of the Rings) shot it with a 8mm camera, almost no money, with friends of him and an unbelievable work of imagination!!! BRAVO. "},{"Title":"The awakening of a sleeping giant.","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Overall I liked Bad Taste.   For a directors debut, the movie was clever and originally directed with a style of it's own.  I think this movie was the awakening of a sleeping giant.  It's hard to imagine the director of this movie would go on to director The Lord of the Rings with only a few movies in between.  Jackson is by far the most talented on the film but, everyone else on this film did an amazing job considering they weren't real actors and were on a very low budget.  The special effects were very cheap while at the same time gruesome.  I give this movie a 7 out of 10 and I give the talent of all the film makers a 9 out of 10.  This is definitely a cult classic and has made Peter Jackson my all time favorite director. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly sick","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has me in stitches all the time. Its sick in places but it makes it fun. I have shown it to people and they couldn't carry on eating during it or had to turn away from the screen. If you like your movies that make you laugh via the sickness this is for you.The best movie to have mates round and drink in front of "},{"Title":"Early Jackson ingenuity","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Peter Jackson's humble beginnings are open for all to see in the quirky comedy sci-fi/horror of the aptly named Bad Taste. The ultra-cheap budget is equally apparent, with a small cast which looks more like a gathering of some of the directors mates (which is probably not so far from the truth) however Jackson's creative and technical talents make this project a whole lot more enjoyable than the script points towards.The story of a heavily disguised alien party being rumbled by a secret government task force with some very dubious recruits is kept simple but crammed with plenty of set pieces, dollops of gore, physical gags and some off-kilter jokes.Peter Jackson's talents as a director were already beginning to flourish with his work here, and his hands on approach to film making from the creation of gun props from metal stampings to choreographing a two people fight sequence with one actor, have put together an original entertaining piece of schlock.While the over the top make-up effects and surreal humour (what the hell was that car with the Beatles driving all about?) may not be everyone's cup of tea, Fangoria fans and struggling film students alike will find Bad Taste inspiring, proving lack of funds can be overcome by a little ingenuity and a little imagination. "}{"Title":"Maniacal early work from the infamously creative Jackson","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Anyone who complains about the excessive violence in this movie is missing the point.  Peter Jackson is perhaps the most gifted fantasy-horror director around, and his goal in making films is a testament to indie filmmakers and anyone who enjoys innovative works ignore the critics and do what you want to do, not what some highbrow thinks.  In the case of Bad Taste, Jackson got his buddies together and made a little over-the-top (in a good way) film that is one of the most successful low-budget pictures ever made.  Is it his best work?  No...Heavenly Creatures and the soon-to-be-completed LOTR trilogy would beg to differ there.  But what it does show is the early processes of a young determined Kiwi who is today one of the most ingenious and brilliant filmmakers in the industry. "},{"Title":"Must see","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Any new Jackson fans due to Lord of the Rings has - MUST - see this film to see where he is coming from!Peter Jackson's acting in it is out of this world. Its just so funny - not that its crap - just that the facial expressions that he pulls are classic.There is also good timing to this film.  "},{"Title":"i am the great big mouth!","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw braindead first, who has a lot in common with bad taste. And i almost imideatly wanted to buy braindead, then i saw bad taste as well, so i bought them both. And i can tell you it was not a waste of money. All though braindead is better in any subject, bad taste is still verry cool! but i have to agrey with the other guy, its not a movie who deserves a 10. its a bad movie when you look at it criticaly, so a 6 is probably the best number to give this flick.(sorry about my broken-english, im dutch)  "},{"Title":"an acquired taste","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE most funniest gore fest on celluloid! (Next to Jackson's own Dead/Alive). It is easy to see Jackson's love of the fantasy genre as he has loads of fun making this laugh riot. With tributes to Dr. Who, the Beatles and the Texas Chainsaw Massacre, this is not a movie to be taken seriously, but one to be viewed while gobbling a messy McTumor burger. "},{"Title":"Splatterfest on a bake-sale budget.","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I bought the DVD recently and watched this, only because I'd heard so much about it. It's not a benchmark-type great film, but it is a good one. It displays fine improvisation and has great gun-violence scenes. Obviously a film like this appeals more to teen boys than to any other audience demographic.It's very funny and believe it or not I didn't find it to be disgusting, probably because I went into it fully aware that NOTHING in it was to be taken seriously.See it. "},{"Title":"bad effects, bad story - cool film","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Its weird, even though this film has lame effects (rather hillarious ) and the story is straight forward, I keep coming back watching this film. This is why it gets its high score.However, the latest turnover for peter jacksons success with lord of the rings, have had the effect that this movie is re-released (found it in the 'new' section at blockbuster!), it has gotten a new cover... this is a bit lame, but I enjoy thinking about all the people who now suddenly wants to and gets to see this film.  "},{"Title":"bad effects, bad story - cool film","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Its weird, even though this film has lame effects (rather hillarious ) and the story is straight forward, I keep coming back watching this film. This is why it gets its high score.However, the latest turnover for peter jacksons success with lord of the rings, have had the effect that this movie is re-released (found it in the 'new' section at blockbuster!), it has gotten a new cover... this is a bit lame, but I enjoy thinking about all the people who now suddenly wants to and gets to see this film.  "},{"Title":"HILLARIOUS GOOD TASTE","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although honestly Bad Taste isn't really AS gory as it's made out to be..possibly because Dead Alive beat it in over the topness , it's still pretty gross but in a humorous way. Peter Jackson basically improvised the whole film with barely a script or plot , and it took 4 years to make and was shot on weekends. This is clearly obvious in it's lack of structure or story..just shoot em up mayhem and it's great. The story cuts to the meat from the opening , not boring set up , no back story , no long scenes of useless time consuming dialogue..just blood and guts mayhem from start to finish..finally a film for those with slow attention spans.Definitly see Bad Taste , it absolutly cannot be missed10/10!   "},{"Title":"Cheap, b-grade, yet so much fun!","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After first seeing Peter Jackson's breakthrough film at the age of 10 I have loved it. Its black humour, its over-the-top gore, its insane characters. For something that started life as a short film, was shot for less than NZ$200,000, and was shot by a bunch of mates on week-ends with a hand-held semi-professional camera it is a very impressive achievement. While some of the accents may be slightly confusing to foriegners the dialogue is a bit dodgy but has some good moments. The old magic's still there. proclaims Ozzy after ripping off an aliens head and kicking it out a window. While it's no Brain Dead or Meet the Feebles it still has a genuine kiwi feel to it and it a nice tribute to what independent film makers can do. "},{"Title":"Good One!.","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The very first film directed by LORD OF THE RINGS director Peter Jackson, and it's brilliant! It's incredible to think that he could come all the way from this sick but enjoyable comedy to LORD OF THE RINGS.  But his early work should get as much recognition as well because of how brilliant it is.  Jackson proves here what a great director he was from the outset.SPOILER WARNINGS The basic plot a bunch of scumbag aliens, led by Lord Crumb, have invaded the small New Zealand town of Kaihoro, intending to market human flesh as the 'new taste sensation' of the universe.  There to stop them are the Astro Investigation and Defense Service which consists of Derek (Jackson himself), a nerdy, paranoid and totally psychotic scientist, Ozzy, an equally psychotic, gun happy metalhead, Frank, their by-the-book leader, who is prepared to go to any lengths to get answers, and Barry, the other one.  This motley crew is charged with the protection of the planet.  God help the human race!As the film goes on, we are treated to just about every gross-out effect in the book. The performances of the unprofessional cast are very good (Jackson also appears as a retarded invader named Robert), and the whole thing is a huge barrel of laughs!  I wouldn't be surprised if this soon becomes a historical document. "}{"Title":"Bad Taste is Bad, But Still Kind of Good.","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Aliens come down to earth with plans to kill humans and take the meat back to space to serve as burgers in an intergalactic fast food chain.  The only hope for mankind is a group of secret military men that are willing to serve their planet and rid the aliens.  This movie is exactly what the title warns.  It is in completely pour tastes with extreme amounts of blood and plain gross out situations, like a vomit drinking scene and a scene with a guy trying to keep his brains in.  Could easily make the squeemish sick, yet there is still something here for some people.  Although it looks very much like it is shot by a bunch of talented film students, it is quite an original story and has quite a lot of humor in it.  If you have a sick sense of humor you will be rolling on the ground laughing.  Note  This is Peter Jackson's film debut.  Anyone who was a LotR fan might be interested to see how the director got his start.  *1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember renting this movie about 7-8 years ago, and I just loved it the first time I saw it. Was probably the first splatter movie I saw and got my interest for it then. Funny actors, just ordinary people that Peter knew. He did a great job combining well made special effects (with the resources he had) and great comedy. I just love everything about this movie. It's a classic. Never could I have known that seeing this for the first time, that Peter Jackson would make Lord of the Rings.After I bought this movie it was cool to see the short documentary with Peter where he explained some effects and so on.. So effective yet so (kinda) simple. "},{"Title":"flawed, but good","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If it weren't for the annoying accents and cheesy jokes (a few are funny i admit, especially at the very end), this would be a favorite of mine.  The newly released DVD lets you see all the gore in crystal clarity, as well as a cool and informative documentary which lets you see just how you can get effects like that on such a low budget.  Gory as hell and very imaginative. I've never seen lord of the rings yet but i don't care-i'm more interested in jacksons early stuff now and plan on seeing meet the feebles and dead alive very soon.  Good stuff. ***1/2 out of *****.  "},{"Title":"In Bad Taste, and Good Fun!","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lord Of The Rings fans beware, if you are expecting a similar movie you will be sorely disappointed. But Dead Alive(Braindead) fans rejoice, if you haven't seen this one yet, you owe it to yourself to check it out! This flick predates Dead Alive, and is not quite the gem Dead Alive is. Although I said not quite, it is a fun,fun,fun viewing experience! I bought this one because I am such a fan of Dead Alive, and honestly I wasn't expecting much. To my surprise, it was brilliant in it's own cheesy,B movie sort of way! I won't go into plot details because it's already been covered by other reviews. But if you are a fan of B movies and gore flicks, you got to see it. I happen to be a fan of Lord Of The Rings,Dead Alive and Bad Taste, but I must say I prefer these independent type movies to the big budgeted ones. And my advice to Peter Jackson is, just because L.O.T.R. is very successful, don't give up on making these kind of movies as well. There is a big fan base for B movies like Bad Taste. Bring us the fun and gore, and thank you in advance!  "},{"Title":"**** out of 5","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Peter Jackson was obviosly reading from the book of Ramia when making his first feature length film. Jackson wrote, directed, stared in and did the make up effects for this movie that is so gory it is stupid and so stupid it is hilarious. It's funny to see how the acclaimed director of Lord of the Rings started his career making cheap indie movies from New Zealand like this one. The acting is terrible, it looks like it was filmed with a home video camera and there is zero character development but hey who cares it's all in bad tatse. A group of blue shirted aliens dressed as humans have come to Earth to discover a craze that will bring their ring of fast food resturants back to business, human flesh. It is up to a group of men to take care of the aliens who have whiped out an entire town and are living in a close by mansion. If the sound of severed limbs, exploding sheep, vomit eating, hammer smashed faces, exposed brain tissue, a maniac with a chainsaw or a car with cardboard cut outs of the Beatles in its front window appeal to you then you will have the time of your life with this often very funny, always gruesome splatter fest but if you don't like your horror to be slapstick and you can't stomach the countless buckets of gore then you better just pass this one up.    "},{"Title":"This film rocked.","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie rocked.  It made Peter Jackson my all-time favorite director. go rent this movie. its gory, violent, and contains graphically disturbing images of death and violence.  watch it as soon as you can.  if you like this movie, then watch dead alive.  another great Peter Jackson movie. "},{"Title":"This looks like a job for real men?  Looks to me...like a movie for real horror fans!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Peter Jackson excellent movie, I've been a fan of your work for years but I must say two things.  First I understand your moving on to bigger and better things but please don't lose your interest in horror now since your doing popular movies.  And second get ride of these wanna be, pathetic, fans of yours.  Let me explain a little better. Since you have been doing the Lord of the Ring trilogy project people from all around are loving your work maybe not everyone but many more or less. I see people watch your older projects like Bad Taste, Meet the Feebles, and Braindead, and what do they say?  These total think it's a piece of trash.  Now since your doing Lord of the Rings your older work is gold to them now.  I believe that there are to many wanna~be Jackson fans out there who only give him credit because of Lord of the Rings.  Hate to say it but Jackson's older work is better.  To all the really horror fans out there, more power to you!  But to the cheap pathetic wanna~be Jackson fans out there, p*** off and go watch one of your preppy slasher flicks like Scream or I Know What You Did Last Summer...pathetic. "},{"Title":"A Real Cult Film You Either Love it or Hate it","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In 1983, Peter Jackson and a small group of friends decided tomake a gory 20 minute short movie to take to a New Zeland filmfestival. Being Young and Naive, they hought they could pull it offin six weeks. Boy, they were wrong! Since it was an improvisedmovie, they would come up with ideas often and since they wereshooting once every week, it would take a long time. Four yearslater, this masterpiece won a bunch of awards and became one ofthe most cult films in years. It stands alongside 'Pink Flamingos'and 'The Rocky Horror Picture Show' in the place of best midnightmovies. There is a plot, but it's not really that important, it's more ofan excuse for mindless (and hilarious) violence. I had the goodfortune of getting the LImited Edition DVD recently and, i have tosay, it's probably one of the smartest purchases I've done in awhile. There are so many classic scenes to think of but it wouldtake me almost forever to go through them all because there issomething classic in every two minutes of the movie. It's worthseeing just to see Peter O'Herne blowing the head off of ahuman/alien at the very start of the movie. There is also a knifethrough the throat, through the foot, through the head, a vomiteating scene and an exploding sheeps. Even if you hate the film,you'll never forget the mindless violence. Ten Out of Ten. PeterJackson got an oscar nomination for Lord of the Rings but wherewas his nomination (and winning oscar) for this movie? "},{"Title":"Peter Jackson A wonder worker","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When my freind first brought this movie over i thought it was gonna be stupid but the more and more it went on I loved it.  It has a great sense of humor and wonderful gore scenes if you haven't seen this before you gotta see the sledgehammer scene.  Just the simple fact that this was such a low B movie makes it great this just goes to show that peter jackson can work with anything.  This movie besides the humor and wonderful gore had a great Crew to run everything.  i give this movie a 7 out of 10 on my scale.Recommendations  Evil dead, Evil dead 2, Army of darkness, Brain damage "},{"Title":"Bad Taste - Classic Cult Cinema That's Easy to Swallow","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  	Peter Jackson's Bad Taste is a cult film on all levels.  It features a unique plot (or, more accurately, lack thereof) with interesting characters, a large amount of low budget violence and gore, and a great director with vision and charm who has now broken into popular cinema.	Though aliens have visited earth many times in many low budget films throughout the history of the media, it's not very often that they are here to collect humans to be ground up for interplanetary fast food.  It's also not very often that said aliens are foul-mouthed cretins with assault rifles.  The secret government agency that fights these fiends is no slick, deadly task force (c'mon, this is New Zealand!) but a group of chummy metal heads with assault rifles of their own.  The true uniqueness of the plot, however, is that it's missing.  Lines are largely improvised, and there's little more to the movie than said metal heads stalking and/or gunning down a house full of aliens (think Night of the Living Dead only completely silly, with heavy artillery and the shoe on the other foot, so to speak).	Since the majority of the film consists of violence, the majority of the special effects in the film are towards the creation of gore.  Though not every dead alien gushes (the majority of them fall after one shot, and just have a bloody bullet hole appear on their clothes), several of the aliens become literal fountains of blood, spraying the fluid all over the place.  Given that there is so much of it, and that these are low-budget gore effects, overall the vast amounts of blood and guts are neither offensive nor distasteful, but comically absurd.  The movie comes off as a live-action, ultra-violent cartoon (particularly in scenes dealing with the misadventures of the character Derek, played by none other than director Peter Jackson).	Though this was his first film, Jackson was already beginning to show his incredible talents as a director.  There is nary a continuity error in the film, even though it wasn't shot all at once (which is difficult enough for some films to keep continuous), but piece by piece on weekends over a four year period.  Also, Jackson and his friends were not working from a proper script; as previously mentioned, the majority of the lines were ad-libbed on the spot.  Neither is apparent from watching the film, although the spontaneity of its production has no doubt contributed to the humorous aspects, and made the film's weirdest moments even more enjoyable.  Jackson is also able to make the aliens interesting even though for the majority of the film they are in human form, and look nothing like the fat, angry alien with the lewd gesture on the box-art until the climax.  Jackson also provides one beautifully shot, genuinely disturbing scene, one with a captured human roasting in a stew-pot as a group of aliens watch and goad him; strangely reminiscent of Tobe Hooper's Texas Chainsaw Massacre, it was a taste of Jackson's competency not just as an entertaining director with gory, goofy source material, but as a superior overall director (this description would take almost 15 years to be fully realized by mainstream viewers and critics when Jackson would helm the Lord of the Rings film series).  Though Jackson's most over-the-top work was yet to come with Braindead (known as Dead/Alive in America), there is a certain charm in this, perhaps because he was working so carefully with it over such a long period of time.  A text-book cult film (and one that lives up to its title), it's ultra-violent, with one-of-a-kind oddball characters and events, and a demented sense of humor.  For fans of Jackson's later work (Lord of the Rings fans will want to approach with caution though) and b-cinema in general, it would be in poor taste to miss Bad Taste. "}{"Title":"Gore, Gore and more Gore!","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the most funny, sick and twisted romps I have ever, seen this film is truly wicked! It has everything you could wish for and more plus unlimited gore. The funniest bit is probably the first bit where the alien's brains are revealed by Barry's trusty .44. If you want to watch this film I concur with you although you may find it a little hard to find although if you do it is definetely one you'll love. One for Horror/Comedy fans all over. "},{"Title":"why can't more movies be like this?","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh, i wish, i do wish that more movies could be this shamelessly violent. Why do we have to be bogged down by plot, whiny sniveling actors, and directors that are full of themselves? Why can't we just have mindless violence like this without it suggesting something wrong in society, like in a Quentin Tarantino film? This movie is one hundred percent enjoyable because of the way it has absolutely no redeeming qualities. It is funny. It is hysterical. After you see this movie, you are glad that Peter Jackson was the one who got to do Lord of the Rings because any other director would have just bastardized it. You get the idea from this movie that Jackson knows what is really important in a movie. Entertainment. Plain and simple. This movie is utterly silly, and way too much fun. You see this in Lord of the Rings as well. Even with the big budget, great acting, makeup, and visual effects, Jackson didn't sacrifice the entertaining aspect of the movie in order to appease the academy. Just like Bad Taste, i get the idea that the purpose of that movie was to have fun, and Jackson's story telling abilities are allowed to flourish because of movies like Bad Taste. This movie is absolutely horrible, and i loved every minute of it. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Absolutely Fantastic","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of Peter Jackson's earlier, spectacular movies. Bad Taste is a must see; it's low budget didn't stop it becoming (what I think to be) the best kiwi movie up until his recent success with the Lord of the Rings trilogy. Jackson is a great, hardworking bloke, bit of a shame he missed out on Best Director at the Oscar's, (oh well.) Starting off with a masterpiece like Bad Taste, no wonder he got where he his today. I have lost count how many times that I've watched it now, and I'm still not sick of it. "},{"Title":"Dead Alive's older, less intelligent brother","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A lot of people who love Dead Alive have (for reasons unknown to me) not seen this film- which is a shame.  Sure the effects are a lot more primitive, and the the humor is not as dead-on.  Considering, however, that Jackson shot this film on weekends over the course of 4 years (read the DVD liner notes) and that he played 3 parts in the movie (Derek, the captured alien, and the alien chef), it is quite nearly a masterpiece.  This is probably a good movie to watch with other people (who have a liberal sense of humor), as many of the jokes may fall flat if watched by yourself, being as tastless as they are.  My favorite parts (don't read if you haven't seen the film yet)1) Chainsaw scene/death of lead alien You all know why.2) Rocket goes through building, hits sheep classic!3) Anything involving Derek, his skull popping open, and him stuffing foreign brains inside.  Oh my god!Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Extremely Gory yet very cool movie.","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This New Zealand cult 1987 Horror Science-Fiction comedy import is from Peter Jackson ( Director of Lord of the Rings and Dead Alive) sure knows how to entertain. It's about a group of suspicious looking guys in Blue Shirts ( Aliens in disguise) who are killing people and turning them into Fast Food for their Planet, now it's up to a trio of Stooge-like Fellows to stop this intergalatic Menace. A cool movie full of Graphic Gore, Action, B-movie effects and everything that makes this a literally Bloody good time.7/10. "},{"Title":"Yummmmm......","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ayayaye, another excellent Peter Jackson flick.Very nice sounds effect for a low budjet film (The gut shripping sound of the machinegun transpiercing scene is quite graphic.....yummm)And also a remarcable vomit ritual scene you won't forget.And a demonstration on how to split and alien in 2 with a chainsaw.Lovely work... specialy for the budjet, a nice gore cult move you won't forget.Go wrent it "},{"Title":"Lowtax was right. This movie proves you can grow up to be anything you want!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just got done watching bad Taste for the first time. Let me just say that those of you who are looking into Peter Jackson's old movies after seeing LotR, like me, will probably be in for a shock. Whereas the Lord of the Rings series costs about 300 million dollars, Bad Taste cost probably 300 dollars, New Zealand.As for the movie, if you like the Evil Dead movies or Jackson's third film, DeadAlive/Braindead, you've probably become accustomed to the So Bad It's Good genre. Is Bad Taste bad? Well, technically, yes. But that's the draw of it. It's cheesy, but it's obvious that it wasn't taken too seriously.My only major complaint is that this movie would be good at 70 minutes or so, but not 90. The opening cliff scene takes a bit too long. But the jokes and the gore make it worthwhile...Anyway,see this movie if only out of curiosity.. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the summits of artistic achievement by which our culture will be judged by generations as yet unborn. Funny, sick, violent, and yet curiously sentimental, it is a masterpiece of cinematic imagination. (As an added bonus it has the best chainsaw joke in recorded history.) "},{"Title":"twin brother of Braindead,  excellent!!!","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm gonna be really short about his one If you love gore / splatter and you can appreciate a really ironic humour, if you got a weird sense of fun and laugh, if you saw Braindead and you liked it, then you won't be disappointed by this equally satisfying film.  If you're not into this disturbed stuff, be sure to watch LORD OF THE RINGS to appreciate Peter Jacksons directive genious. "},{"Title":"Perversely bad...in a good way!","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you've not seen Bad Taste, go do so right now. Stop reading, go rent it. Trust me.Yes, this movie is bad...really bad. With over-the-top gore, silly plot, and lamer than lame acting, but it's all about desire and fun.From these ignoble beginnings Peter Jackson (who most recently made The Lord of the Rings Fellowship of the Rings movie) began. Now look at him.So, grab some popcorn, a large drink, your sense of humor, and a friend or two and watch Bad Taste. Yes, it's bad, but in a good way!  "}{"Title":"Excellent low-budget splatter by a pre-LOTR Peter Jackson.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Despite being made on a low-budget, having bad acting, shaky camerawork and a plot that is best described as thin, this is one of the best splatter films ever made and is a great movie to watch with a bunch of mates.Aliens are invading earth (well New Zealand actually), and are going to turn the human race into a new fast food on their planet. To stop this from happening, the government send in... 'THE BOYS.' The plot is just an excuse for some brilliant homemade make-up splatter effects, and some well choreographed action set-pieces. Peter Jackson directs, writes, photographs, does the make-up effects and the best performances in the film, and it's easy to see some of the brilliant touches that would go into his later work. This is an enjoyable film to watch, especially after a curry and a few beers with your mates, but make sure you've finished your curry before watching. This is called BAD TASTE remember!9/10(It is also worth noting that any wannabe filmakers out there should get anchor bay's limited edition DVD, this has some excellent tips such as homemade weapons and effects and $20 Stedicams) "},{"Title":"Splattery good fun!!!","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Whenever I watch Bad Taste, two words come to mind Instant Classic. Not in the warm, fuzzy, family-movie sense of the phrase, but in theIt's-really-late-at-night-and-my-friends-and-I-can't-stop-laughing-at-the-sc reen sense of the phrase.  This movie has it all  Guns, cars, aliens, blood, intestines, blood, vomit, blood, spaceships, bazookas, blood, rubber costumes, and even exploding sheep (my personal favorite).  Peter Jackson filmed this on the weekends with his friends over a period of four years, and the cameraderie shows in the way they play their roles, with tongue planted firmly in cheek.  Jackson himself is the standout, as both the nerd Derek, who can't seem to keep his head together, and the vomiting alien Robert.  The homemade effects are obviously fake, but so over-the-top that you don't really care.  Sure, it's not Lord of the Rings, but it IS the film that paved the way for Jackson to give us that wonderful piece of work. So, if you don't have a weak stomach and you want to see a bunch of blue-shirted aliens, get hacked, mangled, run over, shot, stabbed, blown up, and generally get their butts kicked, then Bad Taste is the way to go. "},{"Title":"bloody and hilarious","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The start of Peter Jackson's career as a filmmaker, a man soon tojoin the pantheon of Great directors for his marvellous Lord of theRings trilogy. But this isn't Tolkien. Oh no, this is a far bloodier movie. The Boysis a group of four special agents of the New Zealand governmentsent to tackle an alien invasion in a small town. The aliens arehere kill us and use our meat for a new course in an interstellarfast food chain. but that's really just a backdrop for a whole lot ofblood and guts spilling. You have to give the director credit forthinking up new and original ways in which to portray violence andmutilation. the results are both gruesome and very funny.the visual effects are handled by the founders of the companybehind the non computer effects on the Lord of the Rings, and theyreally make you go eew. I recommend this movie for anyone looking for a good laugh who'snot squeamish. This IS a bit extreme at times. But great laughs.See it. "},{"Title":"A gory film with knock-out laughs!!!","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before The Frighteners and The Lord of the Rings, Peter Jackson's first film was a funny and gory film called Bad Taste made in 1987. Filmed on a low-budget,  this movie was cool all the way.  I loved every minute of it.  If you loved movies with a combination of gore and laughs, then this is for you.13/13 A+ ****** (out of ****** stars) "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first Peter Jackson film done over a long period of time on half a shoe string budget.What a result, still to this day I watch this movie over and over again and still laugh as the very first tim I saw it.I hate to imagine the bill for 'meat' lol.Anyways, I want to keep this brief.This is still one of my favourite PJ films and will find it hard to beat. I always thought that PJ would one day get the budget to do a movie to show his real talent.Lord of the Rings........what else can one say.PJ deserves all the credit he gets and more.Up NZ Film critics for not giving PJ the chance! "},{"Title":"The One That Started Peter Jackson's Career","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can you really say about BAD TASTE?  This is the film that started Peter Jackson's career.  Even though people are hearing his name ALOT now a days, (He directed all 3 chapters in THE LORD OF THE RINGS TRILOGY, but you knew that) true PJ fans will always know him as the man who created one of the biggest cult classics of all time, BAD TASTE.  With this film, you can see the true genius of Peter Jackson and why he is now directing million-dollar movies.  Watch BAD TASTE and see what I am talking about..... "},{"Title":"Sick, sick, sick and I love it","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this movie many many years ago (about 1993 or so).  I loved it then and I still love it now.  I am of the opinion that it was the best Peter Jackson film released so far (Lord of the Rings has yet to be released).  Meet The Feebles is good, but not as good as this.Many people have been afraid to see this movie when first told about it. They hear that it is violent and sick, gory and demented and let's face it, it is.  But it's a zombie movie (they aren't zombies but you can see the zombie movie archetype) and you get exactly what you want from a zombie movie. You want violence, you get violence in excessive quantities.  You want gore you get gore to a level that would be nauseating if it wasn't so comical.  You want people sadistically chopping other humanoids into little bits you get more of that than you could ever want.You also get the most important thing you want from a zombie movie.  You get to laugh and then wonder why you are laughing.  You get to wonder if you have a bit of sadist inside (why else would you be laughing) and then hope you do.  You also get to see humans gratuitously slaughter things that are slower  and stupider than us.  The superiour numbers of the enemy just means you get to see more get killed.So, watch this movie if you want blood and gore and blood and um and um comedy (it's the best word I could think of, there is no word for it), this is a movie you wnat to see.  If you don't want to laugh at blood flying, don't see it.  "},{"Title":"review by fringevideo@hotmail.com","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Founded by grant money from the New Zealand government, this 16mm action / comedy / horror / sci-fi was the film that started Peter Jackson's road trip to hollywood success. A crude four year student splatter film about Alien fast-food manufacturers who come to New Zealand in hopes of harvesting all of humankind. A trio of heavily armed dimwitted government agents must stop the vomit drinking bastards before its too late! Roadrunner type cartoon gun action, gallons of blood, and dismembered aliens soon follow. Grotesquely exaggerated violence, heads are split apart, brains are eaten, and much more... The great looking alien FX costumes that where made in Peter Jackson's own oven, add to this cult horror film. Other confident directorial touches show why Jackson was the man for Lord of the Rings (2001). This stuff is so great, I hope he takes some of that money and throws one of these splatter films our way again. Jackson plays two of the leading roles and acts with himself in one of the scenes. For those upset that this Canadian disc is now out of print, don't worry Anchor Bay Entertainment should have a Limited Edition (50,000) 2-Disc Set out by the time you read this. It should also contain a documentary Good Taste Made Bad Taste with a 16 page booklet and special packaging just in time to cash in on Jackson's big success. "},{"Title":"Up there with Evil Dead","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of my FAVORITE horror films. Peter Jackson is Amazing. I recommend this film to horror fans. Others might think it to gruesome and graphic. But that is why it is so good. The effects are great considering the shoe-string budget they were created with. If you like this film make sure to check out the other Peter Jackson films they are all good especially Dead Alive his second best film and then there is Frightners, as well as the upcoming Lords of the Ring trilogy so see as many as you can you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"barfing aliens with the finger are actually quite tasteful","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Peter Jackson procrastinates not instant gore is presented in this debut. When Troma was fertilizing the U.S. mainland, Jackson spilled superior guts Down Under with Bad Taste.  He obviously knew a lot better what he was doing then Troma ever did.  In person he parodies fifties' saucer flicks, hacks off alien limbs, paralyzes intergalactic w***ers and tries to secure the area, before he is born again.  The last couple of years SWAT-team computergames (Hidden&Dangerous, SpecOps) have become increasingly popular, while Jackson's visionary movie (1987) tells the story of four guys who SWAT-like have to rescue earth from astro b****rds.  One of the awardworthy main parts (Derek) is played by Jackson himself and he also performed most of the amazing cinematic tricks.  BTW, I never knew dunes could be so eerie as setting.Bad Taste is definitely not nihilism like 'Fat guy goes nutzoid' or 'Surf nazis must die' it is actually very funny and Jackson found some great solutions for showing exactly what he wanted to.  Even the action is better than many of todays' blockbusters.  So you'd better lock up your daughters, mate, and gather your courage.  Entertaining stuff in need of a bigger budget.  That's what Jackson got in the exhilarating Braindead five years later.  But watch Bad Taste to see an alien give birth to Peter Jackson himself.8/10 "}{"Title":"Tastes good!","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This low-budget horror, action, alien whatever movie makes you laugh every time you watch it. It's mostly non-stop action as 'The Boys' go and take on Lord Crumb and his army of Alien cannibals. Derek is by far the funniest and most stupid guy of them all. Derek is played by Peter Jackson who did nearly everything for the movie.(See the credits) Jackson wanted to take this film to the Cannes film festival when he started directing. The movie would have been rejected by all of those big Hollywood critics. Well, we still have 'Bad Taste' on the small screen and thank God. Watch it if you love Gore, Fun, Humour, Action, Aliens and the nice surroundings of New Zealand. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"The reason this movie IS so well done","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know lots of people that won't watch movies if enough isn't spent on them to make them Hollywood.  If you spend too much on a movie, it makes it unrealistic and confused between the 1000's of people who work on it, as we've seen so many times in the last couple of years.  The thing that really makes this movie so good is the talent involved, not the money.  The movie quality looks horrible, it's washed out, the gore is silly (yet strangely convincing) because it was done with such a little budget, and the acting isn't award winning, but concepts, and simply the directing make the film extremely enjoyable.  They didn't use a blue screen to hang a guy off a cliff, they actually did it, cause hey, it was free!  Visually, especially at the beginning, it looks like something you filmed yourself with your K-mart camcorder, but it's HOW that camera is used that makes this so entertaining.  This is the first work of a man that later went on to direct the extremely VISUAL movies like Frighteners (very visual), and soon, Lord of the Rings.  Jackson was picked up for the Lord of the Rings not by a drawing, but because he has talent and is a masterful director... he just has strange content choice.  If you are a fan of directing this is a perfect example of someone who does NOT have lots of money to fork out on postproduction effects and the best actors in the world, but works with what he has, and ends up with a very entertaining film.  It's all from the mind of one man, which makes the movie more flowing and less produced, and it's just plain fun.  THAT is why this movie is so good.  And it's pretty crazy too... =)  The bad reviews here are from people who do not appreciate this old and low budget way of making a good movie.  If you are the same, I might pass, but give it a shot.  Rent it if you haven't.  Good Flick "},{"Title":"better than meet the feebles","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie was gory fun it has a alien geting his head cut in half with a chainsaw a guy drinking alien vomit and a cool crazy guy with a chainsaw killing lord crumb to death i rented this movie at hollywood video and i had a fun time with it i had to watch it againbut the movie on video was not good but i will see it again on dvd release from some video company i trying to remember the name to it "},{"Title":"As funny as it is gory, and it's HILARIOUS","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, BAD TASTE more than lives up to its title. The gore and the stomach-churning material, particularly the alien share the spew ritual that one poor commando has to participate in, is really disgusting. Well, the movie's about super-commandos fighting alien cannibals. What the freaking hell else could be expected?But this movie is not just about the blood and guts (and brain matter). Essentially, this is Peter Jackson's first step at fusing comedy with ultra-violence and more horrible imagery than anything outside the cinematic ouvere of Romero and early Sam Raimi. In fact, BAD TASTE and EVIL DEAD II both came out in the same year (1987, I believe) and share this incredible mix. I winced a little at both movies, but I spent a lot more time laughing and even more time saying, Whoever put this film together knew exactly what they were doing, from start to finish.There's a scene here where the commandos come under attack from alien snipers, and one of them fires what seems like 50 shots and doesn't hit anyone. There's a pause, and the sight gag that follows, involving a tree, made me laugh so hard I had to rewind the scene 3 times before I could watch all of it. Just when I got myself under control, there was another scene involving aliens, ear-splittingly awful New Zealand rock music, a rocket launcher, and a sheep that brought tears to my eyes. For that matter, the choreography of the action scenes at the film's climax is flawless. Jackson, like Steven Soderbergh, edits and lights a film as well as he directs it.BAD TASTE is a weird masterpiece. Those two words sum it up about as well as any could.  "},{"Title":"Truly Bizzare, Truly Brilliant","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing Braindead I felt myself drawn into watching Peter Jacksons earlier horror movies, starting with Bad Taste. I watched it one night on the Sci-Fi channel, and to my delight it was just as I expected, surreal, gory and very very funny.I'll give you a brief summary Lord Crumb and his alien posse come to Earth to take humans back home with them and turn them into treat bars. They have already boxed a small town, (yes, boxed) and there's only a small group of men that can stop his wicked ways, namely &#145;The Boys'.That's enough with the story, if you have seen Braindead you know the true definition of a gory film. Bad Taste isn't as gory as Braindead but it is much much sicker. You really need a pretty strong stomach to cope with what Jackson throws at you during this film.Marks out of 10 &#150; an 8.  Truly a brilliant cult film. Not for the weak of heart, or weak of stomach. Here I come you B******S!!  "},{"Title":"I laughed my brain out.","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plot in this movie is so funny,it is about some aliens that come to earth and some humans that are there to stop them. In this movie the director Peter Jackson has almost the leading role and he plays it so brilliant.This movie is much more evil than Braindead and have some really sadistic scenes,where the humans torture the aliens for fun. The movie features Peter Jacksons and some of his friends and I can guess that the budget was really low,but he has still managed to make some really disgusting splatter fx. Actually I think that he spent all of the budget on splatter fx,because this movie got lots of it.I found this movie much more fun than Braindead and also much more disgusting.I can describe this movie like this 'I laughed so I fell out of my chair'See it and find out why Peter Jackson is the worlds greatest splatter director. "},{"Title":"Hilariously Disgusting","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film truly amazed me. Peter Jackson has, on only two hundred and fifty grand, created one of the most shocking hilariously gory film ever. On a debut effort, this film works extremely well because it is able to actually laugh at itself by being absolutely stupid, while delivering a hugely disgusting movie that has developed a cult following.A true masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A cheep filck made in New Zealand with bad acting, effects camerawork and script. But why does it work so well?","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched this film after reading a DVD review of it. They only gave it 2/5 (probably because it had crap picture) and I thought it would be really bad. But one day I managed to catch it on Sci-Fi channel and was blown away. Well kind of. This is cheap. The camerawork, acting and effects are so bad that the illusion of it being a movie never seems real, and I think this is why it works. Me and my mate laughed our heads off every second of it. I can't wait to see what Peter Jackson does with the Lord of The Rings trilogy after seeing this superb piece of work.4/5  Flawed genius. (The flawed factor is the genius part)I have been reborn!!! "},{"Title":"This is a classic cult horror that shows jacksons class !","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I bought bad taste on vhs a week ago and it is a classic, it is low budget film but a great movie and subsequently i am now a peter jackson fan i rate bad taste above his later films such as braindead and the Frighteners although great movies they're not in the same league.  The great acting of Jackson himself is a credit to the movie. Also the scene with the sheep being hit with the rocket launcher is one of the all time classic scene in cinema history. If the Lord of the Rings is anything like Bad Taste we are in for a treat. "},{"Title":"Damn it the aliens didn´t win!!!","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Shot with a hand-held camera, casted with amateur actors and director Peter Jackson seemed to be on the search for a story, a concept or anything else for the first half of the film. Nevertheless Bad Taste became one of the most commercial successful movies ever made in New Zealand. In the Germany this flick wasn´t released for many years until it came out last year. Jackson´s film was something like an urban legend everyone had heard of the title, but you never had the chance to catch him neither in a video store nor at cinema. Bad Taste is the ideal party movie to laugh about how cheap and nutty it sometimes is. Don´t see this film in expectation of any demands, a great and intelligent story or expensive special F/X. It´s a semi-professional amateur movie with a rapid gun fight action at the second half, slimy and gory jokes, grotesque humor if you had fun with other films by Peter Jackson, Meet the Feebles or Braindead you´ll surely like this one. It´s worth watching in any case! (7/10)   "}{"Title":"Best government agency ever created on film!","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was only days since this writer saw Bad Taste and still laughs asnumerous lines and scenes play back in my mind.  Whether it be Derek'sBorn Again joke, Peter Jackson acting with himself besides a cliff, orthe fact that the aliens look a lot like Richard Nixon, this was acomedy/sci-fi better than most mainstream productions.  It goes withoutsaying that this created the basis for films like Men In Black and theupcoming Evolution.  Hats off to Peter Jackson for creating a cultclassic, yet with the imitations, could not be bettered.  As far as themovie goes, the group of actors knew what to say at the right times,which is impressive for a movie was believed to be a improvisation.  Thegore and make-up was well done for it being a film debut.  Finally, Ihave to thank the New Zealand Film Commission for assisting a t "},{"Title":"Heavy- metal enthusiasts spill blood for the Queen...","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like a lot of other fans of his early works, I am knocked over by the fact that Peter Jackson was tapped to direct the long awaited Rings trilogy of films. However, you can really see his creativity at work in Bad Taste, one of his first movies. The plot is pretty straightforward, with some lumpy aliens planning a takeover of the earth or some such thing. Things really get started when a group of government agents arrive who are more like Jay and Silent Bob than James Bond. From a gore effects standpoint, this movie in particular has some very satisfying Head-split-in-half-ear-to-ear effects that look fantastic, and the craggy alien asses, while often exposed, must be seen to be believed. You really can't compare this movie to Dead Alive (Brain Dead) because the budget seems so much lower for this one, but Jackson wrings every bit of value from this film with a gory glee that just makes you smile. In a way Bad Taste is less over the top than Dead-Alive, but that makes it even more gruesome. Such as when the Director's own character collects various bits of brain to shove through a crack in the back of his head. It is so well done, even the most serious gorehound can feel the grey matter oozing between his or her fingers. I'm always amazed by what a gifted director can do with so little money. I'm glad he got his props from Hollywood, but it is too bad that gems like Bad Taste exist in territory he may never delve into again. "},{"Title":"Truly unique","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, this film certainly looks terrible, and the acting is utterly dire on places, but you just can't help but love it! The TERRIBLE camerawork and fakeness is just what's needed to make this film special. You can tell Peter Jackson just made this to have fun, and he did. And its fun to watch too. So see it! (8/10) "},{"Title":"True to its title","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bad Taste sure is one of the most disgusting films I have ever seen, but it is also insanely funny, and most of the disgust turns into laughter right away. As such, it is kind of harmless, but I know few people who continued eating their popcorn while watching it - myself included. Of course, there is nothing to be said about anything else in this film since it is very, very far from being serious. It's the kind of film a bunch of film students would make if they (or rather, the school) had the money. "},{"Title":"Most Brutal and Brilliant Low Budget movie I've ever seen","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is by far the most brilliant low budget movie I've ever seen. With a budget of about 10.000 australian dollars and a few amateur film camera's (NO camcorders) they've managed to create one of the funniest movies of all times. Blood gore and senseless violence have never been both so unrealistic and hilarious at the same time. Excellent special effects for such a low budget movie which only add to the sheer genius of it. The acting isn't even that bad considering the actors don't take themselves seriously at all. The usually unrealistic and unprobable plot of bad sci-fi movies is played to the extreme and will have you laughing. The only reason i give this film a 9 instead of a 10 is the fact that some people that see this film are too stupid to realize it's supposed to be ridiculous. So you have to pick the people you wanna see this film with. Blame the others for being dull and boring people. Summary If you don't want to see this film or didn't like it you have no sense of humour. Period. "},{"Title":"Bad acting, bad plot, bad effects, superb film!","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was recommended to me by a school friend back in 1993, and I suspect if I had only come across it today, I might not have enjoyed it so much.  But enjoy it I did.  It's hard to believe that Jackson is moving onto the effects-laden blockbuster Tolkein trilogy, because to be honest he is perfectly at home in the knock-about camcorder world of Bad Taste.  Even Brain Dead isn't quite the same.  The film could only work with New Zealanders - Oh, no, Derek's gone ape-sh*t is the kind of line that wouldn't work for an American actor - indeed any actor who might ever appear in another movie.Without giving any of the plot away, I think it's fair to say nothing really happens for a reason.  The acting is appalling, even though Zombies are more or less the easiest thing to act, and the script is pretty poor too.  The effects are never totally believable - there is some alien vomit which is made simply as vile as possible (a big bowl of snot, basically) and into which no imagination went at all.  But it couldn't have been made any other way!  If the film had taken itself even remotely seriously (in the way that Living Dead etc do) it would have collapsed arse-about-face and no-one would ever have watched it.  It's absolutely perfect for when you have mates round and you have a few bevvies and they've never seen it before - you'll all be shouting urrggghh! and Yes! and Ohhhh, that's sick! in unison and above all in a kind of joy that you won't for the life of you be able to account for.But whatever you do, don't watch it with the family on Christmas afternoon - unless your name happens to be Manson.ratingIf your favourite film is Gone With the Wind etc. - 0/10 If your favourite film is Star Wars etc. - 8/10 "},{"Title":"Silly But Fun","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It surely is a bizarre movie but it has some great moments in it.  If you get sick easily this is not the movie for you but if you want to see a funny and offbeat movie, this is it.  Peter Jackson is an underrated talent. "},{"Title":"Does exactly what it says on the tin.","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  New Zealander Peter Jackson's audacious debut was shot over four years at weekends on borrowed equipment with a shoestring budget, no real actors and homemade special effects. The result was a true cult classic, something which managed to transcend the limitations of budget, which actually relishes its cheapness at times, to become a trashy and hilarious gorefest that consistently delivers on every level. Look out for Jackson himself in the role of Derek, equipped with chainsaw and Tom Baker scarf. Priceless.  "},{"Title":"Kiwi metalheads save the world from hungry aliens","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Earth is being invaded by a group of mushy latex aliens who intend to sell humanity as hamburger meat.  So who does the New Zeland government call on?  A group of gun happy metalheads, of course.  Well an hour and a half of excessive gore, vomit guzzling and REALLY flat acting later, Earth is saved by the mulleted, tank top clad warriors.  The first time I saw this movie, it was a really bad quality tape completely dubbed in French.  I haven't laughed that hard since I first saw Dead Alive.  This movie was such an excellent example of how to make a great low budget movie.  Allthough it lacked the much more thought out visuals and cinematography of Jacksons later work its camp value and non stop onslaught of inappropriateness makes it quite possibly his funniest movie (Meet the Feebles rivals it).  "},{"Title":"very gory funny popcorn movie","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of the best horror comedy movies I´ve ever seen. It is very gory very bloody, but it is also funny. The boys are one of the best action gangs I´ve ever seen in a movie. Watch this movie and have just a lot of fun. "}{"Title":"The king of cult","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bad Taste rules.  It is a movie about some aliens, who`ve come to Earth to kill a bunch of humans and sell them as hamburgers on other plantets.  But The Boys(the good guys) are sent in to stop those evil alien ba#ards. This is a movie that is made with a really supersmall budget, but the movie is more fun than many American blockbusters. The actors are cheap and add a lot to this great cult-experience, the cheap low-budget synth-music will make you laugh the moment it starts. Once again, Peter Jackson has made a really funny movie with almost no money. 10/10 "},{"Title":"GORY, VIOLENT, BLOODY, SICK, HILARIOUS","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Peter Jackson proves in his first film his ability as a film maker, in the one man army of writer/director/actor/producer.  His early trademark gore is so over the top that even the person with the weakest stomach can't help laughing.The acting is terrible, which for some weird reason adds to the effectiveness of the film, Jackson in particular is very good as Derek.The action scenes are very good for a film that was made on almost no budget.See it, vomit at it, laugh out loud at it!  Jackson at his early best! "},{"Title":"A good start for first splatter ambitions","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bad Taste is cheap, it has a simple story, it has aliens, that surf through the galaxy using a flying house, is provides a lot of blood and gore and the actors are all unprofessionals. This sounds bad, but BAD TASTE is a very good start for newbies in the splatter scene and it is just a cult movie. It is just funny and gore-providing at the same time.Don't forget to review it's fantastic sequel - DEAD ALIVE (a.k.a. BRAINDEAD). "},{"Title":"THIS IS THE MOTHER OF ALL LOW BUDGET GORY MOVIES","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is no better low budget gory production that has been made.  Some of the special effects are better than a multi-million dollar production has to offer.  There is alot of imagination used here which leads to a classic comic adventure that is both original and entertaining.  I wish there were more movies made like this! "},{"Title":"Thanks to Peter Jackson for this great title","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie 5 times in a week. That is a simple reason to say that the film is a good one (I think). Peter Jackson made us a great job when he took 4 years doing BAD TASTE. A fantastic film, a classic, a must to see, don't miss it. I WANT TO BE A DEREK IN THE FUTURE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Bad Taste? yes Bad Movie? no","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie should be required viewing for any filmaker out to make their first film.  Shot on weekends with some friends, Bad Taste is a shining example of what low-budget movies should be. This movie is not for everyone, but if you have the stomach for it, I guarantee that you will like Bad Taste.  If this (and the rest of Peter Jackson's films) are any indication, the LOTR trilogy will be something to behold. "},{"Title":"Come on people ... take it at it is...","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen a number of comments damning this movie for its lack of budget and acting ability. But hey... come on.... this film was made for a few thousand $NZ and most of the crew doubled as actors ---some in several roles.. Yes the acting could have been better, Yes it would have been better with a larger budget but taking it at face value---a cheap student film with few actors it is a masterpiece... It shows ambition and the potential that he would later show in brain dead. Do you think an amateur would have been given the Lord of the Rings gig for christs sake?  "},{"Title":"Lives up to it's title","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Aliens, who plan to turn humans into tasty snacks at their new intergalactic fast food chain, have wiped out a small New Zealand town, and it's up to a small group of determined men to stop them, through a unique blend of explosives, machine guns, and chainsaws.That's the plot of Bad Taste, the imaginative, amazing debut feature of Peter Jackson, one of the greatest directors working today. Although he's since gone on to bigger projects (including filming the Lord of the Rings trilogy) Jackson has never strayed from the warped sense of humor or bizarre filming style of this flick. It's a funny, enjoyable movie that takes its time unspooling, introducing us to the crew of heroes and their alien foes while occasionally popping in a gore effect or great sight gag.Although the budget was low, the make-up effects and miniatures are fantastic. The small cast is adequate and hilarious, especially Jackson himself in a dual role as Derik, a bumbling alien fighter with a loose chunk of brain that won't stay in his skull, and Robert, a cannibalistic, puke-spewing alien. Jackson hasn't appeared in a substantial role in any of his other movies, and that's a shame, because he's hilarious in this.So, in summary, if you like movies with exploding sheep, vomit eating, and eighties metal music, then this is the one for you. Bad Taste is good, good, good!  "},{"Title":"Classic!!!!","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a huge fan of low - budget horror, and I have to admit that this film has to be one of the most entertaining and brilliantly made films for its type. Peter Jackson ranks up there as one of the most interesting and brilliant directors ever, and I love all of his movies. I place him on a par with Sam Raimi, who created the fabulous Evil Dead Trilogy and of course the brilliant A Simple Plan. Just look where P.J is now! He is in the process of bringing The Lord of the Rings to the screen. This trilogy would have to be the biggest undertaking than the Star Wars films. If you can see what P.J can do with a low budget, than I bet we're in for a suprise with his next outing.Now back to Bad Taste A bunch of Aliens are terrorising a small town and a bunch of government agents (sporting tank tops and bad haircuts) must band together to stop them from using the human species as lunch. Yes, the acting isn't Oscar material, either is the cinematography, but this film packs a momentous punch in everything else. Some people believe the bad acting and New Zealand acents make the film funnier. Well i suppose it does, but it is the over the top style that P.J uses, that makes this a winner. There are countless scenes to be remembered The agent rolling down the cliff and waking later to discover that the back of his head is cracked open and he is constantly picking up bits of his brains and lodging them back in. The agents automobile is a zany creation, with the Beatles pictures inside of them. The scene when an agent has to eat a bowl of mashed up human, and it looks like he enjoys it. And tones More!!!!Go to your video store and rent this all time classic. I wish I could own a copy, but I can't find it anywhere.   "},{"Title":"This movie is Awesome!!!","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is one of those cheezy B Title flicks. But it is a riot and it has gory special effects. Ozzie is the best character in the movie.  He is a washed up soccer player, turned mercenary. He rips an alien's head off, and then drop kicks it out the window, and then says  The magic is still there Great stuff!! There are tons of other funny moments in this movie, but I am not going to write them all down. Just be sure to see this movie. The best three B title movies are  Toxic Avenger, Frankenhooker, and Bad Taste. See all three! "}{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you like Braindead, don't miss this!!!! Its ewsome!!!! Not as bloody as Braindead, but even more funnier! Peter Jackson is a God "},{"Title":"Definitely not for all tastes","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bad Taste is completely over the top in both gore content and absurd humor. There's a lot of blood and guts, but isn't that why we see this kind of movie in the first place? The death scenes are sometimes rather fake looking(which adds to the humor) and range from common to the downright nasty. The acting is OK, and many people play two or more roles. This shows what a few thousand dollars, good makeup, ambition, and a sick imagination can do. If you can stomach the high gore quotient, this is worth a look. If not, you're better off skipping this one.  "},{"Title":"GORY, FUNNY, GREAT!!","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a great film from director Peter jackson. You want gore this has it. Scenes like an alien eating out of the skull of a dead guy with a spoon are just great. One of the goriest movies made along with braindead (also a Peter jackson film) made with a small budget but still a brilliant movie. It is also a very funny movie and when you combine gore and comedy you get a great movie. This movie proves that you don't need a big budget to make great movies. the movie revolves around a group of aliens who come to earth looking for a food for their fast food chain. The special ingredient humans brains. Only thing which can stop them are a couple of guys who fight aliens for a livng. This will have you interested from start to finish, and what a great gory finish.  "},{"Title":"A starter for Braindead","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bad Taste is a classic.The film is amazingly funny and just has an atmosphere that you have to love. It is so over the top in the gore department, and I admire Jackson and all his mates, who put a few dollars a week into a box, and after a couple of years made this.  "},{"Title":"Disgustingly hilarious!","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Peter Jackson truly hit bottom with this movie. Unfortunately, the only way up was to respectability, and that is the death sentence of so many original minds in filmmaking. (The 'Frighteners' leaps to mind) Anyway, this Peter Jackson at his most depraved best. The dialogue, the in-jokes, the exploding sheep, the chuck. The soundman deserves a Knighthood. If you can find it, rent it. "},{"Title":"If only talent like Peter Jackson's was more widespread","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For those of you who have yet to see New Zealand director Peter Jackson's directorial debut Bad Taste, and strange, low budget and interesting films interest you, go find it right now.The story involves a small New Zealand town being taken over by these blue-shirt aliens who arrive in a well disguised spaceship. They slaughter the town and are about to leave this s****y planet, when THE BOYS are called in to take care of them, where upon we have a darkly funny film.The acting may be shocking, but lest we forget that the film's crew were also the actors. They also pop up again as some of the aliens. There are some great lines; The magic's still there, I'm born again! to name a few, but the talent lies within Peter Jackson, this being why he has now broken into the international film industry with his direction. I hope to see more of his work.  "},{"Title":"I am a derek, dereks dont run","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  thet's true, but they do get their brains smashed out and have pinecones thrown at them by soon-to-be chainsawed aliens. This is the BEST MOVIE EVER. Here are an overveiw of some of the juicy, gory, hilarious, strange, splatstick action that goes on. Derek Hammers a chisel down an aliensfoot. Derek tries to kill an alien by making rat-tat-tat noises while holding a gun. Derek rams a gun through an alien and successfully kills another alien by shooting through its body. Derek fall off cliff go boom. Derek wakes up and puts his brains back in with a spoon. His brains fall out, he puts them back in, in out in out, until finally securing them with a belt. Derek gets a chainsaw, he lacerates, decapitates, slices, dices before boardin the mothership and going to the home planet to kick some a$$. By chance i got to see this amazing peice of cinema at the hawaii film festival. And i say, see this damn movie or you deserve the same fate as the evil lord crumb. "},{"Title":"The Boys try to stop Crumb and the aliens.","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I saw this movie in rental stores I knew that there was something about it just by the cover (An alien flipping the bird). I was not disappointed at all with this movie. It had all of the ingredients of a nonsensical splatter-fest. It had humorous gore, like the wiggling spine and the blown off head that seemed to be filled with barbed wire, and many elements that have been used in the Naked Gun movies. I thought every thing was just right in this movie. Rent it for your next party. "},{"Title":"Graphically violent splatter fest.","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is the graphically violent splatter fest that really put Peter Jackson on the map. Made for a couple of thousand, this film is one of the funniest low budget films ever made. Recommended for certain tastes only, and recommended only for people with very strong stomachs, as much of the gore is very graphiclly presented. "},{"Title":"Derek's don't run.","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a classic, this is truly the greatest cult movie ever.  It just shows that Peter Jackson (Who plays derek in this movie) is the king of filmmaking. I loved this from start to finish.  Ya sure it seems cheezy when you first start it(bad picture quality ect) but I could not take my eyes off the screen the whole movie. I don't think its as good as dead alive(brain dead) but it comes close. Great fun here...go get it today if you haven't seen it (if you can find a copy that is) 9/10 "}{"Title":"More Brains!","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bad Taste is THE funniest movie of all time in my opinion. When I first saw it (as a video rental with some friends) we weren't expecting much - another low-budget horror-flick, but boy oh boy were we in for a treat. Almost every scene is designed to get you rolling with laughter - and you do. Brains, blood, guts, morons attempting to save the planet, bloodthirsty and even more moronic aliens, sheep, chainsaws, sledgehammers, decapitations, amputations, vomit, guns, bombs, missiles - this film has just about everything you could wish for for a fine evenings entertainment in my opinion. If you have not seen this film, you have not yet lived. "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious and packed with lots of gore!!!!!","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the greatest film ever to be made by Peter Jackson( director of Meet the Feebles, Dead Alive, the Frighteners).  Lots of scenes in which you have to rewind over and over again because it is absolutely hilarious!!!!! Just remember not to mess with Derek, because I'm a Derek and Dereks don't run!!!!  Comedy and Sci-Fi horror at it's finest!!! A+++ "},{"Title":"Kick A**","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You may call me biased because i am a New Zealander, but i think that Peter Jackson is the best splatter movie director around. This movie, his first but not nessesarily his best movie is a great laugh. And what a story line, aliens using humans for a fast food chain! Ha! If you haven't seen any Peter Jackson movies i urge you to do so (only if you are strong stomached!). Gotta love the sheep scene, ya gotta love it! "},{"Title":"Kick A**","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You may call me biased because i am a New Zealander, but i think that Peter Jackson is the best splatter movie director around. This movie, his first but not nessesarily his best movie is a great laugh. And what a story line, aliens using humans for a fast food chain! Ha! If you haven't seen any Peter Jackson movies i urge you to do so (only if you are strong stomached!). Gotta love the sheep scene, ya gotta love it! "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That movie was so wonderful! Many of my friends didn't like that movie at all, and many of them thought that movie was horror movie. I think Bad Taste was some kind of comedy. Peter Jackson joking with too much blood and that movie goes out of common sense. So they didn't want to scare. They showed how violence could be fun.  "},{"Title":"Best low budget film I've ever seen","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw this film was around four years ago, and let me tell you, I thought it was going to be a piece of junk.  I mean, it looked so cheap and crummy, but I soon realized that there's a difference between a talentless cheap-o (like Jack Frost), and a talent-drenched cheap-o like this.Bad Taste is hands-down the best low budget film I've ever seen, just above Chainsaw Massacre.  Peter Jackson is one of my favorite directors because there isn't one of his films that I hate.  In fact, Dead-Alive (aka Brain Dead) is even gorier, yet it lacks the fresh pace and cheap feel of this cult masterpiece.This film begins when a government agency called A.I.D.S. (!), composed of Frank, Ozzie, Barry, and, of course, Derek, stumbles upon a bunch of flesh-eating aliens that have just wiped out an entire town of humans and are preparing to use their flesh as a fast food treat on their home planet. So it's up to The Boys to stop them, and soon a full-scale battle ensues.The best part of Bad Taste is not only it's campily overdone special effects (performed by Jackson himself), but mainly its pace.  Truthfully, I wasn't bored for a second during this film.  Even though it has extremely fragmented direction (maybe cause it was shot on a camcorder!) and almost no budget, you believe everything you're seeing, and you know it's cheesy, and you know the acting's not up to par, but you just don't care; and by the time you reach the final bloody showdown (my favorite part), you find yourself peeled to the screen, up until the sickening climax that I won't even bother revealing.  I should also point out that the effects are sort of uneven  a Magnum will shoot off a head at one point, but put a small hole in one the next.  But, hey, that's the fun of it!So go out and see what Peter Jackson poured his heart into. He did everything -- acted in numerous roles, wrote, directed, edited, effects, and more -- and took four years in the process; and it still doesn't look homemade!  I promise you wont be disappointed.  And even though there's gore at every turn, it's done in such a comic way that it shouldn't shock even a five year old girl, while it still has the power to entertain a group of college students.  And see Jackson's other flicks, too, including Forgotten Silver, cause it's hilarious.By the way, this one's #3 on my Top 200 List.  That tells ya something. "},{"Title":"Don't take it seriously...","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the best films I have ever seen. It's so funny I almost fell off my chair. Watch out for the puke, though - not for those with a weak stomach (no pun intended)! "},{"Title":"The Feel-Good Splatter/Comedy of the Century!","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bad Taste is one of those movies that you just can't keep to yourself. The first time I ever saw it, I kept it for three extra days to show to my friends.  Every time we have a movie party, I always bring Bad Taste.  If you're a horror fan, especially a fan of Peter Jackson or The Evil Dead Series, I'm telling you, you won't be let down.Buckets of Blood, British-Type Comedy, A Hero that can't keep track of his brain, a chainsaw, and a puke-scene that'll make you gag.  What more can you ask for?  Bad Taste is one of my all time favorite movies, and answers the question, Just how DO you fit an entire English village into a dozen cardboard boxes? "},{"Title":"Cool stuff","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie´s so cool.The poor special effects makes it funny, and that´s what I like about it.If you like Brain dead? You´ll love Bad Taste. "},{"Title":"A Classic...","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time. Peter Jackson is my all time favorite director. This low budget first outing is very well made. The gore in it is so over the top it is funny. I own this movie and think that anyone who thinks the b******s have landed in their town should watch it. Bye Intergalatic W***ers!! "}{"Title":"This movie is pretty sick!","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, talk about low budget, Peter JACKSON´s first flick. Don´t eat yoghurt during that movie, don´t eat sausauges with Ketchup otherwise you really got a BAD TASTE!! All I can say watch this SPLATTER-Movie and make your own opinion. I find it just damn funny! Aliens vs. Men in a 0-Civilian-Village, this is sick! NO, this is low-budget! "},{"Title":"Bad Taste is exactly what you get.","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Perhaps the most aptly named film in history, Bad Taste is one of the funniest gross-out movies of all time.  The plot follows an elite ragtag group of mercenaries known simply as the boys who are hired by the queen to stop the influx of alien activity in New Zealand.  The group soon discovers a plot devised by the evil Lord Crumb to make humans into cattle for his intergalactic fast food chain.  What follows is a hilarious gory battle between man and alien that provokes laughter and regurgitation all at once.  It's the kind of film that may force the Rapture to come early.Director/FX man/actor Peter Jackson is truly an inspiration to all low budget filmmakers, much the same way Sam Raimi is with The Evil Dead, by building a masterpiece on limited resources and limitless ingenuity. Jackson would later on go on to direct the incredible horror schlockfest Dead Alive and the critically acclaimed Heavenly Creatures(starring Kate Winslet).  Both are highly recommended as well. "},{"Title":"What the hell was he thinking?","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh my god, this film is absolutely awful. I recommend it should be watched at all costs. It's inspired and imaginative, in very, very bad taste but ultimately worth the effort. I don't recommend watching it whilst eating your dinner.  "},{"Title":"Great kiwi horror spoof/comedy! Have to see it to believe it! Great SFX!","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not quite as good as Jackson's other great film - 'Brain Dead' but still good. Will make you squirm non-stop. Aliens take over a small New Zealand town in their quest to rule the world (intentionally cheesy) but don't count on the power of one very crazy and very powerful (especially with a chainsaw!) kiwi. Heads splitting open and brains flying out to be eaten by seagulls, spikes being driven through legs and various other gory events will make your stomach turn. But it is essentially a sci-fi/horror spoof and it's main goal is to make you laugh. Taking four years to make, you won't forget it ever! All I can say is - Watch out, all you sheep! "},{"Title":"Budget film at its best","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The film really lives up to its title.  Don't be put off because the gore is helped out by some nice touches such as the exploding sheep and Derek's car which is in-fact a Beatle's shrine.Nice one. "},{"Title":"Bad Taste but, Good Movie!","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From the same comical genius that brought you BRAINDEAD, and THE FRIGHTENERS, comes, BAD TASTE. Though obviously a low budget film, and fairly cheesy, you can't help but root for Derek (played by the director himself), and his bud's Barry, Ozzy, Frank, and Giles, as they take on the evil Lord Crumb, and his band of 3rd Class Aliens, that are attempting to take a town full of people... er... body parts, back to their homeplanet, where human flesh is considered a delicacy. The band of liberators, must take out the alien forces, and rescue Giles, before he's eaten alive.  BAD TASTE, will leave a bad taste, in your mouth, from the disgusting (yet overly false) gore, and laughing your heart out. Definitely a must see, it's impossible to dislike (unless you're squeamish, or prejudice against the New Zealand folk). If you haven't seen it, RENT IT!  What're you doing?! GO... NOW! You'll love it, I guarantee! "},{"Title":"So Bad - It's Really Bad Taste","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Featuring exploding sheep, lots of abattoir offal, this movie has bad production values, really bad acting, and the plot is truly B-grade.  But it's so bad, it's hilariously funny - it also started Peter Jackson (who 'stars' in the movie) on his way to making wildly funny splatter flicks that launched his career in Hollywood... "},{"Title":"The One That Started It All","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you're a Jackson fanatic like me, you probably fell under his spell with this twisted classic.  Maybe it's the exploding sheep, or Lord Crumb getting a chunky bit, or..... well, the fact that Derek's don't run.  It's an exhausting experience, and the kind of film that, to borrow a phrase from Entertainment Weekly's film critic Owen Gleiberman, who used it on the woefully undeserving SLAM, the kind of movie that makes you believe in movies.  It's gleeful, anarchic, and downright disgusting.Viva Peter Jackson!  "},{"Title":"Meet Derek your average chainsaw wielding alien hunter...","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is just one of the many great characters in Bad Taste. Made over 4 years on weekends with a shoestring budget. This was Peter Jackson's first motion picture. It smoothly blends comedy and gore. Much better than that Troma crap. Hilarious, and rather clever. Rent it!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Brains, zombies, sheep and MORE BRAINS!","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is quite an amazing film.  If you like guns, gratuitous killing of the undead and lots of gore then this is most definitely the film for you. When aliens turn the townfolk into zombies, it's left to Derek and his team of experts to stop the malevolent army of the undead.  Humour and fighting ensues, culminating in a stunning climax.  Bad Taste contains the most excellent exploding-sheep scene that I have ever witnessed...Incredibly funny and utterly unique, the film is a must see - one step above other zombie-flicks. "}{"Title":"Without a doubt a must see!","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Grizzly, funny, disgusting, lovable!  You must see this movie at least once in your life...do it NOW!  I kind of wish there was a sequel.... "},{"Title":"The damn weirdest thing ever","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you want to see a really weird film, gory and mad, take a look at this masterpiece from Peter Jackson. "},{"Title":"Lord Crumb comes to earth in search of humans who will become the galaxies new taste sensation!","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Really gory, really FUNNY comedy from the wacky Peter Jackson. This movie was made with friends with a camcorder for $250,000 but was released! Thank god!!! See It, Love it! "},{"Title":"No that's not","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Joh Bjelke petersen on the cover. Nor is it an alien peanut, although apparently the visual fx/costumer design was inspired by both.This is a great movie. Its everything a video nasty fan will love. It has action, silliness, blood, aliens, guns, Kiwis, and an assorted array of weirdos, in other words more Kiwis. It has anti government jokes and a big fat spaceship that looks like something that is usually shot into toilets. This is Peter Lord of the Rings Jackson's first film. If you loved the irreverent humor that he brought to those fantasy films (the type of humor the books lacked), you'll warm to seeing where it came from. This movie started it all. It was shot on his parents farm.This is a cult classic and for good reason. "},{"Title":"Peter jackson takes the world by storm on only $600!!!","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If the story is true... (And I am quite sure it probably is given the time the film was made and a lot of favors he called in) - This was a seriously low budget flick...Peter Jacksons first major film is reputed to have only cost $600 in his native New Zealand.And is it good??? Its DAMN BRILLIANT!It is just totally over the top... Totally insane... Overacted, overstated, and totally unforgettable!Its a film that has to be seen to be believed... REALLY!Some fun facts!The aliens heads are flat on top as Jackson's mothers oven was too small to fit the masks in properly and squashed the material.The film WON the first prize in the 1987 Gore Awards...As for memories... My sister is a massive horror fan - She was watching films I could not stomach back when we first saw this... A Nightmare on Elm Street scared me witless but she raved over it...So imagine how funny it must have been for me to not only sit there laughing but eating a Massive meal (4 Chicken pies, 2 fried eggs and a full tin of Sausages and Beans all washed own with a few beers) while my sister was HEAVING!!!I have so many good memories of this film... Yes its dumb! Yes its effects are OH GOD SO DATED even by the 1980's standards, yes the film has a completely nonsensical plot! BUT THAT IS WHAT MAKES IT SO GREAT!!!! YOU HAVE TO SEE THIS FILM! REALLY!!! "},{"Title":"Be aware that this movie is for schlock fans only","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am simply astounded by the 9 and 10 star reviews for this movie. Surely, we all have our own opinions and tastes, but are we really putting this movie on a par with Halloween, Elm Street, Frankenstein? What scale are these people really using to judge movies?I first came to Peter Jackson's work through The Frighteners, which I actually saw in a theater. I am a big fan of that movie as well as Jackson's work in Dead Alive, both of which I'd consider to be among the Top 100 horror movies of all time. So, this opinion is not coming from someone who is simply not a fan of Jackson's earlier work, or from someone expecting LOTR.I, also, watch hundreds of low budget horror films, so do not disregard this opinion as that of someone who has been tainted by big budget Hollywood horror because, in general, I do not prefer the big budget films, but tend to lean more towards indie and underground horror.All that said because I know the lovers of this film are just going to discount my opinion, but so be it. I used to make movies with friends when I was a teenager and we'd show them to our friends for fun. This movie is not much better than any of those were and they were NOT GOOD. The only positive going for this movie is a good level of copious gore and fun splatter. There are certainly plenty of moments of candy- colored blood and guts galore, which does have a certain charm. They aren't enough to save this movie, though, which I barely made it through.I've been trying to come up with some verbose way to explain this movie, but in reality it boils down to STUPID. This movie is stupid. Plenty of reviews will talk to you of the humor, but it's just not there. It's not broad humor. It's not sophomoric humor. It's just dumb humor. The kind of gags that the people making this movie probably thought were hilarious, yet failed to bring even a slight chuckle out of me. If you feel that driving a car with Beatles cut-outs in the window is laugh out loud, then you may find humor. The rest of you will just roll your eyes.There is no plot, no acting, nothing that actually makes this movie worth its' reputation. Can I credit for imagination? Sure, but there are plenty of people on Kickstarter right now with plenty of imagination and that won't make their movies any more watchable than this one is.If you like Troma films, then this movie is probably right up your alley. For those of us looking for something a little more cinematic in our horror, don't be tempted by the underground rep of this movie. You will be sorely disappointed. "},{"Title":"Makes a mockery of so many genres... all in Bad Taste.","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really liked this movie, it started slow but once it got going it was really enjoyable and sickening at the same time. There is an ungodly amount of blood in this movie, but, in a comical fashion (you have to watch it to understand what I mean by that). But, what I liked most about it was how it mocked Horror, Police/Swat Dramas but still managed to have a good story, bizarre as all hell, but still a very unique interesting story.The only bad thing about the movie imo was the initial slow pace... once you get about 20 minutes into it things really start to get interesting.It's one of those movies where you will love it, or hate it.I loved it. "},{"Title":"Not gonna gloss anything over in the review....","Date":"10 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tough film to review here! Bad Taste is essentially Peter Jackson learning the ropes and experimenting with practically zero cash. The result is a gory and sometimes funny mess. He polished this formula up for 'Dead Alive', and 'Dead Alive' definitely shows a progression both in Jackson's talent, and his pocketbook(although DA had a small budget too).You can see Jackson's influences. Direction similar to early Romero, and Gore that reminds me of some of the late 70's/early 80's gore-fests. The gore here is in heavy doses, and it is probably the strongest characteristic of this film - along with what he achieved overall given the restrictions with the budget and cast. He learned from the best... Other influences were surely make-up masterminds like Tom Savini and Rick Baker.You have to be in the right mindset to enjoy this movie. I've seen it three times. The first time was years ago and I didn't enjoy the film at all. Years later, after realizing that you don't have to take everything so serious, and that horror films can be as funny as they are scary - I gave it another whirl. I laughed on a few occasions and my interest was sparked but not glued. The third time I concentrated more on Jackson's technique and the little nuances that make this film more of a lesson in film-making than an enjoyable 90 minutes.My conclusion. Bad Taste is a film to be appreciated by horror/comedy fans, and fans of making film - because it's essentially someone just like you making their first backyard movie. The only difference is the effort and the near flawless shots of gore and tension that can only be achieved at the hands of someone who is A.Talented, B.Meticulous, and C.An Obvious Film-Buff. He was paying attention to how Romero achieved tension with his close-ups and sound,... and the editing here, for what it is, is amazing. The plot is a dose of Comedy, horror, and sci-fi. Bad Taste is a bitter-sweet, low-budget gore-fest with humor to boot.All that said - most people will NOT enjoy this movie. If you just love gore.. or film-making.... or the Evil Dead Series... or find yourself in love with Cult Classics like Toxic Avenger Etc... then sure, you might like it. Otherwise, skip this one because many Cult-Classics like this have extremely inflated scores here on IMDb. That's because 90% of the small number of reviewers have seen it 90 times, and that 90% is rating this a 10. It's no 10!... It's not even close!... it's exactly what I said it was. "},{"Title":"The World as Hamburger","Date":"8 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometimes, if we are lucky, a film plants itself deep in our souls and thrives there. Other times, a film is something different an invitation to a party in the world of the filmmaker. In that case, it cannot touch you and as long as you know there is no danger the experience is a matter of how much fun the people around you are having. You are likely to think this is a juvenile waste of everybody's time. But I found it strangely enjoyable. It is not fun in the sense that you can join in. But you do get to admire the fact that for several months, these guys had a blast in figuring out and performing the stunt- jokes. Why this works for me that this fellow made two films (so far) that mattered to me King Kong and Forgotten Silver. I can see the imagination of those here, separated from the demands of narrative and professional production. There's some really clever stuff here and some very cheaply done effects that work rather well.And there is a very, very clever Sergeant Pepper reference! Can't go wrong with that. Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"sloppy and disgusting and all over the place, even for early PJ","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a farce of a high order, but not a very well directed one. Bad Taste has it's fans- perhaps many who look at it as being a not-very-good film and enjoy it that way- and more power to them. It's a raucous display of Jackson's skills, even as an amateur, at special effects. He would be all about this for the rest of his career (I'd try to think of one film he's made that doesn't have some kind of f/x work but all do, even documentary Forgotten Silver), and it's here we see it in full SPLAT mode, from green-yogurt food for aliens to brains made of seafood to those WTF aliens in the last section of the movie. It's clear, for what it's worth too, that Jackson and his buddies had fun making it.Yet it's not one of Jackson's best, by far. We see a director do a very stupid (if at all there) story of alien hunters, like a proto-low-budget Men In Black, go after these aliens in disguise as humans on Earth plotting to make fast-food out of people ala Soylent Green with drive-through, and it's a story not done at all convincingly. In fact, I could've used just a wee-bit more exposition; it's unclear that the aliens are even after the people as food until half way through the movie. To be fair, Jackson and his actors go through a lot of crazy action to compensate and keep the reels moving, but it's all just... sloppy. It's akin to looking at Quentin Tarantino's pre-debut, My Best Friend's Birthday, which is interesting inasmuch as a look at the director's personal film-school, that this is how he taught himself how to make movies. And, indeed, the film (if one considers it shot in sequence) gets better when the aliens finally reveal themselves, and we see Jackson improve as the minutes go on in terms of camera-work and storytelling.As it stands, it might be a hoot with a bunch of friends and a six-pack of beer- and certainly, unless is already knowing of the gal's own 'taste' first, don't show it to your grandmother. But it's far from the cult-classic status worthy of Jackon's other early films Meet the Feebles and Dead-Alive. It's fascinating amateur-hour. "}{"Title":"Simply hilarious !","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I reckon this must be the best movie Peter Jackson did till now. Well of course there's LOTR and King Kong, which are a different class altogether, but Bad Taste is absolutely hilarious, mindless, unthinkable gore fest that nothing even comes close to.I've to admit, the first time I saw this movie, I was left wondering what just happened. How is it even possible to come up with a script like this ? There's something wrong with the authors ) Then I watched it again and I laughed plenty. Then saw it with some friends and beers - that's when I actually started truly enjoying the movie.It's a jewel flick, if you enjoy mindless gore-fest, and absurd humor - then you will love this.10/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Entertaining, interesting and original.Peter Jackson is amazing. He has made some cult classics in the past and Bad Taste is possibly the pinnacle of his early endeavors.I would give this movie 10 stars, except for the fact that the movie doesn't cover any important issues...except for alien invasion. Not all movies need to tackle say..racism, bigotry, aids, genocide, discrimination but if this movie did, it would be a perfect work of art acceptable for hanging in the Louvre thus garnishing it a 10.I kid you not, you might look at the DVD cover and say What a piece of crap this appears to be and you would be completely wrong. So very wrong. 1) The movie had a super low budget but it fools you into thinking it doesn't. Peter Jackson made the film at his parents home in New Zealand. He got his buddies to act in he film and he also played a couple of roles himself. I remember watching a short documentary at the end of the movie, it showed just how much effort he put into making his cheap independent movie appear like a high budget, Hollywood blockbuster of its time. He made all the firearms out of pipes and wood to the point where they look and function (to a point) like real guns. He make the masks and costumes himself, using his mothers stove to bake the plaster and plastic. Watch the movie and see the special effects yourself. Everything in it was concocted with ingenuity and duct tape.2) The movie was funny. Great dialogue and outrageous but believable characters. **************Spoilers******************There is one scene where an alien shoots a rocket launcher at the house. He misses his target and if goes through the front window and out a rear window. You see a goat grazing in a field and it looks up and lets out a ba'aaaaa right before the rocket eradicates it. My friend and I kept on rewinding the scene laughing our heads off. It doesn't sound like much when I type it but it was super funny. That scene right there earned at least 1 star for this movie.****************End of spoilers*****************3) - Originality. Can anybody say Solent Green? The concept is similar but....just watch. - The visuals are good and I would expect nothing less from New Zealand. - Camera shots are very professional I seriously could write for hours about this movie but I prefer to complain about movies rather then praise them.Check this one out. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Why it's good","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I very recently viewed Bad Taste. The only thing that drew me to this, like many people, was the fact that it is Peter Jacksons first feature film, and I'm a fan of him not even from the Lord of the Rings trilogy, but from King Kong.You have probably heard a lot about how Bad Taste is amazing, but i'm here to set the record straight, in my mind anyway.The fact is it is good for certain things. This certainly doesn't rank among the best films ever made, but as far as low budget horror films go, I'd imagine this is one of the best. At first, after near-puking, I thought this movie is just disgusting, then I realized that was the point of it. But still, thats not what I find appealing about it.I'm an aspiring film director, and I've got a friend Australia writing a screenplay for me, so this movie is inspiration for me, because of the way it is made. It took Peter Jackson four years to make this film, the reason being he could only shoot on weekends, and his friends that were helping him weren't as dedicated as he was. It was done on an extremely low budget, but despite the current going against him, it got to some film festivals, was released in a good number of theatres, and won him fame and an eventual Academy Award. So, for everyone, this is a imaginative film, that shows if you know how, and you have the means, to make a movie, there is a way, no matter how long it will take "},{"Title":"It might be in Bad Taste, but I love this movie","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Four men known as the Boys, gets called into a quiet New Zealad fishing town to investigate reports of a UFO, only to run into malevolent zombie-like murderous townspeople. What follows is a gore-drenched real GUY's movie. The great Peter Jackson got his start writing and directing his own movies, with this amazing b- movie independent zombie/ alien gore comedy. And while it doesn't exactly hit the same stunning heights as his later zombie gore comedy Baindead (which in my mind is one of the best horror comedies EVER), it's still highly watchable and fun for fans of these type of movies. I'm amazed at what Jackson accomplished on such a small budget. This one comes highly recommended by me, folks.My Grade A- 2-disc Limited Edition (mine is number 05879 out of 50,000) DVD Extras Good Taste Made Bad Taste featurette; Peter Jackson biography; and Theatrical trailer Random Notes The cover of the DVD case is holographic "},{"Title":"Just as gory as I anticipated.","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, all I have left to see from Peter Jackson's filmography is the LOTR trilogy. To be honest I am not all that interested in seeing it.What to say about Bad Taste. One of the most unusual movies I have ever seen. Not really what I thought the film would be like, I have to say. Jackson makes excellent use of New Zealand locations as the backdrop for a gang of aliens who have landed on Earth to slaughter humans for fast food.The gore level was quite high. Maybe not quite as bad as Dead Alive, but it certainly was up there. Lots of spurting blood, intestines and brain matter to be seen. Jackson's role as Derek was priceless, as he spent the latter part of the movie trying to keep his brains from oozing out the back of his head, using whatever he can find to keep things in place.All in all this was a great laugh. The aliens were pretty solid, especially Doug Wren as the alien leader. The gore was satisfactory, and as I said Peter Jackson pretty much steals the show. Check out his car as well, it's a riot.Rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The WORST movie I've ever watched part way...","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I got maybe 20 minutes into this thing - it was too boring for words. Yes the special effects (a'la Brain Dead) are a hoot, and seriously funny - but most of it is just so lame lame lame. I guess guns are illegal in New Zelant or something - as you don't even see muzzle flashes when they shoot off the 'alien's' body parts and stuff. Oh by the way - the 'aliens' are just guys pretending to be zombies - man it is just sad. It's like, worse than Jackass quality here - at least they wear costumes in their skits! When your production quality is lower than Jackass, where do you go from there? I guess, maybe an old VHS camera taking pictures of fat women on toilets? This movie even manages to make New Zeland look UGLY! And it's such a beautiful country - Xena, Hercules, and the Lord Of The Rings series were filmed there. It is unbelievable that this movie comes from the same guy who did 'rings'. It's just so terrible! I could literally do better myself with a cheapie cam and some friends - no problem. Maybe I should start making movies then ) In 20 years, I guess I'll be good enough to make something fancy like 'rings' and stuff. I got some ideas you know! D OK so if you wanna' get real bored, and see how lame a movie can be - no budget, slow, lame lame lame, rent this and get wasted or something and maybe it'll be entertaining. Since I don't drink or smoke or any of that jazz, a movie's gotta be halfway decent to entertain me - sorry ( This just doesn't cut it. "},{"Title":"Laughable movie","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The acting, is terrible. The plot, is ridiculous. There's nothing special about the special effects (except for how overly terrible they are) and overall this movie is rubbish, awful, a real piece of trash; however, it's all in good fun, and therefore it's technical flaws are forgivable.In hindsight, it's unbelievable that the director of this movie, and the man that won 11 Academy awards at the 2003 Oscar ceremony are the same man, but in a way that adds to the charm of this movie. Bad Taste was never meant to be a 'good' film in the way that we know good films; all Bad Taste sets out to do is be funny and entertaining; and it succeeds.The plot of Bad Taste revolves around some aliens that have carved up an entire town in order to use the meat in their fast food chain. A government agency, known as AIDS is then sent out to investigate. That's pretty much the whole plot. When the movie isn't focusing on it's plot (approximately 89 minutes of it's 92 minute running time), it spends it's time basically just giving gorehounds what they want - plenty of melee battles between humans and aliens, including sequences involving brain eating, chainsaw dismemberment (you have got to give a movie that utilises a chainsaw respect), plenty of shooting and one vomit inducing scene involving someone...eating vomit (That scene is best not watched while eating).Bad Taste features several absurd and yet brilliantly funny scenes that will get the laughs; such as one in particular in which a rocket misses it's target by a whisker and ends up blowing a sheep up instead. There isn't a great deal of hilarity that will split your sides in the movie, as Jackson seems to have relied more on the totally stupid plot and alien effects to get laughs as opposed to having scenes which are there for that purpose, which does work as the plot is worth a few laughs on its own.Overall, Bad Taste is a forgettable movie that should not top anyone's must see list. However, if you do get the chance to watch Bad Taste, you would be wasting your time; but time wasting doesn't get much better than this. We can only hope that Peter Jackson will one day return to the horror genre&#133; "},{"Title":"It's all in good taste.....","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **** stars out of ****.Bad taste is a gore gem from Lord of the rings director Peter Jackson (Who also stars on it!). Aliens land somewhere in New Zealand. The Boys (a group of British soldiers) are called in to destroy them. What follows is a fun, innovative horror/explotation film, with top-notch gore F/X (for it's budget), likeable characters (I love Derek! he's my idol!),a fast pace, and it's all just so gory and unpredictable you can't help but to be drawn in! a BRILLIANTLY fun splatter-fest! See it! "},{"Title":"'Bad Taste' is a hell of a lot of fun! Possibly the most entertaining low budget horror comedy ever made.","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I usually have a real problem with movies that mix horror and comedy but for some reason I really enjoyed 'Bad Taste'. The movie is obviously influenced by Sam Raimi's zombie movies but in my mind this is a much more entertaining mix of silly, slapstick humour and in-you-face gore than either 'Evil Dead 2' or 'Army Of Darkness'. Peter Jackson, now one of the most successful film directors in the world, made this over a period of about four years, with a Super 8 camera, some home made special effects and a bunch of his mates. On top of that Jackson himself plays two roles Derek and Robert, and even fights himself in one memorable scene! This is a really stupid film but I couldn't help but laugh. As I said, normally I hate this kind of movie and they usually bore me after fifteen minutes or so, but 'Bad Taste' had me hooked right up until the end. A very funny and inventive surreal sci fi romp that is quite possibly the most entertaining low budget horror comedy ever made. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Cult Classic!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just last night rented, watched and fell in love with this movie! Hilarious, gory, low budget, foreign, poorly dubbed--all the making of a great cult classic...Long live Derek! Here I come you B*****ds!9 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Cheap, sloppy, amateur-like movie, without a story.","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What's the deal about people always loving this no-budget, amateurish horror-flicks so much. Movies like Undead, Feast and this one always get highly praised, like it's the most awesome movie ever made, while in fact they are nothing more than some sloppy, cheap made movies that are lacking at about every department. Sure, it's a real accomplishment from the film-makers, considering the resources they had at hands but this really doesn't make these any good movies to watch.And that goes for this movie more than any different one really. This movie got literally made with no budget and just got shot by Peter Jackson and a couple of his friends, during their free time. It's the reason why it took them many years to finally complete this movie. But that can't really be seen back in the end result. It's a movie that got shot without a script, without a storyboard or without any regard for cinematography or anything of that sort. They just shot away and then very sloppily put things together during the editing process. The 'story' doesn't progress very naturally and the one moment it's being very slow, with needless dialog, then it turns into a zombie and then later on it becomes a shooter and even a science-fiction movie. No, this is far from a consistent or well done movie.But of course this movie deserves some credit as well. Next to the fact that this movie was a real great accomplishment to finish, from Peter Jackson and his Kiwi friends but the movie also does some things very well. They obviously were some special-effects and make-up freaks, so this movie shows off plenty of times with its nice looking gore and also great looking alien costumes. But really, this was all that made this movie still a bit interesting to watch, for me.The story or any of its characters are just never good enough to get you involved with anything that is happening in this movie. It doesn't help much that never gets explained or really developed and the movie can get all real crazy and all over the place. It's often made all the worse by some lame comedy attempts. This seems to be the only way these type of movies can get away with things; having some good humor. Unfortunately this movie really hasn't got any. It doesn't mean though that the movie is not quite pleasant and entertaining to watch at times. It helps to make the movie only slightly watchable though but it really doesn't make this a great must-see movie.Obviously Peter Jackson's later work improved over the years, so we can only thank movie like this for that. In that regard this movie was perhaps not being a bad test-case for him and it's also a good thing that he never gave up. he just kept on making the movies that he liked, until he eventually got noticed more and more and therefor got better material to work with and more money to spend on it. I'll bet he is still proud of this movie and thankful for the entire experience.Far too lacking, cheap looking and random to really regard and like this at all as a good movie.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Peter Jackson's delightfully demented debut.","Date":"26 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was one of the lucky few who caught Bad Taste on the big screen way back in the late 80s, and I absolutely loved it; but I never guessed that its director, Peter Jackson, would ever find fame, fortune and acceptance from mainstream cinema-goers&#x97;his style was for cult movie audiences only, or so I thought (mind you, I made the same mistake with a certain Mr. Raimi too).Last night I watched the film again for the first time in years, and now, with hindsight, I can see how blinkered I was the subject matter might be a million miles away from his recent mega-budget efforts, and the presentation a tad rough around the edges, but Bad Taste displays enough ingenuity, style and undeniable raw talent from the director that his future success should have been glaringly obvious, even to a naive young gore-hound like me.The film sees a small paramilitary force&#x97;the Astro Investigation and Defense Service (AIDS)&#x97;sent to investigate the disappearance of the entire population of the New Zealand coastal town of Kaihoro; there, they discover that extraterrestrials, led by intergalactic fast food magnate Lord Crumb, have butchered the locals and packed them in boxes for immediate export. Armed with a range of automatic weapons, the boys from AIDS&#x97;Derek (Peter Jackson), Frank (Mike Minett), Ozzy (Terry Potter), and Barry (Pete O'Herne)&#x97;set out to ruin Crumb's plans to launch human flesh as the new taste experience for his customers.Made on a minuscule budget over a four year period by an enthusiastic Jackson and like-minded friends, Bad Taste is a wonderful, wacky splatter-fest that successfully mixes daft slapstick humour with outrageous violence so cartoonish in style that its impossible to take offence at. Inevitably, the film suffers from some glaring continuity errors, terrible acting, and the occasional technical gaff, but the final film is so entertaining that it's easy to be forgiving about such trifling details.Despite this being his first feature film, Jackson's handling of his material is both assured and very effective he employs lots of creative camera-work&#x97;hand-held dolly shots, severe close ups and extreme angles&#x97;the likes of which he still utilises in his work today and which go to give his movies that distinctive Jackson vibe; he also does a great job with the editing (which ensures that film never drags and that the narrative flows properly) and was even responsible for the film's many make-up effects (he baked the rubber alien masks in his mother's oven!).Even if outrageous, low budget, low-brow horror isn't your thing (and it's your loss if it isn't), such invention, dedication and determination has got to be admired. "},{"Title":"Forget Lord of the Rings, THIS is Jackson's Masterpiece","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've never been a fan of Peter Jackson's epic films The Lord of the Rings and King Kong. I just don't enjoy the breathtaking visuals and the whole epic feeling. This low budget gore film is the perfect movie for me and I wish Jackson would go back to his roots and make more of these! It truly is a masterpiece in my book. A masterpiece of cheesy lines and low budget gore, but a masterpiece nonetheless.I have to mention the gore first. It is brilliant!!! There's nothing less you can possibly say about. Peter Jackson basically budgeted this out of his own pocket and the gore is better than any major Hollywood release film I've ever seen.The story is silly but awesome. Aliens come to earth with the intention of using humans for their new ingredient for their intergalactic fast food chain. Awesome, right? I thought so too. The actors are awesome especially considering that they were just Jackson's friends hanging out and making a movie together. This movie is a great accomplishment in film and it has inspired me to get off my ass and make a no budget film with my friends.You need to see this movie as soon as possible. Literally everyone should see it at some point in their life. It's amazing! "},{"Title":"The Best Sci-Fi Ever made!","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a hugely Enormous Peter Jackson Fan and this film is amazing. Its Unbelievable that he made this at home with his Friends. I am so mad about this film. People who slate this film must be punished for it is a classic brilliant Horror Comic Epic, I just Love it so much. People must see it, The Gore, The Humour and everything about is just about amazing. No Sci-Fi Horror can defat it. Basically its about evil man-eating aliens invading New Zealand. The Story mostly focuses of Derek (Peter Jackson) and well I can't believe how awesome this movie this is. No one is allowed to dislike this, If so they will be slaughtered!. I Love this, You should too. Follow me one and all to the Bad Taste Craze because I am Crazy!, Wahahahahahahaha! "},{"Title":"Good but not as good as his masterpiece","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Peter Jackson's first film.Bad Taste is a pretty funny horror movie. It isn't on par with his one great masterpiece, Dead Alive, but is still very good. This film definitely has enough funny moments to make it interesting. It is not a very scary movie but is rather gory. If you loved Dead Alive, you will probably like Bad Taste. My only disappointment was the chain saw. I thought it should have been used more. When I first saw Jackson pick up the chain saw, I had visions of the hilarious scenes in Dead Alive of Lionel killing the zombies with the lawnmower, but we didn't get much chainsaw action.I give this movie 7 out of 10. The only shoestring budget horror movie that I like better is the original Evil Dead. It is funny though that both Sam Raimi and Peter Jackson sold out at around the same time.  "},{"Title":"A few cans of lager and a bunch of good mates will make this film even better!","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is where it all started for Peter Jackson, and you can see from this film, why he went on to achieve great things......!!!!!!This film is soooooooooo OTT that it hurts, and the film works because of this. The laughs come from the really cheesy acting, the ludicrous storyline, and the good/bad SFX. Credit must be given for Jackson's use of SFX, gore, blood, etc. He can do this effectively, and on a very small budget.The cast are, to me, unknown, and when I first realised that Jackson himself appears in the film as Derek, I was shocked.This film is only ever going to be good, if your in the right mood for it all. So, what I suggest is that you buy a 24pack of lager, round up a few mates, and just get drunk whilst watching this film - it's great entertainment value for that alone!!!!Well done to Jackson who showed people that a small budget doesn't always have to result in a small film. Look at James Cameron's Terminator? Mind you, it's unfair to compare the two!!!!So, heed my advice about lager and mates, you'll thank me. And if they start beating you with wooden spoons, then don't blame me!! 8/10Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Terrible, Distasteful Movie","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Being a B-Movie enthusiast (and having bought this for 2 dollars) I was intrigued by the cover and plot synopsis, ready for something so bad it's great. The problem is this movie is one of those so bad I never want to see it again kinds of movies. The acting fell into the category of stupid, but not good enough to just look like bad acting. For me, the plot was a little hard to follow.Although most of the gore looked really fake, it was distastefully disgusting at times... it was TOO much. It seemed as though the creators really wanted to make something scary, but only ended up making something that leaves the viewer cringing at times.The one thing I really like is the vehicle they drive around; very unique! This seems to be one of those movies that you find a masterpiece or a disaster, and I lean towards the disaster side for this one. It's probably best to watch and figure for yourself. "},{"Title":"the film that changed my life ;)","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is awesome, I cant explain what i feel when I'm watching this movie or thinking about it. I'm from Argentina and I watched this film for the first time in my life when I was 6 years old, I loved it. Then I watched it when I was 15 and I was still in love with this sh*t. Finally I saw this 3 years ago (I'm 21 now)and I couldn't believe what I was watching. Now I'm trying to buy this film but here in my country its very hard to find. Well, if you like comedies , gore and blood....please watch this master piece....but be careful...it can change the way you think about movies. I LOVE IT!!! it deserves a 1000/10. "},{"Title":"Should have watched this as a teen","Date":"11 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Holy cow this movie was fun to watch, I've seen a lot of movies in my time and this one was one of the best if not the best low budget independent movies I've seen. Peter Jackson has made the best movie he could with the budget and all the other restraints, its actually inspiring to me as a small time film maker and I wish I had watched it when I was a teenager, I was put off by the freaky cover and R rating even though I was watching films like that a lot back then, but was really worth checking it out. Getting really into Jacksons earlier films at the moment, this one is my favorite.All in all ide say you really need a strong stomach to watch this(even stronger for 'braindead' AKA 'dead alive') and its very funny too, every drop of blood there's a laugh. check it out. "},{"Title":"So cheap looking, yet very fun to watch!","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well what do you make of it? Who'd a thought the director of this film was Peter Jackson? Don't worry, those are just rhetorical questions. This film was one of Jackson's finest firsts. What genre? That genre would be 'Tacky melt-movie'. They're the kinda films that're violently cheap looking, and are gross....oh, but funny at the same time. Admittedly, this film from Peter Jackson is fun and humorous. I first seen it back in 2006. I loved it when I seen it because of the humour and laughable grossness. Peter Jackson is mainly known, else entirely known for being the director of the Lord of the Rings, the Hobbit and King Kong. He also directed The Frighteners too, which is a little different. But hey, all-in-all, this start off film (alongside Braindead) from Peter Jackson is tremendously entertaining and humorously fun to watch. It's violent, stupid and tacky, but overall, kinda fan. You don't get many crazy-comedy, melt horrors like this, so that's why you should appreciate this low-budget melter. It's unbelievably crude and gross, but hey, it's a start. It gave him a start, this little work of his. "}{"Title":"VERY VERY gory and somewhat amusing","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A group of aliens wipe out a small New Zealand town and use the people for food. They plan to fly back to their planet and return to take over the world. However a group of New Zealand government operatives arrive to stop them.Peter Jackson (who went on to do the Lord of the Ring movies) second film. It took four years to complete and the plot was made up as they went along (it shows). This film is full of real over the top violence with blood and body parts flying every which way. It's so overdone it's impossible to take seriously. Also when you see what the aliens look like at the end it's purposely silly. There's also plenty of sick humor and amusing lines here and there. Usually I like this type of movie but this was just OK. I didn't find it particularly funny and the nonstop gore got tiresome. Still I give Jackson and his crew credit for making this on such a low budget. He got much better with his next film Meet the Feebles and really hit his stride with Dead Alive. This was just a dry run for those. Not terrible but not good. I can only give it a 6. "},{"Title":"A mixed bag","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bad Taste (1987) This was another re-watch.I have only seen ghis once before, that was about 6 years ago.I didn't remember much about it, I thought there was very good, had decent gory moments in this movie, which I thought really good, for is first half .The effects were really good, very decent and really fum to watch, I did think that the movie, would have been more funny, then it was. I did laugh a few times.Some of the other stuff. I Just felt, it was silly and not funny. It dose seem a little outdated.It's as not aged well at all, the acting, Well it's not great but it not bad, let's just say, it's suits the movie.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Until Jackson's follow-up 'Brain Dead', this may have been the goriest film ever made.","Date":"22 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love 'Bad Taste'. I love that the film was made for about $20 and that the cast consists of Peter Jackson's mates. It's also so enjoyable because it demonstrates how talented a filmmaker Jackson is. For example, there is a scene near the beginning of the film where Derek (Peter Jackson) fights with some alien invaders on a cliff side, it is hilariously gory and feels so very dangerous; through sheer talent (and a massive amount of bravery!), the crew achieves a tangible sense of acrophobia.In 'Bad Taste', Earth is under threat from alien invaders who are endeavouring to fill a culinary gap in their intergalactic fast-food market &#x96; the demand for tasty human flesh. The malicious extra- terrestrials don't arouse suspicion as they assume human appearances.Before the Astro Investigation and Defence Service (AIDS) arrive, the malevolent visitors have already wiped out the entire town of Kaihoro, New Zealand. This elite team is comprised of Derek (Peter Jackson), a rather odd Kiwi with an insatiable bloodlust, Barry (Pete O'Hearn), a man who will use his .44 Magnum only when necessary and Frank (Mike Minett), Giles (Craig Smith) and Ozzy (Terry Potter), a trio of muscle car driving tough guys.Jackson's early films have a real talent for choreographing slapstick gore, there are heads being blown off, brains being eaten, arms being torn off, severed heads being drop kicked, seagulls being head butted, entire bodies being chain sawed and even sheep being detonated. The film is utterly drenched in an outrageous amount of viscera; however it is all of the slapstick variety with a strong Commonwealth lacing of black humour.Though the film is by no means a performance film, there is a certain charm about the cast's inexperience. Also, Peter Jackson is hilarious as the absurd, demented Derek, whose horrible shrill laugh and personal motto 'I'm a Derek, Dereks don't run!' are particularly memorable.The filming locations, such as the aforementioned cliff side, are all of outstanding natural beauty; 'Bad Taste' is as much an advertisement for the country as Jackson's later work would be.As we all know, Jackson has since gone downhill, directing the poxy 'Lord of the Rings' and 'The Hobbit' trilogies &#x96; what a shame. However, he has recently expressed interest in making another horror film; I just hope he sticks to his roots with a shoestring budget and an immeasurable amount of corn syrup and gore.www.hawkensian.com "},{"Title":"Funny, witty and playfully violent - but not to everyone's taste","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are not too many movies with limited budget producing good outcome, especially if sci-fi is involved as one has to provide resources for camera tricks. As for Bad Taste, this movie was made for less than 30,000 USD - but it took years to complete it. The plot is peculiar and main characters is uncommon mixture of zombies and aliens. The ending is witty and distinctive - and all this is years before when Tarantino or Rodriguez began their famous mishmashes.The cast is totally amateur - Jackson's friends and acquaintances - but in a good sense, giving an interesting purity and fun. As for Jackson himself, he showed himself as talented actor, he could be used more in this function as well (later he has appeared only in cameo roles). In short, an interesting and already a cult movie, recommended to all fans of horror alien movies, but preferably no eating during watching! ) "},{"Title":"One of the most memorable treats!","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love Peter Jackson for his bizarre creativity. Bad Taste, Braindead, Meet the Feebles are all bizarre in their own way. As I love splatsticks, I worship 'Bad Taste' for the position it holds in the world of splatter cinema. Peter Jackson has a strange way of using gore. His gory sequences are seldom disturbing and overuse of fake blood makes the gore look like a comedic device, which should be laughed and laughed upon for eternity! So what's the story about 'Bad Taste'? This is a typical B-film but is slicker and more tongue-in-cheek than any of the films that fall into the category of extreme cinema. Jackson's tales never let the viewer lose interest in his films. Perhaps Jackson is such an artist who can make murder look like plain humor! Considering the limitations Jackson faced both financially and technically during the filming of 'Bad Taste', the film looks as great as Taj Mahal to me.The tale is fairly simple at heart. The Astro Investigation Defense Service sends 4 men Ozzy (Terry Potter), Derek (Peter Jackson), Barry (Pete O'Herne) and Frank (Mike Minett) to a town 'Kaihoro' (Food-town in Maori?) to discover the reason behind unexplained disappearances of the townspeople. The men find blood splattered everywhere with no trace of the townsfolk. The place looks like an abattoir, as Barry tells Derek on his radio.The men soon come to know that the town is plagued with zombies, who will kill anything that comes their way. Detailed findings lead the men to the whereabouts of the zombies where they have all gathered for a meet. The meet is hosted by their chief Lord Crumb (Doug Wren). The men come to know that Lord Crumb and his zombie force are actually extraterrestrial beings in the guise of humans and have plans of harvesting human meat for their own intergalactic food franchise. So the dead townsfolk are now in the boxes, ready for the alien consumption! The men also find Giles (Craig Smith), a donation collector in a drum, soaked in spices and free him. Watching for the right time to strike, they all take positions and open fire at the dawn. Causing heavy casualties, the men force Lord Crumb to retreat in his home-faced-UFO. However, Derek has plans of his own that are more sinister than Lord Crumb could have ever imagined.The film as you can see is based on hyper-imagination. Jackson however makes this work. 'Bad Taste' has great comedy scenes and an appealing atmosphere. Thanks to Jackson's hometown Pukerua Bay and the New Zealand lush belt, where this flick was shot. These locations add good atmosphere in the film and shaky camera work at places makes the viewer dizzy. Over-the-top splatter plays a special role here and gives enough reality to the film. So if you're a kind of person who loves to puke on the nasty, give this a try. I am sure you won't be disappointed, and don't forget to watch Peter Jackson's evil twin Robert! "},{"Title":"Super size me","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yeah, I know. Scores of Millions of dollars is OK too, but why would Peter Jackson insist on doing what he's been doing over the last decade, when he obviously found his calling in life as director of the goriest, craziest, and most outrageous splatter flicks available? And the man only made two of them, yet made a lasting, not to mention an influential impression. Before 1992's Dead Alive (still the goriest film in existence), Jackson would shoot on video, what has to be the greatest sci-fi-gore-comedy in the history of New Zealand. This is Bad Taste.It's what I've always said. There just ain't enough micro-budgeted, sci-comedy with lots and lots of gore. As sweet as the gore is, it really does take a backseat to the comic genius this film offers. Bad Taste is about an alien fast-food franchise who recently decided that human flesh would be a good choice for their menu. Cheap, convenient, not bad. After decimating the entire town of Kaihoro, in New Zealand, the Astro- Investigation and Defense Service is called in to exterminate these guys, who can take the form of humans at will. These eager beavers are ready to blow a hole in anything that moves, so if any actual humans get killed in the process, what the hell? These guys ain't too bright, and they're probably half-crazy, but they totally mean well, with trying to save the world and whatnot.Wanna know something funny? After at least 2 or 3 viewings of this film, something really peculiar occurred to me. There isn't one female to be found in Bad Taste. While it isn't a large cast to begin with, and I'm not really sure what purpose a woman would serve in a sci-fi gore-comedy, I just think it's peculiar. And no. None of this is relevant. But, anyway. What a happy day it will be when, I mean if Peter Jackson decides to return to his gory roots one more time. Since he's already done the alien thing, and not to mention the living dead masterpiece that is Dead Alive, perhaps Jackson should make a disgustingly gory Vampire flick. Or maybe he should just keep making big-budget kids movies. Yeah. That sounds about right. Something tells me Peter Jackson's days as director of films like Bad Taste and other awsomeness are long gone. Whatever. Plenty of other cult Horror filmmakers out there, doin' their thing. But there was a time, not that long ago that your beloved Lord Of The Rings guy was out there doing some amazing stuff in the underground. Once again, Dead Alive would be the best example of this theory, but Bad Taste is nothing short of amazing in its own right. That doesn't necessarily mean you should then go rush off and buy Meet The Feebles as well. That's another story for another day. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Splatterfest Flick, Jackson's Greatest Hit!!!","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't care what anybody says about this flick but I think this is Peter Jackson's best work.After watching Meet the Feebles nearly seven years ago, as a kid I was always edging to watch Bad Taste and I was seriously expecting this to be cheap and stupid but instead I got more than what i asked for.This film for the 80's has top notch gore, funny-ass scenes, impossible situations and non stop horrific/comedic action. I always wanted to see this film as a kid and now, I'm glad that I did.The Alien look is very creative and I also love the switch between music themes, first we had creepy adventures, and very wondrous tones of what's gonna happen next and then, we had old rocking, action packed style of play. It was all very creative.Along with Meet the Feebles, (which the trailer say has no taste at all lol) to and for me this was the next level of a Peter Jackson film and it's absolutely funny and creepy at it's best.Even if I didn't find this scary on any levels and I do think that this film has an insane way of telling it's story. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Peter Jackson's first film is amateur and badly made, but it's definitely a lot of fun","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Peter Jackson is one of the most creative mainstream filmmakers working today, and I do not think that a lot of people will disagree with me here. His imagination and his earnest desire to conjure up fanatic, and sometimes insanely chaotic, images has always been strong. None of his work is lacking in energy, but perhaps his most interesting films, in my opinion, are his first four. Bad Taste is perhaps his most curiously unusual. It's obvious that he pulled this picture off with little to no money, and he's obviously talented when it comes to visuals. This relatively plot-less film is pretty much just about aliens who have taken over the earth and are eating human beings as part of an extraterrestrial fast-food relocation program. The film is pretty much just about how the few survivors do battle with the aliens and what kinds of crazy things happen in their fight. There are more colorful characters than I can even remember, but there's also a lot of bloodshed. This gory, over-the-top, tasteless film throws in everything but the kitchen sink in it's abundant display of mayhem, flesh eating, and exploding body parts. It's utterly surprising to me that this film was not released by Troma, because it'd make a perfect double feature with The Toxic Avenger. Bad Taste is insanely disgusting, but also very campy. What normally passes for undisciplined action films of the 80s has instead been given a rather retro downgrade by this film. It is reminiscent of an Ed Wood film, but obviously more self-aware. The only thing that Bad Taste lacks is a heart, but I doubt that fans of the film will really care.Bad Taste is the kind of film that I wish to god that I could have seen when I was younger. This is a juvenile film that has no fears or limits to it's depraved content. People who have an interest in film-making will be overjoyed by this film's brilliant use of it's budget limitations. This is one of the best films a wannabe filmmaker could watch. It's creative, cheap, effective, and very satisfying. The problem with it, however, is that as a film in general it's really not all that good. I wouldn't even say that it's as good as The Toxic Avenger, though it's certainly loads better than most Troma films out there especially considering such utter tripe as Maniac Nurses Find Ecstasy and Zombie Island Massacre. The main thing that Bad Taste delivers on, above all else, is the gore. If you're looking for a revoltingly gory film, this is one of the slickest you'll find. A lot of it's humor comes from the gore as well, and it's all in as much bad taste as the title of the film implies. This film succeeds in being what it's trying to be, and Peter Jackson must be applauded for that. The film works better when you view it as a master filmmaker's student film, however, because Bad Taste does not offer much else besides gross out humor, visual effects, and good make-up. The film just is not all that memorable. None of the characters were interesting or funny and none of them had traits that made them stick out. The film looks like utter crap, shot obviously on the most passable restraints. The film does not make good enough use of it's New Zealand location shooting, though the scenery does look absolutely beautiful. The aliens all look so fake and rubber that it's almost completely embarrassing. This is a really bad film.On the other hand, however, I can't help but feel that all of this is what makes this so appealing. In that regard, the best way to watch this film would be with a group of friends. It would likely be a lot more entertaining and would be a lot funnier in that environment. With a film like this, or The Rocky Horror Picture Show, or Clerks, or Pink Flamingos, judging it as a film is not fair. It's more about quantity than quality, and viewing it as you would any other film will simply diminish it's power. Putting all this aside, I think that there are far better films out there that are more worth watching than other people. One thing is for sure though, it is definitely one of the more disgusting films of it's kind. Peter Jackson later went on to improve his craft with films like Braindead, but the inspiration that was garnered from this film has been excellent. I'm thankful that this film went on to inspire better, more exhilarating films. Besides, just because I can't tolerate this film's stupidity doesn't mean than everyone else will be left in the dust. That's why I wish that I saw this film as a youngster. I'd at least be able to like it in the fact that it would hold a special place in my heart. As it is, however, it's more a film that is a piece of history to me. "},{"Title":"Awesome cult classic!","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Things seem strange in a small New Zealand town as the population has disappeared without a trace, it seems hungry alien creatures disguised as us have been killing people and turning them into meat so they can use them for their intergalactic fast-food franchise. So the local government hires a group of bumbling agents like Derek (Peter Jackson), Ozzie (Terry Potter), Barry (Peter O'Herne) and Frank (Mike Minette) come to the rescue as they must save the human race from the space invaders.Absolutely hilarious and gory Sci-fi action horror comedy from New Zealand's beloved director Peter Jackson is a riot from beginning to end! this movie is a remarkable debut to the proud and mighty filmmaker long before making the epic Lord of the Rings trilogy. The film has a very warped but funny sense of humor with scenes of extreme violence that may upset some stomaches. Yes the performances are bad but what else can you expect from a b-movie? it has the feel of both Troma and the infamous Herschell Gordon Lewis.The film does have explosions, mutilation, alien vomit eating, exploding heads, gunfire, chainsaws, a cringe-worthy torture scene, beheadings and everything but the kitchen sink.A must see if you have the stomach and humor for it. "},{"Title":"Bad Taste Eventually it Just Feels Tired and Boring","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bad Taste, the feature debut of Peter Jackson, is a truly stupefying and bizarre viewing experience for all of us who have come to know the director for The Lord of the Rings Trilogy. It is fascinating to consider that the man who brought the fantasy epic to our screens could have started out with this low-budget, down and dirty, proudly ridiculous comedy.The film features the story of four alien hunter friends working together to stop an extraterrestrial invasion of their rural New Zealand town from harvesting humans for an intergalactic fast food chain. I sat down with the movie looking for a good laugh and some glorified violence, which it seemed to promise.In fairness to Bad Taste, it did deliver, but it also disappointed. It seemed to me that every instance of true brilliant humour was countered by a puerile and almost petulant one. People slip in poo, and fall over fences. Don't get me wrong, these things are funny, but mostly when they're subtle. The overacted arms-thrown-wide-grabbing-at-fence-posts- and-falling-for-hours feels as long and dull as the preceding series of dashes. And it's done way too often. Jackson seems determined to put every joke into his film at least three times. And eventually it just feels tired and boring. Sure, the film has its moments of (woolly) genius, and is wonderfully and decadently brutal, but I for one could not overcome the painful reiterations of the same overused comic media. It's a shame, cos I really really wanted to love this movie.Though it gets the laughs, and will not disappoint on the gore front, too many of Bad Taste's jokes feel forced and familiar. Not without appeal besides this, if only just to see how far a director can come. "}{"Title":"Very good, one of the best genre pieces I've seen in a while & I had a blast!","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this film, a government hit squad is sent to wipe out cannibalistic, mindless aliens that hide their deformities behind human skin, however the mission won't be as easy as the boys hope, as the aliens prove they can fight back just as good as the hero's, soon an all out war breaks out filled with vomit, green slime, aliens with large behinds shedding their skin, human brains popping out, & every bit of violent bloodshed you could imagine, coupled with machine gun wars & well just about everything. BAD TASTE is a film I have wanted to see ever since I was a kid, I seen the box art & fell immediately in love with it, however my mother said no. Just recently I was able to secure a copy & was eager to see it, especially how everyone was telling me what a wild, crazy & very fun movie it was & after seeing the film I tend to agree, this movie is great! The gore is disgusting, the acting well handled & director PETER JACKSON really impressed me with his wild & crazy story. Highly recommended to all genre fans, you have neither lived nor breathed until you have seen this classic!**** stars "},{"Title":"Twisted nostalgic trip through my life","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From perhaps the age of 5 much of my time was taken up creating fantasy worlds with all sorts of weird and wonderful creatures. Much of this stemmed from my fascination with creature special effects, animatronics, along with models and other fantasy beings, after seeing films or programs on TV such as Star Wars, Star Trek, Dinosaurs, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, Labyrinth, Willow, Time Bandits, and a little later The Thing. I claimed I'd become a model or creature maker for movies. I'm not, but that's not important. I'm young yet, and may still pursue that one of many dreams.A few years later I discovered Fangoria magazine and would gleefully thumb the pages in a large Scottish department store. I got quite a fright once when a friend found me in my own little world of fake blood and gore.At only 8 I visited New Zealand with my mother and happened to find myself in the capital's futurist Te Papa museum, at her suggestion. At that time was an exhibition dedicated to Peter Jackson's backyard ingenuity in making his early comedy horror films. It even had the documentary of the making of Bad Taste, including his mother talking about him using the oven to bake his latex alien masks. I was so enraptured by the arousing disgustingness around me. Amazingly my mother happily left me alone, along with many other kids, in the frankly shocking scenes of the exhibition, including many bloodied props from Braindead. I went on to chase them through a maze of mirrors. It's an obscure memory I hope to never lose, but one that tells a lot about children's acceptance of things.It was over a decade until I saw the featured films. For Braindead I waited until I was able to see the original uncut version on Britain's glorious Channel 4. I eventually managed to download Bad Taste (sorry Peter Jackson) from eMule to share the greatest of New Zealand with my friends. I often brought them weird offering to watch together, matched with a smooth spliff and beers for the others.Suffice to say I was not disappointed! What we have in Jackson's early vision is undoubtedly the greatest marriage of comedy and horror in the history of cinema. It's that likely ancient way of accepting the utter ugliness of much of existence, by humourising it. Perhaps even accepting these extremes are merely variants of the same great experience.My friends didn't think quite so highly of this particular film, but it was a fun night no less. I recognise the numerous reasons for scoring this movie poorly that others here note. I guess it's my lifelong love affair with both New Zealand and all things twisted that make me rate this film so highly.Looking back on both the museum exhibition and movies, it appears Kiwis are quite comfortable embracing these themes in daily life. Despite regularly being considered the most upstanding of the colonies, there is an often easy acceptance of the dirty aspects of existence here.I knew it was only a matter of time until Peter Jackson would become a superstar. So far he's retained his integrity in my mind. Top class! "},{"Title":"Great Taste","Date":"10 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Peter Jackson's debut slasher-splatter flick is a fun alien-zombie horror spoof comedy. It's clearly made at a very low budget but that does not intrude with the film's impact. The cast and crew seem to have had a blast during the making but at the same time they also seem serious enough to make an entertaining flick. Jackson's camera-work, makeup, special effects, direction definitely show the promise of a great filmmaker (a reputation he has earned now with 'The Lord Of The Rings' trilogy). He's not a bad actor either. I found his Derek character hilarious. The rest of the actors are adequate. The acting may be over the top (like everythign else in the movie) but it's all in synch with the intention of the story and part of the fun. The New Zealand landscape is refreshing and the gloomy atmosphere brings out a sense of isolation and doom. Blood, gore, intestines, brains, vomit etc are plentiful in 'Bad Taste'. Those who like macabre humour would very likely enjoy this one. I actually loved it. "},{"Title":"Bad Taste, Good Times!","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bad Taste proves that no matter how small a budget a movie might have, as long as it's made with heart it will show in the finished product. I have no doubt that Peter Jackson and his mates had a blast making this alien killing gore fest. The plot is simple and to the point. Aliens land on Earth, like the taste of human flesh, and begin to franchise the product to an outer space fast-food chain. That's where the boys come in. The A.I.D.S. are a group of four loony kiwis that are sent to dispatch the lot of them in the most awesomely grotesque ways imaginable. The gore is so over-the-top that even the most squeamish person can't possibly take it seriously. On second thought, maybe they can. None the less this also happens to be a very amusing film as well. The humor meshes with the extreme violence and provides the same tongue-in-cheek storytelling that is prevalent in Army of Darkness. Despite of the budget there is some very good special effects such as the house that doubles as a spaceship and the end result of a magnum round to the head. This is the very epitome of B-movie gold that never got the attention it deserved when it was released in the late eighties. This is a must see for any fan of Peter Jackson's earlier and much naughtier works. "},{"Title":"A feat among feats.","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kudos to Peter Jackson for this triumphant example of film-making on a dime! This project took a few years to complete, and was the brainchild of a bunch of inexperienced guys who just wanted to make a movie for fun.The first time I saw this movie, my sides actually hurt afterward from laughing so much. The action sequences are absolutely brilliant and unequaled in anything this low-budget that I've ever seen. The storyline isn't exactly up my alley. It's a little too sci-fi for me, but it's still categorized as a zombie flick, in my opinion.The gore is ridiculous and there are a few scenes that will make your stomach turn. The best thing about this movie is the humor and the directing, both of which are amazing. Recommended for all you super cool LOTR fans who think his recent work is his best. Learn something.8 out of 10, kids. "},{"Title":"Mr.King Kong's first (B) Movie ^^","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" NO WAY! NO WAY! Peter Jackson have a very, great, amazing BAD TASTE! It's his first film, but his geniality is yet here! A fabulous demential-horror-splatter! The thing more incredible I've seen in my life! Bad Taste for Direction, Bad Taste for Recitation, Bad Taste for story, screenplay, songs and FX! This is the perfect B-MOVIE! When I saw this movie, I've thought Why Peter Jackson doesn't return from his origins? You can image what Peter LOTR Jackson could do for the horror NOW? Mr Jackson has demonstrated his longing for horror genre when he has directed King Kong, and in some scene of Lord of The Rings, too. I remember the Bad Taste sheep's scene like one of the most exhilarating example of black-humor! (not in racial term, XD) If there was Bruce Campbell, Bad Taste would be the best B-Movie of all times, I think. ;) "},{"Title":"Jackson's debut is fresh and hilarious, though not for everyone","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie when it reached my country, a few years after it was made, maybe it was 1990. Peter Jackson was an unknown then, but I was attracted by the ads Winner of Garbage Movie Festival. The reviews in the papers were unanimously bad Atrocious, Why they made films like this? And yet, I find this movie about alien fast food entrepreneurs invading a small town in New Zealand in order to start an invasion to Earth that will harvest humanity into burgers fresh and hilarious. Peter Jackson (who directed it, write it, did the special effects and makeup, etc.) acts in two roles here as one of the members of the government team send to defeat the aliens and as one of the meaner extraterrestrials. The movie is gross out alright, but the gore is so inventive and over the top that it's kind of hilarious. The old bald guy playing the chief of the aliens is a riot. I don't know whether Jackson has make a better film after this (maybe his great version of King Kong), but the freshness of this remains unsurpassed. "},{"Title":"'' MUMMY'' This is Derek, the scardy crazy massacre!","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ha ha! I watched this on you tube and it was the best splatter i have ever seen. God peter Jackson is bloody young in this comedy. Its got everything, vomit eating, eating brains with spoon, fat alien asses, New Zealend chainsaw massacre, fat aliens, exploding sheep, human flesh, a nerd ( sorry, peter ) and a head full of brains. Mummy!!! was a funny line when he falls down a cliff and burst his brains out. Like braindead, it is gory but i say braindead is better with bloody sex and a mutant baby. Ozzy is a show off. Barly or Baily ( i don't know ) is a strong fast fatty. Derek is a funny dork that loves to kill those aliens. The only thing i want to know, they say there's a bad taste 2 and 3 but i cant see it anywhere. I love human flesh and i wised i got that human burger off the aliens, its nice. The bastards have landed is another funny line. I will give this a 10 out of 10 because i love Pete's films and this is too gory and funny. Hail Derek! "},{"Title":"Non-Stop Fury!","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When they told me this was filmed over several months when Pete and his buddies could scrounge up a little free time...I didn't believe it. And I'm still having trouble with that fact.Yes, this is THAT good.A literally slam-bang film that just seemed to never slow down. Crossed between a violent action, OTT horror, and low-budget culty film with a dash of dry wit. The mixture works.Obviously the dialogue was not meant to be the strong point so Jackson makes up for it by piling on the grue. And the little bit that WAS said was just the bare necessity. And the Blacker than night humor, (A belt holding brains in???) fit the mood entirely. The lack of women and kids made it easier to enjoy. And did anyone notice the quick sheep humor?This and Meet The Feebles were Jacksons original greats. Now the man has an Oscar. A brilliant mind. "},{"Title":"Heaps of fun and an accomplished debut for Jackson","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Peter Jackson's blood and viscera soaked debut is a cult classic across the globe and is technically inept and amateur in performance. However, it is a classic underdog film - in fifteen years, Jackson went from this to Oscar glory. The film surrounds a group of covert government agents investigating an alien invasion in a New Zealand country town. The aliens take on a humanoid form, doubtlessly a way of limiting the time and money spent on extravagant special effects (the aliens only appear in extraterrestrial form at the end). In the first few minutes, one of the agents shoots an alien in the head in a spectacular show of why the Magnum is the most powerful handgun in the world while another (the hilariously dopey Derek) is on a cliff top with a captured alien who he proceeds to torture with a hammer and machete. When aliens get the better of him and he falls of the cliff, Derek finds his brains (and I mean that in a literal sense) and, with his compatriots, begin a full-scale attack on the aliens. Cue some amazingly gory (yet surprisingly simple) effects - graphic shootings, stabbings, implementors, decapitations and disembowlments are showcased in spectacular form. While not as gory (nor as comic) as Jackson's horror opus BRAINDEAD this is nevertheless highly entertaining and, like other early schlock horror masterpieces such as Herschell Gordon Lewis' THE GORE GORE GIRLS and Raimi's THE EVIL DEAD, displays some great style. This comes highly recommended and is a must have for any gore-horror fan. It even comes with an exploding sheep. "}{"Title":"While not as outrageous or quickly paced as either Dead Alive or Meet the Feebles, Bad Taste is probably my personal favorite from Jackson's first period of film-makin","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I usually despise horror-comedies, in particular the Scream and Return of the Living Dead films. Both of those series I enjoyed when I was about thirteen, but later viewings reveal them to be juvenile. Even worse, the blending of humor and horror often offsets each other. The horror-comedies I enjoy are the ones that make no attempts at being scary but still pile on the gore. The films of Peter Jackson are perfect examples. While not as outrageous or quickly paced as either Dead Alive or Meet the Feebles, Bad Taste is probably my personal favorite from his first period of film-making. Something about the raw and unpolished feel I find quite charming, not to mention inspiring. Jackson obviously had to work with a very low budget but he makes the most of it. Most of the cast doubles as the crew. We unfortunately lost him to Hollywood, where he made the overrated and obnoxious Lord of the Rings trilogy and the decent but pointless remake of King Kong.When Bad Taste was released, it immediately became a cult classic and its easy to see why. It reminds one of some efforts by Troma, but is much better than anything produced by that abyssal studio. The gross-out sequences and gore are hard to find offensive, because they're so obviously fake and over-the-top. This is what Jackson was aiming for and he succeeded. The acting is also ludicrous and poor by any normal standards, but adds to the feel of the film and makes it all the more hilarious. Jackson himself gets the most memorable role as the insane alien exterminator Derik. The most impressive aspect of the film is the makeup for the aliens, which is actually quite impressive. The various running gags (the brains falling out of Derik's head, the Sgt. Peppers truck) are great. Bad Taste is never as manic as Dead Alive, but is a much more charming and likable film. One of my favorites. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Peter Jackson is a genius!! A highly recommended splatter comedy","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After seeing Braindead and loving every minute of it, I finally got around to seeing his first feature film, Bad Taste (uncut). I knew what I was getting into and knowing that, I loved it. It was funny, sickening and truly demented. One scene in particular had me feeling particularly sick (by now, everyone should know, if not, it involves lots of vomit). The movie has a pretty insane plot, a great score, hilarious dialogue and gut-wrenching special effects.Aliens are invading New Zealand and a special team of four men have been called in to defeat them. As they go about their quest they learn that the Alien's want to use our flesh for their fast-food restaurant chain. What follows is an all out massacre.I recommend this movie to anyone who is a fan of low-budget cult films, Peter Jackson, comedies or splatter-fests.4/5. "},{"Title":"May contain upsetting material","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Whom ever asked if we had heard of Peter Jackson before LOTR, is a freaking moron since this is his first film. It's like asking if anyone knows what Wes Craven's first movie was(any takers...?). Bad taste was made as it appears. A low budget movie by a guy nobody knew, then BLAM!!! Instant cult classic. I first saw this flick within a year of it's release(on VHS) and have remembered it since. I love it! If you don't enjoy this movie, than you're probably a 3rd class alien and upset because your kind suck. Live short and keep on sucking. If you look at the original cover, it says a lot. This movie rocks. The fact that P.J. played two parts(after knowing he made this), I had no idea until after watching it again after all these years. It was a small start, but look at him now. Only now, this movie is becoming sought after. The plot, the FX, everything about this is original for the time it was made. So, watcher be warned, enjoy the humor, the gore and everything else and see it for what it is. If you don't like it, I'm not sorry. "},{"Title":"Great (for the budget range), imaginative cult film","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The do-it-all-yourself 16mm sci-fi/horror cult hit that put Peter Jackson on the map is basically a super-low-budget outing designed to showcase some incredibly disgusting special effects (we see brains oozing out of a blown-apart head during the opening sequence). There's definitely some ingenuity at work here and it's an imaginative, spirited first feature for Jackson, warts and all. Filmed on weekends over a four-year period of time and personally financed by Jackson himself, BAD TASTE started life as a 10-minute short called ROAST OF THE DEAD, which was later expanded into a feature with some help from the New Zealand Film Commission.Dimwitted members of The Astro Investigation Defense Service are busy at work counteracting an extraterrestrial takeover in a small coastal New Zealand town, laying waste to dozens of human-looking cannibalistic space invaders in just about every gruesome way imaginable. The aliens themselves, who pass around a bowl of vomit to feast on during a meeting, are on Earth solely to stock up on human flesh for the intergalactic fast food franchise Crumb's Country Delights, run by master alien Lord Crumb (Doug Wren).Even though the highly irritating characters detract somewhat from the overall effect and the dialogue scenes (which supposedly had to be recorded a second time when the original sound tapes disappeared) can be somewhat grueling at times, they're basically around to link up one gory set piece to another. And gore this movie delivers on in a big way. Moving along at a fairly brisk pace, Jackson serves up about a thousand individual bullet hits, slashed throats, impalements, chainsaw-chewings, brain-matter, intestines, decapitations, severed limbs, bodies ripped into two, blood-squirting heads and much more. The special effects are pretty great, and right when the overkill starts to become extremely monotonous, the film redeems itself yet again when the aliens lose their human disguises, the defense squad get their hands on a rocket launcher and a chainsaw and the house the alien's have been hiding out in turns out to be giant spaceship. Jackson himself has a dual role; as squad member Derek, who stumbles around the majority of the movie with his brains plopping out of the back of his head, and as Robert, an alien butcher.The Anchor Bay DVD is a huge step in ensuring the cult following of the film makes it through several more generations of horror fans. They've made 16mm look and sound about as good as it conceivably can. Released in two version; the first has a trailer and a Jackson bio and a Special Edition version contains a second disc with a 25 minute documentary on the production. "},{"Title":"This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen, EVER!","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I would not categorize this as a horror film, but as an unimaginably gory comedy. Three jokes in particular just cracked me up. I won't give anything away, but you'll know them when you see them Birds where all he ever identified with, the little hammer and that poor, poor sheep. Also the violence is very tongue in cheek as these supposed government agents slaughter these violent, zombie-like people. It is extremely gory but the gore is so very way up and over the top that it is hammer funny in your face (plus they do look pretty fake most of the time, which help the comedy). I was laughing at every disemboweling. Bad Taste shows a tremendous amount of wit and talent. It's easy to see why it propelled the start of Peter Jackson's career. "},{"Title":"A movie for real men!","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Minor spoilers*All you really need is a job, spare time, creative imagination, good friends and a positive attitude that will last you 4 years. And also, it does help if you have a twisted fetish for blood, brains and E.T's disguised as humans. Then maybe the final result will end up in something described by many viewers as; The worst sack of movie in a lifetime or the more clingy version; Bad Taste makes American Beauty look like old garbage even though I'm exaggerating 7% on that last statement. The opinions however are many and divers. Whatever your opinion may be, one must give a huge amount of glorified respect to Peter Jackson for pulling of all the more intense scenes (the head-open scene, the alien masks etc.) having in mind his unspeakable budget, and further more respect to him for not giving up on this long-lasting project.I for one love this movie. I've seen it way too many times. I have as well introduced this movie to a medium range of people. Unfortunately the general saying amongst them were that it was not their biscuit with lemonade. The reason for the dislike may be because of all the gore they probably see as unnecessary, all their paranoid hate against aliens or the fact that somebody thinks the cast manipulated Peter Jackson to puke in a bowl. But on a serious note, people who only have laid their eyes on the LOTR-movies would probably not expect this type of movie from him, hence all the negative critique. However it is a special genre that many people tend to hate because of it's sick humor. Claiming that this is the worst movie in history would only serve as an ignorant statement and very little depth in independent movie-making. At least, that is my opinion.In other terms; do you enjoy cruelty against a flock of seagulls, Beatles, fake Uzi sounds, pimped up vehicles, the idea that all the extraterrestrial psychopaths wears the same clothing, a spaceship disguised as an old homestead, edible puke or Peter Jackson spoon-feeding himself with brain - this is the movie for you! If not, I would steer away and watch something more mainstream. "},{"Title":"Perfect Putrid Hilarity","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I myself could not believe this was homemade. This is the movie that proved to me that Peter Jackson is a genius. It by far had the most unique plot I've ever seen and it made watching brains and guts and gore funny. But people seem to be put off by the acting and you know what...LIGHTEN UP PEOPLE!!! He pulled off something like this with a shoestring budget, With a couple buddies on the weekends and it still made it to some theaters. All you stuck up adult like people need to learn to laugh at stupid things sometimes. If you laugh at a cartoon it doesn't mean your immature, it just means you like to have fun. I'd totally recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good gore comedy, aliens, fast food, and Peter Jackson. ***** out of *****. "},{"Title":"If only Peter Jackson would make movies like this again.","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This has to be one of my favorite low budget flicks of all time. Not only was it shot over four years with a budget of only $11,000, it's goddamn hilarious to boot.The premise is simple, vomit eating aliens come to New Zealnd to make humans into intergalactic fast food. Throw in an elite government investigation group, a sleazy collections agent and more splatter than you can shake a stick at, and presto! you've got Bad Taste.Other low budget film makers should take a page from Peter Jackson's book; if you don't have much cash, make it yourself by getting creative. The film also doesn't suffer from endless padding and although the actors are strictly amateur they do get the job done. This movie proves that budget films can be entertaining and well done even if rough around the edges. "},{"Title":"Best of the Bad","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Peter Jackson's cult hit, this is to b-budget movies what Lord of the Rings was to Hollywood blockbusters. Jackson made this film with his friends and family when he was a nobody in the business. The acting is bad, the effects are low-budget, the story is nonsensical - but everything works! The basic plot is that an elite squad investigates the disappearance of a village's population. Aliens have landed on Earth and our heroes must combat them.This is when the shenanigans start. Derek (played by Jackson) and his team go through some of the grossest and most hilarious experiences in sci-fi movie history. Almost every scene is funny and the film is filled with classic one-liners.If you like movies that cost $5 to make and not $50 million, this is the one for you. A classic! "},{"Title":"amazing film","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" this is the greatest film in the world i can watch it loads of times and still laugh, u must see this film if u do not u have missed out many capers such as Derek's DNA run a alien getting crucified on his foot and lord crumb. i will not lie 2 u this film is not for the faint hearted there will be blood loads of it brains and all together in the film i counted who die's 87 aliens 1 sheep 2 seagulls yes even 2 seagulls plus starring and directing the film is peter Jackson this was his first ever film four! years 2 make so 4 2 years sake SEE THIS FILMThe film took nearly 4 years to make, the crew (made up of jackson's friends) working over weekends and holidays to get it completed. The crew had to put up with a very limited budget. The majority of the money came from peter jacksons job at the local paper. Originally the movie was recorded on 16mm film, which was blown up to 35 mm for the final cinematic version. The film is a testament to what can be done with a small budget and a lot of dedication. The film has special effects that were simply constructed (the knife through the head was just made out of card and had a tube in it that squirted out fake blood!) An interesting scene to see is when peter wrestles with himself on the cliff face, a very dangerous shot to shoot peter has said.The video was quite hard to get hold of for a while, but has recently been re-released in the us, so get your copy today! "}{"Title":"The movie, which gave us Peter Jackson","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It would be easy to take a quick glance on Bad Taste and say Hmm, what a dreadful little film, how could someone made something as bad as this is? That would come solely from the settings of the film It has very simple plot, bad acting and it's bloody as hell, one could say it's even overly expressive on what comes to blood and guts. But thats the point each joke on the film is designed to make you laugh and puke at the same time, or at least that's how I gathered it.Plot is quite simple A special ops is sent in a small village to locate and find out about possible threat caused by aliens, who in fact are here to gather some ingredients for their fast food restaurants (This ingredient being human flesh) This is as good excuse as any to start bloody and gory rescue operation of local fund collector, who is taken prisoner by the before hand mentioned aliens. So there.So, Bad Taste is the first feature film made by later Oscar winner Peter Jackson. I had seen this movie before I saw, or even had heard, that Peter Jackson was in the plans of doing LOTR films, and I liked it, I really, really liked. It's crude and amateurish, but still it has more style than more bigger budgeted Hollywood films. It even has some pretty neat visual effects, camera drives and above all very creative and good looking make up effects. This film wouldn't work without themNow, I am not gonna lie and claim this is the best horror/splatter/comedy film ever made but it is one of the funniest and one of the best depute movies. But don't just take my word on it, check it out yourself, then decide, but please try and watch whole flick, don't give up, unless you start feeling too nauseated that is. "},{"Title":"Peter Jacksons first and best movie!!?","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I fist saw this movie on a copy of a copy... of a copy imported to Sweden where it had been banned in the cinema. It is an absolutely must see for anyone who digs the combination of comedy and a healthy dose of brain matter. Maybe Chaplin is the king of slapstick but this is not far behind and since it is sometimes difficult to hear what they say it is the visual comedy that stays in your memory. Jacksons later movie Braindead is also an excellent blood-dripping comedy, Meet the Feebles is an excellent adult version of The Muppets, Lord of the Ring was however to a large extent a disappointment.Rent and enjoy Bad Taste today!! "},{"Title":"Gory and Fun","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" i just bought this movie on DVD and after reading a lot of positive buzz about it, I'm very happy i bought it. I got the last copy my local suncoast had and I'm very happy that i got it. This movie is not to be taken seriously, its a fun movie full of blood and guts. The acting can be sloppy and sometimes u don't know wat they're saying but all and all a fun horror movie. Of course this little gem is not for everybody. I have a strong stomach but some parts made me look away. It does have its splatter moments but its not as gory as Dead Alive. Ultimately its a fun movie and will please the gore hounds out there that are looking for a fun horror movie, 9/10 "},{"Title":"Impressive but poorly structured.","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think that Peter Jackson is a genius. For what he had at his disposal for this movie i applaud him more here than i would for his Lord Of The Rings trilogy. I first watched Bad Taste back in 1990 and thought to myself this is pretty cool but now i think it's still cool but god it's boring. I think the first half an hour is the best but after that it drags a lot and the gun battle near the end lasts far too long. Like i said in the summary line, it's poorly structured but i guess that's because it took 4 years to film. The gore is at times really disgusting and at times just comical but that just adds to the flavour of this little classic. The story is ok but having took little bits off other works like 'V' it isn't too original. This has to be watched at least once but i take my hat off to an amateur director with little money and getting a bunch of mates together and producing something that seems very professional. I doubt any of the big named hollywood directors could have done half as good as this with what Peter Jackson had to work with. Braindead is definitely better than this but still watch this at all costs. 6/10 "},{"Title":"The perfect plot","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of it's own original - the cult movie Bad Taste from 1987, the masterpiece from Peter Jackson will live forever. By laughing all the time, mixing comedy with a little sense of horror this movie just makes it all the way to the heart of each viewer who choose to see it. I can only wish to see pieces like this still being produced today - since this one is totally original and it shows that you can do a good movie without having a superb Hollywoodstyle budget. I just love this, and a good laugh is always good as I bet all who experience Bad Taste will laugh as well with me. There's just a lot of cool scenes, nice actions, funny things happening all the time and there's no room of chilled pace - full on action wicked adventure! Bad Taste forever! "},{"Title":"Bizarre Gore Fest Classic!","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a bizarre gore fest classic, that i enjoyed very much!. Yes the acting is horrendously bad, however the effects were quite good, and there was lots of the bizarre stuff, plus,i loved the makeup on all the aliens!. It's extremely cheap, and some of the set pieces were bad however it was very entertaining, even if it didn't have much of a story. The Characters were all cool, even if the acting was bad, and the ending is one of the funniest and goriest i have ever seen. I highly suggest you see this film if your a big Peter Jackson Fan!. The Direction is very good. Peter Jackson does a very good job here, on a virtually no budget, decent camera shots, and angles, and did a good job, plus he kept the film at a fast pace. This is one of the goriest films ever made. We get lots of extremely gory gunshot wounds to the head with blood and brains spurting ,blood, guts and brains all over the place,a knife is hammered into a foot slowly, with blood spurting,sliced open stomach, with guts spilling out,machete in the head,TONS of extremely gory gunshot wounds,sledge hammer to the head, with blood and brains spurting ,body is cut in half by a car,arm is ripped off,weird transformations,extremely graphic fall victim with blood and brains all over the place,guys eats someone's brains,someone is completely dismembered with a chainsaw,ripped off head,machete in the throat,head is split into two halves,exploding sheep,guy is constantly putting his brains back in throughout the film,vomit eating and not to mention one of the goriest endings you will ever see (Extremely extremely extremely extremely messy). The Acting is terrible. Peter Jackson is fun to watch, but an actor he is not, he cracked me up especially as Derek. Terry Potter,Pete O'Herne,Craig Smith,Mike Minett are all terrible but also fun to watch. Overall a must see for everyone! **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Peter Jackson Draws First Blood","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before Peter Jackson became a Hollywood heavy-hitter with the Lord of the Rings trilogy, he was making small budget cult craziness in New Zealand.  His first feature was Bad Taste, a sci-fi horror spoof.  In it, aliens take over the town of Kaihoro, with plans to turn humans into fast food. (Charles Fort once implied that Earth was a farm, and humanity was the crop.  Peter Jackson seems to have run with the idea!) This movie is filled with extremely cheap special effects (this was years before Jackson started working with WETA!) and over-the-top gore and grossness.  The title Bad Taste is certainly appropriate!  You could call it Plan 9 From Outer Space meets The Texas Chainsaw Massacre.  Bad Taste isn't for everybody, but if you have a taste for Jackson's old splatstick style, go ahead and check it out! "},{"Title":"One of the best cult films ever!!!","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Man, where do you even start with a film like this? Bad Taste is seriously one of the BEST movies ever! It's funny the way I found out about it, actually. I was at the video store, looking for, believe it or not, Dead Alive (another Peter Jackson film). While I was in the horror section, I happened across Bad Taste, and, seeing the cover of the alien flipping the bird, I figured at once that it had to be a cult classic. My mom thought the movie looked really dumb, but I insisted on renting it. It was pretty funny when I later found out that it actually WAS a Peter Jackson film, since I'd found it by accident. Anyway, I watched it and fell in love with it right away. I ended up buying it on DVD, and I've watched and re-watched it many times. It's one of those movies that just get better and better the more you see it. I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys gore, even in the slightest. A MUST SEE!!! "},{"Title":"Gore Fest!","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Those who can, do. Those who can't, teach. Same goes for Peter Jackson. Instead of making rather silly comments about how bad films are (let's face it, ANYONE can slam movies), he decided to make one!He, allegedly, got a an arts grant for a few thousand NZ dollars, and made this awesome, utterly blood thirsty alien invasion romp!With memorable characters like Barry, the sensible one who invariably, and literally at one pint, cleaning up after the others, Frank, cool headed leader but more worried about his car than the fate of mankind, Ozzy, the gun-nut who is obsessed with violence of any kind, and Derek (played by Peter Jackson!) who is the nerd/ conspiracy theorist with a penchant for torture.So many funny but gross bits to list, like Barry reassuring Derek that all they need do to get a blood sample from the aliens is for Barry to Wring out his strides, the vom drinking ceremony, Ozzy grinning evilly as Frank has to participate in the vom drinking, Frank shooting at a sniperin a tree and 8 snipers fall out and of course the now-legendary exploding sheep scene.If you find LOTR trilogy mediocre, then no film on this planet will tantalise your de-sensitised viewing taste buds...however, if you're a true movie fan and love your grue silly and cheesy, you'll love this! "},{"Title":"OK, but not so amazing","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had heard so many things about this movie. When I finally watched it, I was little bit disapointed. But nevertheless, if you like movies like this, you should see it. Also everybody who likes LoTR-movies should see this, to see what kind man Peter Jackson really is ) Movie contains some funny gore effects and some other disgusting things, also very muchfirefight. Problem is that there is too much air between of these things. Imo, The Movie isn't fun enough, at some points it tries to be too serious.So, what I liked best about this movie were all those disgusting things. Imo, it's too long for movie of this genre, and all the firefights start to get little bit boring. Well, it's worth to watch anyway.  "}{"Title":"Great effects, but in the end dull and overlong... sounds familiar?","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Long before Jackson made the crowd-pleasing, but mediocre Lord Of The Rings Trilogy (we know in a couple of hours if he's gonna win an oscar for the last), he made this little cult hit. The story is how a splatter movie should be idiotic. The effects are as they should as well gory. But for the rest? The movie starts off pretty well, but once everybody's in the house, and they start shooting, the fun is over for the most part. What's really lacking is a good sense of humor about it, it only had me laughing once (with the syncronize watches gag)... and that's not nearly enough for a movie that runs too long for it's own good. In fact, when you think about it, it has a lot of things in common with the beforementioned LOTR trilogy... great effects, but no substance of any importance, and dull and overlong when you thing about it... 4/10. "},{"Title":"Peter Jackson turn's bad taste into good taste!","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this proves that Peter Jackson is a genious.Whoever can come up with something this brilliant for their debut movie has to become part of the next big thing, which was ''Lord of the Rings''!The movie starts off with blood and violence (Brain matter, and blood) then goes into stomach churning grotuesqness (drinking vomit, and yet more bood and organs being splattered about).''Bad Taste'' isn't just for gore fans,but rather underground cult fans or just anyone who likes Peter Jackson.***** stars. "},{"Title":"Disappointing...","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Maybe my hopes were set too high for Bad Taste, due to having really enjoyedthe other Peter Jackson movies I've seen. Dead Alive/Braindead is easily one of  my top 5 favourite horror movies. Bad Taste, however, doesn't even come close  to that level of humour and excitement.Admittedly, the movie has a few good gags and fun effects sequences, buteverything else about it is just sort of mediocre and boring. The actors aremostly forgettable, except for Jackson himself, who camps it up in the film's two  best roles.And what's with the incessant gun fights? There's so much potential here to do  more, but instead Jackson settles for the mundane. Much of this probably has to  do with the movie's ultra-low budget, but perhaps that's a sign that the movie  should have simply been shorter rather than bore us with bad, long-winded fight  scenes. Finally, the movie is known for it's ridiculous gore, and in its best moments it  certainly does deliver. None of it is obviously meant to be taken seriously, and  here the low budget actually makes the effects even funnier. Nevertheless, for  an all-out crazy-fest, Dead Alive still has more to offer, and with more style at  that.Quite simply, this movie is just sort of average. Worth seeing if you're a Peter  Jackson fan, but don't expect too much. I also shouldn't ignore the fact that there  really are some good moments here and there. It would probably be hilariousunder the right conditions. "},{"Title":"Great gore comedy!","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you like Evil Dead or movies like House, you'll love Peter Jackson's earlier work like Bad Taste.  This movie is filled with ooze and pure silliness making for a fun popcorn munchin' experience.  If you want a serious movie with big name stars, check out Lord of the Rings - otherwise sit back and enjoy the show!! "},{"Title":"What Can I Say?","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cool as hell. Nuke The Lamb!!! Peter Jackson is a genius! well, okay, that's so obvious I'm almost ashamed for writing it, but screw it! ;)//Eve "},{"Title":"BAD TASTE is just plain bad dumb.","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yeah I know it's Peter Jackson, but do you really think that just because he did LORD OF THE RINGS, that everyone is supposed to worship the ground that he walks on?I don't think so., so I'm glad he outgrew these early films that look like something a second year film student could've shot.Sorry, but as much as I like gory horror, I'm really not into contrived black humor like this.  And the satire only comes across as looking forced. I don't think it's funny, I think it's just plain dumb.Ok, some of the gore scenes looked pretty cool, I'll grant ya that, while others looked like they slapped together some oatmeal and tissue paper and just filmed it as is.  Yeah I guess they couldn't afford to hire Tom Savini, so they had to make do with what they had.  Ok.And I have to admit that the ending scene where the house takes off (it's a disguised rocket ship) looks kinda cool, but the rest of it is just plain junk.  You want gross, watch STREET TRASH or some of the films Troma's released.  You'll find some really sick mo-fo's in those films.The Anchor Bay DVD doesn't have a lot of extras beyond a trailer and a short bio of Jackson.  There is a THX setup for those lucky enough to own a home theater that has this capability, but beyond that, that's about it.I'll give it a 4 out of 10 for an early and somewhat(?) imaginative amateurish effort.  "},{"Title":"CULT!","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bad Taste recieves a 10 from me cuz it's, equal to Braindead, one of Jacksons best! Not as gory as Braindead though, pretty obvious =), but it got a GREAT plot! Some aliens makes food, hamburgers, out of the civilians in a little town! OMG! =) Bad Taste also got one of the strangest character I've ever seen...you know the geek that splatters his brains when he falls from a mountain, and then he replaces the missing part of the brain with a BIRDS! LOL! He also needs a hat to keep his skull together! At the end of the movie he goes rampage with a chainsaw! HAHA! Get this movie NOW! "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you look at this film as being in the genre it is, it is truly a masterpiece.Think back to the halcyon days before Peter Jackson sold out to Hollywood and started doing rubbish like the Lord of the Rings, and you have the wonderful alien splatter film that the Bad Taste.The two followups -- Meet the Feebles & Brain Dead -- never did live up to this complete classic, much of the humour only fellow New Zealanders will appreciate.He's a Zombie ... well, he could just be ministry of works to paraphrase one of the classic in jokes.Great lines such as I'm a Derek, and Derek's don't run showed Jackson's mastering of dialogue and his oft ignored ability as a character actor, in what was a great low budget film like few others.Definitely one to see over and over again.The only real disappointment was the lack of extras on the DVD.  They must have been able to come up with *SOME* cool stuff, surely? "},{"Title":"A successful home-grown cult classic..","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bad Taste was made by New Zealander Peter Jackson on a very low budget. But that didnt stop it from becoming one of New Zealands highest grossing films made.The best thing about Bad Taste, is there are no well-known actors trying hard to impress us with there phone reactions, there are just guys having fun blowing s**t up.Bad Taste is funny, gorey, and a classic, a top ten film back in 1988, no wonder it is such a great film.  If you havent seen it, you have got to rent/buy it.I give this a 100/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent for the budget!!!","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this film when it was first released, loved it then and love it now!. Look for other Jackson early classics like Meet the Feebles and the great Braindead. It's no wonder that Jackson started with Bad Taste and is now workin on Lord of the rings. This can only but compliment Jacksons talent. "}{"Title":"Excellent early work by Lord of the Rings and Heavenly Creatures director.","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bad Taste is a small, b-picture that is both grotesque and hilarious. It's director, Peter Jackson, fills every role from editor to special effects designer to lead role.  The movie is phenomenol for it's achievements on such a shoestring budget and the fact that it's humor can be recycled for viewing after viewing.  Be sure to check out the scene of Derek's body being severed at the torso near the end of the movie.  "},{"Title":"One of the best independent movies of all time","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a great example of creativity overcoming lack of funds.  And it is proof that you don't have to have a million dollar budget to make a great film.  Peter Jackson is a genius and definitely has a sense of humor of my own ilk.The basic plot outline of this movie is, some kind of weirdo Aliens have come to Earth and eaten everyone in a small town.  Lord Crumb is planning to turn the earth in to a galactic fast food restaurant.  A cooky group of government agents attack the aliens military style to stop their plans.This movie has everything, including gut wrenching, stomache turning gore. On the special collector's edition DVD, Peter Jackson explains that for every drop of blood, there is a laugh.  And he definitely delivers.  This movie is far out, totally weird, and totally entertaining.  Jackson's style of direction is great, and there is something going on at all times.  Just watch for the scene where he plays both Derek, and Robert the retarded alien, and actually has a fight scene with himself.  Jet Li needed millions of dollars worth of special effects to do this in THE ONE and Jackson's fight scene is a lot more exciting.I loved this movie, and it is good to watch when you are in the mood for a no-holds-barred gore fest.  If you are looking for mutilations, partial decapitations, and Aliens being split in half with a chainsaw, brains spilling out everywhere, blood splattering all over the place, and extreme amounts of vomit, followed by people eating said vomit, then this movie is for you.  Yep, that is a laundry list of some pretty weird stuff that you wont see in any other movie, and I loved every minute of it.This movie is Jackson's first major effort, and the film that put him in the game as a director.  So it is hard to believe that he is the same man who directed the non-stop bore fest, LORD OF THE RINGS.  When you watch BAD TASTE, you will see how a movie made for only 11 thousand dollars can surpass a multi-million dollar budget movie like LOTR.  Its astonishing that LOTR was so terrible, considering Peter Jackson displays such genius in BAD TASTE.BAD TASTE is a great science fiction movie that is hilarious, action packed, grotesque and disturbing.  It makes for a great movie to watch while you are bored, or hanging out with friends, or getting in the mood for Halloween. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who hasn't seen it and I rate it a 10 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"im a Derek and derek's don't run!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i bought this film after watching the last 15mins on tv. I was so happy i did!!! One of the best films ever invented by Mr Peter gore Jackson. Watch out for Lord Crumb and his chuck eating hungry aliens. rent this movie its a must!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Tasteless treat","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Crude, dreadfully acted, no characters or plot to speak of, shoddily filmed, badly scored and overdubbed, and packed with skin crawlingly nasty scenes of gratuitous sadistic violence and painfully poor humour.  Wow, I loved it.I'll be preaching to the choir in this forum, so I'll leave this message for the hordes that will see this after Lord of the Rings comes out WHAT DID YOU EXPECT?  This was a film that you hadn't seen until now, you probably hadn't even heard of it.  You've just watched (what is shaping up to be) an astonishingly crafted vision that eschews Hollywood cliche and redefines the fantasy genre.  And you expected what of this film, based on its title?  A nice, cosy little family comedy?  Bon mots and gentle double entendres?  Bwahahaha!So flame away, but remember, people who saw this film because they wanted to rather than because they thought they should absolutely loved it.  You can vote 1's all you want, but you can never take that away from it. "},{"Title":"Bad Taste","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie tries to be serious and funny at the same time.It's great considering the budget spent on it.It has it all gore humour & realism!!Watch it..! "},{"Title":"One of the coolest movies ever ...","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bad Taste is one of my favorite movies. The story is good and something very different than any other 'alien' SciFi movies/stories. If you look at it as a hollywood movie it's bad I know - but it's a low budget production and so the quality / effects are not comparable. But the cuts and the dialogs are very good. This is where you see the talents of Peter Jackson ... though it is his first real movie.If you have a good sense of humor - and like horror/splatter movies this movie is the best of it's genre! Peter Jacksons next movie Braindead (Dead Alive) is also great - but I still prefer Bad Taste. "},{"Title":"GENIUS","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  $250,000, and some camcorders. That's what Peter Jackson apparently used to make this film. Let me just say that it is absolutely hilarious! I love the comedy, the gore, the cheesy acting the lot. It has everything you need in this genre of film. Cool weapons ranging from machine guns, bazookas, magnums, chainsaws, hammers and knives. Silly aliens that get their heads pulled off and kicked out of windows, sea gulls who get head butted... HANG ON, don't listen to me, just watch this movie.Good one. "},{"Title":"There has never been such an appropriate film title before!","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are 2 words that could perfectly discribe this film and they happen to be the title BAD TASTE! You got everything in this movie terrible acting, sick sence of humour, tacky settings, stupid script, awfull music scores etc etc etc... But then again this is why it's so entertaining....A must have..... "},{"Title":"required viewing for Peter Jackson fans and B-movie fans in general","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  even though i've been a Peter Jackson fan for the last few years, i just recently finally got to see this movie, which was his first film. first things first the special effects range from cheesy to cheesier, the editing and direction is fragmented and disjointed, and the acting is just plain bad.BUT, the energy and heart that was put into this film make all the bad points about this movie work for it instead of against it. plus, it's been a really long time since i've laughed this hard at a movie. it doesn't take itself seriously and it's obvious the filmmakers were having a blast.the movie is VERY gory. like Dead Alive a.k.a. Braindead, be sure to bring a strong stomach.SPOILERthe sheep getting blown to pieces by a rocket has to rank as one of my favorite scenes of all time.rating8 (on a b-movie level) "},{"Title":"4th best movie ever","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is easy the best movie ever, after the Star Wars Trilogy (of course). Blood, brains, hand flying all over, all the time, can it get better?? 10/10 "}{"Title":"This is why it is fun to see brain in the hands of actors","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The camera viewpoints make you sick, there is lots of gore. And there is LOADS of bodyparts, brain and blood flying around. The movie is an excellent way to skip school, view it and your mother will think you're almost dead because of your pale skin and because of that you puke all the time. This is the secret weapon of the goverment to make people go to the hospitals and pay money for lots of doctor visits. Even if this is a fact I still recommend that you see it. "},{"Title":"Hardcore Brilliance","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I cannot explain in mere words the amount of intestinal fortitude it took to make this film, and then get it released...Peter Jackson is a Genius, and this film is the best damn Horror/Comedy/Goof I have ever seen in my ENTIRE LIFE.  This film ROCKS from one end to the other, leaving the viewer skewered, and reaching for a Barf Bag.  But there's also a subtle side to the bombast of this Over-the-edge film...there's one scene that is a spoof on The Shining....now, it's REAL hard to spot, but I saw it through some fluke of nature...there are also spoofs on 2001 A Space Odyssey, and Monty Python's Fling Circus.  If you look close enough, you'll see 'em too.  But anyway, I have seen this film about 35 Times, and actually OWN a copy, and EVERY time I see it, I cackle, snort, and cringe my way into complete hysterics...and, yes, the sheep scene is BRILLIANT, period! "},{"Title":"Rent it, NOW!","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies. Peter Jackson did a great job  putting humor and gore together. It is amazing how great the movie turned out with the budget that they had to work with. It is a must see. "},{"Title":"Comic gore at its best (or worst)","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Contrary to the summary line, I did not particularly enjoy this movie - that isn't to say that is it does what it is supposed to do perfectly blatantly show some of the goriest comic violence ever (very unrealistically, I might add) for the mere sake of violence.Indeed, it is hard to imagine this excuse for a film was made by Peter Jackson, who directed the great Lord of the Rings trilogy. Aside from the amateurish filming and acting, the special effects can be described as nothing short of abysmal. Even considering the tight budget, some of the effects were very poor. For example, the use of red cordial as a substitute for blood. Obviously young Jackson had not heard of fake blood.But aside from that, it is obvious the film's premise achieves what it attempts to make a film violent for violence sake. There are no ringing plot lines which make us react emotionally to the violence just a combined disgust and humour. I didn't find this as humorous as I expected; some good lines are when Derek says, 'I'm a Derek, Derek's don't run.' And the final scene when Derek chainsaws his way through an alien and says to himself, 'I'm born again.' Indeed, the black humour is perhaps not black enough.The plot is mind-numbingly tactless. A small New Zealand town is overrun by aliens disguised as humans. The enigmatic AIDS is commissioned to destroy them before they take over the world. After 100 minutes of blood-splattering action, well you can probably guess...Overall, the film just seemed very poorly done. Despite the frequent action, it failed to keep my attention for any period of time. Even the most violent scenes in the movie got tiring, and you began to get used to even the most horrific gore. Recommended for those without any brains. "},{"Title":"So Bad It's Good","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Peter Jackson's cult classic BAD TASTE is a highly entertaining film. He also played the lead role (Derek) as well! Not so much a horror film, but more of a Sci-Fi/Comedy that has shot to stardom as a cult favorite among fans of all ages.One word can describe this film...CHEESY. But this is one of those so bad it's good kind of films. The acting is horrendous but hilarious at the same time! The aliens are enough to make you roll on the floor laughing by themselves. This film also delivers in the blood cate-GORY! I had a great time watching this movie. Lots of fun here. Bloody disgusting and hilarious! Great 80's classic. Not to be missed! "},{"Title":"Good Film, Brain Dead is far better!","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Overall this movie is an enjoyable comedy cult film. The story for the film is unique and entertaining and as with Braindead the special effects and deaths are what makes the film what it is. However the beginning of the film is terribly slow and the gore is not as extreme as with braindead. What really lets this film down though is the absolutely woeful acting, at times the film becomes very annoying as the acting begins to get on your nerves. Jackson clearly should stick to directing, acting is definitely not his thing. This is true of the other main actors as well. The actor playing the alien leader is quite good but he fails to make up for the others. The last 20 minutes of the film is the saving grace for the film, as the aliens look good and it becomes entertaining. The film is good, but I recommend Braindead instead. "},{"Title":"Is it me or the movie that ages badly?","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Times where better when you were younger. When I was ten I loved this movie, I thought it was a amazing display of what you can do with 2000 bucks and imagination.Well now that I'm nine years older I have no idea what to like in this. First of all, the FX look horribly cheap. Sure, it may be made on a shoestring budget, but why do you decide to put in half an hour or so of guntotin' if it looks this poor?Second it feels like it's an hour to long. The last forty minutes or so feel like replays of something that happened one minute before it.Third the acting. Sure, this should make no difference whatsoever, I mean Evil Dead may have had sub-par acting but at least you didn't hate the actors. Well Peter Jackson's character Derek is played in a way that's so incredibly annoying that I wish to never speak of him again.Fourth The jokes. God, I can't believe I actually laughed at this when i was ten. It sure makes me wonder if I did drugs back then without knowing it.Well however much I want to bash this movie, I can't really deny how good it seemed back in the golden days. But some memories are obviously better not to relive.4/10 "},{"Title":"A laugh and a half... ...but not much more.","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I do really enjoy this film. I first saw it 2 years ago with some mates and we all had a great cackle over it. It's the perfect lazy party movie. You can sit down, with a stubby in one hand and a barf bag in the other (depending on your disposition) and just laugh your ass off. Good comedy, gore but very little on the plot side. It also gets a tab slow and boring near the middle of the film. Countless uninspired shoot outs happen, most with nothing but a bit of a back flip performed by the victim. Of course as soon as you get past this slow part the comedy begins again ending in one of the most memorable gore scenes of all time.So as a bit of a laugh it gets a 9 but as anything else it gets a 6 1/2.  "},{"Title":"Tacky, Wacky and down right hilarious.","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After watching Lord of the Rings, I endeavored to find other films by this 'saluted' director. Well, to start off with you find 4 guys discovering an alien plot to feed off the inhabitants of earth, starting in all places, New Zealand.Cheap effects and actors make a very watchable, and I use the term loosely, film.One of the most memorable scenes early on in the film is Derek fighting off an Alien with a machine gun and for one who always claims he doesn't run, he does a fair deal of it.Don't jump to any conclusions when you first watch this film, give it the time it deserves and you will be rewarded with some hilarious moments that should be regarded as 'classic' and mimicked by others.  "},{"Title":"A funny B-film!!!!!!!!!","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought that brain dead was funny so I rented this A funny B-film that has bad special effects, bad actors(that are not      even real actors)BUT it´s far from boring.Not as Brain dead still pretty good.RATING3/5  "}{"Title":"Good grief, how bad does a movie get?","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is almost unwatchable at times! peter Jackson struck out with this one! The plot A bunch of Government agents must wipe out a group of aliens who plan on eating humanity for lunch! Yeah, it sounds funny and sure, there was lots of potential, but the film is so damn boring, the 90 minutes it goes for seems to take a life time! I used to have faith in Peter Jackson, but the very fact he attached his name to this atrocity has made me lose all faith in him! This film is much worse than I could ever describe it - It is torture! Don't even watch it for a laugh, it pales so much in comparison to 'braindead'. "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Thick accents, over the top use of gore effects, clearly not for all tastes. Though somehow or another it has developed a strong cult following, this is nowhere near as entertaining or funny as people would leave you to believe. The story involves the few remaining survivors of an alien invasion defending their turf. "},{"Title":"S'cuse me, i think i'm going to be sick","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've heard of some of Peter Jackson's earlier work and i knew some of them to be mildly disgusting, but little did i know what i was walking into when i picked up Bad Taste. Well technically i didn't REALLY pick it up because it's movie number 20 in the Chilling Classics Box set. So how does it stack up? isn't that the million dollar question.This movie was odd. That's the best word i can use to describe it. It was a disgusting gore fest, but at the same time, meant to be a comedy. And there were a few moments where despite myself i had to go ok, that's kind of amusing. but for the most part i was so busy trying not to vomit that i really didn't find too many of the jokes to be at all entertaining. Was the fact that Peter's skull kept opening supposed to be a joke? cause i just found that really disgusting and unsettling.I mean, i really like horror movies, but i guess to the extent that less is definitely more. This movie wasn't meant to terrify, but to completely gross you out. i can't think of any other reason this movie exists. The movie would have been fine on its own without all that unnecessary gore. If they cut out all the gore, the movie would have been fine. I mean it's not that hard to re-edit it, cutting out all the over the top stuff. If they were going for a comedy, all they had to do was cut that stuff out. I don't like being horrifically grossed out while they're attempting to make me laugh. No thanks. I guess i can see why some people may like this movie, but it's really not for me. I need to go watch something wholesome to wash my mind. like....Disney or something.For sheer unnecessary gore and a movie that could have been over in half the time but for some reason kept dragging on and on, Bad Taste gets 3 Chainsawed aliens, out of 10. "},{"Title":"Was hoping for so much more.... fell flat","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have heard so much talk about this film from people all over the place. They have said that Bad Taste was so funny and inventive. The director Peter Jackson was hailed as a genius from 95% of the people that left user comments. I was excited and pumped up to see this masterpiece of horror/comedy. I rented the movie with two of my buddies and it was a huge disappointment. The jokes were so bad and corny, even worse than the lamest British humor. The gore was decent but there wasn't enough to hold my attention. The sound effects were good at times, and the dialogue was flat. The over all story about the alien fast food company and  the boys  was uninspired and dragged badly in many spots. There very some cool camera angles, extreme close ups, and ONE exploding sheep, which was quite amusing. But over all BAD TASTE, left a sour taste in my mouth and 3 bucks ripped from my wallet. Do not rent this movie unless you want to waste 2 hours or so.... "},{"Title":"Amateurish and extremely disappointing.","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Please stop comparing this movie with Braindead. Both are Peter Jackson films, of course, but Bad Taste lacks most of the qualities that made that film special, qualities like pacing, style and professionalism. There are some gruesome and inventive moments here, but simply not enough. Although I believe that it's impossible to be offended by the constant gore here (since it's so fake-looking and used mostly for visual gags), it IS possible to be annoyed by the film's amateurishness and the often inept camerawork. Jackson doesn't seem to possess any technical mastery yet; he has many ideas but often films his scenes poorly. The movie isn't nearly as funny or as spectacular or as wild as Braindead. And it's sabotaged by some terrible actors with sometimes incomprehensible accents. "},{"Title":"Indescribably bad","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I usually do not write comments about movies I didn't like, but here I just have to make an exception.Bad Taste does have a name as an exceptional movie and I did have some expectations watching it.Exceptional it is, but only for it's unspeakably bad quality. I just can not figure out how anyone can like this movie. Stylistically, there is a thin red line between bad but still good in a special context and just plain bad in any context. The style of Bad Taste, the whole how and who and why is so far on the just plain bad side, as anything can be. I could start explaining the complete lack of characters in the movie, of any meaningful behavior from the persons - since this is not the kind of over acting which seems just insane for purpose, it is just completely free of any meaning like sane or insane. I could go on talking about the complete lack of story, the horrible camera work and lack of humor let's just hope the people making this movie did not seriously think any of this was funny. Instead I will just stop here and tell you not to waste your time watching this movie. I already regret the time it took me to write about it.. "},{"Title":"Bad Taste","Date":"21 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before making Kate Winslet a star with Heavenly Creatures, remaking Kong Kong, and of course winning seventeen Academy Awards for The Lord of the Rings Trilogy, director Peter Jackson started his career with low-key horror comedies. Basically in the small New Zealand fishing town of Kaihoro, all the residents have disappeared, and four not all intelligent friends from the National Air and Space Defense (AIDS) League are investigating. The gang calling themselves BREAD (Beneficial Relief and Emergency Aid Division) have had a report that extra-terrestrials have landed there, and it is much worse than that. The aliens have disguised themselves as humans, luckily all male dressed in light blue shirts and jeans, to hide their really ugly faces, and have a disgusting plan. The BREAD gang include Derek (Jackson himself), Frank (Mike Minett), Barry (Pete O'Herne) and Ozzy (Terry Potter), and they are tracking the aliens to their spaceship. They find a large house, where captured charity collector Giles (Craig Smith) is being held, and the gang overhear the aliens, led by the evil Lord Crumb (Doug Wren), plan for the earthlings. They are planning to kill many humans and use them for their intergalactic fast food chain Crumb's Crunchy Delights, and during the raid on the house we finally see the aliens as they are meant to look. As the team gun down as many aliens as they can and blow things up, the house turns out to be the spaceship and takes off into the sky, but Derek, thought to be dead, saves the day for Earth. Jackson also plays alien Robert, and you can see him munching away a dead human's mutilated head with a spoon. This film apparently took four years to make, because it started as a short film and developed into a longer one made over this time on weekends by Jackson and his mates. The direction is a bit mediocre, the acting and scripting is really cheesy, and the gory effects are cheap looking, but once you see the aliens as they should look you can ignore it, and just enjoy it as a lame but fun horror comedy. Very good! "},{"Title":"* out of 4","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A team from the intergalactic fast food chain Crumb's Crunchy Delights descends on Earth, planning to make human flesh the newest taste sensation. After they wipe out the New Zealand town Kaihoro, the country's Astro-Investigation and Defense Service is called in to deal with the problem. Things are complicated due to Giles, an aid worker who comes to Kaihoro the same day to collect change from the residents. He is captured by the aliens, and AIaDS stages a rescue mission that quickly becomes an all-out assault on the aliens' headquarters.Thick accents, over the top use of gore effects, clearly not for all tastes. Though somehow or another it has developed a strong cult following, this is nowhere near as entertaining or funny as people would leave you to believe.Rated R. "},{"Title":"Bad waste","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Today I decided to watch Bad Taste directed by the internationally recognized director, Peter Jackson. I really admire Lord of the Rings, but could he make a good movie with an extremely low budget back in the 80's?I can answer this quickly NO!It is possible that it is impressive how much Peter Jackson got from the $150,000-budget, but that does not make this a good movie. Maybe some people call this movie cult, but I will call it a cheesy low-budget movie without a story.The story is the first point I want to slate, it was maybe the worst story I have ever seen. It is one of those stories where you are given a very little piece of information, and the rest of the movie is not really connected to that story, but the story becomes an excuse for the director to fill every scene with some pointless action and ridiculous splatter effects. I would compare the level of the story with Hercules in New York, both movies have tons of scenes not really important for the movie. Actually they should not have made these scenes at all, a short movie would have been far better.At this point I think I have been very objective and fair to this movie, but there are still some things that I have to point out. The acting is possibly the worst ever performed in New Zealand. I am not familiar with other New Zealand movies, but this one really hits rock bottom. The actors are just annoying, and you do not even care if they are going to survive or not. It would even be a relief if one of the leading actors was killed, because it would make the end come closer.There is much more to criticise about this movie. The music is horrible, the splatter effects become indifferent and the story disappears after 20 minutes.My overall impression is that this movie is one of the worst ever made. I feel that my good taste should result in 3/10 to Bad Taste. "},{"Title":"Really bad movie","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In a movie that bad everything has to be funny, not just bits and pieces of it.  Worst movie I ever seen.  I don't care how low the budget was.  It is hard to believe that Peter Jackson's first independent feature lead him to make movies like Heavenly Creatures and Lord of the Rings for that matter.  "}{"Title":"Boo Hiss Boo!","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of course like everyone else I was impressed with The Lord of the Rings. (to a degree) I liked The Frightener's, and I thought Meet the Feebles was hilarious, so I thought I would enjoy Bad Taste. I went in knowing it was Peter Jackson's first feature and made on a shoe string budget. So I wasn't expecting all the bell's and whistle's of a Hollywood feature, but I was expecting it to make up in it's cleverness and wit. (after all Kevin Smith's first movie Clerks was made under similar conditions and that was brilliant) How wrong and disappointed I was though, the plot line was borderline transparent, and the only way I was able to follow what was going on was because of previous reviews and the documentary that was included. (which I watched first) The acting was bad and the accents were so thick I could hardly make out what was being said a lot of the time OK so I didn't like the movie. It's only my opinion right? What really irks me is that I took a chance and splurged extra money, opting for this 2 disc limited edition package instead of the single disc edition, and it really is quite lacking. The disc with the film on it is only 90 odd minutes and the only extra is a trailer of the movie. The second disc contains a 25 min bio/doc, (made at the time of the movie 1987-8) of Peter Jackson and the making of the film. It's a decent doc and gives some good perspective but why not put everything on the one disc? I mean the space is there! I paid extra money for the limited edition and for what a p'urty box cover and a plastic slip cover?? Where are the deleted scenes? Extra footage? The commentary tracks? A blooper reel? If you are curious about Peter Jackson's previous work then rent this first before spending the extra dolla's as I did and having extreme buyer's remorse. This one has gone straight into my get rid of box! "},{"Title":"A Warning to other viewers...","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This review is a warning to other viewers who, like me, saw Dead Alive (Braindead) and went out in search of Peter Jackson's other efforts. Expecting a hilarious and gory film with a fun-sounding premise (aliens invading earth to eat humans), I imagined a lot of potential for this low budget picture. Instead what I got was a load of s**t. An incoherent plot that goes nowhere, no humour, acting that was just bad - not even campy, aliens that are essentially humans (no makeup or costumes here) and dull characters who look just like the aliens. The gore factor is comparable to Dead Alive, but looks terrible due to the overexposed video image and the complete lack of any lighting (I know this was only $250,000, but c'mon - if you can afford a million gallons of ketchup, you can afford decent lighting so that it doesn't look like ketchup). This film definitely should have stayed in Jackson's home videos and not thrust upon the general public. I was only able to tolerate a 1/2 hour of this garbage before hitting the eject button, so who knows - maybe it got better (Ha!). "},{"Title":"A really bad movie","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I saw this movie... I felt really bad. I just don't understand why one would like to do such a movie. If it's some kind of a horror-movie-parody, well, then it's not that bad. But really, even if it's made as a comedy it sucks...To begin with everything is really bad done. The camera is worthless and reminds me of how I might be filming. The actors aren't good either, and the story...Well, it's about some aliens from a food chain that have come to earth to get meat or something, so they kill people. And then there's some Rambo's that tries to stop them.... wow, stunning?! Splatter movie, I've heard it's called. Well, some scenes were quite nasty, but at the same time they're bad done so I didn't know if I was to laugh or cry.Huh, how come Peter Jackson got to direct the Lord of the Rings? P "},{"Title":"Wot a load of crap!!!","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anyone who has a level stomach avoid this film like the plague. After about 30 minutes I was ready to throw up - it was awful. Terrible acting, non existent directing, pathetic casting and I hope to God it was made on a low budget cos any more money than £10 being spent on this is a complete waste!!!! It shows a lot about our culture if we are happy to spend time and money making this complete crap. I'd rather donate the time and money to charity to be honest. I'm a horror fan and I admit there have been some ridiculous concepts out there but nothing I have seen yet compares to this b******cks.AVOID AT ALL COSTS!!! "}]