[{"Title":"A perfect short story brought to screen perfection","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"48 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is my favourite movie of all time. And I always think of it as John Huston's requiem.I must have seen it at least 20 times and never tire of it. The mood, the script, the singing, the dinner, it is like being invited into someone's home and observing the events and not able to participate even though you want to... It is a rare treasure, this movie and I cannot write enough praise for it.It is cast incredibly well, with quite a few Abbey Theatre faces and also the wonderful tenor voice of Frank Patterson. Lady Gregory's poem recited in the movie is one of the most moving ever written. Anjelica's scene walking down the stairs as she listens to the song is one of the best performances every seen on film. I cry every time I see it..for all the right reasons.We have all had love lost at an early age and weep for our young hopeful selves.Donal McCann acted in far too few movies for my liking, he just loved stage work and stuck to it, and it is our loss that we do not have more of his performances on film as he does so much with this delicate role by expression and the portrayal of a deep love for his wife that will never be reciprocated and he conveys such inner sadness at knowing this.If you want your movies action and plot packed avoid this, there really is no beginning, middle or end just a lens onto the characters at a dinner party in Dublin 80 years ago and all the little nuances and shadings of the personalities portrayed so beautifully.Bravo to all who were involved in this production. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"THe crowning of a career","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Huston was seriously ill when he made his final achievement,and it's thoroughly his testamentuncompromising,difficult ,a thousand miles away from crazes and fashions,it will stand as the best last film you can ever dream of.A very austere screenplay,no action,no real hero,but a group of people coping with the vanity of life,the fleeting years and death.The party doesn't delude people for long.Admittedly,warmth and affection emanate from the songs and the meal,complete with turkey and pudding.But the passage of time has partly ruined Julia's voice,first crack in the mirror.Then the camera leaves the room where the guests are gathered and searches the old lady's bedroom.For sure,hers seems to have been a happy life,but it's a life inexorably coming to an end-A shot shows towards the end of the movie Julia on her future deathbed-.Maybe an unfulfilled life,because she remained a spinster,with no children to carry on .Only some poor things,yellowish photographs,bibelots and trinklets.... But are a human being's hopes and dreams all fulfilled?Look at Gretta.She 's a married woman ,about thirty-five,she's still beautiful and healthy but she knows something is broken.What Julia is today,she will be tomorrow,that's why,in her stream of consciousness,she goes back to her past,only to find out how harrowing her memories are a young man committed suicide for her,a symbol of her youth now waning.The final monologue,if we listen closely to it,involves us all in this eternal tragedy,the doomed to failure human condition,John Huston's masterly lesson. "},{"Title":"A small, almost perfect, gem","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"24 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So many literary adaptations are disappointments. There are many reasons for that, but usually it is the need to cut down a complex novel to the size of a screenplay. The Dead is unusual - it had to be 'padded', as the short story itself is a tiny, relatively short gem. It may in fact be the finest short story in the English language. In beautifully spare language it tells of the realization of Gabriel Conroy that his life, and the lives of so many around him are controlled by memories of the dead. Even his own wife of many years loved a man now dead more than him.To bring such a short story to the cinema was always going to be tricky. John Huston did a magnificent job. He never gave in to temptation to play it up or use fancy technique to expand on the story. It is simple and true, with outstanding acting. The only slight miss-step is the use of music to accompany the devastating final soliloquy.Its rare indeed for a movie version of a literary masterpiece to be itself a masterpiece, but I think its fair to use this term for this movie. Its not a bravura piece of film making, but it is simple and pure - I always think of Ozu's movies when i think of The Dead, its at that level of purity and simplicity and deep wisdom. "},{"Title":"Absolutely superb","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"32 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is truly a remarkable movie. The Dead shows us a turn-of-the-century Irish dinner party attended by a host of lost souls. It is a snapshot of people who either loved and lost, or never got to love at all. Everyone here longs for love -- not just ordinary fondness, but a condition where one almost sees God in the other person. (Those who have not experienced this will deem it maudlin.) For example, in the story, Anjelica Huston's character refers to one Michael Fury whose love for her had burned so intensely that he allowed himself to freeze to death in a river because he could not be hers. Such actions strike the idle passerby as pathetic (savage Americans would label Michael Fury a loser). But years later, when this kind of passion is deemed the only thing that matters, people privately develop a more respectful take on such things.At dinner, tenor Frank Patterson sings for the guests, his lovely voice stealing through the walls like the scent of a garden into a tomb. Beauty like this makes us want to find someone, open our jugular vein, and urgently bleed into them. We feel that somewhere burns an unseen, silent, and impossibly distant Light.  If only we could share that Light with someone, or at least share a quest for it. But how? Alas, we can only stand at the bedroom window alone, watching the snowfall like Anjelica Huston's husband (Donal McCann) does at the movie's end. Many characters in the movie spend their whole lives at that bedroom window. Others are like Michael Fury, dying in a freezing river as he stares at the house where his Beloved conducts her affairs, unresponsive to him. At one point, after a guest recites a moving poem, one of the female guests laments, Imagine being loved like that. She means a devotion so intense as to rearrange our psyches. But her chance for love is gone, crushed beneath layers of dashed hopes now piled high like the snows of Ireland in the movie. No rose sprouts in these drifts; only long-buried yearnings that waft like a vapor around headstones. This movie hints at secrets that are akin to something one experiences as a child who, lying awake and alone one night, spies a star outside the window and for an instant glimpses the Unspeakable. The child makes no mention of this to anyone - who would understand? (That's nice, dear.) But the longing to share that glimpse with someone, or to share someone else's glimpse, burns until death.  At the end of The Dead, Anjelica Huston's husband realizes that he has shared no such glimpse with his wife, no such love. His wife has sobbed herself to sleep on the bed and remains silent as he looks out the bedroom window in the wee hours. Great stories have great dialogue, but the greatest have characters whose silence points to the realm of boundless could-be's. We hear the husband's lamenting thoughts as exterior night scenes melt into one another. Fields, starlit graveyards, wizened trees -- all hushed as snow is gently falling all over Ireland, and falling gently. No routine tale of collision between desire and proscription this; no melodramatic costume-struggle between attraction and social propriety. The Dead speaks to each person's Star of Bethlehem, glimpsed once and then repressed until something like this dinner party shakes it loose. On the morrow the guests will tell themselves that they simply had too much wine at the party, and will thereby seal Heaven into their mental cellar once more. Their pain will continue as always.Sensitive and understated, I give this one top marks across the board. Bravo to John Huston. A fitting last effort by a great director. "},{"Title":"One man's opinion","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have watched thousands of movies in my life and I believe this movie is the most perfect movie that has ever been made. By perfect I mean the storytelling, the plot, the acting, the staging, the camera work, etc. (This is a lay opinion; I have no background in film production.) A lot of movies have perfect scenes, such as the bartender filing a report with the police officer in the movie Fargo. (Indeed, that scene could play well as a short.) In The Dead every scene is done to perfection, making the entire movie perfect. Perhaps, John Huston sold his soul to the Devil to make such a movie. Hopefully, Daniel Webster has gotten him out of the contract! "},{"Title":"Wonderful period piece!","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a wonderful evocation of a previous age. True, it is slow moving but that is definitely part of its charm. Stately and elegant - a fitting tribute to an iconic director! Not many films can boast such a unique form. Top marks to the director for having the bravery to create such a work of art that may have seemed commercially non-viable. I doubt very much a piece like this would be given the green light in today's action-driven, dumbed-down movie environment. Does a good job of adapting the James story and also brings a little something extra to it as well as all truly good art should - it is not enough merely to emulate. Wonderful film and not to be missed! "},{"Title":"A wonderful look at Dublin in the The Rare Auld Times","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The entire movie, an artful adaptation of one of Joyce's Dubliners stories, takes place on the night of January 6 (Epiphany), 1906. Most of the film takes place at an annual party given by three spinsters (two sisters and their niece), where a group of upper-class Dubliners gather for an evening of music, recitations and dinner. While there is very little plot per se, the interaction and conversation among the group reveals much about Dublin in the early 20th century when the stirrings for independence were just beginning. The cast, all talented Irish stage actors with the exception of Anjelica Huston, are universally wonderful, and one actually feels he is a guest at the gathering himself. The poignant final scene, between Ms. Huston and the amazing Donal McCann, reveals much about the marriage of the characters. There is poignancy mixed with humor and insight, and for those who like quiet, thoughtful movies, The Dead is highly recommended. My wife is from Dublin, we make a ritual of watching this wonderful movie every January 6th. After many viewings it never fails to move me, and each time I glean something that I've missed before. "},{"Title":"A faithful screen adaption by a director at the peak of his powers","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Superlatives really are a dangerous thing. No sooner do we rashly assert something as being unsurpassable, the object of our veneration immediately becomes just that. James Joyce's concluding story in his book 'Dubliners,' entitled, 'The Dead,' was always going to be the exception to that rule. It's been described by a number of critics over the years as the greatest short story in the English language. After seeking the story out many years ago when I was a teenager, I can do nothing but agree whole heartedly with the critics.The story captured a time, a place, and a romanticism that I've dreamt about all my life. The setting is a house at the turn of the century, filled with guests from all over Ireland, who gather for an evening of dancing, poetry and piano recitals.Joyce's consummate story telling, is not found in the almost mechanical way most authors put their stories together, but it's revealed in the sheer power and strength of feeling projected by the characters involved; Gabriel's concern about his after dinner speech and the ongoing changes in Ireland, Gretta's secret passion for someone she'd once loved and lost, and now even the mere acknowledgment of such a love threatens to destabilize her relationship with Gabriel, Freddie's inability to rise beyond his drug dependency, the arrogant tenor Mr D'Arcy at the table loudly trying to upgrade his status through his supposed musical superiority, Lilly the housemaid all nervousness and efficiency, the list goes on each playing their part with absolutely convincing character motivation.How could John Huston's film ever really of taken on such a literary masterpiece and still proved faithful? Well, to his credit, he comes pretty close.Of course when we're reading a story, an author often leaves a degree of ambiguity, specific areas in which we're allowed to interpret our own mental pictures from the words cited. Joyce was no different. Here lies the problem transfering a work of fiction to celluloid is like trying to join up the dots. Not everyone is going to recognize the picture and be happy with the adaptation.Personally, I loved the film. However, there were a couple of scenes that I knew were going to prove a problem, and they did prove problematic. Firstly, when Gretta defers her descent down the stairs after dinner, because she's filled with thought's of Michael Furey and the love that she'd lost. The memories come flooding back. She can hear his voice superimposed over D'arcy's and it unsettles her. It's such a deep enduring moment. In the film, Huston just looks away dreamily. There's very little to express the full range of thoughts rushing through her head. It's not Angelica Huston's fault. It simply highlights how difficult it is to accommodate the limitless expression of literature to the silver screen, which is why like an earlier commentator on this film asserted, I too strongly recommend that Joyce's story is read first. It really does add a great deal.The second scene that troubled me was the ending. It doesn't even begin to pack the tremendous power of Joyce's written word. How could it? This is a stream of subconscious thought extracted from the greatest short story in the English language reduced to a simple voice-over.Ah, well! Still a good film. Overall Rating 8 out of ten.  "},{"Title":"See it, Read it and Love it","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's a short movie for such immense feelings. The last 20 or so minutes are among the most intense in the recent years of the industry. Huston (John) is dying and only love can make the difference. The actor's work in the long evening scene is absolutely marvellous. "},{"Title":"They just don't make them like this anymore!","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An exquisite film. They just don't make them like this any more! We eavesdrop on an upper middle class family in Dublin in the early part of the 20th century. They are hosting an after Christmas dinner for their friends and relatives. Their table talk is just idle chatter but it is so well written that one is engrossed. Away from the dinner table some fine piano playing helps to create an intimate atmosphere as if one were there as one of the guests. Perhaps a bit too perfect for an amateur player, the odd mistake here and there would have added to the magic of this film. No real story but real entertainment and an object lesson for up and coming film makers. "}{"Title":"Snow Was General All Over Ireland","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Yes, the newspapers were right snow was general all over Ireland. It was falling on every part of the dark central plain, on the treeless hills, falling softly on the Bog of Allen and, father westward, softly falling into the dark mutinous Shannon waves. It was falling, too, upon every part of the lonely churchyard on the hill where Michael Furey lay buried. It lay thickly drifted on the crooked crosses and headstones, on the spears of the little gate, on the barren thorns. His soul swooned slowly as he heard the snow falling faintly through the universe and faintly falling, like the descent of their last end, upon all the living and the dead. I think that few endings are as fine, as transcendent as that penned by Joyce in 1914. It rivals the final paragraphs of Sir Thomas Browne's Hydriotaphia (A Discourse on Urn Burial) for pure sublimity. Tony Huston chose to quote it in full at the end of this remarkable adaptation of the novella contained within Joyce's brilliant, dissection of Irish society. The Dead is easily one of the best films made in the last two or so decades of the twentieth century; it is a pearl amidst swine.The entire cast work with (and therefore in certain senses, against) each other in an impeccable manner. The direction is consistent and steady. The cinematography is respectful. The art direction is restrained and the period detail sure. The story is allowed to speak for itself and to carry itself at its own measured pace. Although it is little more than 80 minutes, we feel as though we have lived through every part of an Epiphany party than might have lasted for several hours or so. In most readings of Joyce I have been conscious of the time contained within a story passing at a natural rate (the effect is achieved with an horologists' care in Ulysses for example). The film is therefore a tribute to Joyce, much as it is for the ailing John Huston, one of Erin's own adopted sons.I gather than a sixty minute programme was made on the making of The Dead, and it was shown as part of the John Huston season that has just ended at London's National Film Theatre. Alas, I was unable to attend, but I have read that Huston was very ill at the time it was made, dependent on oxygen cylinders, and often unable to leave his car. He was therefore reliant upon his assistant directors and upon his son (Tony) and daughter (Angelica, as Gretta Conroy, one of her finest roles). This may have been a cathartic experience as I gather that relations between the very demanding father and daughter had been distant for some time - the experience of making this film led to a final reconciliation. Perhaps it was wrong for Huston, with his lungs wrecked, to leave the clear, dry air of Mexico for the dank, foetid vapours of London and Dublin (although I'm not sure that he actually did any of the exterior scenes in Ireland). Whatever the medical merits, the artistic result clearly vindicated his decision.Many of the stories in Dubliners are concerned with the sterility and stolidity of Irish society 'The Sisters' (the reference to Fr. Flynn's 'paralysis' is apt), 'A Painful Case', 'A Mother', etc. Gabriel Conroy (a superlative Donal McCann) surveys the prospect of the party arranged by two elderly maiden aunts, and surmises that most of those assembled are, one way or the other, half-dead. Then, stung by his wife's lament for the passing of her original (only?) love, he understands he himself, with his own want of feeling, of passion, of emotional engagement, is afflicted by that same malaise. Is Ireland dead or is it merely sleeping? Will it - as Molly Ivors (an electric Maria McDermottroe) sincerely hopes - awake when the British yoke is cast off, and it ceases to be 'John Bull's other island'? Gabriel is sceptical - like Joyce himself, he would rather travel to France than Galway (where Michael Furey lies buried by the shores of Loch Corrib at Oughterard). Molly enjoins Gabriel, a London hack, to learn Gaelic. Gabriel almost hunches his shoulders - the people of the Pale have given the same shrug to the outer reaches of Connacht and Munster for centuries (only now that residential property prices in Kerry and Clare have scaled the heights of those in Surrey and Berkshire are attitudes starting to adjust). Joyce shrugs too - but the suggestion that Ireland is only blanketed in snow, and not deadened by permafrost, suggests that he still has hope for his nation.There are no false notes in this film, no mis-steps. Even Tony Huston's interpolation of Lady Gregory's ode to love is woven seamlessly into the script, and enhanced it brilliantly (thanks to the excellent recital by Sean McClory as Mr Grace). The entire cast delivered an outstanding performance, and I should make particular mention of Cathleen Delany as Aunt Julia, Marie Kean as Mrs Malins and Donal Donnelly as her wayward son, Freddy, and lastly Frank Patterson as the bibulous Bartell D'Arcy (a particularly interesting character - at once very Anglican and yet very Irish, and therefore a typical Dublin type, the city being in certain respects an island of unionism and protestantism in a Romish and increasingly republican sea). I mention these actors not because they are superior to the others, but because they illuminate particular aspects of this besetting malaise that interest me. Of these, the most significant is Aunt Julia. It is she whom Gabriel sees in her coffin, and there is something in her indomitable rendition of 'Arrayed for the Bridal' the beautiful, resolute, yet curiously myopic eyes set in a failing face, that typify the confused mixture hope and desolation that 'The Dead' represents. A stellar performance and a fitting epitaph to one of the last and greatest of old Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Think of all those who ever were, back to the start of time&#x85;","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The last film of John Huston, the great American director of the Irish descent is an adaptation of the last short story in the early collection Dubliners, of the greatest writer ever came from Ireland. The film is a family affair. The dying director made it based on the script adapted by his son Tony Huston from one of the most poignant, beautiful and profound short story ever written in this language and considered by many THE BEST English language short story. John directed his daughter Anjelica in what could be her finest screen performance. The film is short, only 83 minutes. It's got no action sequences, no plot, it is almost non-eventful, and it may seem slow. The guests, friends and relatives come to the party that takes place in Dublin during the Epiphany week in January 1904, at the house of two elderly sisters who give annual dinner with music and dance. What viewers see for the first hour, is the ensemble conversation piece. The guests talk, listen to the music, discuss the latest opera premiere, and make jokes, sometimes awkward. Gradually, the conversation turns to the long dead friends or relatives the memory of whom never faded away.This is the film you have to stay with, let it pull you in, listen to what and how the guests at the party say, how they communicate. Pay attention to the body languages, to the looks at their faces when they drift away from the light, laugh, and music of the present to the long gone but never in fact left most precious memories where the Dead of the title are not dead but forever young and so alive. If you do, you will be awarded with the final scene of such emotional power and impact that it will always stay with you. It will break your heart to pieces, pull them together and put it back transfixed. The film as well as Joyce's story centers on Gabriel Conroy (Donal McCann as James Joyce's alter ego gave a very moving understated performance) as one of the party guests who arrives with his wife Gretta (Anjelica Huston). Gabriel is still in love, feels close connection to and fascinated with her. It is after the party, he discovers that even after many years of closeness, he does not know all about her past, her pains, her regrets, and the unforgettable emotions and loss she had lived through as a young girl, and he is no part of. For the first time, he looks at her and thinks of her not as the indelible part of his existence but as another human being with her own inner world, her own loneliness and sadness, and for the first time, a strange, friendly pity for her entered his soul. It is he who narrates the final most powerful and profound lines of the story Snow is general all over Ireland. . . falling faintly through the universe, and faintly falling, like the descent of their last end, upon all the living and the dead. If you have not seen the film or read the Joyce's story, please do. They are truly the works of Art that leave the everlasting impression and would change something in you to the best. "},{"Title":"Cinematic Perfection","Date":"18 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Huston finished his remarkable career with one of the most perfect and sensitive movies I've ever seen. For his farewell he decided to adapt James Joyce's beautiful short story, The Dead, and made not only one of the most faithful literature-to-film adaptations yet, he also crafted a movie that more than 20 years later still surpasses a lot of contemporary cinema.When I watched this movie a few years ago, as a student at University, I gazed in awe at the screen, marvelling at every aspect of the movie acting, screen writing, direction, costumes, settings, music, cinematography. Thinking about it now, I still can't of anything I'd criticise it for. Huston just knew how to tell a good story.A good deal of credit should also go to Tony Huston. He knew better than to meddle with a text that is not only perfection itself but already visual enough for cinema. Father and son let the story breathe and relish in the long, fascinating conversations between characters, and in the meaningful silences.Donal McCann also deserves credit for the his performance as Gabriel Conroy. I had never seen him in movies before, nor have I seen him afterwards, but he gave one of the most moving performances I've ever seen.All in all, The Dead is a fine cinematic experience, from a legendary director who never stopped being excellent. "},{"Title":"This is not, repeat NOT, a horror film!","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Easily one of my three or four favorite films.  Definitely one for the desert island. There is nothing `brilliant' about this film.  Rather, it glows warm and welcoming.  The audience is invited to a party and, like any good party, the joy comes in the interaction of the guests, and what you learn as you progress from one to the next. With apologies to Joyce, the film's title conjures up a number of ideas that keep audiences away.  The film is not horrifying.  It is not depressing.  It is a beautiful look into a time that has past, within which people are growing up, and others are winding down.  Some are frustrated, and others are serene.  And all around, ever present throughout the evening, are the people, and the parts of people, that have been laid to rest. The words these exquisite actors are given to speak are perfection and, set to the music of the Irish brogue, are an auditory feast, particularly to us flat-toned Americans. About the lack of brilliance I referred to above, I take it back.  There is no other word to describe the final scene between Anjelica Huston and Donal McCann.  It speaks quiet volumes about &#133; well, everything. Some lovely snowy evening, rent this film and just let it happen before you. No gunfights, no car chases, no dinosaurs &#150; just film at its most sublime.  "},{"Title":"Huston Saved the Best for Last","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For his last film, John Huston directed his daughter, Anjelica, in this adaptation of the story from James Joyce's Dubliners, and he gave us one of his finest achievements to remember him by.Joyce is about as impossible to film as anyone, but The Dead at least presents a traditional narrative to work with. Much (indeed, almost all) of the important information in the story lies in the spaces between the lines, in characters' thoughts and expressions -- there are big moments, but they're cerebral -- they're not the stuff of which movies are made. But somehow, Huston gets it right, and he manages a nearly flawless adaptation.Anjelica is magnificent, and the movie is haunting and powerful.Grade A "},{"Title":"John's final masterpiece, Tony's first and last","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In print this is one of the greatest short stories ever written, brought brilliantly and poetically to the screen by this father-son team, working together, sadly, for the first and last time.It is fitting that John Huston should end his career on a high note by bringing the work of one of his favorite author's to the screen, in what is easily the best Joyce screen adaptation. Huston made a career of adapting great works of literature to film, usually quite successfully. It is sad, and somewhat puzzling, that Tony Huston pretty much began and ended his career in film by adapting what would be his father's final project and picking up a well-deserved Oscar nomination in the process.I once had the privilege of sitting in the company of the great screenwriter/playwright Horton Foote, who cited this film as one of his favorites in recent years (at the time it was still a fairly recent release). As a rather prolific screenwriter himself (and a brilliant screen adapter of his own works, as well as great authors such as Faulkner, Steinbeck and Harper Lee) he was obviously impressed with Tony Huston's first time effort, and possibly equally puzzled by his lack of output since then. If anyone has insights to share on the topic I'd be interested to hear more. "},{"Title":"Moving picture","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not often it happens that a great director´s last movie becomes such a moving, brillantly performed and filmed masterpiece. The cast is excellent as well as the camerawork. What starts up as a merry coming-together of a group of well-educated citizens of an early-20th-century- Dublin turns into a dark, philosophic narration about all our fear from death and the sometimes dark shadows of the past. Thank You, Mister Huston, for this last piece of great cinema! "},{"Title":"A classic film from a legendary director.","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I believe John Houston's The Dead is a true classic. Not only was it Houston's final film, he is quoted as saying all I know about film making is in this film. The story, closely adapted from Dubliners by James Joyce, is a great ensemble piece featuring sterling performances by Angelica Houston, John's daughter, and a cast of English and Irish actors who bring the story to life. This is a film that should be part of any serious collection, not only because it is visually elegant, but because the story is timeless and very appealing. The film is not hurried, nor is it charged with action. Rather, the story unfolds from within the characters, who bring light and meaning to the dialog. The end of the film is stunning, poetic, and haunting. I recommend The Dead without reservation as one of the finest films ever made. "},{"Title":"Joyce brought magnificently to life","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is really the only chance to see the magic of James Joyce's writing brought to life.  His novels are all unfilmable (in any real sense) and this is the only long story he wrote.  It was John Huston's last film and did not reach the screen until after he had died, and it is easy to see his touch of greatness.  The Dead is poetical in its approach on the screen, telling us more about Ireland than any modern movie on the IRA and the troubles could ever hope to tell us.  Hopefully more people will watch this film and get to experience the finest of both John Huston and James Joyce, and perhaps visit this story in your local bookstore (and discover that it is probably the greatest short story ever put on paper). "},{"Title":"Quite simply one of the greatest films ever made","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are so many '10 Best' lists which could easily fit The Dead - Best Screen Drunk, Best Literary Adaptation, Best Use Of Music Not Specifically Written for the Film, Best Use of Poetry, Best Screen Speech, Best Ensemble Cast and finally, perhaps, Best Film Ever Made. This was John Huston's last and greatest film, adapted by his son Tony from James Joyce's short story and set on the evening of the Feast of the Epiphany in the Dublin of 1904. It is confined, largely, to one setting, the home of the Morkan sisters, and not a great deal happens in conventional 'dramatic' terms. They entertain their guests; there is singing, dancing, recitations and much small talk but watching this film you can't imagine anywhere else you would rather be than in this company.Finally, of course, it is 'about' much, much more. It is about love, loss and regret, those stable mainstays of great drama. In the film's closing scenes the tenor Bartell D'Arcy, (Frank Patterson), sings a song, 'The Lass of Aughrim' which conjures up in the mind of Gretta, (Anjelica Huston), wife of Gabriel, (Donal McCann), the ghost of her first and probably greatest love, a boy who died in all certainty of a broken heart at the age of seventeen, and suddenly Gabriel realises he has never really known his wife and that he has not been the great love of her life, after all. Emotionally, these scenes are incredibly powerful, firstly as Gretta recounts the circumstances of her lover's death and then as the voice in Gabriel's head sums up his own feelings. This is great cinema, the monologues superbly delivered by Huston and McCann.But then all the performances are extraordinary. This is ensemble playing of the highest order and while it would be invidious to single out one performer above another, has the screen ever given us a more likable, genial or convincing drunk than Donal Donnelly or has poetry ever been delivered with such passion that Sean McClory, (the IRA man in The Quiet Man), brings to his reading of Lady Gregory's translation of 'Donal Og' here? Added poignancy is to be had, of course, from the knowledge that Huston himself was close to death when he made this film which seems to me the culmination of his life's work. Death may well be its central theme but viewing this film is a life-enhancing experience. "}{"Title":"A film of incredible subtlety (First 10 I've given in ages)","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Naturally in a film who's main themes are of mortality, nostalgia, and loss of innocence it is perhaps not surprising that it is rated more highly by older viewers than younger ones. However there is a craftsmanship and completeness to the film which anyone can enjoy. The pace is steady and constant, the characters full and engaging, the relationships and interactions natural showing that you do not need floods of tears to show emotion, screams to show fear, shouting to show dispute or violence to show anger. Naturally Joyce's short story lends the film a ready made structure as perfect as a polished diamond, but the small changes Huston makes such as the inclusion of the poem fit in neatly. It is truly a masterpiece of tact, subtlety and overwhelming beauty. "},{"Title":"Think of all those who ever were...and me, transient as they, flickering out as well into their gray world.","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" James Joyce's novella The Dead, included in his 1914 collection of short stories Dubliners, proved to be the final directorial achievement by Hollywood legend John Huston, fittingly adapted by his son Tony Huston and featuring daughter Anjelica Huston in a pivotal role. Two spinster Irish aunts host their annual Christmas party in middle-class Dublin at the turn of the 20th century; their guests include relatives and friends who partake in a night of dance, music, poetry, politics, flirtations, discussion of the arts, and epiphanies of life. The Irish nationalism, combined with the culture and manners of the time, are realized vividly, and Huston is well-attuned to the turns of conversation, the tiny conflicts of interest and character. However, the film seems to lose much of its drawing power after the guests depart for the evening, with the narrative turning into an elongated elegy. Stretching this brief story out to feature-length was obviously a difficult task; John Huston, perhaps out of compensation, allows some scenes to linger too long (he also lets several of his actors overdo the colorfulness of their roles without scaling them back). Many lovely moments. In 2000, the story was adapted again, this time as a stage musical. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Old Chariots.","Date":"10 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In his last film, the wizened John Huston set himself quite a task. Encumbered by oxygen tanks, cannulae, and other impediments, he shot a film of the long short story in James Joyce's Dubliners. The sets are few, though precisely furnished, and there are only a dozen or so characters. If the story is about a jury sending a young man to death, as in Twelve Angry Men, fine. Lots of drama there. Even a drunken party of gay men, The Boys In The Band, can have all kinds of by-play. But turn-of-the-century middle-class Irish people having dinner and schmoozing about opera singers? And that title -- The DEAD? Never mind John Huston. Where is Hercules? There's another difficulty; Joyce's prose was exquisite (when he wanted it to be) and his interior monologues were unimpeachable. But this is all dialog, except for one voice over at the end by the central figure, Donal McCann, musing alone after learning that his wife, Angelica Huston, had been in love at seventeen with a boy who died. It's the only interior monologue we hear -- but it's a blockbuster.There's humor too, of course. The dialog itself is sometimes comic, wittingly or otherwise. The first two thirds of the movie show us a dinner party given by three ladies for a dozen or so guests. When a couple shows up late, the husband complains of his wife, She took three mortal hours getting dressed. Mortal. It's like a jack-in-the-box that pops up in the middle of an otherwise humdrum line.And of course there is booze. One of the characters, Donal Donnelly, shows up half plastered with his ancient mother scolding him. A shame, someone says, especially after she made him take the pledge. I'm surprised he lasted the whole six days, responds someone.And Donnelly, who is drunk but not falling-down drunk or sloppy, is explaining to the Protestant Mr. Brown, Dan O'Herlihy looking great and giving one of the best performances of his career, why the monks of a particular order punish themselves. It's compensations, you see, for the sins committed by -- by the rest of us sinners. This is rather late after dinner and O'Herlihy by this time has had quite a bit to drink himself. His face is ruddy and his long white hair is all mussed and he gawks open-mouthed at Donnelly. He asks in disbelief, You mean they're getting us off the HOOK? We hear one of the old ladies who hosts the dinner take a stab at singing a song in a voice that quavers with age, and everyone applauds graciously. Sean McClory recites a passionate and savage love poem from Lady Gregory. The youngest of the three hostesses bangs out a galloping tune on the piano, a regular showpiece that deserves the awe that it generates. And finally there is a sweet song, The Lass of Aughrim, sung off screen by Frank Patterson, a famous tenor.The purity of the tune launches Angelica Huston into her reverie. The song itself is a traditional tune but it's not a chestnut like Mother McCree or Kathleen Mavourneen. There are several versions of it available on YouTube.I won't try to describe Donal McCann's interior reflections. They really can't be well captured because they insensibly exit the situation and come to enfold the countryside itself and the sea with it's mutinous waves and finally dissolve into a brief parade of alliterative fs that becomes surreal.I was surprised to find myself moved. A hard job for Huston, but splendidly done. "},{"Title":"The best short story adaptation since The Shawshank Redemption","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Huston's The Dead is a great final achievement of film made by a great director who brought James Joyce's (who was one of John Huston's favorite authors.)short story to life on the big screen. The movie stars his daughter Angelica Huston (who does so much better in this film than she does in Daddy Day Care (2003) as Gretta Conroy, and Donal McCann as Gabriel Conroy who are husband and wife and arrive early for an Irish Christmas dinner with fellow relatives and friends. The movie takes place in Ireland's capital Dublin.One of things I really like about the movie is the fun little party they have before supper.While looking at the DVD case for this movie it said that this movie is a very evocative drama in which I truly agree with the movie being put into those terms. This movie is one of John Huston's best films as well as being one of the best movies of 1987, a few things that I forgot to mention about the movie is that the acting is excellent throughout, and that I really liked the costumes. John Huston us movie lovers will never forget you for your great contributions to the cinematic art. "},{"Title":"A mournful movie at a pivotal time in Irish history","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie, the last directed by John Huston, represents a rich gathering of characters from Dublin in 1904. Horse carriages arrive with guests as a light snow falls. There is entertainment in the form of poetry readings, piano recitals and solo singing. As with any dinner party, there is a mix of small talk, politics, religion, and gossip. Based on a short story from James Joyce's book Dubliners, we get a feeling for the type of world where Joyce grew up as guests gather at the home of two sisters, Kate and Julia, and their niece Mary Jane. Irish nationalism was on the rise, the Catholic Church was dominant and Ireland found itself still locked to the bosom of Great Britain. Parnell, the Irish nationalist, represented the conflict between religion and Irish nationalism and his story is mentioned. The party has its share of characters, including an alcoholic who arrives drunk and talks too much, much to his mother's disgust. There is chatter about the opera from this musically literate group. There are no downstairs servants for this upstairs apartment where friends gather for food prepared by the hosts and entertainment by the group itself. At one point, the conversation turns to the Catholic doctrine of indulgences and monks sleeping in their coffins in repentance for the sins of all. Kate gets upset with the Pope over her sister Julia being removed from the choir in favour of a boys' choir, while confessing that she is a loyal Catholic and would never question the Church; she just felt it was unfair. As the goose is carved, the plates are moved very efficiently from one guest to another. By the end of the evening, the goose carcass with only the bones remaining has its wish bone removed and it is pulled apart by a couple to see who gets their wish. Gabriel Conroy played by Donal McCann is the man designated to toast the hosts. During the evening he is called a West Briton by a dance partner, because she feels he is not Irish enough. Gabriel asserts that he is tired of the emphasis on all things Irish, feeling more international in his outlook. The young lady later leaves to attend a Republican meeting, to the annoyance of some of the group. Gabriel silently rehearses his toast during the evening and reviews his notes as the party conversation is going on. His toast to the hosts, the three graces of the Dublin musical world as he calls them, is superbly delivered without notes. His wife Gretta Conroy is played by Anjelica Huston, daughter of the director of the film, John Huston. We sense that all is not well between them. When she leaves, she stops on the stairway to listen to a mournful ballad. She later tells her husband about a 17-year old boy whose memory is revived by this sad tune. This made Gabriel very discontent, knowing she cannot feel such intense love in their marriage. We feel in the dead of winter the sadness for a country that has suffered much and tries to cope with its grief by enjoying food, laughter, music and poetry. The people and their history are entwined; the dead are gone but their memories remain. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Final Effort","Date":"19 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" THE FILM The Dead was John Huston's last film. He was very sick at the time, and probably knew that his next film would be his last. So when choosing his project, he had to choose wisely. He chose The Dead, an adaptation of the James Joyce short story. It was very much a family affair, with his son Tony writing the screenplay and daughter Angelica playing the female lead. It was during the making of the film that his health deteriorated.He died four months before it was released, and during the film making he suffered innumerable challenges. He relied on an oxygen tank to breath, and he couldn't go 20 minutes without it. Sometimes Huston would get stuck in his car, and be unable to get to the stage, and he would have to relay direction through his assistants. Despite these challenges, Huston made the film, based off a supposedly un-filmable story. It was only after multiple revisions that Huston found the right approach, and with it, one of his finest films.THE PLOT Greta and Gabriel Conroy are married, and they like each other, in turn of the century Ireland. They go to a party being held by three spinsters on January the 6th. After the party, they return to their hotel. That is the plot, seriously, that's it. To go into more detail would be frivolous without critical commentary, so that brings me to it.THE CRITICISM The Dead is without a doubt the finest last film of any director with a sizable body of work, that I have seen. What Huston accomplishes in 72 minutes is what most filmmakers try their whole careers to accomplish. The film is so simple, yet its simplicity is its finest asset. Huston here manages to try something new, and for a man in his 80s, who is dying, that is quite a risk. And he pulls it off, of course. Some directors, like Hitchcock and Wilder have tried this approach, and the results aren't generally amazing.If you read the plot, you'll see that the film's plot is quite thin, I could sum it up in five seconds, so Huston relies on characters and mood to set it up. In order to do that you need two things good actors and a good script. And he has both. Some might say that The Dead was an act of nepotism, and yes, Huston draws on his family. John cast Anjelica in three of his films, and under his direction she won an Oscar. Here she gives a performance that doesn't seem to amount to much, for the first hour.Then, near the end, she is walking down the stairs when a tenor from the second floor begins to belt out a tune. I can't name it, but she stops and closes her eyes, swaying gently to the sound of his singing, almost in a trance. Then she goes home and tells her husband of a past lover, who came to her one night, having suffered a terrible sickness. He died, and she believes that she caused him to die, wandering in the rain. But I'm, getting ahead of myself.The performances, Huston (Anjelica, that is) is absolutely terrific. She puts up a facade for the first hour, but then she slowly lets it slip, and you glimpse her. Donal McCann is absolutely terrific in the role of Gabriel, her husband. I hadn't heard of him before this film, and its a shame, his ending monologue is close to perfection. The supporting cast is flawless, consisting mainly of people that I hadn't heard of before, which helps you to believe that they are their respective characters.The screenplay does the wonder of turning what has been called the greatest short story of all time into a motion picture. Tony Huston is more than up to the challenge. It has been said that John Huston had been trying to get the film made for some time, but he couldn't find the right approach, and one day it came to him. The story doesn't need to be jazzed up with flashbacks and unnecessary additions. The best way to adapt the short story is to just tell the story.No embellishes, nothing. Tell it straight. It works. I haven't read the source material, but I want to now, based on the final scene alone. The score perfectly complements the film, striking a melancholy but optimistic chord. Indeed some of the lengthy dialog scenes can be frustrating, especially when they harp on singing and turn of the century Irish-British relations, but for some reason you are still compelled. I feel that what really makes the film work are the characters, they feel real.Huston manages to weave his camera through a scene so well, that it makes you feel that you are almost eavesdropping on someone else's party. By the end, you almost feel as if you know these people, and in a way you do. As the crisp snow falls on a forgotten Irish graveyard, we are reminded that we are all alive, but then we die, and time will pass us by. That brings me to my final comment the title. It sounds as if the film is a horror film, but it is truly about the passage of time, how the dead can haunt the living from beyond the grave, but not in a scary way.The dead hold a power over the living no matter how old and wise you are. They still cast a shadow over our lives, and we remember them until, perhaps, we join them. I debated giving this film a 9.5, but my sentimental side won over my few small problems. The Dead, 1987, Directed by John Huston, 10/10 (A+)(This is part of an ongoing project to watch and review every John Huston movie. You can find this and other reviews at http//everyjohnhustonmovie.blogspot.ca/) "},{"Title":"A film of great warmth and depth","Date":"1 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Has there ever been a greater swansong than Huston's final film? I love this in so many ways. Joyce's tale is reputed to be one of the best short stories ever written, and that is pretty accurate, but maybe Huston has even improved upon it. I say this because an Irish friend who saw the movie said that a love and deep understanding of the Irish shines through in every frame. It is this warmth that makes it such a wonderful experience, and yet it only makes the final few minutes of the film more poignant. The casting is inspired and Anjelica Huston has never been better. How fitting that this role should be in her father's last work. If you have never seen this sublime film, I urge you to remedy that. It will be watched many times in the future and its status will surely grow. "},{"Title":"Fitting Farewell","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In this adaptation of a story from Joyce's Dublines, family and friends gather for a feast in Dublin in 1904. The plot is very thin. The focus is on the characters and their social interactions. The characters are so interesting and their conversations are so stimulating that one feels enriched having spent some time in their company. The acting is uniformly excellent by the entire cast. The sets and costumes beautifully evoke a bygone era, tinged with a sense of nostalgia and melancholy. The cinematography is exquisite. This is a fitting farewell for John Huston, working here with daughter Anjelica and son Tony, who wrote the screenplay. "},{"Title":"Huston's last...and best","Date":"20 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" James Joyce's short story The Dead was turned into a film that marked John Huston's last project. It was a fitting end for a director that gave us so many magnificent films, including The Maltese Falcon, The Treasure of Sierra Madre, Key Largo, etc.The Dead is about a turn-of-the-century Irish dinner party and its aftermath for one couple, Gretta and Gabriel Conroy (Angelica Huston and Donal McCann). Attending are various relatives, an Irish tenor, and assorted friends. It's a lively gathering with food, conversation, singing, and poetry. As the dinner breaks up, the tenor (Frank Patterson) sings an Irish ballad, The Lass of Aughrim. Gretta stops at the top of the stairs and, in the most stunning moments of the film, listens to his beautiful tenor singing. When she and her husband arrive home, she cries over a lost love, Michael Fury, whose passion for her was great, but it wasn't to be, and he let himself freeze to death in remorse. Gretta falls asleep, leaving Gabriel to stand at the bedroom window and watch the snow fall as he ponders life, its meaning, and all that matters...love. What might have been, and what isn't.Such a staggering film, where the silences are more powerful than any words, about private pain, about love and loss, almost as if John Huston had come to some profound understanding before his death and shared it with the world.Powerful in its quietness, The Dead will have a profound effect on you. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Excellent realization of a great short story","Date":"9 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Many good short stories are structured to deliver an emotional conclusion. This movie is based on such a story by James Joyce and, although I would not have believed it, I think the text used in the final scene actually improves on the short story. I was unprepared for the emotional impact of the final scenes. The movie also has the benefit of music and images. Anyone who does not last to the end will be missing a moving experience.The first two-thirds of the movie occur at an Epiphany party given by two elderly women and one of their nieces. The party clearly has had a long tradition, with many old friends and relations in attendance. I imagine that the choreography required to film this many people on the dance floor and at dinner was a challenge, one which director Houston pulls off with skill. Since the movie follows the short story closely I assume that we are getting an accurate look at a cross section of Dublin society in the early 20th Century here. The gentle score by Alex North has an Irish flavor and is an asset.I consider this to have been 83 minutes well spent. "}{"Title":"John Huston's haunting farewell","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It may be wise to approach with caution the posthumous release of the last film by a respected director; in the wake of grief and regret a thoughtful review can too easily become a eulogy. But the late John Huston's parting film is more than just an elegant swan song; it's the perfect cinematic equivalent of a literary short story graceful, concise, and finely detailed. The focus is intimate, centered almost entirely on a dinner party in 1904 Dublin, and the evening's revelations are small and personal, but quietly devastating. The final passages offer a beautiful and fitting conclusion to both the film and its director's career, turning the housebound camera out of doors into the Irish countryside that Huston loved so well. With just a few simple landscapes, and with the melancholy music of James Joyce's prose, Huston is able to convey a stunning evocation of the Emerald Isle dark, windswept, lonely, and compelling. It's hard not to wonder if the director knew he would never see these final images reach the screen. "},{"Title":"Remembering life's most precious (and missed ) opportunity","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I always remembered this film, about a woman who recalled her best, tragic love, as a quiet delight. I saw The Dead again on TCM this week and it maintains its power.The movie places us in the midst of a group of cultured friends and relatives as they gather for dinner one snowy night in 1904 Dublin. We are brought back to a time of top hats and good manners, to when people conversed to entertain themselves and played piano and sang if they wanted music. (The effect here is for the viewer to be left nostalgic for a time she never experienced!) Yet despite the outward gaiety, there is an undercurrent of sadness at this party. The sensitive, alcoholic man who lives in nervous fear of his mother; the maiden aunt whose most intimate moment was upon hearing a tenor's mellifluous voice; the couple who married because it was the responsible, if not romantic, thing to do...It was a pleasure to see Angelica Huston in this role again, and watching her being transported to her youth while hearing D'Arcy sing The Last of Autumn to his intended.Like hindsight can -- with considerably less entertainment value -- this movie reminds us to gather our rosebuds while we may. "},{"Title":"Remarkable that a film without action can be so engrossing","Date":"2 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie mostly takes place in the home of three female relatives in 1905 Ireland. They are hosting a Xmas dinner party for their relatives and a few close friends. All it consists of is dialogue and acting. Yet it is so full of emotion and one realizes the complexity of all of these people and their lives. The movie deals with the power of love and the meaning of life.Perhaps my emotional connection with the film has to do with my own advanced age. But it also has to do with James Joyce's short story upon which Tony Huston's Oscar nominated script was based. But it may have had to do with my appreciation of Angelica Huston. She has such a beautiful face (what great cheek bones!), she stands so erect and tall, and she just needs to smile at someone to charm them. Plus she can really act. In fact, the whole cast was marvelous. I particularly appreciated Donal Donnelly's performance as the inebriated Freddy Malins.It is also interesting to realize how music was appreciated in the era before phonograph records and radio. "},{"Title":"A truly marvelous film","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've been waiting years for THE DEAD to come out on video, having pretty much worn my VHS copy to shreds. This is one of the most beautiful films ever made for the holidays. It takes place on the Feast of the Epiphany (Twelfth Night), and is a simple, poignant vignette of characters attending a dinner prepared by three Dublin women. Central to the story is a fairly loveless couple, a wife who once passionately loved a young man who died for her and a man who wants to feel the same kind of passion for his wife, but feels incapable. All of the performances are stunning, and the script weaves among the various characters at the dinner beautifully. Of course, its source material is James Joyce's short story of the same title, and much of his narrative structure is kept fully intact. John Huston's long career as one of Hollywood's greatest filmmakers had a truly fitting finale with this film, which was scripted by his son, Tony Huston; stars his daughter, Anjelica Huston; and is dedicated to his wife, Maricella. Thank you to Lions Gate for picking up the rights to this film and releasing it on DVD. For lovers of all things Irish or for folks looking for a literate, subtle, yet incredibly moving holiday film, this is a true gem. "},{"Title":"Epiphany","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" James Joyce, arguably, could write some of the best sentences in the English language, and his short story, The Dead, which ends his collection The Dubliners, contains&#x97;in its finale&#x97;perhaps the most perfect paragraph in the English language. It's fitting that John Huston, who held back in attempting to film this story, ended his career with it. As with The Red Badge of Courage and The Man Who Would Be King, Huston revered the literary source but made the adaptation cinematic. And with The Dead (which was completed after Huston's death by his son, Tony Huston) we get something nearly perfect in the marriage of literature and cinema.Valuing all that cinema can do, as one of the commentators points out this isn't The African Queen (nor does it need to be), this is the kind of movie that is uncompromising for an audience. All of us slogged through Portrait of an Artist in school, and one needs to bring the maturity of appreciating how words and images in and of themselves can touch us. As with silent films, Huston seeks something pure here, and he works with the confidence of his many years and leaves the world a masterpiece that equals Joyce's original.Many veterans of the Irish theater world are recruited to bring the story of a man filled with self-importance (and mock self-doubt) that's reinforced by the hosts of an annual party on the eve of the Feast of the Epiphany. What's in store for Gabriel Conroy is an evening of celebration, song, dance, poetry where he's asked to give the annual toast to the two sisters and their niece who host the party. He's distracted by the task wanting to rise to the occasion, and this distraction leaves him vulnerable for an earth-shattering experience, handed to him by his wife. While his ego is shaken when he hears a story from his wife's past, it's also a gift where all that seems to have mattered throughout the evening is swept away by the realization of impending mortality for all who are living.And rather than trying to make the last famous paragraph of the story cinematic, Huston brings in a voice over and we hear those incredible words recited as we watch the snow falling faintly through the universe and faintly falling. It's the perfect solution to a filmmaker's adaptation.The cast is all we would hope. Since this is basically a testament to the power of the written word and how it brings us together through common experience each performer seems elevated by their role. Anjelica Huston as Gretta Conroy has a wide range to play, and her account of a young boy who once loved her sears not only Gabriel Conroy, but the audience as well.When I think of Anjelica Huston, it's the transformation she makes in this film; and when I think of her father, it's this film I remember first. "},{"Title":"The Short Goodbye","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Huston directed The Dead whilst wheelchair bound and reliant on an oxygen tank. It would be his last picture, the director dying months before its release.Huston adapted many fine pieces of literature, and often did them justice, but with The Dead he failed to capture the power of the James Joyce tale upon which the film is based. Joyce's short story relied heavily on internal ruminations, monologues carried out in the head, action downplayed in favour for reflections or musings on movement. But rather than find a cinematic means of conveying Joyce's internal prose, Huston relies almost entirely on dialogue and recitals. The result is a very dry, direct film, which completely misses the point of Joyce.Joyce's story was structured as a rumination on a man ruminating. As Gabriel, the story's protagonist, reflected on what he saw, Joyce positioned us to reflect on the reflections of an omniscient narrator who himself reflected on Gabriel. In Huston's film, however, the omniscient narrator's gravest reflections are unsuitably given to Gabriel, whilst the film language itself adopts a very dry, unambiguous tone, in which there is no room for the audience to discover or contemplate the film's (non existent) mysteries. So in a sense we have a character reflecting, but nothing for the audience to reflect on. Or rather, no space for the audience to reflect in.When a middle aged woman weeps over the memory of her lost love at the end of the film, we're supposed to connect art's memory triggering power (the three or four performances within the film) with the cloistered existence of her husband Gabriel, a man who suddenly realises the transience of existence and how the dead continue to live in the living. In Joyce's story, this epiphany shakes the reader, Gabriel serenely contemplating a universal mystery whose secret depths he is only now on the verge of discovering. In Huston's film, however, this mysterious ending is limply conveyed. It's like a piece of dry literature. To see this kind of thing done cinematically, consider the supernatural closing scenes of Altman's Prarie Home Companion, another similarly themed posthumously released film made by an artist on his deathbed.The rest of The Dead consists of various characters (unmarried sisters who have devoted their lives to the arts &#x96; music, food, singing, oration etc) hosting a party for various guests (fittingly, Joyce sets the party on The Feast of the Epiphany, a Christian feast associated with baptisms, ie - Gabriel's rebirth). Characters dance, sing, chat, engage in pleasantries, the slightly melancholic recollections of absent friends putting an extra sting on the snowy night. This is all handled well, but again, looks sub-par when compared to, say, Gosford Park or The Remains of the Day (though, admittedly, these two films have little in common with The Dead other than the way their cameras linger on preparatory activities).7.5/10 &#x96; A minor work by Huston. This film needed a softer touch, a more languid, mysterious approach. Of course, strapped to an oxygen tank and on the verge of nothingness, one perhaps understands why Huston was quick to rush this flick of his system. The Dead was one of his shortest films. One senses him fighting off death with every frame.Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"His last directed film quite a legacy for his children","Date":"18 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Argentinian music poet, Atahualpa Yupanqui, once said that some folk music repeats similarly at any country of the world. They look the same but everybody consider them as their own folk music...This film, as I feel it, is about the same music that repeats all over the world at some time of each country's history. First, a few listen it playing and try to make the others hear it. Then some, believe that they hear it, but they don't. Then, nobody says anything and some people appear to listen to it. And others recognize that they have heard it, but didn't think that others might be hearing it. Finally, everybody listen to the same music, and suddenly it doesn't sound any more...Love and poetry, as a real nationalism and the legacy of a father to his children...Why would he call the film, The Dead when nobody dies? The Spanish translation of the title refused to follow the same rule and we call it Dubliners, following James Joyce's title...A nice 1900 Irish filmed postcard! "},{"Title":"A wonderful film","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Saw this film at the NFT in London where it was showing as part of the BFI's John Huston season. I wasn't really sure what to expect and the first few minutes of the film gave very little away. In fact the rest of the film continued to give little away! No real plot, no action, no suspense, very little drama and, except for a short section at the very end, no scenery.The result of lack of all of these features was, however, a wonderful film. I don't fully understand why, but I think that its understated nature made the film almost completely perfect. The acting, script and, most important of all, the casting were all spot on and I can't remember walking away from a cinema feeling so good, but I still can't work out why. I just know that I will be getting the DVD (this is one of those films that will, I am sure, be just as good on the small screen as the cinema experience, provided that you can find somewhere quiet to watch it!) and I will be watching it again soon. I will be also interested to find out what my family and friends think of it. I'm sure that it will not be everybody's choice but I am convinced that a large number will agree with my view.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Requiem for the Dead....","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Huston made many remarkable and memorable films. Those most often and easily recalled were released long before his passing in 1987. It was that year, however, that reminded us that Huston was still at the top of his game as evinced by his faithful adaptation of James Joyce's acclaimed novella The Dead. Once long ago, a very wise man called Doc asked me, Doesn't The Dead seem remarkably more vivid and bright than any of the other stories in Dubliners? I tend to think that it is. The story and film both contain some of Joyce's societal comments and criticisms, but for the most part, paint a warm and loving portrait of an Ireland Joyce himself so often railed against and would shortly leave. Huston's handling of protagonist Gabriel Conroy, who realizes the world as he sees it is nothing more than an illusion, is simply remarkable. To claim that the film lacks plot is to miss the point. As with any of Joyce's Dubliners, plot--while most certainly present--is not the focus. Plot is merely a tool for the conveyance of the protagonist's epiphany. In addition to a seeming lack in action, there is quite frankly little dialogue in Joyce's short story for the director to lean on. Huston's ability to translate what Joyce puts in words into visuals is quite possibly the movie's greatest triumph. Feelings, thoughts...Gabriel's discomfort during the dance...all these intangibles leap to life and come within the viewer's grasp in Huston's portrayal. To claim that Huston has softened his writer's criticism of society again misses the mark. While The Dead may be painted with a cheerful hue, the complacency and pretense of the film's characters is but a comment on society on a smaller scale we are the toddling old aunts; the embarrassing drunk; the tenor with the sore throat; the wife with the sad, rain soaked secret; even the self-deluded middle-aged man. But The Dead belies its title. It is not a dark story. Nor is it really that bleak. Forget for a moment the snow falling on the living and the dead and the inherent symbolism in it; forget the shambles of a life Gabriel awakes to at the film's end it is only with the destruction of the illusions Gabriel has of himself and of his world that he can truly go forward. Such is the central point of the film. Such is the central point of our lives. "},{"Title":"What did I miss?","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have to agree with Robert D.'s review - I simply don't understand all of the very positive reviews. Maybe you have to be Irish or a huge fan of Joyce? Maybe it's because of John Huston's body of work? But after watching The Dead, I have to ask myself, what did I miss? There was nothing offensive in the film. The acting was alright, except for Anjelica Huston's struggle with an Irish accent - she works to hard to get that lilt in her dialog. The set was fairly claustrophobic - a dinner party - but again nothing out of the ordinary. There are a couple of songs and a piano recital. I guess if you like the selections they were OK (I did not). It's just that there was nothing distinctive at all about this film. Flat characters, simple dialog, and not much more. "}{"Title":"Beautiful Film","Date":"6 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Dead, The (1987)*** (out of 4) John Huston was near death when he started filming this movie, which would turn out to be his last. It's easy to see how much love the director had for the James Joyce novel as every scene in the film just has a certain atmosphere that can only be passion. The film centers on a family gathered for a Christmas dinner in 1907 Ireland and the impact that death, love and not loving will have on the select group including Greta (Anjelica Huston). I must admit that I admired this movie a lot more than I actually enjoyed it and I'm only saying this because it took me quite a while to warm up to the characters. As strange as it might sound, I had no problem getting caught up in their stories and the scenery they were making but for some reason the real heart and soul of the actual characters never really hit me until the end of the film. Perhaps this is due to the brilliant visual style, which really is a character all of its own. The way Huston filmed the scenes and the amount of atmosphere and at times dread he put into all of them makes this one of his most impressive jobs as a director. There were countless scenes where Huston just let the camera float around picking up different bits of dialogue and I couldn't help but get swept away into everything that was going on. The dim lights, wonderful camera pans and the masterful performances all make this film stick out as something special. The entire cast does a remarkable job but to me it's Huston that really sticks out with her excellent performance, which was just two years removed from her Oscar winning role in her father's Prizzi's Honor. The intensity she brings to the film's final twenty-minutes are something to really belong and her work with Donal McCann, who plays her husband, is chilling. Sean McClory, Frank Patterson and Dan O'Herlihy all add terrific supporting performances. The film runs a rather short 82-minutes but there's so much to think about here that you really forget how short it is. Seeing as how this was Huston's final film you really can't help but think what was going through his ill body while filming this. "},{"Title":"The big big picture","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Writers and directors, by the nature of their craft, stand back a frame from the action in their work to show insights about characters and situations. Here, Huston and Joyce have stepped back a bigger frame yet to show us the ultimate view of what it means to be human. Until it's very end the movie appears to be about nothing much, the kind of typical circumstances that fill every day life. It is not until the end of the very final scene that we realize that it is in fact about everything.It is not possible to watch this final scene without simultaneously feeling pity, and also deep affection, for oneself and the rest of fellow beings. "},{"Title":"A small, quiet gem of a movie","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  John Huston, actor and director better known for more robust fare such as The Misfits and African Queen, directs his daughter, Angelica Huston, in what would be his last film. Indeed, the film was released after Huston's death. Based on James Joyce's novella of the same name, The Dead tells the quiet story of a New Year's celebration in 1904 Dublin. Huston, his cast and his screenwriters, including his son Tony, have created a gem of a movie. The novella is among Joyce's finest works (as well as being the only one that is filmable). The film is a tribute to Huston's genius. He has taken a small,beautiful story and has made a small, beautiful movie. Donal McCann and Angelica Huston shine (although shine is too showy, too flashy a word to describe their quiet, understated performances). The Dead reflects the Huston family's love for Ireland and is, in its own quiet way, a fitting final movie for a legend. "},{"Title":"Huston did not go gently into that good night.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Dead truly is a work of art. Clearly, John Huston meant to show that he was still in the full glory of some passion by making it, even as his body was failing him. This movie is powerfully affecting and lingers in the mind long after it is done. Reading the Joyce short story certainly adds more depth to the characters, especially Gabriel's inner turmoil, but the essence is all there in this film. As a statement by an artist of his love of life and his craft, The Dead stands alone. "},{"Title":"A perfect translation of James Joyce's story by John Huston.","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Because of the depth of his character studies and complexity of story lines, James Joyce's works do not easily translate into film. Yet John Huston, in his last film before his death, achieved a perfect translation of Joyce's story. He received great support from his son, as writer, and daughter, as actress. "},{"Title":"Perfection","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is possibly the most perfect film I have ever seen - in acting, adaptation and direction.  It is self-contained and of a kind, so there is no point in saying that it is better or worse than other great films, just that it can stand by itself as a perfect work of art.And it was fun watching confused horror fans getting up and walking out! "},{"Title":"The greatest swan song","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  John Huston's last film The Dead is also one of his best. A rather simple tale is told so beautifully and acted impeccably by the whole cast with cinematography and music to match.I haven't read the book (at least not yet) and I generally dislike it when people compare books and films as if they were comparable in any way except the main idea that a film adaptation of a book should use.Nevertheless, be it because of the original story or the screenplay, the characters and the dramatic events develop wonderfully. Despite being sad, resembling Orson Welles's the Magnificent Ambersons, this film is a very rewarding experience with a superb ending.A perfect swan song for master Huston. "},{"Title":"Fitting swan-song from a true great","Date":"23 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I love John Huston and his films, and The Dead is no exception. The Dead is a very fitting swan-song from a terrific director, and is very elegant, moving and compelling. The production values are simply gorgeous, for me The Dead is one of the most beautiful-looking John Huston films. The script is deft and moving, and the story while languid in its pace is ceaselessly compelling. Huston's direction is wonderful too, but it is really the cast that impress most. The wonderful actress she is, Anjelica Huston is superb in the lead, this is easily one of my personal favourite performances of hers. Donal McCann also impresses as her regretful husband, and Donal Donnelly is outstanding. All in all, a beautiful film and a very moving and fitting swan-song. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Does justice to a sublime original","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A rare exception to the rule that great literature makes disappointing films, John Huston's beautiful farewell to life and the movies is almost entirely true to the narrative and the spirit of James Joyce's short story, a tender meditation on love, death and time expressed in the events of a Twelfth Night party in middle-class Dublin circa 1910. Unpromising as the material might appear, the film succeeds by its willingness to tell the story on its own quiet, apparently inconsequential terms, rather than force a conventional cinematic shape of plot points and dramatic incidents upon it. Only once is the wrong note struck, when old Miss Julia (a trained singer and music teacher whose voice is supposed to have been cracked by age, not shattered) sings so badly that the audience burst out laughing when I saw this at the cinema. Fortunately, the mood of hushed and gentle melancholy is re-established in plenty of time for the moment of revelation between the married couple Gabriel and Gretta Conroy in a hotel bedroom as snow begins to fall outside. It's a sad story, I suppose, but the kind that leaves you feeling better, not blue. Especially recommended as a date movie - for people in love who aren't frightened of confronting the sweetness and sadness of life.  "},{"Title":"Things happen and then things don't happen","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So to put it in early Twentieth Century philosophical terms, Gabriel Conroy runs smack into the existential wall. I don't know if Joyce would have liked existential wall, but it is there nonetheless. You have a beautiful fabric of locale, people, food and music, and it is all wiped away by mortality, which wipes everything away that we ever try to grasp and cherish. Proust knew it, of course. Proust would have turned back into the house and tried to smell, taste or drink something that would summon back the fleeting happiness. But Gabriel Conroy does a more natural thing. He gets in a coach and goes home and into his own future, which is today buried under a lot more winter snows that Gabriel (or Joyce) ever saw in Ireland.Existentialism would be unbearably annoying if it were not true. Nothing matters, or at least not for very long, and our lives are comparable to those of summer flies crawling across a few sugary wet spills on a dry picnic table---and then dying quick with no discovery of meaning because there is no meaning, unless assigned, and, alas, we have to do the assigning, and we don't always have the time, perspective, or the will to do it.We realize from the outset of the dinner party that we need to appreciate its texture quick because, like 1910, it is going to be gone soon and won't mean anything anyway. Horace was wrong. There are no monuments in marble or brass or words or anything else. Just unrelenting time which alters and destroys. "}{"Title":"Greatest ever Irish movie.","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of my favourite Irish movies, this is just a period piece where not a lot happens. But it is just superb and a fitting testiment to John Houston who died soon after this was released. Everything about this movie is top-notch and I would recommend it to anyone who likes great acting and equally great writing. Angelica Houston turns in a superb performance as the only non-Irish member of the cast and the others are equally as good especially the two Donal's. Angelica Houston lamented that it was a shame that her father was not nominated for an Oscar for this fine piece of work and I can only agree. I don't know what won that year but I can't imagine it been better then this. The movie was made by an American but it rates as the greatest Irish movie ever made. Rating 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Possibly the greatest movie ever made - where's the DVD?","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I first saw this film in Austria when it first came out, and I was entranced by it. It is a passionate and deeply moving work that should be experienced by all connoisseurs of motion picture art. What a shame that it has never been released in DVD format. Perhaps one of these days that will be rectified, as it would be a shame indeed if one of the best films ever made was forgotten and left to fade away in some film vault forever.Why is it that 'B' movies like 'American Wedding' and 'Eurotrip' get widescreen and fullscreen releases, and often a special edition with multiple commentaries and extras, while great art pieces like 'The Dead' are all but forgotten? "},{"Title":"booooooooring","Date":"24 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I must, in light of the encomia of praise for this flick from viewers, assume once again the role of the turd in the punchbowl, as Lowell Weicker used to say, I am scratching my head at the sheer number of laudatory comments. The African Queen this ain't. The period flavor is wonderful, yes. The acting is fine, but no actor no matter how great can bring life to the seemingly endless stream of perfectly tedious and insignificant party and dinner table conversation here, and I care not how much of it is taken from Joyce's text. Imagine spending an hour and a half as a fly on the wall at a Christmas dinner of a not particularly interesting group of people (it's not clear to me that it's a family, as one person suggested), having to listen to their mundane table talk, and you have the essential experience of this movie. Absolutely nothing happens. And nothing important is said, but it is said at interminable length. As I said, the popularity of this movie is a mystery to me. Speaking of mysteries, watch a good one rather than this. "},{"Title":"Huston calling","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"10 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Huston's last film stars, among others, his daughter Angelica, and was also written by another member of the clan. It's based on a short story that forms part of James Joyce's book 'Dubliners'. But short stories often prove just too short to sustain a full length feature film, especially when, as here, they are snapshots of a collection of characters at a point in time rather than a story per se. 'The Dead' is a nicely observed, and tolerably acted, portrait of turn-of-the-century Dublin life, but it has no plot to speak of and the pace is very slow, as the film paints its picture with a minimum of economy. Joyce is famously difficult to read, but this is not a difficult film; sadly, it is a dull one. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Huston's final film is an adaptation of a popular short story, and having not read it, I cannot judge the film's fidelity to the story. I have heard that it is quite a faithful adaptation, but looking at the film on its own, it left me unimpressed. It is pretty much all talk and no action, not that such a quality is a bad thing, but that the talk is dull. The conversing that goes on between the characters only covers a mere few points that caught my interest, and the overall film seemed pointless to me. The acting is quire decent, and there is no flawing the superb costume design, but otherwise I found it to be a somewhat disappointing final note from the director of 'The Maltese Falcon' and other classics. Perhaps I need to read the short story first to appreciate it more. "},{"Title":"Still waiting for something to happen","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Marvellous photography, the very best of Irish actors, atmospheric vignettes and on-the-nose wardrobe simply cannot save this film from the ennui of a restless audience. One wonders what Joyce and his publishers were thinking when this indulgent and floppy piece hit the presses as a book; let alone when it reached the film studio. There is no beginning, a middle which defies interest and a decidedly soggy ending. Frankly, this film was akin to watching a car wreck one knows that one should look away - yet one finds oneself unable to do so. If only in a spirit of discovery hoping that one would find something worth the wait. Nothing is. "},{"Title":"And Buried","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having read the IMDb comments for this film, I am wondering if I was watching the same film. The acting was reasonable, if nothing special, the setting and direction were good, although not to my mind outstanding, but unless you are a fan of Ireland at the beginning of the 20th century there is no way the dialogue and action could pass for reasonable entertainment.To my mind there is always a problem in transferring to film a play or story where the action takes place in a single location, with a play or story one interacts with the characters far more than with a film, where one is much more of an outsider.I am not an action movie fan, but I had to go and make a cup of coffee to stay awake through this valium substitute. One star for the direction and that is it. "},{"Title":"Dull and dreary","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Huston has a well deserved reputation for directing excellent movies, and I watched the entire movie with an expectation that It must get better soon - this is John Huston, after all. It became apparent that this was as good as it gets when, after watching about 60 never-ending pointless minutes of a dull and dreary dinner party, one of the actors, (preumably for lack of a good script), resorted to reading Joyce's original words as an explanatory voice-over. This certainly helped to explain why Angelica Huston had burst into tears moments before, although why we had to wait until after dinner for this, I don't know. I was woefully disappointed. The movie completely failed to engage my interest or attention, and remains a dull and dreary remake of the original 1960's movie of James Joyce's short story. Its a story better left in print, and my recommendation is Buy the Book. "},{"Title":"Not Much Of A Swan Song","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"7 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I mention the name John Huston what movie flashes into your mind ? THE MALTESE FALCON perhaps ? THE ASPHALT JUNGLE ? Perhaps even PRIZZI'S HONOR ? Almost certainly THE African QUEEN ? It definitely won't be THE DEAD since apart from being Huston's last film it's almost certainly his leastThe problem with this movie is that it's so thread bare plot wise . It takes place in a house in Dublin in 1904 where some middle class characters get to talk , sing , dance , make merry and as far as the plot goes that's it . The characters may be charming but how many Celts do you know that aren't charming ? I guess we should be thankful that politics are kept to a minimum but how thankful should we be for small mercies ? The production values aren't all that outstanding either , yeah okay they're competent but we are talking about a legendary Hollywood director so is competent much of a compliment ? Seeing as Huston has cast his daughter in the leading actress role and got his son to adapt James Joyce short story the film threatens to fall into the realms of  Home movie territory  the same as THE GODFATHER PART 3 which was also a slow plot less disappointment . If you want to watch a great Huston movie track down any of the ones I mentioned in my opening paragraph . You won't be disappointed unlike I was with this movie "},{"Title":"Shall I","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" make my comments like so many I read. Why this film has my absolute favorite, Donal McCann and Angelica is always great, though she was better in Addams Family Values. I mean here's this film about people eating dinner and just gassing the night away and nothing happens. No one breaks wind to get a laugh, or vomits into their plates and then they have this music that puts me to sleep. I kept waiting for someone to break in and machine gun a few of them so some action would break out. I caught it the other night on cable, but I was really lucky Police Academy 4 was on another channel. I'd missed the first two-thirds so I was a little peeved. It ended too soon. They were still talking when I came back to this channel. "}{"Title":"Actually Dead","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Absolutely the worst movie I have ever seen. You would never know this was directed by the great John Houston, and worst is being generous. Save yourself the time and avoid this one like the plague; take your kids to the park, take your wife/husband out to dinner, call an old long lost high school friend...you'll have spent your time more wisely.  "}]