[{"Title":"A Wonderful Idea","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Hey, there are worse reasons to make a movie than the hope that a kid and a few professional ballplayers might be able to change the world. Is Alex English a fantastic actor? No... but he's believable. And if you are willing to suspend your disbelief about the plot, you can have an amazing ride with this movie. It's a great idea... and the movie plays it off pretty darned well.Nothing wrong with a movie that make you believe that a dream could happen. "},{"Title":"Wonderful and sad","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Who'd have thought that sappy movie starring an ex-pro athlete about nuclear disarmament would be this terrific.  While the big theme--nuclear disarmament--is always omnipresent, it is the small themes of the movie--family, friendship, hero worship, life priorities, peer pressure--that make Amazing Grace and Chuck so watchable and, ultimately, sure to make you cry.  Amazing Grace and Chuck sounds corny, but is really moving.  It is a movie I can see over and over. "},{"Title":"Says amazing things about the human spirit!","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  While ultimately this movie may be incredibly unrealistic, Amazing Grace and Chuck still has an important and powerful message about the need to make sacrifices for something you truly believe in. An outstanding performance by the cast solidifies this movie as one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"One of the best Kid's Movies ever","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Provided you are capable of a willful suspension of disbelief regarding the implausible plot premise, this is a delightful movie. Truly one of the best kid's movies of all-time (right up there with The Sandlot).This movie combines some well-known stars (Gregory Peck, Jamie Lee Curtis, and William Peterson) with some surprising debuts (Joshua Zuehlke as Chuck and former NBA great, Alex English, as Amazing).The story is heart-warming, with some genuine tear-jerkers, and the closing is uplifting (though a tad predictable). There are some surprises, a few quotable lines, and lots of inspiring moments.I can't recommend this enough, if you want to believe that anyone can make a difference in this mixed-up world of ours. "},{"Title":"A real sleeper.  This is a great movie!","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  I use to go into this little milk store in West Lebanon, NH on my way home from work.  They had a display of movies you could rent. Nothing recent or big box office.  One night I was so bored I took home a tape called Amazing Grace and Chuck. I was completely captivated by this film.  Maybe because I had no expectations,  knew nothing about this film, or I just was in the mood, I found this to be one of the best movies I have ever seen. I can't describe it because, quite frankly, this movie has a ridiculous plot. A little league player decides to give up baseball until all nuclear weapons are destroyed. Famous athletes, the president, all get involved. Rent this movie.  If you liked Tender Mercies, you will like Amazing Grace and Chuck.  Then see The Boy Who Could Fly. "},{"Title":"A young boy stands up for what he thinks is right and wins.","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  I watch this movie every time it's on HBO and enjoy it every time. I just purchased it for my grandkids. I think it show kids that adults do listen when given the chance. Especially since 9/11, I think they need to see that their ideas of peace should be looked at closely. Sometimes the simplest ideas are the best. "},{"Title":"It gets me every time","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  I saw this movie years ago and have never forgotten it. The story is of a young boy protesting nuclear weapons by refusing to play Little League baseball. Professional players join in his fight when they hear of his cause. While in this day and age its somewhat unlikely, it offers a great feeling of hope, of truly believing in something, and sacrificing luxuries for the greater good of the world. I love this movie, its not flashy but it touches the heart. Maybe I am a sap, but I don't think I have had one viewing of this movie without being brought to tears. See this movie at least once. Its worth it.If you show this movie to your children, there is an emotional (but not graphic) death in this movie.  "},{"Title":"Totally under-rated feel-good movie with a message.","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  A remarkably enjoyable movie that's particularly entertaining for sports fans and anyone who's not a raging right-wing hawk. Alex English is so engaging & natural that I'm surprised he hasn't done more acting. "},{"Title":"A good flick for young or old","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I had a very different take on this movie than the previous commenter. I first watched the movie as an adult, with my 7-ish year old daughter and a couple of friends. Though somewhat simplistic in nature, the themes are pretty deep. I view the movie as a kind of audio-visual poem, a Tale rather than a mere story. Not that it's the best movie of all time (sorry, Lawrence of Arabia gets that award from me), but I always highly recommend it because the core ideas are interesting, and the story is told in such a peaceful, respectful way. Though the plot is definitely tied to the decades old hostilities between the U.S. and the now-defunct Soviet Union (which fell about 4 years after this film was released), the problem of powerful entities at a stand-off is (sadly) a repeating one.I recommend it for any age, but it's definitely aimed at presenting adult themes to young minds. "},{"Title":"Little Known But One of My Favorites","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I wish they would put this out on DVD so I could get a copy to watch with my kids. It's a wonder fairy tale w/ well developed characters and interesting themes. You also get to watch Gregory Peck as the president of the US; what could be better than that? For those of you who are basketball fans, watching Alex English try to act is fun as well. Even though he's not much of an actor his performance is heartfelt and it's hard not to like the character. The movie's got one of my favorite linesPresident (Peck) the constitution gives you the freedom of speech but that doesn't mean you can walk into a crowded movie theater and yell fire. Kid But sir, what if there really is a fire?It's easy to get past the cheese and enjoy this movie...if you can find it. "}{"Title":"You're never too young for passion and commitment.","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  When this movie came out in the late '80s, it spoke out about nuclear proliferation. But the central themes of passion and commitment resonate beyond the time and the cause. Even if you don't agree with or understand Chuck's refusal to play Little League until all the nuclear silos are cleared, you have to believe in his determination to be the one person who makes a difference.You don't have to be a sports fan or a political activist to be affected by this film, which combines laughter, tears, dedication and not a few plot twists. Newcomers to the fandom of William Petersen will appreciate his performance as a very conflicted father, trying to do right by his family and his country.  "},{"Title":"So awful it might be worth your time","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" One of the five worst movies I have ever watched. And I'm not exaggerating. In fact, I recommend watching it so you can get the same feeling of incredulity as you might by watching Showgirls.Out of 400 votes, the movie gets a user rating of 5.3/10. But there is a disproportionate number of voters who gave it a 10/10, probably due to the message of the movie - nuclear weapons are the bane of mankind. Chuck Murdock is an all-star little league pitcher who gives up baseball because there are nuclear weapons. Soon Amazing Grace Smith is an all-star Boston Celtic who is inspired by Chuck's story and gives up basketball. Soon all sports leagues from the professional level to college to high school to little league dismantle in a world-wide protest. Later all the children of the world go on a silence strike. This inspires the President of the United States to meet with the Soviet Premier, who in time agree to eliminate all nuclear weapons in time for the start of the next Little League season. The movie ends with Chuck about to throw out the first pitch, with the President telling his new best friend Chuck not to worry about striking out every batter, as he hasn't thrown a baseball in a year.Somewhere along the line a nefarious underworld boss kills Amazing Grace. When the President finds out he is told that the FBI can verify the killer but will never be able to prove it. So the President calls the underworld boss (But it's one a.m. I don't care, get him on the line) and tell him that he is to resign from all company boards that he sits on and sell all stocks that he has. And to not get out of line again.Honestly, this movie was so crappy that I couldn't turn it off. It was on television from 230 am to 400 am, and I watched it all. I wasn't turned off by the anti-nuclear weapons propaganda. I was turned off by the implausible break down of all organized sports. I don't even understand why Amazing Grace Smith was killed. And with all these famous athletes becoming Chuck's friends, why the father was constantly upset with his son taking a principled stand. And there was the cliché moment near the end when dad tells Chuck, I never told you this, but I'm proud of you. Cue hug. "},{"Title":"About why Amazing was killed by the bad guy (as if you couldn't guess)","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Honestly, the filmmaker here although using an implausibility, was trying to make a point That if organized professional sports came to a grinding halt - really stopped, as s depicted in the film - for some higher ideal or attack of morals, parties interested in the point spread might truly become concerned enough to do whatever possible to re-start professional sports. This is the intended message, although one could make the case that those interested in keeping sports gambling alive wouldn't necessarily draw attention to themselves by killing a public figure (in movie worlds, killing public sports figures is usually left to governments), however, another implication in this movie about the bad guy suggests that the President's order of divestiture is just the tip of the iceberg of the bad guy's troubles. Even his friends after hearing of the plane crash on TV news, they start to distance themselves from him, knowing he's responsible and has really gone too far this time. "},{"Title":"Athletes For Disarmament","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Chuck as played by Joshua Zuehlke is a young Little League pitcher with nothing on his mind but the pressure of the season opener. But his small Montana town is the home of some nuclear missile silos and he gets a tour of one. He's a bright kid and when he questions what if they're used and the other side uses them as well, he gets an answer that's all too graphic.Young Mr. Zuehlke gives up the Little League in protest and his small human interest story catches the attention of professional basketball player Amazing Grace Smith played by Alex English. Partly due to a fairly recent personal tragedy he's suffered he joins the young Little Leaguer out in Montana and then some players from other professional sports join as well. The two athletes professional and amateur are the story, dwarfing such name players as Jamie Lee Curtis who is English's sports agent and Gregory Peck as the President of the United States who finds his hand in negotiating with the Russians compromised.Amazing Grace And Chuck got dated and very quickly by the collapse of the Soviet Union. We started having to deal with a much different world than what President Peck was confronted with. There are no easy answers out there and the threats have multiplied with both ecological and biological terror a possibility as well.Still Amazing Grace And Chuck was a sincere effort at presenting the pacifist point of view. "},{"Title":"I see the life story of Samantha R. Smith","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I saw this movie, when i was young. I like it very much. In a last year, I learn about the life, and story of Samantha R. Smith. I see many similarities between this movie and her vivid life. The same story, about nuclear weapons, and the fight of a young person against it, who's fight start the friendship between two nations, US and Russia. It seem that, we forgot the lesson from Life, from the TRUE story of Samantha Smith. I think we need to see this movie many tines, again and again and again, and read the old newspapers from our young history and learn... because... Those who cannot learn from History, Are doomed to repeat it! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" The Bar scene was filmed in my parents bar (The Mint Bar) in Livingston, MT. The barn that they hung out in or used as a home base belonged to my X-wife's Aunt on Mill Creek in Paradise Valley between Livingston and Yellowstone park. Some of the best hunting and fishing in the world! I was in England while it was being filmed but my parents appeared in the bar scene. But at the same time this was being filmed I was a stand in for the sequel to The Winds of War. I grew up on Mill Creek and graduated from Park High school before going in to the Military. Sorry don't know what else to say about it other than it was a really good movie. Anything with Jaime Lee in it has my attention! "},{"Title":"The ultimate feel good movie","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" No, it's not real life....but, this is the best attempt out there that makes us feel,you know, we matter.A strong cast, anchored by Alex English shows that, even though there're in charge. We can still make a difference. Really important, even today, because, there's really nothing new. Enjoy it while you can! (Just ask Amazing) English's character, as the dad , ties the movie together. Initially, he struggles with his reality, but, ultimately, he comes to grip with his real feelings. So, the Cold War is over? Don't kid yourself. It's only entered a new dimension. A fun movie, probably, what should have happened. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  While parts of the movie I admit are far-fetched, I really liked the concept. Maybe if something like this really happened, we just might see a change in our nuclear policy - like the movie said wouldn't it be nice? I am not naive, and I understand how we got where we are now. Just what would it take to get rid of these things? The movie Fail-safe came out when I was 4, and I saw it when I was about 9. It scared the **** out of me, and I couldn't sleep for a week. There was a Nike missile site within walking distance of my house, and I thought there was a nuclear warhead there (I didn't know then, but I have since learned that the Nike system was capable of carrying a nuclear warhead). The Nike system was shut down in the '70's. Its' replacement systems, the Atlas and Titan systems, have been mostly decommissioned (as far as I know). Now we have airborne and submarine based systems. I'd love to see ALL nuclear weapons (ours and theirs)gone. What will it take? I know it will have to be more than a movie. It has to start somewhere. (climbing down from my soapbox...)I think this is a great movie to watch with your kids, to stimulate discussion.  "},{"Title":"The Frank Capra film of the Regan era","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  In the 1980's a number of films tried to capture the feel of a  Frank Capra type film. But the only one that successfully managed to do it was Amazing Grace And ChuckIt's plot has young Chuck deciding that nuclear weapons is bad, deciding to protest by not pitching for his little league team in their important playoff game. Famous basketball star Amazing Grace Smith (Alex English) decides to join Chuck's protest and stops playing basketball. He then moves near Chuck. Then other athletes join the protest. The President of the United States (Gregory Peck in an excellent performance) gets involve so does Amazing Grace's agent (Jamie Lee Curtis). When a tragedy strikes Chuck adds to his protest and refuses to speak. This protest is carried on to all the children of the world.This is a real feel good film like Frank Capra made Sure it's corny in fact it's Capracorny, that's why it's so good. It was made by Mike Newell who went on to direct Enchanted April and Four Weddings And A Funeral The critics at the time of it's release were unkind. They just put it down as overly sentimental, but what is wrong with that. Remember that same criticism was made against most of frank Capra's films including It's a Wonderful Life. Now everybody thinks it's a classic. Watch it, you'll thank me, plus keep a box of tissues handy. This film will bring tears to your face, not unlike the ending of It's A Wonderful Life. "},{"Title":"A good Cold War movie","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I put this movie in the same genre as Dr. Strangelove and War Games. It is a movie containing a message that was highly relevant to those of us who were 20 something when it came out. It was relevant to those who worried about M.A.D. (mutually assured destruction) as the only way a Super Power was guaranteed to win a global nuclear conflict. It is stated at the beginning of this movie that it is an adult fairy tale. Of course, this message cannot be seen by those whose greatest calling in life is to download the latest ringtone, or keep up with the emails on My Space. There was a time when our planet was threatened, and people of conscience made movies voicing their concerns. The idea of professional athletes forsaking their livelihood and dreams for a greater cause is an incredible fiction. One that is even more fictitious with today's athletes. This is not a great movie, but it is one worth watching that carries with it the message that we can achieve great things if we're willing to give up our selfishness and seek something greater than ourselves. "}{"Title":"What this movie is really about...","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" On the surface, it would appear that this movie is about protesting the use and existence of nuclear weapons. That's fine if you're an ostrich, keep your head in the sand and your butt up in the air and you'll get what you deserve.What this movie is really about is the power brokers of the world that control what you see, hear, smell etc., and the power they wield over the world's economies, leaders and people. The proof of this is provided to us in the simple end that Amazing Grace meets because of his public announcement of support to those opposing nuclear weapons.Wake up America... "},{"Title":"Good Idea Wasted","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Interesting concept for a story that is never fully realized by the end of the film.  The relationship between the pro basketball player and his young fan has a father-son feel to it that would be used again with more depth ten years later in Donnie Brasco(1997).  Mike Newell gives an interesting message about the fight and sacrifices one takes for his/her cause. Wonderfull use of famous sports athletes and anouncers as themselves. Alex English does alright in the role of the fictional famous Pro basketball player, Amazing Grace.  Amazing Grace & Chuck(1987) is a good family film but average as an experience in film viewing. "},{"Title":"Pretty Preachy","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I can't imagine anyone would ever, in a million years, want to watch this movie. Not because it was one of the worst ever made (it wasn't), but largely because it's about 20 years old and oh-so-out of the mainstream. I was trying to find out where I saw an actor before and this popped up. So, yeah, a kid stops playing little league because he doesn't like nukes, this prompts major media attention and a quick resolution to the cold war. The end. A fantasy, to be sure, but one so cockeyed it would make John Lennon blush. Since terrorism has replaced communism as the -ism that scares the hell out of us, this movie really has no relevance, except as an (innaccurate) look back at those times. The writing, acting, and film craft are similarly undeveloped. The reason I rated it as highly as I did was because I watched this movie around 50 times while I was 5-6 years old and still have a little place in my heart for it, but I now realize that it doesn't quite cut mustard. So, if the law of large numbers holds true and someone eventually does decide to check out this movie, realize that there are much better ways to spend your time, but also much worse ones. (I will refrain from a John Q. tirade for now.) "},{"Title":"The worst film I ever showed in 8 years of theatre management","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I spent eight years running movie theatres in the 80's and 90's. This was, by far, the worst film I ever showed to the public. One thing that made it so bad was that it put on airs of trying to be a great, inspiring film. Even the great Gregory Peck could not save this horrid piece of drivel from being far less than mediocre. Jamie Lee Curtis, in an early non-horror film role, demonstrated clearly that she had not yet learned to act (she's still trying, but it isn't getting much better).I'm sorry, and here's the spoiler, international nuclear disarmament is never going to happen just because it makes children afraid to play little league baseball! Even the shows on Nick and The Disney Channel are not stupid enough to try to make us believe that dreck.This is not worth the time you would waste watching it on cable TV. It is not worth the price of a movie rental; your dollar would be better spent on an extra package of microwave popcorn to go with the other movie you picked (because it can only be better than this). "},{"Title":"Warning boring","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" This movie is a bad memory from my childhood. This is one of those movies that they show kids on a rainy day at school when you can't go out for recess, and you'd rather be watching anything, ANYTHING else. At least that's what it was like when I was in elementary school. I just remember HATING this movie. Granted, I haven't seen it in 15 years or so, and they probably don't use it on rainy days anymore but I just want to warn everyone You'd be better off using this to put your kids to sleep than entertaining them. Trust me, pick anything else. Even though the topic is kind of controversial, the plot is so tame and slow that I can't remember anything about it except that I disliked it so strongly that here, 15 years later, I felt the need to warn all of you against it. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie I've ever seen","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  I saw this in the summer of 1990. I'm still annoyed by how bad this movie is in 2001.Implausible plot. You'd have to be a child to think this could happen.I'm just really annoyed by it. Don't see this. "},{"Title":"Have to agree with pierredb","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" This was among the STUPIDEST and PREACHIEST of the anti-nuke films out of the 1980s.The idea that a kid and a basketball star could change the world is pretty far-fetched, given how many children's peace marches and celebrity protests there were and ARE.But the idea that the Soviet Union would agree to a TOTAL nuclear disarmament, because some apparatchik kids learned of a silent protest in the West, is ludicrous.What ended the Cold War? America's tough, dare I say Reaganesque stance and the internal failures of socialism. It was NOT the peace marches, the die-ins or films like Amazing Grace & Chuck, Miracle Mile, or Testament. "},{"Title":"It it was better, it could be merely terrible","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" This film reminds me of how college students used to protest against the Vietnam War. As if, upon hearing some kids were doing without cheeseburgers in Cow Dung Collehe, the President was going to immediately change all US foreign policy.The worst thing is that, while dangerous, the concept of a policy based on if the USSR and US went to war it could mean the end of the world, WORKED. The US and USSR NEVER WENT TO WAR.Had we only conventional weapons, the notion of yet another war, a win-able war, in Europe and Asia was not unthinkable.Not that I think they should get rid of this movie. It should be seen by film students as a splendid example of How NOT to make a film.It should be 0 stars or maybe black holes... "},{"Title":"Amazing Crap","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I've no idea what dimwit from San Francisco came up with this stupid plot, but apparently they need to get off whatever drugs they are taking and put their analyst on danger money -- NOW.Yeah, this is a plausible story, if you regard the alien abduction sequence in Life of Brian as plausible.This film is little more than a leftist pipedream. Had the US and USSR give up nuclear weapons, the result would've been to eliminate the only real obstacle that kept the two from engaging in a war. Bad as Korea, Vietnam and other wars of the era were, they were proxy wars fought to keep the superpowers from a direct engagement.This film makes me think about how realistic it was when some group of high school kids would go on a hunger strike against nuclear proliferation. As if someone would say Mr. President, some kids at Drastic High are not eating! and Ronald Reagan would reply My God! I'd better revise my Defense policy! Right.Like this film? Wouldn't it be better if the Soviet Union would've collapsed because they could not support their massive arms build... wait, that happened! "},{"Title":"This movie brings a new meaning to the word BAD","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie is BAD.  A stupid premise, a bad script, less realism than Disney could hope for, and poor execution.It is bad in every possible dimension of badness.  Bad acting, bad directing, bad writing, bad script, bad editing...Well, maybe it wasn't THAT bad, but LORD, it wasn't good! "}{"Title":"Worst Movie I've ever seen","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  I saw this in the summer of 1990. I'm still annoyed by how bad this movie is in 2001.Implausible plot. You'd have to be a child to think this could happen.I'm just really annoyed by it. Don't see this. "}]