[{"Title":"Alltime greats","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" This movie came out late 1987, and people were dying for a sequel to Delirious which was 1983. If you go back and watch Richard Pryor's live in Concert or Here and Now you see that Eddie used some of Pryor's stuff, but gave it its own shot of himself (In delirious, Murphy does the bARBQ scene/story and he describes his aunt falling down the steps. It is the exact same description Pryor does in Live in Concert when he describes black women at funerals.) RAW used all the things that made Eddie Murphy famous; his deadon imitations, and his gift for telling stories. I can't even watch Martin Lawrence, DL Hughely, Cedric the Entertainer and a few others without noticing Eddie Murphy's influences right away. People forget how big he was, and how good- wayyy before he started doing bad talking animal movies. There are some debates over which was better Raw or Delirious....they are both hilarious, but you can tell the mindset was much different only 4 years later. In RAW, Murphy compares himself to Johnny Carson, while in Delirious he was just the most popular guy on Saturday Night Live. RAW is one of the best and funniest concert comedies ever, and I dare someone not to laugh out loud when watching it......NOTE This movie was reviewed in 1987 when it came out by Siskel and Ebert AT The Movies, which was when they were getting really popular in syndication, and it spurred one of the best on-air disagreements between the two EVER. Siskel likened RAW, and Eddie Murphy overall, as being as funny (or funnier)and outrageous as Pryor, Carlin or Lenny Bruce. He loved the movie. Ebert despised it, and chastised Siskel for being immature and he also felt that Murphy's attitudes toward women were patronizing, damaging and even went so far as to call RAW a pale imitation of a good comedienne. I thought Ebert was nuts at the time, and now that Siskel is dead, I can't find any review of RAW on Ebert's website. I've emailed him numerous times about it, trying to figure out why a movie that was so popular, and not even that long ago, would not be in his database. Does anyone else thinks that sounds fishy? "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy The Mouth That Roared!","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  Whether you like Eddie Murphy or not, his performance in Raw is quite a show.  He's the first to admit to his profane language.  But even without the dirty words, he can still entertain, as evidenced by his vocal impressions of Bill Cosby and Richard Pryor.  And his song medley at the end is a hilarious finish! "},{"Title":"Tell Bill I said have a Coke and a smile and shut the @#$* up!","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  This is not quite as funny as Delirious, but nothing could be.  However, it is still is one of the funniest stand-ups around.  The first half an hour is on par with his previous stand-up.  The first half an hour he does impressions of some of the same people he did impressions of in DELIRIOUS.  This includes Michael Jackson and Mr. T again.  He also does impressions of what I can only surmise has to be a real life phone call from Bill Cosby.  This is one of the funniest parts of the show as his voice and idiosyncrisies of Bill are right on.  His ensuing conversation with Richard Pryor is also quite funny.There is also some great bits in here about women, dating, and marriage.  And while many people have claimed that Eddie is nothing but a misogynist with his rantings now, it has to be said that there has to be some truth to what he is ranting about.  The show does lack a little near the end but that is okay because the rest of the show is one hilarious skit after the other.  He even takes on his parents again and does quite a good job.Raw is not quite as funny as Delirious but it is a great follow up to his first one.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Good, but nowhere near Delirious.","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  Eddie Murphy raw is good.  Some might even say that it is very good.  Unfortunately, the bar was set so unbelievably high with his previous offering (Eddie Murphy Delirous) that it only comes off as mildly dissapointing.  If you haven't seen either, you should consider watching Raw first, even though it was chronolgically second in the series.  Raw is funny at times, but the pacing was off.  Eddie seems tired in his delivery, and the camera work was a bit shoddy.  The camera is zoomed in too far for most of the show and plays catch-up with Eddie for the duration of the set.  Part of Eddie's genius is how he uses his whole body to convey his comedy, and the camera robs us of this performance by only showing him from his chest and up.You can also tell that Eddie has grown up a bit from watching this.  He is talking more about relationships and life instead of reliving memories from his childhood (which was the really, really funny stuff from Delirious).I don't want to discourage anyone from watching this, as it is still one of the best stand up routines of all time.  I would put it at number 7 or 8 of all time, but only because Delirious takes up the top 6 spots (yes, it is that funny). "},{"Title":"good stuff","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  Offensive, crude, infantile, empty.  Sure, 'Raw' is all these things. It's also laugh-out- loud funny.  This is Eddie Murphy at his best, when he still knew how to make people laugh.  He takes the stage and commands for the duration of the film. He's so in control and confident it's amazing.  I saw it again recently.  It aged well. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Stand Up Comedy!","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" Rated R for Pervasive Strong Language and Crude and Sexual Humor. Quebec Rating13+ Canadian Home Video Rating18AI saw Eddie Murphy's Raw on BET about a month ago.I must say it is simply hilarious.Eddie Murphy is a very funny comedian and Eddie Murphy's Raw is one of my favorite stand-up comedy routines of all time.Eddie Murphy's Delirious came four years before this.It was very funny but Raw was definitely better! There is an opening skit with an unknown Samuel L Jackson as Eddie Murphy's uncle and it goes on from there.There are plenty of funny topics such as how Bill Cosby called up Eddie Murphy to tell him that he was very vulgar,how Mr.T and Michael Jackson want to kick Eddie Murphy's a**.Eddie Murphy's childhood etc.Raw is a very funny stand up comedy routine and if you find it, watch it! Runtime93min9/10 "},{"Title":"What a show","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  Imagine  You produce the taping of the show for, let's be generous, for about 1 Million US$.  We're talking six to eight cameras.  Then you take the show to the theaters and gross a cool 50.000.000 !  This can only work, when you tape Eddie Murphy on stage in on of the best comedy shows ever!  Saw it live in L.A.  What a great timing the guy has.  Get a chance and see the VHS (where is the DVD?) and you'll have the best of times, while you're at it, grab a momma burger and a beer.  "},{"Title":"Energy and stage presence covers up some weak patches among the laughs","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" Live in New York, Eddie Murphy may well look quite ridiculous in his purple jumpsuit but he holds the stage really well in this large arena. It goes without saying that his material is relentlessly foulmouthed and occasionally offensive but it rarely bothered me because he does manage to be consistently funny throughout the show. His topics are mostly in the realm of relationships in regards sex and women generally. This worried me a little bit because these topics hardly offered much in the way of originality but actually he did really well with it.It wasn't that he avoided clichés (because he doesn't) but more that he manages to inject energy into his whole show. At times his material is very strong but even when he is being obvious and crude, his energy lifts it, engages the audience and makes it feel better than it is. I wasn't rolling with laughter all the time but I did really enjoy the show so, even when I didn't laugh at some bits, it wasn't really a problem but he was generally still amusing. Director Townsend doesn't really help him by having the camera tight on him so much either; Murphy's energy is in his whole body so the close shots reduce this somewhat &#150; plus the whole setup makes it hard to appreciate the audience being in the room.Overall though a funny and energetic show from Murphy. It isn't a classic by any means and his material is hardly original but he has stage presence and energy and that helps a lot. Maybe too crude and foulmouthed to be to everyone's tastes but if it is your thing then it is worth a look. "},{"Title":"What have you done for me LATELY???","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" There was once a day when everything Eddie Murphy said and did was hee-larious. Back in 1987, at the height of his powers, Eddie released a movie version of his stand-up act Raw, a sort of follow-up to 1983's Delirious.Film at New York's Felt Room, Eddie discusses Mr T, Bill Cosby, Richard Pryor (doing faultless impressions of all), Johnny Carson's costly divorce, relationships, gays, a home-made McDonalds burger that ruined his childhood etc. It's all pure comedy gold. After about half an hour you'll realize that the reason your face hurts so much is because you're smiling too hard. My favorite moment has to be any impression Eddie does of the average white guy, especially the 'white dude dancing' moment.Where did this Eddie Murphy go and who is the man that gives us kiddie drek such as Daddy Day Care and Haunted Mansion? If you need a major dose of Eddie in his prime then check this one out. I promise you'll love it and you'll be quoting it for days.Look out for a youthful Samuel L. Jackson and Basil Wallace as Eddie' uncle and dad too. "},{"Title":"Eddie at his stand up  best again","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  Eddie Murphy Raw is the second stand up film Eddie Murphy did and it's just as  funny. The topics froms gays, sex, Wacko Jacko and Mr. T are all very very funny. Some of the film's best moments are when Eddie does impressions. If you've never seen this film you're in for a treat. "}{"Title":"Dare I Say...Too Vulgar?? Here's the Truth...","Date":"5 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" I'm no angel...and I love a good stand-up routine with plenty of profanity...but Eddie Murphy Raw was just over the top nasty! My wife and I were at the drive-in theater when this came out back in 87...I was all set for some killer comedy, since Delirious was funny as hell and Eddie Murphy was one of my favorite acts during those years. Then RAW started playing on the big screen...it was so downright filthy...that even me...an ex-sailor...started to shrink back in his seat! I was embarrassed...no kinda mortified...that my wife was seated next to me watching this garbage too! Within 10 minutes...and for the first time in my life...I left a movie early! TWO thumbs down folks! "},{"Title":"That Live Act was Eddie Murphy at his best","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" Except for the beginning where you see some Thanksgiving of 1968 where a child is telling a joke (I only saw that once because now I always fast forward to the show). It's a great gift to hear Eddie talk about various stuff and often his physiognomy is especially funny.. He talks about women who nowadays.. (he refers of course to the 80ties (but it's still true) get half of what you own if the marriage breaks up. He starts this joke with seeing Johnny Carson on the front page of the Enquirer looking very unhappy and then talking about switching to the story where you see a picture of her wife which he is also mimicking.. getting half of Johnny's 300 million.. And the he keeps talking about relationships in general and how to handle them (some very usable information), about a call from Bill Cosby about Italians after they saw Rocky.. and so on.. If you are not offended by the very adult language this Show is a must see DVD.. And for those who don't speak English that well there are subtitles included.. which you sometimes even can use if your English is good, because sometimes he mumbles a bit.. But go out and buy it.. or at least rent it.. And a little hint to to companies Release 'Delirious' on DVD. Finally... But as I said.. send the Children to bed first.. "},{"Title":"Raw Humor","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  Eddie Murphy's stand-up show RAW is by far the funniest stand-up show I've ever seen. Okay, I admit that the intro is pretty corny (as well as that awful 80's music and his purple leather outfit) but the show itself is both intelligently written and brilliantly performed. Murphy has a unsurpassed talent when it comes to impersonations of basically every type of person, whether it's angry women,  Italian wise guys or just his parent. Actually, no one are left out. He makes fun of everybody, and although some of the jokes are quite 80's related, they are still funny. NOTE Try to watch it Sunday morning after a good night out. It can cure even the worst hangover... Funny Bits Mr.T, The African wife, Rocky, The father.  "},{"Title":"Terrific Stand Up Comedy","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" I have grown up to know Eddie Murphy as the funny guy who plays multiple people in one movie, but I also knew that some time ago he was a comedian to which no ground was sacred and who wore some crazy outfits. Luckily I was able to watch one of his classic comedy routines recently, Raw.The greatest part of Eddie's routine was his impersonations. The voice, mannerisms and stuff the people speak about are all done perfectly. Another great thing is that he tells the humorous truth about things like relationships and how people act and think.This movie/performance proves that Eddie Murphy is one of the greatest comedians out there. It is definitely one, for all those mature enough, to see. I will be looking out for more old Eddie Murphy stand up DVDs and I hope he goes back to his old ways. "},{"Title":"May Even Be Funnier Than Delirious","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" Eddie Murphy has to be the Richard Pryor of the 80's. He would star in these comedies that were just hard not to laugh at. Even when he would do things like Delirious and Raw he would still be really funny and when he did stand up he was uncensored. He did what he wanted and that brought him his pay at the end of the day. That was Eddie's passion, Comedy. He was the funniest man of the 80's. He would make any body laugh if he could talk to them. I'm sure that having a conversation with him would have been a great one. Now that he is divorced I feel bad. Now he has kids and is single again. But he isn't the 25 or older comedian he used to be. He kind of had to calm down since being married and having children. "},{"Title":"Rather funny the first time, but one viewing is enough for me","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  For years, I had wanted to see this film (not badly, but anyway), but not once had I located a copy of it in any shop or rental store, or even read about a theater or TV screening I could catch. After all, I'm a fan of everything Eddie Murphy did in the 80's, and RAW was one of the few holes still left unfilled. Then, lo and behold, yesterday it turned up on Finnish TV, and I sat down to watch it.I wasn't expecting too much, so I didn't feel disappointed. Eddie doesn't talk about as many subjects as you'd expect from a 90 minute film, so mostly he just drones on and on about something that wasn't too funny in the first place. I concentrated more on his mimicry and timing than the actual jokes, and they were really spot-on. A comedian without those assets pulling off the same stories Eddie did would just have bored his or her audience to death, but with Eddie, the time rushed on surprisingly quickly. And he sure loves to entertain - you can tell that from the sudden ending, which almost seemed like Eddie was interrupting himself.On the downside, the flashback scene at the beginning was a little unnecessary, during the actual stand-up performance the camera was too close - we missed out on Eddie's attempts to do the Moonwalk - and I felt no particular urge to watch RAW a second time. But as a one-time experience, it was memorable. Best bits Eddie's impersonation of Bill Cosby and his idol, Richard Pryor, and the story about the wife alone in the Bahamas (Man, I loved that microphone-swinging!).Now, how about screening Delirious as well?  "},{"Title":"very funny up until the last 25 minutes or so","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  eddie murphy raw is very funny to a point. The last 25 minutes are kind of dull, and not much, if any laughs. but it's pretty much a laugh riot up until the last 25 minutes or so. the funniest parts include the bill cosby, and richard pryor imitations, and the part about eddie wanting a mcdonald's hamburger as a kid. it  lost so much momentum toward the end, but i still watch eddie murphy raw a lot to see the hilarious moments before. i give eddie murphy raw **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy at his height","Date":"16 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" This opens with a young Eddie Murphy shocking his family during the Thanksgiving gather in 68. It's his standup in Madison Square Garden. He's afraid of Mr. T but not so much Michael Jackson after making fun of them in Delirious. He imitates Bill Crosby chastising him and praises his hero Richard Pryor. It's a night of foul-mouthed nasty stories with references to various pop culture personalities. He and his purple outfit has the audience in the palm of his hands. This is Eddie Murphy at his highest point. He is irreverent and fearless. He comes off as a homophobic misogynist and it doesn't matter. He takes on anything and anyone. He's full of power and energy. Robert Townsend captures it all. "},{"Title":"What a raw old fellow is Eddie","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" Like Richard Pryor, I must admit, it is fun to watch another foul mouthed comic, up on stage. Though not matching the credentials of the late, brilliant insightful comic, Pryor, who I believe was even a better actor, what we have is 86 minutes guaranteed worth of raucous laughs. From infidelity to poverty, where the poor Murphy family were reduced to eating slinky springs, Murphy kicks up a storm of laughs, while remaining coolly confident, which a few budding comedian must envy. Murphy knows how to dress too, his attire more effective than his ruddy sort in Delirious. Too, the start was inventive, with Eddie's childhood, Samuel L Jackson, playing a small but fine role as the Grandfather, egging little Eddie on in the tellings of a dirty joke, seeing star potential. And to split opinions, where personally I didn't like Best Defence, I'd choose Beverly Hills Cop over 48 Hours, any day. I must admit, Murphy isn't afraid to be dramatic about the underlying realities of his jokes. it. His impersonations are fantastic, Bill Cosby, is almost nailed, plus others that impress. Here's a great night in, to save you from going out in the cold to a concert. If you don't mind profanity, that is. "},{"Title":"Raw to the bone","Date":"10 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" Many comics, like Jim Carrey, and Robin Williams, reach a certain age where they stop doing what they are good at and go into family movies. Jim Carrey was funny on In Living Color and Robin Williams has a certain magic with drama films, but now they continue to submerse themselves in the lowest common form of comedy. Cheap bathroom humor and little kid comedies that are in no way funny, nor clever. Eddie Murphy is no exception now doing such things as Daddy Day Care, Imagine That (remember that?), and those countless Shrek films.But, with Eddie Murphy Raw, this was shot in 1987, when Murphy was a very vulgar and hilarious comedian. Eddie Murphy doesn't do anything like Delirious and Raw anymore, or does any sort of stand up comedy at all. These are two little pieces of his history that are now overshadowed by his lame kiddy comedies.Eddie Murphy Raw is a ninety minute comedy special of him performing at Madison Square Garden in NY's Felt Forum. The comic discusses sex, women, actors, why whites can't dance (coming from a white man, so true), why Italians are motivated by Rocky, divorce, and just the topic of life itself. He gives his realism approach to everything, and even shows sympathy for Johnny Carson losing half of his money to his wife after their divorce.The language in the film is absolutely filthy and the women dialog is incredibly misogynistic and degrading. But it's hilarious and has its own truth behind it. I'm sure Eddie cares about women, but some of the things he says about divorce is relatively, right on the money.By the end of the special, it goes a tiny bit downhill which is exceptional because most of the beginning was hilarious and very funny. Raw is the sequel to Delirious, which is one I will be sure to see in the future. Going into this with only average expectations I came out very surprised at what I just saw. I almost had to sit down and have a long talk with myself about right and wrong. It's that good.Starring Eddie Murphy. Directed by Robert Townsend. "}{"Title":"If you have a heart condition, watching this may kill you","Date":"22 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" I'm not kidding, my stomach is sore from all the laughing. After a brief sketch that serves as a lead-in and to some extent, a setup, this is 77 minutes of pure and gradually increasing hilarity(and there is actually insight to a ton of what he says). This and Hot Fuzz(which had the greater effect on me, but you really can't compare these) are the only two things where I've ever felt like I might croak, that my (23-year old and trim as of writing this, mind you) body might be overwhelmed from my enjoying the crap out of what I was seeing and hearing. I love Murphy when he is allowed to do what he does best, and not asked to do it in an irritating manner. The man has a machine-gun for a mouth(in the sense that it can fire off absolutely lethal verbal projectiles at such a speed that counting them soon becomes an exercise in pointless behaviour) and he can behave arrogantly as well as self-deprecating(if the scales aren't necessarily equal). His impersonations are excellent, and Bill Cosby, Richard Pryor(R.I.P.), Michael Jackson(R.I.P.), Africans, Jamaicans, Italians, etc. must have been embarrassed, if they don't have(or had in those 2 cases) a sense of humor about themselves. This is a performance by Eddie, and like other stand-uppers, he ties it together and repeats certain punchlines. The whole thing keeps to an astounding pace(with very few exceptions), and flies by. This is filmed and edited with skill, evident especially in the fact that you don't notice it; it doesn't draw attention to itself, and off the man. There are stereotypes in this, and it is in general quite controversial. The main focus is on relationships, women and sex, though he does talk about gay people, us whites and our inability to dance, and there is a brief bit of bodily function jokes. There is a constant stream of strong language in this. I recommend this to any fan of the comic the way I would a hot meal to someone hungry. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Wow!!!","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" Raw is one of the best, in fact, The best stand up comedy show I have ever seen in my life. His humor is just brilliant, his way of relating his jokes to contemporary topics is like Picasso painting a masterpiece. Delirious was good, but Raw is 10 times better. Eddie Murphy always manages to make people laugh to an extreme where we are just astonished. For me, Raw is a masterpiece. I can watch it again and again, and I still laugh like never before. I would recommend for everyone to watch Raw because it will really match the standards everyone expect if he or she watches a comedy show. So you know what you have to do, watch it!!!! "},{"Title":"What a different world it was in 1987!","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" What a different world we lived in, back in 1987! Eddie Murphy was a long way from shooting family films and political correctness was obviously not on many people's agendas either. There's no disputing that Eddie Murphy is and was a comic genius as this is evident in both Raw and his other stand-up film 'Delirious'. However it just amazes a person of my age (late 20s) that he could have gotten away with so much sexism and homosexual discrimination. In our world today, if you so much as look at another person the wrong way you could end up in court for it. Eddie Murphy circa-1987 on the other hand lambasts all before him in an amazing hour plus-long stand-up routine that doesn't stop for air. If you've been looking for the ultimate comic DVD release, try Raw and Delirious - you won't be disappointed. His disregard for political correctness is irreverence at its best, even if by today's standards it seems incredibly risqué. "},{"Title":"The greatest stand-up show on Earth","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" This is the most well put together and sublimely funny stand-up act I've ever seen. Raw seals all the cracks that appear in Murphy's first concert movie, Delirious, with the performance and material being more mature and competent in front of the audience.Murphy combines spot-on celebrity impressions with observational humour. For me, this is certainly not the laughter of recognition; my upbringing could not have been more different to Eddie's. I can only imagine the comedic effect on anyone who grew up in the poor areas of sixties America.Given Murphy's race, and the predominantly black audience, it is a relief that the show is not dominated by the racial humour that tends to let down other stand-ups, who insist on pointing out the differences between white and black guys. When Murphy does tackle this subject, he dishes it out to every race and then moves on to the shared experiences of childhood.Near the end, Murphy begins an impression of his father which turns into a drawn-out sketch, reprising the similar one in Delirious. This makes the most of Murphy's acting skills with the most suitable material; a bit like The Klumps but without the child-friendly content.Nowhere else are Eddie Murphy's talents so well show-cased, but if you like this, see also; Delirious, The Golden Child, Coming to America, and Trading Places. "},{"Title":"`My ego jumped out my body.'","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  I feel like a philistine suggesting that this seminal stand-up movie isn't as good as its reputation, but over 15 years later it does feel a little bit passé.Okay, there's the 80s title sequences, weak editing and misjudged direction (including Eddie aping Michael Jackson's Moonwalk - shot in close-up) but maybe the real problem is the material. The essential dilemma with any humour that's cutting edge is that it relies on bucking the mainstream. All fine until the mainstream absorbs it, then it ends up being rather quaint when history comes to judge it.That's not to say that Raw isn't funny, but Murphy's overused shock tactics of profanity now seem rather desperate and antiquated. While he receives many plaudits for this stage in his career, I really don't think he has the natural comic ability of a Richard Pryor or, latterly, Chris Rock, to name just two. Now we've got the benefit of watching Raw from a vantagepoint of post-Pluto Nash, post-The Haunted Mansion, his bloated self-referentiality seems to grossly outsize his actual talent. A large chunk of his act seems to be just Murphy telling you how funny Murphy is, the narcissism a thin substitute for charm.It isn't all just swearing, of course, and the majority of his humour is observational comedy. But while he seemed outrageous and even dangerous at the time, when you really think about his targets - women, foreign races, homosexuals - are really quite reactionary. Okay, there's a veneer of satire that elevates this material, but in the main it's only the delivery and performance that separates him from a Jim Davidson. The only real difference is that Jim would have been reverential to his version of Bill Cosby.While it's true, as some IMDb commentators have said, that it runs out of steam before the end, probably the funniest bit for me was his hilarious rendition of Italian-American attitudes to the Rocky franchise. For perhaps the only time in the concert his comedy is actually about something, centring on racist attitudes against black people, even if it does parody another race to do it. For while there's a certain twelve letter word that's notorious in this movie, the most prominent word is I. No matter what the subject, whether it be sex, relationships, race or childhood... the only subject Eddie really talks about is himself. "},{"Title":"much ado about nothing","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  Eddie Murphy is a true giant of comedy. More then a simple stand up or sketch comedian, he is also a very fine actor who brings charm and charisma to any role he plays. He is a true survivor. He started off in 48 Hrs. and Beverly Hills Cop and then had a long dry period before making an amazing comeback in The Nutty Professor and Doctor Doolittle. He is like a timex watch who takes a licking and keeps on ticking. This film of one of his concerts was made in his dry period, but still bears viewing today. He returns to his roots so to speak in a concert film like Richard Pryor's. In fact, he impersonates Pryor during this film and you sense that he was a role model for him. I have to admit that watching Eddie today isn't as controversial as it once was (even when he uses his favorite twelve letter word). However, he makes you laugh and always delivers. The one part of the film that is rather chilling today is the one where he talks about Bill Cosby. Eddie does a hilarious impersonation of Cosby when he recollects how he phoned him and told him he was offended by the filthy language that he used in his act and how his son Ennis was corrupted at an Eddie Murphy concert. Eddie says that he told Bill I'm offended you called you Jello Puddin' eatin' mother$%^*&( f*(&you! Its chilling when you think of how his son Ennis was murdered. Also, look for Samuel L. Jackson in an early role in the beginning of the film. "},{"Title":"Eddie at his stand up best again","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  Eddie Murphy Raw is the second stand up film Eddie Murphy did and it's just as funny. The topics froms gays, sex, Wacko Jacko and Mr. T are all very very funny. Some of the film's best moments are when Eddie does impressions. If you've never seen this film you're in for a treat.  "},{"Title":"Far and away from Buckwheat!","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  EDDIE MURPHY  RAW (1987) ** 1/2  Murphy in his vulgar inflected concert at The Felt Forum who manages to offend everything from monogomy to Bill Cosby with some of his talent tarnished by his disarming language (i.e. Richard Pryor uses it with more panache and sounds legit).   Directed by fellow comic Robert Townshend. "},{"Title":"A matured Eddie Murphy","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  This is the best concert movie of the 80s. Eddie returns to the stage with confidence and style throughout his performance. Murphy's material was fresh and raunchy. The stuff we could relate to in the mid to late 80s. I've enjoyed the way he imitates Bill Cosby,Richard Pryor,and Sly Stallone. A real entertainer at work. "},{"Title":"fades too fast","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  Man, is this hilarious the first half hour.  Murphs impressions of Richard Pryor, Bill Cosby, and Mr. T. are big laughs.  And his stories of run-ins with Michael Jackson or his first time on stage using poop material had be bustin up.  But then he gets into his personal life and the ladies who've tried to get at his money.  When this begins, its no longer funny just boring.  For the last hour we're treated to only a few more chuckles before Murphs rendition of the slinky theme to close things out.  Those who cherish Murph may enjoy his childhood stuff and other life lessons, but for me it dragged on endlessly.  So check out the first 30 minutes and then quickly find the remote cuz the rest is Murph 101 on the art of ranting. "}{"Title":"EDDIE MURPHY FUNNIER THAN EVER.","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  Eddie Murphy raw is a great comedy from the 80's. I saw this movie on cinemax and I laughed so hard my stomach was hurting for hours. I loved the Bill Cosby part. I can see Bill being like that in real life. Eddie knows how too make people laugh. This was just funny, funny, funny. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy and Samuel L. Jackson","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  During the 1980's, Samuel L. Jackson was an unknown even though he was earning his living out of acting in Hollywood films. At the beginning of this film he plays the father of Eddie Murphy whose raw, cutting edge humour raises eyebrows and complete silence amongst his family. This live performance demonstrates how Murphy is the successor to Richard Pryor's raw 70's humour. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy raw.","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" Back in the '80's Eddie Murphy was really one of the most popular comedy actors. He however early in his career did not only do movies but also did a couple of legendary stand-up shows, such as this one.You can tell by the crowds reaction how popular Murphy was at the time. This movie is basically one of the evenings that he performed in New York, shot on film, with only a small sketch added to the beginning of it and some very short backstage stuff. So not much else to this movie really but a very raw, filmed, stand-up show.It's not hard to see why Murphy was so good and popular for this sort of stuff. It's all about his performance and the energy that he puts into it. He rapidly bombards the audience with fun jokes and impersonations. Basically what Murphy does a lot is insulting basically every group of people but the way he does it makes it all very fun to watch. The actual stuff that he come up with wasn't even that original but like I said, it's all about the performance here. Of course some of the stuff is somewhat outdated now days, since like basically all stand-up comedians, they focus on what's hot and now at the present time. This show was from 1987, so some jokes and references might not come across as powerful or striking as they did back in those days.One thing Murphy stands out in are his impersonations. He can do some amazing stuff with his voice and can even really sound like some other well known celebrities.Being an Afro-American, Murphy of course also makes fun of the black community, like black comedians often do so well. Especially Afro-Americans themselves will probably get a blast out of it. But he basically makes fun of every group of people, like Italians and just plain men and women in general.It's a real fun and good watch and great to see an energetic Eddie Murphy in his prime and at his peak.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Raw Hilarity!","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" Superstar Eddie Murphy makes up some amusing as well as downright funny jokes about love, sex, marriage, alimony, and the differences between his humor and that of Bill Cosby and Richard Pryor in director Robert Townsend's 90-minute film Eddie Murphy Raw, the stand-up comic's second concert, lensed at New York City's Felt Forum. The former Saturday Night Live comedian consistently entertains audiences with his scatological, insightful, and controversial wit. Murphy looks very energetic and his humor sounds fresh and vibrant. If you love Murphy's irreverent sense of humor, you'll enjoy Raw. The biggest complaint about Raw has nothing to do with Murphy's jokes, but director Robert Townsend's lackluster staging. Of course, Murphy is the center of attention, but Townsend never allows lenser Ernst Dickerson to shoot any reaction shots of the crowd splitting their sides with laughter at Murphy's jesting.The film begins with an historic flashback to Eddie as an adolescent telling his family a funny but scatological joke before the concert part of the movie unfolds. Mind you, this opening gambit&#x97;referred to as 'the sketch'&#x97;was co-scripted by funny man Keenen Ivory Wayans, but this is not archival stuff, strictly a recreation of the event, with Samuel L. Jackson in the Murphy household as Eddie's uncle. The sketch foreshadows Murphy' specialty humor before director Townsend cuts to the real thing, with the comedian showing up. Murphy gets off to a good start with spot-on impersonations of A-Team hero Mr. T and pop singer Michael Jackson. Apparently, Mr. T has threatened to take Murphy to ground zero and Murphy regales us with his version before he impersonates Michael Jackson. If you did not know better, you would swear that Murphy is Mr. T when he does Mr. T and the same applies to his version of Michael Jackson. Murphy goes to extremes when he talks about actress Brook Shields attending a ceremony with Jackson. According to Murphy, Jackson did not take Shields to bed, something Eddie would have felt compelled to do. Before he launches into alimony sequence, Murphy chides the guys in the crowd about STDs. The comic talks about Johnny Carson's divorce and that fact that his wife walked away with half of $130-million that she&#x97;according to Murphy&#x97;had no right to since she didn't cook or clean. This tirade underscores Murphy's decision not to get married without a nuptial agreement. Mind you, as sexist as Murphy gets about dames after dudes, he explains to the women in the audience that guys are born to stray. There is a funny story about the price of fame that deals with Italians who leave the movie Rocky pumped up with their own over-inflated egos. They spark a fight in a nightclub and Eddie's bodyguards dive into and by the time everything is over, Murphy winds up getting sued by everybody. When he calls home to speak with his mom, he catches it from his drunken dad who lectures him with Motown lyrics rewritten to serve his point. Some material like Murphy's father feeding them Tonka toys isn't as hilarious. One of the funniest portions of Raw concerns a phone call from Bill Cosby who reprimands Murphy for his offensive humor and the reply that Murphy gets from Richard Pryor about Cosby's clean humor. You have to admit that Murphy takes shots at everybody and his homophobic comments probably wouldn't fly today, but the material is still hilarious. Now, Raw looks pretty dated and Murphy in 2009 is nowhere near as popular as he was when he made this routine. "},{"Title":"comment on spoonerstreet","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" What you're saying is partially arguable because apart from the filming and body language he did quite well on this one. I wouldn't necessarily say it's better than Delirious because the focus on both episodes are on different things. Delirious was very diverse and he kept talking about singers, actors and what not. In Raw however he's more focused on relationship and sex, while that may come of as redundant at times is not a big deal here.Nevertheless, whether he has grown a little more in Raw is obviously a natural course by nature and shouldn't be counted against his performance. Take it from me you should really be thinking about two things when deciding on which one you should watch first! The first one is what kind of subject you're interested in, actors and singers or sex and relationships? The second deals with your own personality as the vocabulary is more vulgar in Raw.Last thing to note here is that both are extremely offensive at times and sensitive people should really be thinking twice before watching either... "},{"Title":"One of the funniest comedy specials of the 80's, many memorable moments","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" Eddie Murphy at his peak in Hollywood had a great deal with the studios, after the money made off of 48 Hours and Trading Places, barely disappointed. This 1987 special is one prominent example. One night this came on TV recently and I could not change the channel. I heard rants on celebrities, celebrity life, romantic life (consisting of pretty much a second act in a way), race, etc, and it was in classic Murphy style. I have heard a lot of romance comedy (sex, little things, different kinds of women), but in this film Murphy takes it to another level. Not only does everything seem to be absolutely real, the stories he tells work almost cinematic ally coming full circle from where they started. And a lot of the humor coming in large doses very quickly- sometimes just from facial expressions- is worth the watch even if you're just in it to get the laughs. As this is my first Eddie Murphy stand-up special (a long-time admirer of his SNL & old-school movie work) I was caught off guard perhaps- I knew his stand-up ranked with pretty high, as it was the kind of material that influenced the likes of Chris Rock. But, as with the anything of worth in stand-up, it has to be off and absurd to really hit for the big laughs, and a couple of times it really knocked in. Some of these you might find if you're digging it, but if you're just a casual fan of Murphy much of the topics he touches on will hit somewhere at you. Not to mention two specific bits (a phone call with Bill Cosby, and a bit around the perfect wife) are as close to genius as the barbershop scenes in Coming to America. If you haven't seen either special I can't say which one to start with, however whatever combustible forces raged round in the late 80's with Murphy (before he seemed to abandon stand-up for acting) are displayed through a natural, usually hysterical performance. And in the moments that aren't big with laughs at the least held my interest. GRADE A "},{"Title":"A concert film definely brilliant,with a comedian that was astounding to watch from the get-go","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  This was in fact the ONLY stand-up comedy film that featured one of the greatest comedians of our time,in fact one of the biggest boxoffice superstars of the 1980's,and this was a film that is required viewing. I saw this film when it came out in 1987,and it shows a vibrant,very energetic,and very frank and controversial Eddie Murphy coming out of the scene before a live audience and talking about what comes naturally which features stuff about racism,sexual content,Bill Cosby,Danny Terrio,Rick James,Coca-Cola,Wonder Bread,McDonald's,and the whole Hollywood system as a whole,and not to mention his status as a superstar. Yes,this was the great Eddie Murphy,uncut,uncensored,and most of all uncontrollable with very graphic and persuasive language and explicit detail,and this is one funny ass concert film that brings in the laughs non-stop all within 90 minutes. It amazes me that this film is very seldom shown in some places,but this is the film in which the great Eddie Murphy was hilarious as hell,and nowadays this is the Eddie Murphy we all miss. Don't you think? If all counts check out the beginning of this film which starts with Eddie Murphy's childhood and it is flat out funny. "},{"Title":"ladies and gentlemen , Eddie Murphy!","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  Eddie is the only comedian that i haven't grown out of and i am proud to say that i still laugh as hard at this movie now as i did a few years agoed is the greatest and proves it to a perfectionist pause ans stance throughout his work this is the highlight of stand up and no matter what bad decisions he has made he will be remembered for this..i watch stand up on a regular basis with the hopes of a new ed as the original ed is no longer doing stand up as such..what a pity!!!! "},{"Title":"A stand-up comedy movie that's too raw to handle.","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  I'm not a fan of stand-up comedy. There isn't a whole lot about RAW except for a stool and a microphone stand.....and, of course, Eddie Murphy who is great at celebrity impersonations (good) and speaking out F words (bad). Add the useless bathroom jokes and the sex jokes, and you have here another concert movie that is filthier than dust, but the rest of Murphy's talent isn't all too shabby. The opening flashback scene is a nice touch, and see if you can spot Samuel L. Jackson as Eddie's uncle. For serious Murphy lovers only! "},{"Title":"Raw is Right","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  How difficult is it to photograph one man on stage?  Apparently very difficult for this poorly shot film.  Ernest Dickerson who has done some good work with Spike Lee, falters under Robert Townsend's inept direction. With all those cameras going, you would think they would choose more than one shot.  Every camera seems to get a shot of Murphy from the waist up. Given the directors that Townsend had worked under up until that time (not to mention having already shot his own film), you would think he would have learned something about shot selection.  Apparently not, although his technique has improved slightly over the years.  Also, the lighting in the film is very murky. Dickerson didn't do a decent job lighting a color film until DO THE RIGHT THING.Then there is Eddie Murphy's performance.  He's mildly funny through most of the film, but in the latter third Murphy's routine disintegrates into a paranoid tirade about his fear of being financially taken advantage of by women.  When this part kicks in, you're best to go for the popcorn or the nearest exit quick.  This film is strictly for die-hard Eddie Murphy fans. "}{"Title":"Good, but no delirious","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" I would never have registered an account but i felt i had to say something about RAW it is funny but deleriorious owns it anyday murphy mainly talks about his childhood in delirious in Raw he talk more about marriage and divorce sorry eddy no where near delirious!!!!!!! The first time i watched delirious (his first performance) and i cried with laughter my friend watched it and he was still laughing an hour after he saw it i hope eddy does another performance, watch delirious then RAW then compare for yourself but now its up 2 me 4 another kick ass comedy performance!!! as good as delirious so watch for the name --XPOP-- cause I'm on my way up!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! X marks the SPOT "},{"Title":"WAY funnier than Delirious","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" First of all, I loved Delirious. But why do people hate sequels? It's because they constantly try to compare to the original without realizing that it's a different year, different style, so therefore, a different, but not necessarily worse, performance. We're used to the original, and anything different from the original would be highly criticized.I saw Raw before I saw Delirious, and I thought it was the best stand-up comedy session I've ever seen (and yes, I've seen Richard Pryor). It was like a well-written thought-out essay where the major jokes & points are brought back multiple times throughout the entire performance such as What have you done for me lately? When I saw Delirious, after everyone told me it was better than Raw, I was disappointed to see Eddie taking pictures and talking to the crowd while he was thinking about what he was going to say next. It almost put me to sleep. Also, Delirious did not have relationship-related comedy, the backbone of the funny jokes in Raw.I was constantly trying to compare it to Raw and fell into the trap of comparing something new to something I've already seen. When I got passed the comparison, I realized that Delirious is very funny&#151;just not funnier than Raw. The problem is people have seen it before they saw Raw. If Raw came out in 1983, and Delirious came out in 1987, everybody's view of the two would be entirely different, and that is because it's our nature to compare to the original instead of realizing that they are two completely different performances. "},{"Title":"Brilliant - One of the Greatest stand-ups I've ever seen","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":" This live stand-up isn't just your normal stand-up comedy where you only laugh at half of the stuff and then walkaway forgetting all thats funny about it. Instead this will make you laugh so much you would a have a aching belly and jaw - I couldn't stop smiling for a second.Eddie Murphy is just brilliant(still second to Richard Prior R.I.P) his creative flare shown in this really show everything that a good stand-up is made of and ain't nobody on this level out today. Chris Rock probably being the closest everybody with good sensors of humours needs to get this on DVD its so good forget about Def Comedy Jam and all that other rubbish, Eddie Murphy in his prime kicks ass.The jokes to do with Mcdonald's burgers, relationships, sex and Italians are guaranteed to please. "},{"Title":"Great Laugh! This is a masterpiece!","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  Eddie Murphy is one of the greatest comedians ever. In RAW, he really makes one laugh. He jokes about almost anyone and when he starts talking about women vs men, it gets really funny. Eddie is a real great imitator. Imitates Bill Cosby and it sounds just like it would be Mr. Cosby himself, the same goes to imitating Mr. T. He is a comedian genious. Do not miss this one out... it is a must see! Buy popcorn and Chips, invite your friends and have a blast one Friday evening.  "},{"Title":"the greatest stand up in history","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  this is without a doubt the funniest thing i have ever seen in my entire life and thats no lie! his richard pryor, bill cosby and mr.t impersonations are not to be missed! if you havent seen this or delirious you must have been hiding under a rock! "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  I have to say I don't quite understand why someone that dislikes stand-up comedy would take the time to rate...stand-up comedy.As stand-up comedy goes, Eddie Murphy was a pioneer.  There have been very few real greats, and he's one of them (with the likes of Bill Cosby, Richard Pryor, George Carlin, Robert Klein).  There's not much more that can be said.  If you're easily offended by profanity and a nothing-is-sacred (and not the watered-down Comedy Central version) attitude, then Eddie Murphy's stand-up is not for you.  If you like to laugh your ass off, this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"There is NOTHING funnier","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  There is no actor/entertainer in history that has a greater sense of humour than Eddie Murphy. After watching this movie you will see why it is the number one selling concert video of all time. It is Eddie Murphy doing what he does best - making people laugh while talking about his own life, performing brilliant impersonations and talking about his personal opinions on love and marriage. There are parts of this film you will have to rewind as you won't hear it because you are laughing to hard. If you can actually sit through this movie and not laugh - even if you are a person who is easily offended, there is something very wrong with you. "},{"Title":"BIG Eddie Murphy FAN","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  I´m a big fan of Eddie Murphy!!! He do his jokes perfect.........perfect timing. Hes joke are for everyone(white,black). Some of the comedians joke are only for the blake peoples or for the white peoples. So see this movie and the rest of his movies cuese he is funny.PSS sorry for my english!!!(i now it sucks) "},{"Title":"One of the best.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  This is on of the best movie that came out of the 80s. Eddie is just so funny in this one all the jokes works. The best joke he did was the girls joke because it is so true and funny. So you need to see it's a lot better than chris rock. I give this an 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Text-book stand-up act from Eddie Murphy you can watch over and over again!","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  First time I watched this movie it was completely by accident and it was so great. Later I taped it on video and now I watch it regularly. The great thing about Murphy's stand up act is that it has a message and is funny at the same time. This in my opinion is the best mixture that attract viewers. Probably the most outstanding is the 'relationship between men and women' theme. Eddie Murphy Raw is definitely a 'must see' movie! "}{"Title":"You just CAN'T miss this one!","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy","Review":"  Watching it for the first time was awkward, because it starts with a little  sketch, and that wasn't what was written on the synopsis. But then the live  show began and I couldn't stop laughing. The funny thing, though, is that  watching it for the seventeenth time was just as much fun. And every time I  watched, I found out something I overlooked in the previous one.  I guess  its because I laughed so much with every new thing that I couldn't listen  to the next one... Sure, I laugh a lot more the first time. But even when I  watch it now, I laugh at the same jokes I laughed at on the previous times.  The impressions Eddie Murphy does are close to perfect and each joke is  placed carefully inside a very well-thought story. And I just love the way  he goes from one prank to another without letting you notice it. If you  want some really big and breath-taking laughs, you simply MUST watch Eddie  Murphy Raw! "}]