[{"Title":"Where You At, Chere?","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A good cop, who has allowed his principles to be compromised once too often, has it catch up with him amid allegations of internal corruption and what appears to be an impending war between the criminal elements of New Orleans, in 'The Big Easy,' directed by Jim McBride. Dennis Quaid stars as Remy McSwain, an eleven year veteran of the New Orleans Police Department, who from the day he joined the force learned that the 'perks' that went along with the job were all just a natural, acceptable part of the way things are done in the city they call The Big Easy. It's just the way it is; and all is well until Assistant District Attorney, Anne Osborne (Ellen Barkin), shows up one day, and becomes inordinately concerned with a recent 'wise guy' murder Remy is investigating. And it isn't long before things start to get a bit sticky for Remy and a few others who suddenly find themselves caught with their fingers in the cookie jar. But there are indications that something is going down at the precinct that is somewhat more serious than the penny-ante graft apparently being enjoyed by a number of New Orleans' finest, and Osborne's job is to get to the bottom of it. Remy, however, doesn't buy the idea that there are 'dirty' cops amongst his own, and quickly puts some moves on Anne to find out what she thinks she knows. And it starts him off along a path which, before it's over, he may wish he hadn't opted to tread.From the opening credits, as McBride takes you aloft and opens up his camera for a thrilling shot of the bayous and countryside rushing by below (backed by the blood stirring zydeco music that drives the entire film), he saturates the story with an atmosphere that brings New Orleans to life. And the vibrant sights and sounds of the city (including the engaging Creole dialects), are so richly textured that the city itself becomes as much an integral part of the story as many of the characters. As Remy would say in greeting, with his best prepossessing grin in place, 'Where you at, chere?'And though the story itself is nothing especially original, the lively presentation and the mood McBride sets, as well as some unique characterizations and that special sense of time and place he captures, make it all seem fresh and new. The zydeco music, alone, is a treat and-- like the city-- is something of a character in itself.Quaid fairly oozes Southern charm as the irrepressible Remy, a guy secure with his world and sure of his place in it. He's obstinate and self-assured, but without being pretentious, which makes it easy to like him. The natural fluidity of his distinct mannerisms and speech give his performance a ring of authenticity that makes Remy very real and entirely believable-- which, of course, adds credibility to the story. The character is a good fit for Quaid, and he definitely makes the most of it.Barkin does a good job, as well, as Anne, employing her trademark crooked smile to great effect, and she has a genuine chemistry with Quaid that works well for the story. She brings a decided definition to her character, making Anne a woman who is strong without being overconfident, and not immune to vulnerability; it's her very humanness, in fact, that make her so accessible. It's a well rounded performance that allows you to see beneath the facade of the professional cop doing her job, to the very real person within. Barkin plays it all very well, and lets you know that there's more to Anne than meets the eye.Notable in supporting roles are Grace Zabriskie, as Remy's mother, and Charles Ludlam as Lamar Parmentel. Their performances are great examples of the value of a good character actor, and the significant impact they can have on a film. Far too often they go unnoticed and unappreciated.The supporting cast includes Ned Beatty (Jack), John Goodman (Andre), Lisa Jane Persky (McCabe), Ebbe Roe Smith (Ed), Tom O'Brien (Bobby), Marc Lawrence (Vinnie the Cannon) and Solomon Burke (Daddy Mention). Like a good bowl of spicy gumbo, 'The Big Easy' packs a wallop and will give you a good helping of satisfying entertainment, well worth the two bucks or so you plunk down for it. And by the time it's over, you'll be calling people 'chere' and fighting the urge to strap a washboard to your chest. So, hey-- where you at? It's the magic of the movies, chere. I rate this one 8/10. "},{"Title":"Steamy romance and an interesting thriller...","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've seen various comments from those who say The Big Easy is one huge stereotype and/or unrealistic.  Well, sure, the stereotypes exist here, but I feel that the directing of Jim McBride and excellent acting and chemistry of Dennis Quaid and Ellen Barkin rose above it.As for its being unrealistic...so is almost every movie ever made!Dennis Quaid and Ellen Barkin had phenomenal chemistry as Remy McSwain and Anne Osborne.  Their first love scene was, by turns, steamy, tender, and touched with a sense of not taking itself too, too seriously as some love scenes tend to do.  Out of the bedroom, they prove to be just as interesting as in (Remy's gray concept of right and wrong definitely adds to such interest, as does his crisis of conscience later on), and that is truly, IMHO, a rare feat for a lot of such films.Add in a great supporting cast (Ned Beatty's crooked, yet fatherly Jack Kellom, John Goodman's dirty cop André, Grace Zabriskie as Mrs. McSwain, Lisa Jane Persky as Det. McCabe, and many more) that actually lends more depth to what could have been a cut-and-dried shoot 'em up flick (mixed with some bed scenes for variety), as well as characters/actors who actually play off of each other well, and the film is very entertaining.Sure, the whole gumbo, let's party, Cajun fest thing can be a bit much, but I still found this film a whole bunch better than a lot of films made in the same or similar vein.  It also still seems remarkably fresh today, 15 years later (even if typing police reports via a typewriter now seems a bit passé).In other words and in short, I am glad to own this on DVD and have it in my library. "},{"Title":"A Keeper!!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having just watched my video tape of this film again, I found it is just as enjoyable today as it was back when it was first released.  People who live in New Orleans have written that it is unrealistic!!  This is news about movies?!  If we want realism we can go out our front door and go to any city and run with the cops for a shift.  Almost all big cities have ride along programs.No, this is a FILM.  And a good one, perfectly cast.  The story of the corruption in a big city police department is a staple of cop films but is done with a fresh set of characters who are believeable.Dennis Quaid and Ellen Barken are at the top of their career curve and play off each other to great effect.  Their steamy love scene is as good as has been done in film.Many good character actors fill out the rest of the cast and of course the music is just wonderful setting the mood for film.  I don't know if this was filmed in New Orleans, but it sure looked like some of the city I visited years ago.  I came for a convention and the host committee had some men who spoke just like some of these people in the film.  Of course, they were from all the different suburbs and the city too.  So maybe some of the critics who live there should get around more.Just watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Good thriller with great chemistry.","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Big Easy is a fairly straightforward thriller about police corruption - a little predictable, but with occasional clever touches - but the apparent chemistry between Quaid and Barkin is outstanding, making this one of the steamiest movies I've ever seen (much hotter than 9 1/2 weeks, and with the benefit of a plot and sympathetic characters). Accents aside (I'm only an occasional visitor to New Orleans, and not qualified to judge), the other performances are also excellent, especially Beatty and Goodman as corrupt cops, and there are also some gut-bustingly funny moments and a wonderful soundtrack. The film may not do justice to modern New Orleans, but then, what movie ever did? "},{"Title":"Has Its Moments But Just Fair Overall","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I found this to be a so-so modern-day film noir drama - not bad, but nothing super. To its credit, it provides a little humor to offset the ugliness.It also provides the standard sex scenes, this one featuring Dennis Quaid and Ellen Barkin; the seedy New Orleans atmosphere and the standard cops-are- crooked angle. The last part plays a big role in this story as even the good guy Quaid admits to numerous minor offenses. Unfortunately, you can't always understand Dennis as he gives us his Cajun accent. He sounded - and looked - as if he had marbles in his mouth.Barkin was not as rough-talking and rough-looking as she was in a bunch of other films from the mid '80s to mid '90s, which was fine with me. New Orleans was pictured, as it so often is, as very bleak and dingy. If city residents weren't happy with this movie, I could understand that. The ending of the film is a little hokey but overall, the story was interesting and I gave it two looks over the years, liking it better the second time. "},{"Title":"Simply the BEST.","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm sorry that people from New Orleans don't like this one.  As someone who has lived in New York City and its environs for her entire life, I have PLENTY to say about innacuracies in movies and TV shows made about my home town.  But if, as in this case, the final product can overcome any inaccuracies, why complain?  Forget about the nitpicky details and have fun.  Sure, Dennis Quaid's accent is over the top.  Sure, they got some things about New Orleans wrong.  But who cares?  The plot and the acting are both terrific, and the chemistry between Quaid and Barkin is potent; even when their characters are not speaking to each other, it's still pretty obvious that they can't keep their hands off each other.   The love scene is done beautifully, and is far sexier than it would have been had it been more graphic.I just wish the DVD treatment had been better.  Other than that, I give The Big Easy 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Interesting; a hoot for the locals","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Big Easy is a lot of fun for native New Orleanians.  I've never seen this film until yesterday, and it delighted me to see some of my former colleagues in the NOPD Detective Bureau play cops in the movie.  Gus Krinke (now retired) actually did a very credible job as portraying an Internal Affairs Detective.Yes, the 'accents' as portrayed here are unbelievable...many tourists are astonished to learn that most New Orleanians talk almost exactly like they're from Brooklyn, not some backwater swamp.I understand Quaid enjoyed himself in New Orleans while making this movie, and it clearly shows.  Grace Zabriskie (who was actually born in N.O.) was the most believable character.  John Goodman liked the place so much he bought a home in the Crescent City.Quaid and Barkin definitely put some spice in their roles...their chemistry was apparent and believable (unlike Quaid's accent), and their romance was really the only thing believable in this 'police movie'.BTW, real New Orleans cops don't work out of 'Precinct Houses', sports fans, they're referred to as 'Districts'...New Orleans has 8 (eight) Police Districts.  And I was delighted to see that the official (unofficial) NOPD 'Vulture/star-and-Crescent' Homicide 'badge' was shown so often.All in all, this film is a lot of fun despite its numerous technical flaws, and I give it 6 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"You're a cop for God's sake, you're supposed to uphold the law, but instead you bend it and twist it and sell it.","Date":"14 May 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Big Easy is directed by Jim McBride and written by Daniel Petrie Jr. It stars Dennis Quaid, Ellen Barkin, John Goodman and Ned Beatty. Music is scored by Brad Fiedel and cinematography by Affonso Beato.Remy McSwain (Quaid) is a slightly corrupt New Orleans cop, who whilst investigating the murder of a mob man, finds himself under scrutiny by assistant district attorney Anne Osborne (Barkin). The waters start to become muddied when the pair begin to have a passionate affair, just as the can opens and worms spill out everywhere.It's an odd film at times, a bit too jovial to be considered proper neo-noir, and Quaid's Southern accent takes some getting used too. It's also nearly derailed in quality as conventionality dominates the last quarter of film.Yet judged on its own thriller terms it entertains well enough whilst also having some neat technical touches to help it along. Petrie's script contains spiky dialogue and a number of bravura sequences light up the otherwise standard crooked cop story.McBride dose good work on this, he opens his film up with a cracker of a camera tracker, and he makes good use of the New Orleans locations. He also has a good sense of prop choices to help the mood, none more so than with a scene involving Mardi Gras costumes, whilst he gets strength for the film by garnering tense and sexy performances out of Quaid and Barkin. Support actors also leave good marks, with Goodman as a cop colleague dominating the screen and Charles Ludlam almost stealing the film as McSwain's dry and near sleazy lawyer. Soundtrack, too, is well thought out, with the Cajun flavours spicing up the sweaty Orleans stew. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The New Orleans police force on display","Date":"14 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Dennis Quaid and Ellen Barkin star in The Big Easy, a 1986 film set in New Orleans, and also starring Ned Beatty, John Goodman, and Grace Zabriskie.I know an attorney who won a huge civil rights case in New Orleans and then had to run for her life with her family when her life was continuously threatened. The New Orleans police force has the reputation of being the most corrupt police force in the United States. That's saying something.That corruption is visited here in this story of a mildly corrupt cop Remy (Quaid) investigating a series of murders of low-level drug people. The assigned assistant district attorney, Anne Osborne (Barkin) assumes from the get-go, because of the presence of a cop car at one of the murders, that the police are involved.That's the background for a hot love affair between these two sexy characters who really steam up the screen. Quaid is delightful as the high-flying Remy, and he gets to show his range as an actor - going from flirtatious playboy to a grief-stricken man. Barkin is perfect as a woman trying to stay professional but finding it nearly impossible.This film has some serious and disturbing moments, but the locale and the actors infuse it with charm and energy. Well directed by Jim McBride, who keeps up the pace.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Big fun that is easy to like.","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A cop on the take falls for an internal affairs official who suspects that the recent underworld murders have been perpetrated by dirty cops. This is a fun movie with little Cajun trimmings. The music is nice, although I have not a clue of what the singers are singing about. Some of the characters have heavy dialects, but the actors do not divert attention with them. The dialect that Quaid used makes him more charming, if that is possible, which enhances his character. It may be overheated, but I think that it was supposed to be that way. Quaid and Ellen Barkin are the best part of the movie. Dennis Quaid's infectious ear to ear smile and Barkin's ability to be geeky and sexy play well off each other. The humor works too; Quaid uses a magnet to destroy the tape and plays a game of toupee keep away. The thing I appreciated the most was th way that the dirty cops weren't painted with a thick brush. The only real disappointment is the oddly abrupt ending, but it does't ruin the ride. "}{"Title":"Rollicking funhouse of a romantic cop thriller","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" For a film about violence, crime and police corruption, The Big Easy sure is easy going and colorful. The characters are the liveliest bunch of rascals and it's a pleasure to spend every minute with them. Dennis Quaid plays cocky New Orleans detective Remy McSwain, a swaggering smooth talker who's gotten wealthy taking payoffs, a dude whose silky charm matches his swanky suits. He's gotten used to the easy life in the police department, with a captain who looks the other way (Ned Beatty brings a jovial, rotund presence), and colleagues (John Goodman is perfectly cast as the witty loudmouth of the bunch) who are just as happily willing to bend the rules as him. Trouble arrives in the sultry form of D.A. corruption task force specialist Anne Osborne (a swelteringly hot Ellen Barkin) who leans on Quaid as heavily as he hits on her. There's immediate and electric chemistry between them, which she adamantly fights, and he chases like a horn dog pursuing the bumper of a speeding Buick. Quaid and Barkin have the same spitfire sheen to their work, their careers dotted with performances that are flashy yet brave, pulpy yet laced with depth. Here they're having oodles of fun and carry the entire film on their crackling star power and romantic spark alone. There's also a subplot involving a rash of gang killings, as well as family matters involving Quaid's vivacious Cajun clan, including his Momma (monumentally talented Grace Zabriskie). It's a lively hodge-podge of plot elements we've seen a zillion times, but given such flippant style and good natured southern hospitality that we can't help but be won over. There's some lovely live performed Cajun music as well to add extra spice. "},{"Title":"something for everyone","Date":"4 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a thoroughly charming movie. It is a musical, a police drama, a murder mystery, a romantic comedy, and a story about a man who undergoes a transformation to maturity. It takes place in New Orleans. The movie is steeped in things New Orleans. The strong local colour gives everything an exotic other-worldliness, for the example the stripper bar with the gigantic women, or the voodoo heroin dealer with the gigantic number of offspring, a elderly wise guy (Mafiso) in yellow golf togs. Dennis Quaid is such a handsome slick charmer, that you can't help but be charmed. Underneath he is a kind, considerate, likable character, though that is not immediately obvious. Unfortunately, nearly all the actors are affecting their accents. If you are familiar with the accents of the area, they often do not ring true. The accents kick in and out at random. The DVD came with subtitles, which helped quite a bit. The food you can almost taste. The music makes you want to get up and dance. This is an old movie, but it feels like a modern movie made about 1986. It contains a classic joke, that ranks up there with I'll have what she's having. I laughed and laughed for about 5 minutes. Hint it involves a man startled while scrounging in a refrigerator. There is something for everyone in this movie. "},{"Title":"Top Notch Film Noir","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" We missed this movie when it came out 22 years ago but caught up with it this past weekend. Set in New Orleans, it combines a murder spree with an investigation into police corruption. Dennis Quaid leads the investigation of the murders, while Ellen Barkin is the assistant district attorney looking into police corruption. Ned Beatty is Quaid's superior and John Goodman is a detective on the force. Without giving away too much of the plot, Quaid's police lieutenant and Barkin's ADA begin on opposite sides. However, sparks fly (quite credibly) between them, and a steamy but very complicated love affair ensues. I'd never seen Quaid or Barkin at this stage in their careers, and later on I would never have thought either of them as movie star beautiful. But they are in this film. Incredibly so.Ned Beatty and John Goodman make important contributions to the character and scene driven movie. While people from New Orleans have described the movie as totally unrealistic, those of us who've known it only as tourists will greatly enjoy the Cajun flavoring.Wish I could give you the plot twists and turns that complicate the relationship between Quaid's policeman and Barkin's prosecutor but, trust me, it's a serviceable script and the stars are well aligned in more ways than one. "},{"Title":"N 'Awlins never looked better!","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It is 1020 PM and D and I have just finished watching this wonderful movie on tape while marveling over our Western Australian T Bone steaks and brilliant south-western wine. We have watched the Big Easy before, loved it and D thought it would be suitable for a Friday night&#x97;it was! I am a particular fan of Louisiana accents and Quaid carried it off perfectly, to my decrepit ears (I have read the negative comments from residents of the city). I like movies and TV shows for their image appeal and I found this particular movie excellent in all respects. Admittedly, I have only been to New Orleans twice in my 62 years but to all who know her she is one(or at least was before Katrina) of the five best cities in the US.But to the movie the acting, the script and the settings were exemplary; working with the subject of bent cops is not an easy one, so the producers should feel special for having even tried it. Setting the story in Huey Long's backyard brings particular vinegar to the story and like a good dressing, always adds piquancy to the outcome that cannot be ignored.The Big Easy is a movie to be saved; a movie whose subject, acting and visuals will live as a look back at a place that no longer exists except in the memory of old guys like me who wish that time could stand still, at least until my eyes refocus . It is worth the trouble to find and watch. "},{"Title":"nothing is shown and still the hottest scene on  screen this year","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" nothing is shown but still you'll see what is the hottest scene on the (TV) screen that you'll see this year.The announcer (a very pretty twenty year old blonde girl) said these words on dutch TV as an introduction to the TV-showing of the big easy in 1989. And I remember it well ...I remember thinking This could be something different, and fun, and maybe...it could make me horny! (always nice when you are male and 24 in 1989).And it was!. I taped it (no commercials in 1989 on dutch TV). By now that tape is worn by the many replays...What Can I write to convey my admiration of director McBride for his efforts. Maybe this... That bedroom smile into the camera of ms. Barkin ... she says (on camera) I'm not very good at this... ... An Instant CLASSIC, burned into my memory for ever.! Final praise The soundtrack! "},{"Title":"One of the first dirty cops films","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" There have always been dirty cops in movies, but they were the exception rather than the rule. Generally, police were portrayed in a favorable light as dedicated enforcers of the law. There have always been funny cops beginning with the famous Keystone Cops of the silent years. In the 1930's the police were often pictured as comical; in the 1940's and 1950's sometimes as brutes using force to elicit confessions from the accused. In a few films of the hippie era, cops were painted as pigs. Today dirty cops are standard movie fare, a sign of our cynical era. The talented actor, David Morse, has made a good living playing dirty cops. The Big Easy was one of the first, if not the first, to picture dirty cops as omnipresent. Even the one good cop has dirty hands.The setting is New Orleans before the danger waters nearly destroyed the heart and soul of the Big Easy. This film, thanks to the input both on and off the screen by Dennis Quaid, captures the essence of the culture of the quaint jewel of the Mississippi, especially the Cajun ingredient. Quaid plays a New Orleans policeman, Det. Remy McSwain, who is in the midst of investigating the murder of a wise guy. Quaid, on the other hand, is himself a target of investigation by internal affairs headed by an outsider Anne Osborne (Ellen Barkin). The two develop a love-hate type relationship in and out of the boudoir. The script is well-written, filled with twists and maneuvers that lead viewers on a merry chase. There is a load of humor providing a respite from all the murder, mayhem, and back-stabbing going on. One funny scene has Anne Osborne mistaking Remy McSwain's brother for Remy and going for his balls. Another scene has the marvelous John Goodman as Det. Andre DeSoto emptying his pockets of weapons. He plunks down guns of various shapes and sizes, a pair of brass knuckles, a knife or two, and a billy club. He remarks nonchalantly, And if that don't work, I'll p*ss on 'em. A few of the jokes would be considered politically incorrect in today's Hollywood. After one particularly brutal set of killings involving an explosion and accompanying fire that leaves a mentally challenged man dead, Remy confides to his partner, McCabe (Lisa Jane Persky), Now they're killing retards. She replies dryly, Then why aren't you dead? The soundtrack for The Big Easy is precious. It contains some of the best Cajun music ever recorded. Professor Longhair, Aaron Neville, The Dixie Cups' Iko Iko (Jock-A-Mo), an updated version of the legendary Cajun fiddler Harry Choates' Jole Blon, and one selection written by Dennis Quaid are just a few of the glorious selections included in the film and on the CD. Add to this fine acting by a grand cast including a standout performance by Ned Beatty as Jack Kellom, a career officer getting ready for retirement and marriage to Remy's mother. Remy's father used to be Jack's partner. R & B artist Solomon Burke makes the most of his small part as wise guy Daddy Mention, who believes in putting the Dad in Daddy. Note Jim Garrison, infamous New Orleans attorney who publicized one of the major conspiracy theories involving the Kennedy assassination, as the judge. He was later portrayed by Kevin Costner in JFK. Watch also for veteran actor Marc Lawrence as mob boss Vinnie 'The Cannon' DiMotti in a small yet significant part near the beginning of the movie. "},{"Title":"A guy's choice for a romantic comedy","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's always interesting when Hollywood tries to sell movies to the public as something other than what they are. It's not as common now, when so many movies seem to start out as marketing campaigns long before they become stories. It didn't use to be unusual, though, for filmmakers to create one sort of movie and the studio to try and sell it too the public as something else. When The Big Easy first came out in theaters, I recall the ads for it making it seem like it was some sort of erotic thriller. It's actually a pretty good romantic comedy with a little extra dash of violence.Unsurprisingly set in New Orleans, the star of this story is Remy McSwain (Dennis Quaid), a police lieutenant in the homicide division. Remy's a genuine Cajun boy, complete with accent and a laissez faire attitude toward things like ethics and department regulations. He's called in to investigate the murder of a local wise guy and is joined on the case by a new assistant district attorney, Ann Osborn (Ellen Barkin), who's assigned to police corruption cases but is very interested in this mob slaying. Remy's not that interested in her assistance, but he really, really wants to get into her pants. After relentlessly hitting on her in a way that would get him charged with sexual harassment nowadays, they end up in bed before Remy is called away to a double murder. These two new African-American victims appear to be the ones that killed the first mobster, and Remy theorizes that there's a drug war going on in New Orleans between the Italian mafia and the voodoo-tinged, black organized criminals in town.Remy and Ann's investigation is cut short when he's caught up in the famous corruption of the New Orleans police force. The Big Easy depicts local law enforcement as awash in graft and payoffs. Remy is caught on tape discussing bribe money with a tavern owner and Ann is assigned to prosecute his case. It seems like Remy is sure to be convicted, but he manages to get the charges dismissed with a little help from his friends. Ann is infuriated and wants nothing more to do with him and more bodies pile up as the supposed drug war rages on. To get the girl back, Remy has to actually become the good guy he's always imagined himself to be and then the two of them have to uncover who's really behind these killings and why.Some people might quibble with me calling The Big Easy a romantic comedy, but there's way too many jokes and funny performances in this film to consider it a drama. And while the twin plot threads of the alleged drug war and police corruption are well developed, the most important thing in the movie is the relationship between Remy and Ann. In fact, what makes this such a good movie is that it utilizes so many non-traditional story elements for a romantic comedy. It doesn't have to go through a bunch of ridiculous contortions to keep its two lovebirds apart, generating a fresh and lively energy in the story.The greatest strength of the film is in the performances of its two lead actors. Quaid creates a horny and lovable scoundrel in Remy, a cop who thinks as long as he doesn't break the big laws, he can ignore all the little ones. Barkin is extremely sexy as Ann, letting us see a woman full of repressed desire just yearning to break free. They have great chemistry together, whether they're fussing or smootching. There are also some funny supporting performances from John Goodman, Tom O'Brien and Lisa Jane Persky as Remy's fellow cops.The Big Easy would be a smart choice for a date movie. There's just enough mushy, emotional stuff for the girl and just enough people getting shot for the boy. It's like the perfect Reese's Peanut Butter Rom-Com. "},{"Title":"Just relax, darlin'. This is the Big Easy. Folks have a certain way o' doin' things down here.","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Big Easy (1987) directed by Jim McBride is a very sexy thriller/neo noir -southern style. I always wanted to visit New Orleans and The Big Easy, where they do things differently and its Cajun music are the stars of the movie. Two hot and talented actors (Dennis Quaid at his sexiest) as Det. Remy McSwain, of New Orleans Homicide and criminally underrated Ellen Barkin (Ann Osborne, a beautiful attorney from the D.A.'s office investigating corruption charges against Remy) are incredibly believable in their erotic scenes that make the film deservingly famous. Ned Beatty, John Goodman, and Grace Zabriskie are the part of the first-rate cast in this very decent even if predictable Crime / Action / Thriller / Mystery /Romance "},{"Title":"Pure Entertainment & Great Fun","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Big Easy is a great movie which simply oozes charm and atmosphere from start to finish. Its unique blend of action, romance and humour is complemented brilliantly by the idiosyncrasies of its characters, some irresistible music and the colourful location in which it's set. The whole notion of New Orleans being a place where life is lived at a relaxed pace and where pay-offs are the norm is conveyed in a way which seems totally authentic and interestingly, this culture appears to be equally prevalent in both the criminal and the law enforcement fraternities.Homicide detective Remy McSwain (Dennis Quaid) is conducting an investigation into a series of murders where local mobsters have been the victims when Assistant D.A. Anne Osborne (Ellen Barkin) arrives on the scene to carry out her own investigation into alleged police corruption. There's an instant attraction between the easy going Remy and the straight laced Anne and she's gradually won over by his good natured banter and natural charisma.When the couple go out to dinner, it becomes clear to Anne that it's normal for Remy to be given free dinners by the proprietor of Tipitina's and later after Remy is caught accepting a pay-off during a sting operation, it falls to Anne to act as the prosecutor when his case goes to trial. Remy doesn't regard himself as corrupt as everyone in the police department enjoys kickbacks from the Widows & Orphans Fund which is financed by money which the police raise from the local shop owners. The prosecution's case then runs into trouble after some unorthodox action by his colleagues ensures that the evidence against Remy is made unusable.The couple's relationship is temporarily derailed when they're on different sides during the trial but later when it becomes necessary to do so; they agree to work together again.Remy and Anne are profoundly different in the sense that she sees what's permissible within the regulations in terms which are very black and white whilst Remy is a pragmatist who is perfectly comfortable operating within the grey areas. On one occasion she says to him You're supposed to uphold the law but instead you bend it and twist it and sell it.....Why don't you just face it Remy? You're not one of the good guys anymore. On another occasion Remy says This is New Orleans darlin'. Folks have a certain way of doing things down here. People like to show their appreciation. During the course of the story, Remy gradually starts to recognise why she sees things the way she does.Dennis Quaid is terrific as a character who like the movie itself is bright and breezy, charming and very good humoured. Ellen Barkin is perfect as the uptight Anne who's completely horrified by some of the practices which she witnesses during the course of her investigation and the supporting cast are also excellent (especially John Goodman, Ned Beatty and Charles Ludlam).The Big Easy is pure entertainment and great fun and unsurprisingly was a big commercial success. "},{"Title":"Easy to love this film in a big, big way.....great action, great love story, too","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Remy Mc Swain (Dennis Quaid) works for the New Orleans police force, where cops and natives alike refer to their town as the big easy. However, most of the officers are crooked, taking bribes from the businesses they are ordered to protect. As Remy says, his police officer father did it, too, before his death and the extra cash makes up for the meager salaries paid to those who put their lives on the line. Nevertheless, the corruption is so rampant that a new district attorney, Anne Osborne (Ellen Barkin) arrives in town to clean up the force and find out the truth about police involvement in an alleged gang war. Remy, a ladies man, tries to distract the reserved Anne with his charm but she will have none of it. At first, that is. But, when the two are thrown together on case after case, Anne's resolve wilts and she sleeps with Remy a couple of times. Yet, she brushes him off again when she sees a video of Remy accepting money in a bar. Anne also pursues two goofy cops (one is John Goodman) and the captain of the force (Ned Beatty) when indicators point to their heavy connections to missing narcotics that were seized as evidence. How easy will it be for Anne to nail the big fishes? This is a great movie, especially for those who like action and lusty romance. Quaid and Barkin are near perfect in their roles as a laid-back, amorous police officer and a puritanical but secretly romantic lawyer, respectively. Beatty and Goodman also are terrific, as are all of the lesser actors, too. Naturally, the scenery in and around the Big Easy is most fetching, but, sadly, some of the neighborhoods have been destroyed since the film was made. Costumes, also, are nice, with Barkin looking very lovely and Quaid appearing very hot. Then, too, the script is truly enthralling and the action hardly pauses to catch its breath, culminating in an explosive finale. The only caveat would be that the film is definitely NOT suitable for family viewing but is for adults only. So, send the kiddies to bed and sit down for an evening that rocks, when you pop this one in the machine. One must say that it is very easy to love this film, in a big, big way. "}{"Title":"Quaid & Barkin at their sexiest, cher!!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  THE BIG EASY (1986) *** Dennis Quaid, Ellen Barkin, Ned Beatty, John Goodman, Lisa Jane Persky, Ebbe Rose Smith, Grace Zabriskie, Charles Ludlam, Marc Lawrence.  Sexy and charming Quaid is on-the-take Bayou cop Remy McSwain trying to fool investigating DA Barkin while falling in love with her amidst corruption, murder and greed in seamy New Orleans.  Fine ensemble and locales vividly enliven the film as does the unmistakable chemistry between the two leads' sex scenes.  Hot stuff.  Look for Jim Garrison, the judge, whose life is depicted in JFK. "},{"Title":"Good cop - bad cop can one man be both at the same time?","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have never been to New Orleans - I have never been to the United States despite being part of the world war two generation that became immersed in American culture from a very early age starting with the movies and continuing through jazz,Capote,Salinger,Hopper,Pollock et al to the point where my indigenous British culture seemed to lack the excitement and vitality that young people require to gain then retain their interest.I suspect that the reality of New Orleans could never live up to the fantasy I have built up over fifty years of dreaming about the city of Jelly Roll Morton and Louis Armstrong.The hot sultry nights,Buddy Bolden's horn echoing across the lake.......yes,all rightI know,how silly it is,but I'm an old man and I like to think these things were once true,I've got over half a century invested in them after all. The awful tragedy of Hurricane Katrina looks to have driven the final nail into my dream city's coffin.When and if it's rebuilt it seems that very little of the original cradle of jazz will remain recognisable. From reading many of the other comments from New Orleanians it would seem that The Big Easy is as remote from real life as my imagined version.Well,that may be so,but I don't have to believe it if I don't to.I want to believe that the NOPD has detectives as smart and charming as Denis Quaid.That a clever and ambitious A.D.A like Ellen Barkin would have sex with a corrupt cop she's investigating,that she could be kidnapped off the street by an officer in a prowl car,driven to the corrupt cop's house,forced to dance with him then accept his proposal of marriage.So I shall. As a retired London policeman I worked among officers to whom small - time corruption was the accepted thing.Doing the business they called it,a bribe was a drink.They would have been as indignant as Remy to have been called corrupt.Corrupt was taking money from criminals instead of arresting them and that was not on.Remy lives by a code that is recognisable and acceptable to many good and hard - working cops not only in New Orleans but,I suspect,in most other big cities. The A.D.A. refuses to acknowledge the grey areas in the fraught and sometimes volatile relationship between law enforcer and law breaker. The somewhat convoluted plot of The Big Easy complicates matters even more,but all the various strings eventually come together very satisfactorily. I'm not a great fan of sex scenes in movies but Mr Quaid and Miss Barkin make very convincing lovers.I can only assume she agrees to marry him because she feels she can change him - not an uncommon ambition in a woman apparently.I can only hope she doesn't succeed in changing him out of all recognition,for I rather like him,warts and all. "},{"Title":"the fantasy New Orleans you were always hoping to find","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  New Orleans is a fantasy city for many people, but has not often been captured in movies in well-accomplished fantasmagorical way. Here it is. (Jim Jarmusch's Down by Law is another good movie of New Orleans fantasies). Little plausibility, but fine enjoyability. Ellen Barkin is wonderfully steamy, as usual.  "},{"Title":"Easy Does It","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  STEAMY...SEXY...SLEAZY... This is a film where you can see a genuine sexual chemistry between two actors.  Unlike Mr Soderburgh's highly over-rated Out Of Sight, which was surrounded by a great bally-hoo about it's steamy love scenes, which weren't quite convincing to most of us watching, Big Easy actually delivers the goods.  Oh yes!Watch it!  Need I say more? "},{"Title":"Barkin uncovers corruption in big swampy","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An Excellent Thriller. Dennis Quaid and Ellen Barkin star in this caper about a detective played by quaid who is uncovers a heroin mob war who battles a determined DA played by Barkin who uncovers corruption in the police force. It is soon apparent that all is not kosher in this heroin mob war and this leads to some suprising and shocking discoveries. Set and filmed in New Orleanes this is an exciting fast paced action with a lil romance and funny stuff thrown in..along with some down home corruption A good date movie.The women will love Quaid and the guys have BarkinOn a scale of 1 to 10 Big easy rates a 8 "},{"Title":"Delivers true romance and great music","Date":"19 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was an unexpected delight. In general, I don't like thrillers or suspense, so I braced myself for something that would not be to my taste. Was I ever wrong! The moment the opening credits came on with that wonderful music playing, I knew I would love this film. Although I didn't meet anybody in New Orleans who talked like Dennis Quaid did in this movie, and his portrayal of Rennie McSwain came off as something of a caricature, I still found him extremely enjoyable to watch and as a leading man, he was as sexy as a romantic hero can be. Ellen Barkin was great as the leading lady. The suspense part of the plot was perhaps the weakest part, but the romantic storyline was perfect. The music was so great, it made everything work. Yes, the movie makers made some mistakes with their geography, but that was completely forgivable, as the overall film was such a delight to watch. And few movies nowadays have such a great soundtrack as this movie has. A true delight, this will be a timeless classic. "},{"Title":"Richly flavourful New Orleans thriller, with star-making Quaid turn","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'd always wondered why Dennis Quaid was a star - and now I know. He's excellent here as a Cajun cop with a shark grin and a sideline in the protection racket. The Big Easy is a richly atmospheric New Orleans-set thriller charting two investigations that dovetail into one, in typical (neo-)noir fashion. The first sees Quaid looking into a series of grisly murders - apparently the result of a drug war. The second has DA Ellen Barkin tackling suspected police corruption, and being drawn towards charismatic tough guy Quaid.The dialogue in the opening scene is a touch mannered, but soon the stylised exchanges start to ring true, and the smart plotting, fine Cajun song score and sizzling Quaid-Barkin chemistry begin to work their magic. Though the whodunnit element is a little too obvious, this is a fine piece of work, and vastly superior to the similar Sea of Love. I never thought I'd say this - but which other Dennis Quaid movies are worth seeking out? "},{"Title":"One which seemed even better","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed this film when I first saw it, several years ago.Many movies - even the best of the classics - while still enjoyable on subsequent viewing(s), may be slightly less so on these occasions.However, I enjoyed this film even more than initially. Like several others, I find that the chemistry between Quaid and Barkin to be realistic, sensual, and presented in complete, believable balance with their diverse characters in the story line. Barkin presents a persona for whom the adjective sexy seems insufficient. She also warrants the old-fashioned, now passé adjectives - used in the 1940's for, say, Hayworth and Turner - like sultry or sensual.Ned Beatty alway delivers an outstanding performance, and John Goodman and all the remaining cast were excellent, as well.Further, the New Orleans setting added to the film's dimension, and presents a nostalgic pre-Katrina view when seen today.Finally, the story was well-presented, and had interesting multiple dimensions, and from beginning to climax was thoroughly well-done.An overall outstanding picture. "},{"Title":"Happy Birthday, Dennis","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I just never get tired of watching this movie. The story, the humor, the music. the sex - all this adds up to an enjoyable package.Dennis Quid is easily in his best role as Det. Remy McSwain. It is not hard to understand why he considers this his favorite role. He is laid back, funny, and shows a full range of emotions to the circumstances in the story. His little boy looks fit right in with the role of a cop in the Big Easy.Ellen Barkin is also perfect for the role of special prosecutor Anne Osborne, looking for corruption in the police department - as if you have to look hard. She tries to be tough, but is worn down by Remy's charm.The supporting cast has more colorful characters that you can imagine including Ned Beatty as Remy's substitute father, John Goodman as Beatty's partner in crime, Grace Zabriskie as Remy's mother, Solomon Burke as Daddy Mention and Charles Ludlam as a sleazy lawyer. They all add to the charm of New Orleans along with great music by Beausoleil, the Dixie Cups, the Neville Brothers, Dewey Balfa and Dennis Quaid himself.This is a movie that tastes just as sweet as the city and one to visit over and over. "},{"Title":"Tremendous, shame DVD version missing a crucial scene","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A truly great film. I never did understand why Dennis Quade, Ellen Barkin and Jim McBride didn't rule Hollywood completely thereafter on the strength of this one (very able support by John Goodman, Ned Beatty, et all, too), but there we go, i believe that the perceived wisdom (at least in the UK, and probably the same in the US) is that people confused the title with the rather lesser film The Big Town (Matt Dillon), released at the same time.This is probably my favourite film, marred only by the fact that the DVD versions have all (to my knowledge) omitted the final reconciliation scene where Barkin tells Quaid that he is one of the good guys, after all. Anyone out there know if there is a full length version out there? I've only ever seen the full version at cinemas or on VHS (and have tried at least 7 different DVD versions), so if there is one i'd be delighted to know about it.If you've never seen it, enjoy, but do and try to see the full version. "}{"Title":"The Big Sexy","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Remy McSwain (Dennis Quaid) is a New Orleans police lieutenant investigating the murder of a mob wise guy as one of his new cases. He is brash, street-wise and from a family of cops. He's forced to partner with A.D.A. Ann Osborne (Ellen Barkin) who is on a task force against police corruption. She's not as experienced on the streets. Soon they're in bed together. His loose ethics gets him in trouble and her in conflict of interest.This movie is trying very hard to get the New Orleans flavor. Dennis Quaid is pushing the accent hard. The movie pulls out the music and food in the first 10 minutes. The case almost doesn't matter. This is a movie about Barkin getting her sexy on in the Big Easy with Quaid. This is definitely style over substance. The crime drama is forgettable but Barkin is forever. "},{"Title":"New Orleans","Date":"3 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Dennis Quaid , and Ellen Barkin star in this crime drama set in New Orleans, John Goodman also does a good job in here as well in a supporting role.. A cop is tracking a murder case,, possibly gang related, when he runs into a hard nosed female who is checking into police corruption, eventually things get steamy and they get intimate with each other,, he is eventually accused of taking bribes, and meanwhile the murders continue,, and the gangs insist that they had nothing to do with the murders that are taking place in the Big Easy. So our cop has to figure out who is behind all of the murders,, is it the gangs , or do we have a rogue cop going around killing people vigilante style.. very interesting movie,, well worth watching. "},{"Title":"total breakdown","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" yes - i go to pieces watching this movie.and i honestly believe its to the authors and directors full intense.this colourful painting of the unspoiled(!) new orleans, pre-katrinic milieu gives us with a classical plot a story -spicy and splendid as life itself.this works moral is almost taken out of the bible, though that might not be intensional, in its conclusion , i . e. you have to lose your life to come alive.and aided by the leading performances, life couldn't be captured more realistic on the edge between tears and laughter.realism is what hits u in the heart - got it?? "},{"Title":"Best movie ever?","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Literally, this is the best movie of all time. Dennis Quaid is a genius. Ellen Barkin is beautiful. Dennis does an amazing job at impersonating an authentic New Orleans accent, and his signature grin is provocative, to say the least. The sex scenes are steamy, as to be expected, and there's an excellent shot of Dennis' behind. Ellen Barkin is an amazing actress; here facial expressions are the best in the business, she puts on the most realistic show I've ever seen. I felt like I was really in The Big Easy, surrounded by gators. When Dennis saw that his brother Bobby had been shot, his reaction was that of a man who had honestly just seen his baby brother die in front of his very eyes. I've never seen so many convincing actors and actresses together in such and amazing project. The big easy is definitely a contender for best movie of the century, or better yet, all time. I love you Dennis Quaid, I LOVE YOU! "},{"Title":"Botched stay in dreamlove","Date":"6 May 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is by the same guy who did Breathless, the Richard Gere revamp, so naturally I was interested. That one was about life as a movie but a hotly incandescent wind, embodied in Gere's studly antics, blows through it and makes the heart beat faster. It was as youthful as Godard, more actually. It was an entry into his world seen through her fascinated eyes.Most viewers will note this as lukewarm failure, too much of a cartoon. In fact he's trying for a similar thing.Once more the adolescent hunk who lives in the moment with no care, the girl who reluctantly is swept, a world set in motion and the two brought together by random violence. New Orleans in place of LA but as exuberant, a backdrop for sensual whim.But Quaid is no Gere, Barkin is no Kapriskie, and he's a police lieutenant, she's with the DA's office, so the same adolescent antics now register as simply juvenile. It was one thing for Kapriskie as a young student to be swept off her feet, another for a woman who is supposed to be investigating police corruption to be shown like a jittery schoolgirl with a crush.It's a case of botching the abstraction. The tacky crime plot about killings around town and police corruption we could wave off if seeing these two in a youthful light was a breeze that carried us outside. But seeing them as we do, it reduces. It is, eventually, about how she is strong enough to mind and strong enough to inspire a more noble cop out of him, but reduces too much to get there.And it's another one erroneously mentioned as modern noir in some lists. The narrative drive is from the screwball, the complete opposite of noir, about characters retaining control of their world and the friction of both refusing to let go easily. "},{"Title":"The Dolly Mixture As Before","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Most of the people writing here seemed to enjoy this out of all proportion to its actual worth. It's a very pedestrian story of police corruption and police corruption in a Southern state where - as far as non-American audiences are concerned - police corruption is as natural as corn-pone and hominy grits. Outsider Ellen Barkin - an assistant District Attorney sent to root out the corruption - is ready to compromise her position by sleeping with one of the suspects within hours of meeting him and even when she sees with her own eyes that he is on the pad and literally prosecutes him in court, she still continues to sleep with him. Realistic? Without doubt and if you don't believe me ask Elvis, he's busing tables in Denny's even as we speak. "},{"Title":"This movie has been heavily edited","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It is shocking to see how a movie can be ruined by editing. The original movie that was shown in 1987 was 108 minutes long. There was a DVD and Video release in 1999 which was cut down to 102 minutes. The UK DVD was further cut down to 96 minutes which mean there are 12 minutes lost.I was lucky to see the original version on TV and I have no idea why they cut so much out.I think that the UK version has a whole scene missing at the end which makes the film nonsense. Who is doing all this editing? Why can't they just release the full original version? "},{"Title":"routine action-romance in a vivid setting","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Bayou comes alive with Wiseguy bullets and romantic sparks in this occasionally smoldering romantic thriller, starring Dennis Quaid as a less than scrupulous New Orleans detective investigating a series of local Mafia murders, while having both his conscience and his libido aroused by sultry District Attorney Ellen Barkin. The familiar details of Southern vice and depravity are shaded with plenty of Cajun color and brought to life by a supporting cast of offbeat characters, but underneath all the incidental scenery is a routine action scenario not far enough removed from any other conventional Hollywood cop show. Even worse the very real erotic tension between the two lovers is allowed to fizzle after only one kiss, transforming tough, resourceful DA Barkin into little more than a lovestruck puppy dog and thereby all but eliminating her from the plot. It never shows enough ambition to qualify as a bad movie, but too many wasted opportunities can't help but leave an aftertaste of mild disappointment. "},{"Title":"Big Easy, Little Slippery.","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, this is pretty good. Dennis Quaid is a cop, corrupt in a small-time way, who is found out by the enticing District Attorney of Ellen Barkin, with whom he has a sexy but inexplicit scene -- How about this? It hums along in its own commercial way, enjoyable without being the least bit memorable.A lot of its success depends on Dennis Quaid's performance as the cop who found out that corruption could be a serious business. And he's really good too. Handsome, sinewy, and gruff-voiced, and not at all narcissistic. I'm not sure Quaid takes his career all that seriously. He's not intense in interviews and seems happy enough to let someone else do all the talking, not in an attempt to make himself mysterious but just out of politeness. Yet I can't think of a single film he's botched. Even when the movie is strictly mediocre, Great Balls of Fire, he brings something to it that is uniquely his. Ellen Barkin as the DA is sexy and competent.The movie makes use of its New Orleans locations but doesn't revel in them. There is one of those warehouses full of big heads for the Mardi Gras, but, thank God, no Mardi Gras. I don't recall much of the French Quarter either.But you can't help wondering how much of this raffish, historically mixed atmosphere is now a thing of the past. I mean, what would a resident of New Orleans make of it? Lots of Cajun music. People speak with what sounds like a quasi-French accent. In fact, New Orleans has undergone a great deal of change in the last two generations or so -- not counting the flood. Yes, it was once Spanish, and French, and Edgar Degas visited relatives there, and its cuisine is distinctive. (HOT BOUDIN shout the signs over the doorways of the take-out joints. Oh, yeah?) Much of this, alas, is disappearing. New Orleans is turning into an ordinary Southern Baptist big city with crime and alienation, except for a couple of isolated enclaves set aside for tourists who insist on visiting The Paddock Lounge. The Quarter has become a kind of theme park.The people in this movie speak with an accent, but most New Orleans residents don't. Not a Cajun accent anyway. They don't sound entirely low-country South either. First becomes foist, almost as much as it does in Brooklyn. But in my experience nobody calls anybody else Cher, and the monolingual French-speakers of the area are about extinct. Even down in the delta. I once talked to some ordinary residents who lived south of New Orleans about whether the Freedom Fighters of the 1960s had gotten down into the delta. Nope, said the informant, and it's a good thing for them that they didn't. None of this has much to do with the movie, I guess. So it gives us a fairy tale New Orleans. So what? The Quiet Man gave us a fairy tale Ireland. Let us, by all means, continue to believe in our myths, as long as we don't let them govern our actions. "},{"Title":"Best screen chemistry ever","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved this film. I stumbled on the premiere in the 80's and thoroughly enjoyed it. Bought it on DVD recently and loved it just as much. Ellen Barkin's character is so lovable and Dennis Quaid is perfectly cast and perfectly charming. This is a totally lovable film but it also is of course, a cop drama, which is another very believable aspect of the plot. I found the drama part of it perfectly knitted together. To me though I am sold on the screen chemistry between Barkin and Quaid. The most genuinely erotic love scene ever, just a smidgen ahead of Lopez and Clooney in Out of Sight. This film draws you in and on top if it all, thank goodness, it has a good heart. "}{"Title":"Pretty good entry from those late '80s neo-noir flix.....","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" .....you know like this and 'Black Widow', 'Fatal Attraction' and 'No way Out'--a boomlet c.87 that didn't last that long. Nice try though at least......I liked this over-all, though what doesn't really workunclear plot line of baddies-you lose track of what mob guy did what to who, just names, we never see them in action. Accents slip and slide in and outta focus, stop trying to be a cajun if you can't do it, no one will mind. And the plausibility that Quaid and Barkin would fall for each other so fast/stay together despite the arrest and etc--well you get the point. Yah it's just a movie.What works--great background music, on-site filming, nice turns by Beatty and Persky, fun to see John Goodman as the baddie-no red herring there, pre-Roseanne even-and of course, the performances by Quaid and Barkin are indeed very good. I bought their chemistry, and yes I do see why this (briefly) made her into a star. This and 'Sea of Love' though, seem to be about her only hits; plenty more work followed but nothing we notice per se.Check it out--it rambles a bit and you get tired of some of the plot-twists, but it is worthy of your time.*** outta **** "},{"Title":"Where's the ending??","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie is bearable, but not a film I would recommend. It's poorly directed, badly casted (with the exception of the two leads), and by the way...where's the ending?From the beginning, you think you're in for a real treat. Not only does Dennis Quaid, have his accent and charisma down for the role he is about to wow us with throughout the entire film, but we are also led to believe that the entire movie will be a real shoot-'em up, cops and robbers type of piece. However, with the exception of one love scene which was quite realistic, the rest of the film is left dry and chewy, and not very appetizing. It's lacking in a lot of realism, and where in the world did the ending go? There's no ending to this film, right when you think a wind-up will occur, the credits start to role. Throughout the whole movie, I had a love hate relationship with it. There were times when I absolutely thought this would be my new favorite film, and other times, when I just wanted to turn it off for being so dull and boring. But, all in all it's an entertaining flick. Not the best role for Ellen Barkin, but she definitely good in it. Dennis Quaid however, was absolutely perfectly chosen for the character he portrayed.I would say that if you're not offended by graphic love scenes, or some bloody violence, and you like silly action comedies, with sex on the brain the whole way through, you might like it. It's cute, but also a little rough at times, which makes it more unique than the average romance. Get ready to be disappointed at the end, though. It makes no sense. "},{"Title":"What I Expected","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Big Easy won't blow you away but it's a fun not-so-deep movie. Watching it made me remember a crazy time when Dennis Quaid was in demand making flicks like Inner Space (c'mon you know you loved that one).The movie deals mostly with the relationship between Quaid and Barkin and very little details on the crime investigation are revealed. Barkin is good in her role of the professional lady who puts up a front that she's hard to get, but in actuality she's not hard to get at all. Even though the ending is predictable I'm still glad I saw this one. I had a tough time understanding the dialogue for the first 10 minutes but got used to it after that. Since I'm not from New Orleans I can't rate the quality of the actor's accents but they worked for me.  "},{"Title":"New Orleans sizzler","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This at times morally ambivalent movie is remarkable for the sizzling screen chemistry between local cop Remy McSwain (Dennis Quaid) and his would-be nemesis Anne Osborne (Ellen Barkin). The problem is she just can't resist him! The message of the film is this is New Orleans - we do things differently here! They certainly do! Some great cajun music too! These two are just great together! Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Big Easy a Big Mess","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As a native of New Orleans, I can state that almost everything in this movie, from the atrocious N'Awlins dialect to the highly creative manipulation of Crescent City geography, is horrible. This is another one of those Big Hollywood movies that decides to stereotype New Orleans as 1. A city full of French-sounding idiots 2. A city full of people who sound as if they've just returned from Blanche Dubois' summer home 3. A city of drunkards, where every day is Mardi Gras 4. A city of deep mystery, where almost everyone practices or is a victim of voodoo (I admit that maybe we are a city of drunkards; although every day is NOT Mardi Gras). The Big Easy is one of the worst films about New Orleans. I wouldn't recommend it to anybody.  "},{"Title":"An Annoying Movie","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" What makes this film almost unbearable for me is the script's dreadful protagonist, Det. Remy McSwain (Dennis Quaid). Through most of the plot, he's insulting, unprofessional, flippant, and has a juvenile obsession with sex. Basically, he's a jerk. If he had been any more overtly pawing over Anne (Ellen Barkin), we could have just deleted the thriller scenes altogether, and added more sex, to generate a light romantic comedy. The casting of Dennis Quaid helps not at all. He's too young here to be taken seriously as a detective; and that smirk just reeks of sophomoric impudence.The script's dialogue is over-the-top flippant, with witty one-liners meant to charm the audience, which is inconsistent with a story that deals with a serious crime investigation. It's as if the writers couldn't decide if they wanted a thriller, a love story, or a comedy, so they settled for a mishmash of all of the above.Further, no matter what a jerk Remy is, or what secrets he may be hiding, Anne is easily taken in by him, providing the romantic angle, but suggesting a weak-willed woman who lets her personal attraction to a man interfere with her professional work as a detective.The film's plot clichés are typical for a 1980s film, including obligatory sex scenes, explosions, several plot points, and locale stereotypes with exaggerated Cajun accents. All this just screams ... a film produced by Hollywood insiders who will write a stale, unbelievable story if it's what they think the audience wants.There's nothing wrong with the visuals. Cinematography is acceptable, and so too are production design and editing. I did indeed like the Cajun music.The thriller component had fine potential. And I like the setting in New Orleans. But the script's annoying characters, plot clichés, and awful dialogue make the film hard to like. That, combined with some bad casting, renders The Big Easy well below average. "},{"Title":"Realistically awkward love scene.","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Barkin and Quaid did an excellent job, especially in the characters' first love scene.  It was beautifully awkward, which made it more realistic than most movie love scenes.  Nice chemistry and good direction.  "},{"Title":"Hard to take seriously","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jim McBride's film 'The Big Easy' is an essentially light-hearted crime thriller that integrates elements of romantic comedy with an exaggerated portrayal of life in New Orleans. Ultimately, however, it can't quite decide to play it purely for laughs, so there are also some gruesome scenes and a story of a cop's disenchantment with a life of petty corruption; it's hard to take these seriously in the context of the film as a whole. Whether you like this movie probably depends on what you think of its leads Dennis Quaid's cocky policeman and Ellen Barkin's very 1980s lawyer. Personally, I'd feel quite easy about giving them a miss. "},{"Title":"Great atmosphere;v.good writing,directing,acting,music,lovescene(unusual too)>","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rated this movie very high.  It is not often you see all the elements of a good movie togetherscript well written, director who knows how to create an atmosphere, lead actors who are well cast and bring their characters to life (I thought Dennis Quaid's New Orleans accent was excellent),music that adds to the film,and shot just about as good as it could be.  The story was a mix of an old standby (possible corruption in a police department) done in an original way, along with a terrific love story with one of the most erotic lovescenes I've ever seen on the screen.  The supporting cast was mostly excellent,too.  I would (and have) recommended this movie to friends. "},{"Title":"The true feeling of New Orleans","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie breathes the steamy atmosphere of New Orleans the way I experienced it myself and I just can't see it often enough! "}{"Title":"Would have been a good movie if it wasnt ruined by stupid stereotypes.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have lived in the New Orleans area my whole life and i will say you never hear people talk the way you do in this movie. This movie makes it look like the only thing we eat here is gumbo. These New Orleans accents are horrible and of course everybody in New Orleans is cajun. In fact, Trying to find a cajun in new orleans is like trying to find a needle in a hay stack. One thing that really irritates me about this movie is the line where quaid says we dont call it mafia down here we call em wiseguys.That is B.S,we call it mafia here just like everywhere else. If you are not from New Orleans and you dont know the city very well,you might enjoy this movie. If you are from New Orleans avoid at all cost because it might make you angry. "},{"Title":"The Big Easy","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I will start by saying that I didn't pay full attention to this film while watching, I was doing something else at the same time, but to be honest it didn't look all that engaging anyway, but I tried my best. Basically in New Orleans, lieutenant in Homicide, Det. Remy McSwain (Dennis Quaid) is investigating a series of gang killings in he city, and at the same time being followed by beautiful attorney Anne Osborne (Ellen Barkin). As the killings continue he starts a relationship with her, and he ends up in the court charged with accepting bribes, while the criminals are obviously still on the loose. After a series of chatty scenes are a small chase or two, we find out in the end that the bad guys are actually cops, one being Det. Andre DeSoto (John Goodman), but they get their comeuppance, and Remy and Anne go on together. Also starring Ned Beatty as Jack Kellom, Ebbe Roe Smith as Det. Ed Dodge, Lisa Jane Persky as Det. McCabe, Thomas O'Brien as Bobby McSwain, Jim Garrison as Judge Garrison and Carol Sutton as Judge Raskov. Quaid was reasonable, as was Barkin, and I guess there was a spark between them, and Goodman did okay in his moments, apart from the courtroom and dockyard scenes there were not many highly engaging moments, but what I paid some attention to was relatively interesting, in my opinion, an alright crime thriller. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Decent Neo Noir","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Det. Remy McSwain (Dennis Quaid) is a New Orleans cop investigating the seemingly routine death of a wise guy, he is surprised by the amount of interest being shown by the new District Attorney Anne Osborne (Ellen Barkin). McSwain is a cocky fun loving kind of guy and he is soon trying it on with Osborne. She doesn't resist to hard but soon she realises she must end this relationship as there will be a conflict of interest as she is also investigating corruption in his precinct. Mc Swain is entrapped by an Internal Affairs sting, but when evidence goes missing, Mc Swain is cleared. As the bodies build up in the seemingly escalating gang war, Mc Swain and Osborne finally come together to as real truth is revealed. Decent Neo Noir, that doesn't take itself too seriously playing a lot scenes for laughs. It also follows the seemingly de-rigeur 80's phenomenon that all Noirs need to be steamy, although this one doesn't quite ratchet up the sexiness as much as others of the era. The ending is the low point of the film, its very abrupt and a little to Disney for this crime fan. "},{"Title":"horrible accents","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" While this movie has a fairly interesting story line, and some very good music, I couldn't get past the worst imitation of Cajun accents you will ever encounter on film. Dennis Quaid is the biggest offender; rather than sounding like he's from the bayou, he comes off as effeminate and very affected, calling everyone he encounters cher, as though we were all once married to Sonny Bono. You'd think that somebody on the location would've told them how bad it sounded, but judging from the amount of goofs people spotted in the movie, maybe they just didn't care. Check out the characters in Belizaire, if you want to hear what the real thing sounds like. "},{"Title":"Unwittingly hilarious","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Unwittingly hilarious, for all New Orleanians or anyone even vaguely familiar with the city. A bigger party classic down here than Reefer Madness--because Reefer Madness was more realistic. The accents! The characters! The geography! A total scream!  "},{"Title":"Jambalaya Gumbo & Dirty Rice","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" **SPOILERS** Finding mob wise guy Freddie Angelo,Jim Chimeno, shot dead and dumped in a city fountain the New Orleans Police fear that a major gang war is about to erupt in the Big Easy. Hot-shot, and wise guy himself, NOPD Det.Remy McSwain, Dennis Quaid, is quickly on the scene and takes charge of the murder investigation. At the police station New Orleans Mafia chieftain Vinnie Dimotti, Marc Lawrence, is brought in for questioning which is no more then talking abut the good old day with Det. McSwain and is soon released. As all this is happening the New Orleans District Attorney's office is conducting an investigation of police corruption with Det. Mc Swain as the main target. Heading the investigation is Assiatant D.A Anne Osborne, Ellen Barkin. Anne is quickly charmed and captivated by the grinning and obnoxious Det. McSwain, the main subject of her corruption investigation, who's about as cute and cuddly as a razorback and just as annoying. Taking Anne out for the evening McSwain breaks about every law on the books, including running a red light, to impress her and ends up spending the night in bed with Anne in his apartment. Anne getting the goods on Det. McSwain has him set up in a local strip-joint to accept a bribe from the owner but the cunning cop smells a rat or wire. For what seems like the first time in his police career Det. McSwain doesn't take the illegal cash throwing the bribe money, eight $50.00 bills, in the air where their quickly gobbled up by the bar customers. Having a hidden video tape of McSwain taking the bribe, before he threw it away, to arrest him Det. McSwain it's now used to indite him for taking a bribe which he in fact didn't. The cagey and resourceful McSwain later has a powerful electric magnet snuck into the Police Property Clerk's Office which erases the tape having his case thrown out of court by the presiding judge Jim Garrison of the JFK assassination movie fame. Later a new number of the murders happen in New Orleans which starts to point to a criminal police element, not Mafia hoods street gang members or even a voodoo cult, as the culprit's.Things start to get real hot for Let. McSwain when his younger brother Bobby, Tom O'Brien, is shot and badly injured when the killer thinks that he's really Det. McSwain. Trying to get to he bottom of the string of murders Det. McSwain sees local New Orleans black community leader Big Daddy Mentio (Solomon Burke), who has an idea to who's behind the killings. Before Big Daddy could open his mouth and tell the police about the killings he's shot and killed as well. Det. McSwain slowly uncovers the reasons for the murders and it has to do with members of the New Orleans police Department who are into drug trafficking from Mexico to Southern Louiseana. The corrupt cops are lead by his future father-in-law and head of the New Orleans homicide division Capt. Jack Kellom, Ned Beatty. Decent police drama if you overlook the weird performance by Dennis Quaid as Det. Remy McSwain who's ridicules Cajun accent seems to break up in mid sentence like a bad case of static interference on your radio receiver. Ellen Barkin as Assistant D.A Anne Osborne was professional and believable at first but later degenerated into a blond airhead who didn't even have the sense, or presence of mind, to have Det. McSwain arrested. That's after one of his corrupt police friends kidnapped her. After kidnapping Anne Det. McSwain took her to a party and barbecue celebrating his indictment being thrown out court. The happy and bubbly Det. McSwain is seen and heard singing and playing the guitar, very badly,and then dancing with her as the movie finally ends. "},{"Title":"If I can't have you, can I at least have my gator?","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let me begin by saying that it took me three times to finish this film. I am a strong believer that if a film takes three days to finish, or you find yourself constantly glancing at your watch, then the film has lost you. You are not interested in the movie any longer, all you want is for the film to end. Quick and simple, you have better things to do today.To begin, I couldn't stand Quaid's accent. I realize that we are deep into the world of Louisiana, but it almost felt forced from Quaid. It felt as if he had been practicing all night, only to forget most of it in the morning and continue to try to do his best. Second, the chemistry between Barkin and Quaid seems forced as well. Neither one of them seem to be in love, it just seems like it is more a convenience relationship then a full fledged love affair. I have trouble believing that a couple is going to be happy together after just spending an evening together at a bar OR that a love could form when you are trying to convict the man on corruption charges. I felt that some sort of ethics question should have been brought up, but it wasn't. The secondary characters in this film made no sense either. I didn't care, or know, who Bob, Dick, or Jane were in the background of this film. I did notice John Goodman playing a small part ... but he has done better. I felt that with this film, the director had swayed from the overall point of the film. Jim McBride tried to bring a story of romance with the backdrop of crime in the unlikely of places. What was actually created was a gumbo style of film. Tons of different elements combined in the same bowl, only to create some sense of spice and uneven texture. I think something was missing when they were trying to establish a sense of family bond between all the major characters, but I still didn't realize that Ned Beatty was trying to marry Quaid's mother. In the middle of the film that hit me hard ... too hard. I felt at times that this film was similar to watching a very cheap, and un-mutant like version of X-Men. I could see Quaid doing Gambit, but it would have been sloppy and poor. Perhaps I was hoping that somewhere in the middle of this film Quiad would turn into Gambit and perhaps ... just perhaps ... throw some of those explosive cards at everyone around him. Chaos could have been better created than this film. Finally, I would like to end on a note of science. If you are in a big gun battle at the very end, the climax is about to come (as horrible as that just sounded), and the last of the bad guys is about to get their come-uppins please DO NOT ever shoot at bags of cocaine. Do you know why? Because they will explode upon impact of any bullets. Did you know that? I would have to say that that is the only history I learned, or was willing to learn, during this film. Grade * out of *****  "},{"Title":"Found film quite dull, more of a romance than suspence.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Young Quaids fake accent was difficult to accept at times.The show was billed as mystery/suspence but should have been listed as a romance.Don't rent this one if you are sleepy, it will knock you out. "},{"Title":"Not that interesting.","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's not a horrible movie, just one of those movies that will leave a redundant impression. It's a movie you can easily do without. Disappointing, since I always heard good things about this movie.Somewhere in this movie there is a story about police corruption and a faked gang-war but it all feels so disconnected and not developed well enough that you just never start to care about any of it. The movie is mostly about the Dennis Quaid and Ellen Barkin romance. I wouldn't say that the chemistry between them is anything too great, also since their entire romance seems to be sex-based above anything else really. Not really the actors fault of course, since they are obvious capable ones. The movie just perhaps didn't had the greatest casting.Dennis Quaid seems to pick up and drop his New Orleans accent randomly. It's annoying when he in the one sequence speaks with a fat accent, while in the other he speaks in his own way.I blame mostly director Jim McBride. He's also a director that just never broke through and mostly works for TV productions and directs music clips. The directing makes the story looses its focus on its main story, which often just drifts away. It has as a result that nothing ever really fully works out in the movie, including its climax. But the worst thing about the entire movie was its action. This seriously was some of the worst action and definitely action-editing it had ever seen in my life. It's the sort of stuff that will make you laugh instead and makes you wonder; now what the bleep was that? Like Ed Wood had risen from the grave.The movie gets mostly saved by the fact that its a rather light one, with light characters and dialog, which makes sure that the movie for most part remains an enjoyable one to watch, despite all of its flaws and weaknesses.Just not a movie I would like to watch again.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}]