[{"Title":"Games","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One woman in three bodies. Games about death, with death as a rule, and as a consequence. Life as this game and vice versa. The scoring of the game, the ruling of the script according to numbers. Sequential skipping through the numbers as a way of adumbrating the game to tell a story.Another masterpiece from Greenaway, his most accessible in my view. But that makes it a lesser work compared to his others, because the story is perfectly comprehensible. One can see how his notion of structured visual allegory with narrative footnotes starts to emerge here. The latest I have seen at this writing is The Pillow Book where this is all so much more elaborate and integrated into the narrative. But this film still charms. I wish I could personally thank the financier. "},{"Title":"An unsung, all-time masterpiece.","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not much I can add to the rave reviews above.  A simple-complicated-ugly-beautiful-puzzle-painting of a film, which demands repeated viewings.Drowning is not for everyone - but look at the breakdown on that voting. As I write this, this film got more 10s than any other number.I'm not into lists, but if you forced me, this would be my number one.Go see (or rather go buy).  If you've seen it before, see it again - new layers reveal themselves even now. "},{"Title":"Quirky, eccentric, engaging","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was ready to shut this movie off during the opening credits. A young girl skips rope as she names the stars in the cadence of her count 13-Rigel, 14- get it? Now you'd think most filmmakers would pick up this little symbol at a point near its end, but not Peter Greenaway. We see the whole count. I nearly fell asleep before the movie title appeared.I'm glad I didn't. This is one weird movie, but a charming entertainment. The counting to 100 in the rope-jump prefigures the appearance of the numbers one through a hundred in sequence throughout the movie. It's fun after a while to see if you can spot them or to predict their appearance.The plot, such as it is, centers around three women with the same name who all drown their husbands, with the assistance of the coroner, an inveterate gamesman. The other main character is the coroner's bizarre number-obsessed son, who narrates, and actually does most of the numbering that marks the progress of the film. The main characters are all utterly amoral.Does the plot really matter? It's a black comedy, and a puzzle. The people are real, but they aren't. The play's the thing. The film is odd and personal. I loved it. You may not. It reminded me of TV's famous The Prisoner.Peter Greenaway wrote and directed. The script is dryly amusing. The visual presentation is poetic and rich with symbols. The camera angles are unusual, befitting the material photographed. The landscape is ethereal, not unlike Prospero's Island in Greenaway's The Tempest. Except maybe for Zefferelli, nobody creates a richer texture of visual imagery.For me, the only disappointment was an unsatisfying ending. I guess this was how it had to end. I couldn't come up with a better solution to the puzzle, but I wanted the characters to fare better than they did, and the fate of the boy-narrator seemed unduly harsh.Still and all, it was Greenaway's game, and that's how he played it. I'm not sure why anyone financed this film, because the potential audience is small.But I sure liked it. "},{"Title":"An intriguing puzzle that's fun to decipher","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a picture that offers so much to the viewer. It is beautiful, but also, at times, grotesque. It is intriguing and complex, and covers a cornucopia of subjects. The film has an elegant Englishness about it. It is a film that always requires your attention and one that you will want to return to.The film begins with a young girl (adorned in a dress from Velazquez's painting Las Meninas) who is skipping and counting stars, 100 of them (some of these stars have Greenaway names like Hoyten, Luper and Spica). She is the film's navigator.The story is about three women, all with the same name, Cissie Colpitts, each from different age groups, who have something in common, they each murder their husbands by drowning them. They escape punishment from this by consenting to the needs of an amorous coroner, Madgett. Madgett's young son, Smut, tells us about different games, each of them rather odd. The film has a wonderful surreal feel to it. For instance, a man and a woman on bicycles collide with two dead cows, but it hardly perturbs them. Throughout the film there are the numbers 1 to 100 placed in ascending order on display in some peculiar positions. It's a fascinating riddle. "},{"Title":"Good surprise.","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In Drowning by Numbers Peter Greenaway managed to find the thin line between the art movies and the audience-pleasing comedies. His other films, like The Draughtsman's Contract are visually arresting but very hard to understand and to stay with. I worried a little bit before I sat down watching this film but I spent a cheerful evening in front of the TV. Hilarious dialogues and monologues are matched with Sacha Vierny's beautiful photography and Greenaway's distinctive and moody sets and atmosphere. Plowright, Stevenson and Richardson are equally terrific, not to mention Bernard Hill as the corny coroner. The debuting Jason Edwards is one of the highlights of the film. His strange behaviour and explanations of the newly invented games are the funniest moments in the film. The final scene is one of the most bizarre closing ever put on screen. Unfortunately, this film was faded by the other commercially successful English films of the late 80s, early 90s (e.g. The Fish Called Wanda), but if you have the opportunity to watch this film don't miss it. It's highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The men play one type of game, the women another","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Life's a game, death's a game. This playful little movie is all about games. If you're not a gaming-type person, you might not find this, umm, diverting.The thoroughly surreal and tongue-in-cheek tone of the movie keeps us from taking it very seriously...all of which is for the best, since that way we don't confuse the plot with serious drama; the games the women play tend toward the homicidal....Wittgenstein famously pointed out that there are all manner of games in the world--there's no tight set of identifying characteristics; games all have, at most, a family resemblance. Greenaway has here collected numerous far-flung relatives in this odd family. You'll no doubt appreciate some of them more than others, Well, we all inevitably have favorites.DbN and Prospero's Books (two very different movies!) are my favorite Greenaway films.  "},{"Title":"My favorite Greenaway film... an underrated masterpiece!","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I enjoy the films of Peter Greenaway. The Cook the Thief his Wife and her Lover and the Pillowbook are both films that are unique and visionary. Peter Greenaway is like a British David Lynch. Some critics get frustrated by Greenaway, claiming his films are self indulgent. I feel self indulgent is sometimes a good thing, especially when it comes to a breathtaking film like Drowning by Numbers. The movie is one giant puzzle. There's a girl who jumps rope while counting out the names of the stars by number. Try to see if you can spot all the numbers 1-100 hidden throughout the film. The plot concerns three women, a mother and two daughters. All 3 women are named Cissy. Each woman named Cissy drowns their deadbeat husbands for being unsatisfactory lovers. Magit is the local coroner, and he agrees to keep the murders a secret. He makes a deal to claim each death an accidental drowning, if each Cissy gives him sexual favors in return. So 3 generations of women all named Cissy decide to lead on Magit the coroner without promise. Poor Guy! The coroner's son Smut, is obsessed with death. He plays strange number games and marks roadkill with different colored paint. He also likes to set of fireworks after a death. Not to mention, Smut is also obsessed with circumcision. He's never been circumcised and feels the need to take matters in his own hands, so to speak. Wow, the crazy things men will do for women. Also look for Nip/Tuck actress Joely Richardson as the youngest Cissy. Drowning by Numbers is extremely bizarre, and shows that life is a game made up of numbers. It's a brilliant surreal mind-phuk puzzle that you have to watch at least twice to comprehend. Peter Greenaway is very original, with satirical wit and a dark comic edge. "},{"Title":"Works on many, many levels","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are some rare films where you discover something new each time you watch, and this is such a case. Initially you might watch it for the simple fairy-tale story (like all good fairy tales, there is repetition and a good deal of nasty goings-on). Then you might try to spot the ascending numbers that are sometimes obvious in the frame, sometimes spoken by the characters or sometimes really obscure (can you spot 86?). You may wonder whether any of the games - some of which are brilliantly conceived, like The Great Death Game - have ever really been played, or whether they are just products of Greenaway's imagination. Then you start seeing strange connections, like the one between the water tower conspirators' names - all from the apocryphal last words of famous people - and the way each of the Cissies destroys an object symbolic of her husband's occupation at the time of each murder.Even after ten viewings, the film will still have you wondering. The star names at the beginning, for example, contain other Greenaway characters and Adnams, which is the Suffolk brewer based in Southwold (the Skipping Girl's home is a real Southwold house, by the way, called Seaview House, although there is no Amsterdam Road!).Ultimately the characters' motives are the hardest to understand. Each of the three Cissies (mother, daughter and niece) encourages the next to dispose of her unsatisfactory husband, with Madgett used as a pawn to cover up the murders. However, there are several strong suggestions that a fifth person is behind the whole plot, with its twin themes of counting and death. There is a twist at the end, however, that means things don't quite work out as intended.It's fantastic and surreal to look at, with the typical garishly coloured and deliberately over-lit scenes used by Greenaway in his other films, and quite affecting, although it's hard to feel sympathy for many of the characters involved. I give it 10/10 for its sheer uniqueness and ability to make the viewer think. "},{"Title":"Playful, quirky, and weird","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Such an obviously non-American film. I believe this was the first time I had seen Joan Plowright, and she was so good. Having seen more of her work since, I know this is no fluke. Everyone else was also good here, especially Joely Richardson and Bernard Hill. I won't go into any detail, but the movie is weird, weird, weird, and has a dark subject matter without being a dark film. Highly recommended for those looking for something different. Grade A "},{"Title":"I'm Not Waving Im Drowning (Best Films Ever Seen)","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Drowning By Numbers is one of a very small group of perfect films I've seen. Not just 5, 10, 100 point films, but flawless to the point where numerical systems fail to be valuable. Peter Greenaway's third film is about three women a mother, daughter, and niece all named Cissie Colpitts, who one by one drown their husbands in a bath, in the sea, and in a pool. After the first drowning, the local coroner is asked to help cover up the crime, and he agrees believing this will give him car blanche to have his way with the new widow. He is rebuked in the first of several such attempts. His name is Madgett and he orchestrates for the town a series of seemingly random, perhaps ancient (in fact completely made up) games, consisting of strange rules and regulations, like Hangman's Cricket where half the game is spent learning the rules. Madgett's son is named Smut(our narrator), and Smut is interested in a young girl dressed in a fancy gown who always claims to be on her way to a party, and who jumps rope counting from 1 to 100 in the films opening sequence. Numbers appear in every scene whether spoken aloud or written on a small or large object in the background. One could make the film itself into a game called spot the numbers, which count from the first scene to the last from 1 to 100. The film is full of small details some so obscure they are likely to please no one but Peter Greenaway or those willing to watch his behind the scenes blow-by blow Fear Of Drowning, where for instance, we learn that many lines of dialog consist of the last words of England's kings, sometimes crazed non-sequitters muttered from their death beds. Why include such things, because it makes the game for fun, that's why. As always Greenaway composes every single sequence to achieve a sense of balance, and painterly poise. As usual most scenes, including idle landscape shots are recreations of paintings. Though the images are fantastic, the soundtrack by frequent collaborator Michael Nyman is stunning. I can't think of a director and composer whose works fuse together with such iconoclastic fluid grace since Sergio Leone and Ennio Mariconne. Nyyman's orchestral compositions are energetic, pulsating, lively, and captivating enough to be listened to and enjoyed apart from the film as its own music, and gives a sharp sense of irony and comic timing of its own to Greenaway's visual tableaux. Greenaway is not what you would call a humanist director, he rarely shoots close ups, instead remains in wide screen, and letting his characters take up positions as figures in an image, not actors on a stage, or in a film. This can be difficult to deal with if identification with characters is a pre-requisite for enjoyment, because the film aims for visual awe, wafts of aural pleasure, and snatches of witty literate dialog that only doesn't sound like dialog because of the casual delivery the lead actresses are able to give their macabre melodrama. Drowning By Numbers is a multi-layered film meant to be watched several times.It is a monument to be marveled at, but one where all of the elements of the film medium contribute the structure and design of the piece as whole, where form and content perfectly integrated into each other. The women who drown their husbands, at first do it out of anger, then out of disappointment, and finally out of solidarity, or in other words for no real reason at all. The pattern of threes needs to be complete, three murders, three autopsies, and three funerals. We know the husbands will die, they are as inexorably fated to their turns in the plot as all people are fated for death, as films are fated to end after a certain number of scenes. We are made hyper-aware of these numbers because they are flashed in a countdown on screen. Does anyone remember the death clock, http//www.deathclock.com/, how it works is after a few personal details are typed in a clock appears counting down to the exact moment you will die. You can watch your life flicker away by measurements. We are all drowning in numbers. Yet it's not all doom and gloom, because the coroner while being an eternal bachelor as fated to be rejected by the widows he assists as their husbands were to watery graves, he is also the master of games. Like his first film the Draughtsman's' Contract the battle of the sexes consumes the characters, where in Draughtsman, an artist who believes he is having his way with a mother and daughter discovers all to late, he is in fact being used and disposed of, so does Madgett find himself helpless in the face of female solidarity, leaving him to his only recourse of playing more games. Sure death is just around the corner at all times, but there are so many marvelous, silly, frivolous distractions to amuse ourselves with in the meantime; life and all of its contents. No Country For Old Men and Blow-Up have both made this same point about death's inevitability and life as a game of chance, but where both those films suffered a self-serious somberness Drowning By Numbers remembers to be a tragic-comedy and not just a tragedy. Life is absurd, of course of course, but the absurd can be very funny, and humor after all is happiness' cheeky cousin, sometimes inappropriate, but nearly always welcome. Smut The full flavor of the game Hangman's Cricket is best appreciated after the game has been played for several hours, by then every player has an understanding of the many rules and knows which character they want to play permanently, finally an outright loser is found and is obliged to present himself to the Hangman who is always merciless. "}{"Title":"avoid pan-n-scan version","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw the movie at a local art-house cinema, and was instantly converted to the church of Greenaway/Nyman. I raved so much about it that my philestine friends finally agreed to rent it.Of course, the rented version was pan-n-scanned. It was truly awful. As bad as the original was good.  Much of the Greenawaynian charm is his flair for composing scenes visually.  Pan-scanning deprives you of almost all the fun. Besides whoever did the pan scanning didn't get the spot-the-numbers game. Several were lost out of frame.Don't bother renting it on VHS. Maybe the DVD will get it right. Until then, ask the Brattle or your local cinema paradiso to show you it in all its glory. "},{"Title":"A must-see film and Greenaway's best","Date":"23 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" British director Peter Greenaway was very popular among European university students in the late 1980s and early 1990s. His painterly style paired with Michael Nyman's minimalistic neo-baroque music yielded some of the most unique and interesting art films of the period (The Draughtsman's Contract; The Cook, the Thief, His Wife & Her Lover; Prospero's Books etc.). Drowning by Numbers is my favourite and has remained in my all-time Top 20 ever since.It is probably Greenaway's least bizarre and most accessible work and the one that strays furthest from being another moving baroque painting, but it is just as highly structured and densely infused with statistics-like enumerations (another common trait of Greenaway's movies). Numbers, repetition, symmetry and surreal, invented nursery games create an intricate web in which the story of three women drowning their husbands unfolds. Joan Plowright and Bernard Hill give memorable performances here (as usual), but a Greenaway movie is never really about story or performances, but puzzles, imaginative structuring and an eye-opening, fresh perspective on people's motives and dark secrets.Being one of the most unusual filmmakers, Greenaway should not be overlooked, and Drowning by Numbers is a perfect initiation into his world. It might not be as shocking and powerful as The Baby of Macon, but it is just as gripping and, for a Greenaway movie, surprisingly funny and warm. "},{"Title":"Another great one from Greenway.","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  'Drowning by numbers', like the other Greenway films, is stuffed with symbols, which meaning is sometimes hard to decipher. Without getting into much detail (unjustifiedly so), I'll summarize the film as a film on the uprise of femininity and the emasculinity and helplessness of the male gender. This film shows women to be more sophisticated, albeit cruel, beings; Women are more competent for the GAME- and indeed, this film, turns the gender table all the way around. I've liked this film very much but, no doubt Greenway masterpiece is really 'the pillow book' which i recommend to anyone. "},{"Title":"Warm, sad and funny","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERSOne of Greenaway's few genuinely warm films, despite its obvious morbidity. 'Drowning by Numbers' is frequently accused of misogyny, I can only assume because of the plot (three women 'revenge' themselves on their male significant others, etc.). This idea's a bit silly, considering how freely the male characters are satirized, but it's true that Greenaway has gender relations very much in mind here. The result is a kind of darker, art-film-ized version of 'The Importance of Being Earnest,' with the witty, nonsensical script and explicit references to games lulling us into Wildean amusement as we watch the Cissies quietly dispatch their menfolk one at a time. At least, for a while we're amused. Greenaway starts us off very much in the Cissies' corner; they are so likable, so recognizable to us, and their crimes are just the (admittedly unpleasant) means to their happiness . . . but before we know it, characters we care about start getting hurt. It's one thing when Cissie 1's drunken, philandering Jake goes, or Cissie 2's faithful but fat, priggish and inattentive Hardy does. But then Cissie 3's impatient but basically satisfactory Bellamy is done in (because he can't swim? really?), and soon we realize we no longer have the impulse to laugh. And when Madgett's story comes to its unhappy conclusion, or, even worse, when the children begin to imitate the adults' crazy behavior around the opposite sex (with horrific results), we see that Greenaway, ever the critic of humanity, is shaking his head sadly at sexual relations, not smiling at their folly. But he does it with such playfulness, and such a rich, loving cinematic texture--the season is fall, but the film is made summery by Michael Nyman's score and Sacha Vierny's cinematography--that 'Drowning by Numbers' is less a lecture than a game. Well, of course. 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Drowning by Numbers","Date":"3 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I found this film listed in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, I was keen to see it both for this reason, it had a good cast of British actors, and the critics gave it positive comments, directed by Peter Greenaway (The Cook, the Thief, His Wife and Her Lover). Basically the film centres on three generations of women, all called Cissie Colpitts, the mother (Joan Plowright), her daughter (Juliet Stevenson), and her niece (Joely Richardson), all of whom are married. Mother Cissie experiences dissatisfaction from her husband Jake (Bryan Pringle) and his philandering ways, she takes her silent revenge by drowning him in a bathtub. But senior Cissie is not the only one, her daughter Cissie II sends her husband Hardy (Trevor Cooper) to a watery grave drowning him in the ocean, and her granddaughter Cissie III ends the life of husband Bellamy (David Morrissey) drowning him in a swimming pool. With these deaths being successive order and all being the same cause of death, local coroner Henry Madgett (Barnard Hill) initially has questions for the three Cissies, they respond by making promises to sleep with him in exchange for his silence and recording the deaths as accidental. Local gossip starts to spread about the water-related deaths, Henry's teenage son Smut (Jason Edwards) comes to the aid three women, so it is them one side, and the doubting townspeople on the other. Throughout the film there are also invented games played, specifically including counting and numbers, going from 1 to 100 mostly, with the involvement of literature and astrology, these are seen played by the leading or supporting characters, or in the background. In the end, the three Cissies and Madgett make what it looks like a getaway from the town in a boat, they deliberately cause the boat to fill with water, the three women throw the objects representing their husbands into the water, while Madgett removes his clothing, but the women join forces to drown him, and swim away. Also starring John Rogan as Gregory, Paul Mooney as Teigan, Jane Gurnett as Nancy and Kenny Ireland as Jonah Bognor. Plowright, Stevenson and Richardson as the lethal scheming trio are delightful anti-heroes, Hill gets his time as well as the coaxed man deliberating and lying about their deaths, each husband probably deserves what is coming to them, and it is most funny to see the deadly action and cover-ups carried out, the number games and music by Michael Nyman add to it as well, a fantastic black comedy drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"100 deaths","Date":"1 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The notion is the same. All things move towards their end, as Nick Cave would romantically have it. Or die violent, arbitrary deaths, as Greenaway would. Bees, cows, men, we are witness to all these deaths, how all of creation is inadvertently eclipsed, as marked one to 100. We need not see any more because as a girl jumping rope says while counting stars, after you count to the first 100 all the other hundreds are the same. It's enough to understand the replicated pattern.Various games with stakes in the film mirror the one game, life, where existence is the stake, various conspiracies attempt to unlock the meaning, while others obfuscate it. That these deaths, of three husbands at the hands of their wives, are the result of cruel whims and little more. That there's no grand plan or ultimate purpose that justifies the loss, Greenaway always the pessimist and cynical.The most interesting character in all this is the coroner's son. Who, as his father devises elaborate games to pass idle time, with boyish innocence he wants to know the simplest answers of the universe. How many leaves on a tree, how many hair on a dog? And who commemorates the passing of living things by lighting up fireworks.Greenaway generally knows how to make an interesting film that is intellectual but not dyspeptic. The fun here is in the form of a typically British black comedy, where deaths are clumsily covered-up and the noose around the culprits' neck is pulled tighter all the time.He's done better work but this worth watching. If only for the cinematic fireworks of Sacha Vierny. "},{"Title":"Insight into the little acknowledged Current state of the War of Sexes","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I find this film extremely entertaining and also appallingly tragic - because of the age old truths it portrays.The major truth I see is the misuse of power by men AND by women. Two different types of power usually, but each as bad as the other in the awful FINAL horrific result - the deaths of the innocent boy and girl children.Misuse of power by men 1) the Coroner- entrusted with ensuring people's deaths are investigated, covers up murders. Abuse of power by someone in a traditional place of MALE authority.2) The policeman, who is apparently on his way out from visiting a prostitute, brings all hell down on the Coroner when he sees innocent photos of his son in his shorts. The Coroner is clearly NOT a paedophile, but an egregious accessory to murder. The paedophilia is possibly more in the mind of the policeman, while ignoring the murder spree around him.3) Drunken male yahoos mowing down the little girl in their car, accidentally or just for fun, but with no remorse.Misuse of power by women With Political Correctness and the Women's Lib movement this is a very brave though fairly subtly handled truth portrayed by Greenaway how women can be just as violent and murderous to men as visa versa.Cissie Colpitts 1 drowns her drunken fornicating husband with about as much passion as someone watching a mayfly drown. She pushes him down GENTLY again and again as he is too inebriated to resist. Talk about murder ONE! Almost psychotic detachment. Note how she then goes on to admire her husbands young lover she has the fine fingers of needlecraft. (paraphrased). This is womanhood against manhood and it's only just beginning.There follows a succession of women who kill their husbands by drowning, (the traditional method of disposing of rats). The men are a mixed bunch from chauvinist bastards to loving devoted husbands, but the women still dispose of them with the same absolute lack of remorse or even care - like the woman who drowns her devoted husband in the pool, she grunts as she leaves the pool containing his drowned corpse, grunting one may feel with horror of the murder, but nope, it's just EXERTION, she sportily dives back in for a few more laps OVER HIS DEAD BODY.Meanwhile Cissie Colpitts 1 corrals the coroner to cover up more and more male culling. And watch the SUBTLE use of ACCUSATORY tone as she manipulates the weak figure of MALE POWER the Coroner, listen to the conversations as they rove around in his eerily lit car. She keeps this up to the end, accusing away while at the same time being a most awful criminal. This is the sociopath who knows no conscience &#150; only methods of manipulating people.This accusatory control is a sort of quiet feminine use of power that often drives men to death, literal or psychological (which men can use just as well, just not sensitive New Age men!)Greenaway reveals that it is not just the obvious power of the strong male that kills. It is as if some ancient sisterhood is being invoked and a culling of the drone males is being led by this very witchy Queen Bee figure. Anyone who is a part of landed English families will know characters like that, and the ancient heritage they represent!And as those background numbers crank up to 100 with a terrible inevitability it is always this Queen Bee that is calling the shots. As the police close in on the Coroner (on suspicion of Paedophilia?? The women aren't the only twisted ones here), Cissie Colpitts 1 takes charge and under the guise of offering escape prescribes the only way for the male Coroner who has outlived his usefulness DEATH BY DROWNING.For someone who watches Australian TV with ads (which are distributed worldwide, they are one of our major exports it seems) that constantly preach that women should cheat, spit on, assault, castrate and even literally KILL men for any misdemeanour or just for fun (these were two famous ads) &#150; apparently as payback for ancient GROUP ill treatment (?) - I can't help but wonder about Greenaway's prescience at pointing to Western Society that is now handling the age old battle of the sexes in a way that results in just the same old (often hidden, rarely understood) emotional and physical mayhem despite whatever progress we think has been made.Murder can be seen as all types of murder including emotional murder. And it must be stressed that Greenaway makes it clear that men can be just as culpable. Just that the current state of play may be putting the modern male very much in danger in a struggle possibly manipulated by a 3rd evil force embodied by such as Cissie Colpitts 1 who is about as feminine as Lucrecia Borgia.In the end it is the children, the future, that suffer the final deaths. The son, left alone by the powers of the male law supposedly protecting him and his selfish Dad, and the little skipping girl - run down by a couple of drunken male yahoos.As to her possible symbolism, as the daughter of a fortune teller sort of mother who also seems to be a whore on the side &#133; Perhaps she is the New Age hopeful starry eyed belief system that, as the bastard child of ancient mysticism, has given such hope to millions in the West, but in fact has just blinded them to the insidious loss of HUMAN VALUE that has been going on since the end of the 70's. In the end even SHE gets the chop&#133;&#133;The words of a Cissie Colpits 1 person I know are explained in this movie why do you care about PEOPLE &#150; life is just a GAME! "},{"Title":"Another Greenaway/Vierny/Nyland masterpiece","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw this film many years ago when it was first released, after having seen all greenaway's BFI funded experimental films and the Draughtman's Contract et al. Some of the reviews here seem to compare this film with greenaway's later films, right up to the Pillow Book. I don't see this as relevant, a film maker will obviously evolve over a period of 20 years. This film was at the time, and still is, a thoughtful, beautifully photographed masterpiece. The cast are superb, the script is crisp, and although it generally is regarded as greenaway's most user friendly film, this is no bad thing. In short, a film to be enjoyed time after time. PLEASE WILL SOMEONE ARRANGE A DVD RELEASE SOON !!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Completely brilliant in every way","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this film over and over and I think it is one of the best films ever made - certainly my favourite among Peter Greenaway's films.It is bizarre, disturbing and hilarious - I would consider this to be one of Greenaway's lighter pictures - not as horrifying as The Cook, the Thief, his Wife & her Lover or as heavy as Pillow Book or The Draughtsman's Contract - this film has a lot of fun within its frame.Sheep and Tides - Nine sheep are tethered to stakes, (next to chairs on which teacups are placed) beside the sea, and bets are laid on the combined sensitivity of any line of three sheep - read vertically, horizontally or diagonally - being the first to react to the exact moment of the tide turn. The sheep sudden movement jolts the chairs, pulls on the stakes and rattles the teacups....  Since there are usually three tide turns every 24 hours, it is normal practice to take the best of three results.  Reliable clocks, calendars and timetables are used to determine the accuracy of the sheep forecast.Brilliant. "},{"Title":"Oddly Disappointing","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Tired of her husband's philanderous ways, the mother of two daughters drowns her husband. With the reluctant help of the local coroner, the murder is obscured. Her daughters are having similar problems with relationships, and tend to follow their mother's example.I really thought I would like this movie, with its clever counting scheme and dark sense of humor. I love black comedy as much or more than I love horror. But for whatever reason, I took no joy at all from this movie.The How I Met Your Mother episode Bad News uses a numbering device inspired by the film, with the numbers counting down to the titular Bad News, when character Marshall learns that his father has died. Now, that is a show I greatly enjoyed, and now that I know the connection would be interested in seeing the episode again. "}{"Title":"Definitely not for everyone, but if you like lush images this one's for you.","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The director Peter Greenaway will divide audiences into those who look on him as a brilliant experimenter with film as art and those who will be bored out of their skulls.  I have to admit that this was the first of his films that I saw and I nearly walked out of the theater midway through (some people did).  It won me over though and after seeing it again on television I have come to appreciate it even more.If a traditional narrative film is what you're expecting, you will be disappointed.  The plot does involve 3 sisters, murder and the use of the numbers 1-100 placed consecutively throughout the film.  Greenaway uses surreal colorful images, influenced by his being a painter no doubt.  He likes to challenge viewers too with full-frontal nudity and disturbing violence but not in an exploitative way.  There are few other filmmakers which can be compared to him - maybe David Lynch comes closest.  If you are a serious student of film, you owe it to check Greenaway's films out. "},{"Title":"This is my favourite movie.","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Seen by accident on a not-so-important TV-stations program in the 90ies, I 've been impressed by the clearly identifyable patterns that make this film a wonderful puzzle of games, death and numbers. My wife and me started a numbering game after having seen this movie together, that lasts for quite a long time right now.u Just my favorite movie of all. "},{"Title":"Amazing, Beautiful....","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It has been many years since I watched this movie and have pined for it eversince. I await the DVD version before watching for a third time, only this medium could do justice to the beautiful framing and composition, of the light and of the dark, of the score, of the shining cast. A truely remarkable and evocative event. One of Peter Greenaway's masterpieces. It is an odd film that keeps you held in it's grasp. When a film is shot with every frame worthy of being hung on a wall, all other aspects are a bonus. A full ten marks should rarely be given. Ten! "},{"Title":"one of the best of one of the best","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember reading an interview with Greenaway once. I was captured by his view of film. He said that films should not be an adaption of books. It's a different Field and it should have a different language and built. (my words for his ideas).and indeed his movies are not plays or books. you can't separate the visuals from the script, and even though this movie is pretty linear and it's story is actually very easy to follow, it's it's own world, and follow it's own rules.I found this movie perfect. as usual for him it's extremely rich in it's visuals. In the first few minutes you meet the skipping girl that counts the stars, with her huge shadow on the wall behind. that image is truely poetical, and it's only the first. following immediatly are man and women bathing and having sex in a room. the scene looks like an oil painting from the baroque era. with the apples around. beautiful.the story reveals in it's own pace. you meet the main characters - 3 generation of women, all with the same name, and their husbands, and the coroner and his kid. all acting wonderfully. the women with their own communication, their own separate world. the sex-less kid (it took me half the movie to decide if it's a boy or a girl with his world.the movie is funny, fascinating, very original and refreshing. the use of numbers gives it an unusual and good retheme, the games are excuses to scenes that are each a wonderful painting standing by itself.people say that Greenaway is so rational that his movies are very cold. I don't agree with that about most of his movies, but this one especially. it makes you cry, laugh, you love some of the characters, you hate some, you admire some... AND YOU WANT TO SEE IT AGAIN. "},{"Title":"An art-film sleeper","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Only the British could make surrealism seem matter of fact. Arty it could be, but for the imperturbability of its characters, who move like game pieces through the plot . Among all the cogs and set-pieces there is always the sense of private preoccupations that at a whim could be turned off like the telly. No greek tragedy this beautifully un-acted the affect is off. The detachment this creates allows one to sit back and savour the dense painterly textures, perspective as palpable as in Wyndham Lewis' Childermass, the film a canvas, the plot a Slade professor's notes. Watch it, you get your reward. "},{"Title":"What women want these men cannot provide.","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a very irrational and difficult movie to follow. When I first saw it on a large theater screen, the nudity and sex kept my attention. But most of all, the vibrant colors in the film were very prominent in the screen version. Sadly, that is not the case in the video tape version I watched recently. I could not find it on DVD.So I used the nudity and sex to keep my attention while I tried to detach from it at the same time and be objective. That helped me find the deeper story. And although this is a very irrational story, the characters display very normal behaviour in that they continue to repeat their same folly over and over. The men are all playing trivial games with each other and with the women in their lives. In order to get them to break out of their banality, the women try their best to get them to wake up.When they collaborate with the main male character, who is a coroner, the three main females try to use logic to justify their actions. But he just doesn't catch on. He uses the women and their circumstances to gain sexual favors from them. He, like the murdered men he buries, seems oblivious to what these females are trying to bring to him.In order to get a sense of what this story is about, it helped me to use some symbolism. In the title, drowning represents the belief that one is imprisoned or suppressed. All the males in the film drown. The other symbol I looked at was swimming which is the desire to be accepted or loved. All three female main characters are strong swimmers and all have the same name.In the end, you can moralize about the actions of the women, but that is not what this story is about. If you look objectively at the behaviour of the men, they are caught up in their lack of belief in themselves. So they waste time trivializing their lives. This lack of responsibility on the part of the men affects not only them but their families and the whole community.The women are so tired of not getting love and strength from the men in their lives that they are willing to risk their own futures by murdering those men. Not a very rational choice, but very poignant one. One almost has to laugh at the men who just don't seem to get it. "},{"Title":"Greenaway's Best","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Despite the misanthropy, this is the only Peter Greenaway movie that I actually enjoyed.  (Admittedly, this may have something to do with the ratio of female to male genitalia in this film as compared to some of Greenaway's others.)  The bit with the numbers is original and clever.  It's all sensuously and beautifully shot.  Joely Richardson is really quite attractive here.  The games are sort of neat.  "},{"Title":"Mister Greenaway took a break","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw Greenaway's works &#132;The Belly of an Architect`, &#132;Prospero's Books` and above all &#132;The Cook the Thief His Wife and Her Lover` before this one and so I had to be disappointed. Trying to spot the numbers from 1 to 100 is a nice game but, to be honest, I didn't read about the numbers before I saw the film, so, of course, I saw some numbers but I didn't realize that there was a system behind them. Only when I watched the film again, I enjoyed looking for them.Maybe, Peter Greenaway hoped that everyone would concentrate on the numbers instead of the film. The story is particularly weak, compared to the dense and powerful &#132;Architect` and &#132;Cook-Thief-Wife-Lover`. The women kill there husbands with such a calmness and casualness that even the viewer isn't shocked, although, in reality, it would be an exciting story in this film, Greenaway's mannerism doesn't work. Still, with the Greenaway movies it's the same as with those of the Coen Brothers they may not all be perfect, but they are always better than any other film by an &#132;ordinary` director. It seems like Greenaway's ingenious mind took a little break and allowed himself to play a little with the audience. Smut's games, for instance, are very creative; did Greenaway make them up himself?I give &#132;Drowning by Numbers` 6 points out of 10. For Peter Greenaway that's really quite poor.  "},{"Title":"Certainly not a Greenaway fan here","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Peter Greenaway's film Drowning By Numbers certainly has an interesting and unique visual style and some very strong performances. However, in the final analysis I didn't really care much about the story on screen. The film opens with a young girl in a large, star-spangled dress counting out 100 different stars. The framing of the scene is compelling and curious, but ultimately pointless. Throughout the film, various things are numbered in sequential order. After the girl is finished jumping rope, an older woman passes by and proceeds to drown her husband in a tub after he has had an amorous interlude with a younger woman. He doesn't put up much of a struggle and there are numerous apples involved in the romantic escapade, and butterflies too. Eventually the film revolves around the woman's daughter and granddaughter also drowning their husbands with the complicity of the local coroner. Amid this, there are games with ridiculous rules; numbered cows; numerous insects; a self-circumcision; runners numbered 70 and 71 who attend a series of funerals and no compelling narrative. The interesting framing of many scenes held my interest for ten or fifteen minutes, for the next 100 or so I found myself wondering, Why should I care? "},{"Title":"Idiotic waste of 2 hours","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of those films that the artsy crowd loves - a film that is just too deep for the average moviegoer to understand or appreciate. It appeals to the same crowd that calls a jar of urine with a cross in it art. Cryptic numbers, odd eclectic characters, and fantastic settings substitute for any character development or cohesive story line. Any criticism, however, can be dismissed by the movie's handful of fans with derisive rolling of the eyes. You must just be too thick to get it, and obviously you're far too uneducated for them to even try to explain it to you.If you have a PhD in philosophy and drink tea from a little china cup with your pinkie finger extended, this film might appeal to you. For the rest of us...well, watch something else. Better yet, stop by the local fast food restaurant and allow one of those pseudo-intellectual fans of this film to serve you a tasty lunch. "}{"Title":"Pointless and self-indulgent","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A small-town coroner, who has a young son obsessed with death, helps three women get away with drowning their husbands in this dreadful, pretentious film.  While it cannot be denied that director Peter Greenaway has unique vision, the question remains whether his vision is worthy seeing.  I appreciate his films in theory, but not in practice.  There are a few interesting moments scattered about, but what's the point?  What is this film about?  And why should we care about the characters and the story? Those are questions Greenaway left me unmotivated to answer. "}]