[{"Title":"After Hours with vampires. And the Donger!","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Vamp is a curious lost little lamb from the 1980's, all lit in bizarre green and purple tones  and featuring all manner of Grace Jones wiggling around like a monster. It's a fun ride,  cleverly done and not entirely unoriginal, with terrific acting talent and a loopy sense of  humor pitched somewhere between After Hours and a sideways college comedy. Another  aspect I appreciated was how each vampire had a personality, and they weren't always one  hundred percent proud to be vampires. They're very aware that in a lot of ways they're  perfectly lame. Fairly cool stuff, especially in the confrontation between a character who  turns and the protagonist. On the other hand, the last half lacks the zip and zap of the first and some characters  seemed a little undernourished. The geek who owns the car seemed a little extraneous  towards the end, and the albino gang, while sort of awesome, didn't really belong. But either way. If you're interested in an offbeat 80's vampire movie or just seeing Grace Jones scare the s**t out of you with her face, by all means rent Vamp. You will become a  much wiser person as a result and your parents will no longer hate you.  "},{"Title":"An extremely underrated comedy...","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" When I started using IMDb, one of the first movies I wanted to check out was this one. I knew in the back of my mind that its rating would be low, and that not too many people would have seen it. It seems that both of my assumptions were correct. In any case, this movie is a personal favorite of mine. It's one of those films that make you feel at home (as odd as that may sound), because it's a movie my dad introduced me to when I was young, and that we've continued to watch, quite often, in all subsequent years. If you watch it as if it's a horror movie, then you're going to hate it, as I did the first time I saw it (when I was 8 or 9-years-old, I think). But, if you watch it without any preconceptions, you'll walk away with a big, dumb grin stretched across your face. One of the most quotable movies I've seen, and one of the funniest (for its sheer quirkiness). My dad and I are constantly throwing lines of this movie into conversation, most notably Kid, I used to own thiiis cluuub. You know who used to work here? Louis Prima, Buddy Greco, Phil Harris class! along with Do they do that in Vegas? Whoa! That's classy, now that's classy!. Is it Oscar worthy? Not even a little bit. Is it a perfect film? 'Course not, but it does what it's supposed to do entertain. And very well, at that. For that reason alone, I'd say it's a great film.8/10 "},{"Title":"Delightful, Funny and Very Underrated Vampire Movie","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" In Kansas, the friends Keith (Chris Makepeace) and AJ (Robert Rusler) are trying to join the best fraternity in the university. Their pledge is conditioned to the presence of a stripper to entertain the veteran's members of the fraternity. They need transportation to go to the city to hire a stripper, so they invite the boring Duncan (Gedde Watanabe) to go with them in his car. They arrive in a bar called After Dark Club and soon they realize that the place is a nest of vampires, leaded by the evil Katrina (Grace Jones). Vamp is a delightful, funny and very underrated vampire cult-movie. I do not know how many times I have watched this movie, but I loved it and it is one of my favorite vampire movies ever. It is funny to see in 2005, a common pre-AIDS gesture of affection between boy-friends and girl-friends when Keith cuts his finger, Allison (Dedee Pfeiffer) sucks his blood. I found the IMDb User Rating extremely unfair and I really do not agree with such low rating. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Vamp A Noite dos Vampiros (Vamp The Night of the Vampires)Note On 11 November 2013, I saw this movie again. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The Teenage Sex/Horror flick!","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Vamp (1986) was another one of those teenage sex/horror film that was widely popular during the eighties. This is one of the better ones. Not a great movie mind you but it's entertaining and it does the job. Vamp stars Chris Makepeace, Robert Rusler (whats an 80's movie without him?) Gedee Wantanabe, Dee Dee Phiffer , Billy Drago and Grace Jones. A group of late teens decide to go to the big city and look for some kicks. They find a seedy strip club, inside are a bunch of wigged out patrons, sleazy strippers and a Reinfried like bartender. Robert is fascinated with one of the strippers whilst Chris falls fro one of the waitresses. Grace Jones co-stars as the main attraction. Billy Drago makes a guest spot as a crazy vampire who likes to slum it up in a kiddie corner. It doesn't take Chris too long to find out that the club has a dark secret and he tries to find a way out without drawing the attention of the owners. Can Chris and his buddies make it to safety or will they become part of the staff?An entertaining film that was heavily borrowed in the nineties cult favorite From Dusk 'til Dawn. The similarities are too obvious. Q.T. must have had this movie in mind (along with about six others) when he wrote the script. I would have to recommend this movie for horror fans and lovers of eighties movies. Fun stuff with a lot of tongue in cheek humor! "},{"Title":"last stop","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  along with Fright Night and The Lost Boys this is my favourite 80s horror movie. The Chinese guy steals the whole show, and Billy Drago as Snow is funny too. The neon lighting and 50s music, and sleazy girls and lame 80s music set it all up for a great ride. "},{"Title":"Underrated horror-comedy made with wit and style","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Despite the presence of the ludicrous Grace Jones, this is an amusing and cleverly made vampire comedy. It will strike some at first as just another dumb college caper flick, but it's weird visuals and genuinely funny moments puts it into a different and altogether superior category. Most of the film is set at night, in and around a sinister strip-club, and the pink and green neon lighting is quite unlike anything you've ever seen in a movie before. Furthermore the brilliantly constructed final shot as the credits roll is a very satisfying conclusion. Story-wise it is quite stupid, but there's more than enough frights and one-liners to keep it moving along.  "},{"Title":"They play, they bite.","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" To get into a highly regarded fraternity, Keith and AJ agree to come up with the goods. That is finding a stripper to perform at a party. They need wheels and they turn to the dweeb Duncan for a favour. The three head off, and they come across a rather sordidly dark neighbourhood, which the After Dark club catches their attention. After this the night turns into a very surreal nightmare, as the place happens to be run by vampires. The trouble begins when AJ gets a personal encounter with the fetching dancer Katrina to hopefully perform at their party. What starts off like your ordinary teen comedy, turns into a spontaneously imaginative and tantalizing vampire feature. The horror/comedy element more often comes off, despite some awkward moments and bad timing. The wry humour is blackly broad and weird, while the ominous thrills are jarringly explicit. Director / writer Richard Wenk gives the oddball concept unpredictable twists with a wide range of sub-plots that work in a lot of tact on climaxes, and the highly witty and clever script is a saucy treat with its banter. The script had a rapid touch about it, but the pacing of the story and direction can get scratchy. Wenk stylishly floods the seedy locations with neon pink and green lighting for ample effect, and Elliot Davis' singular angle photography gaudily displays a sinisterly lingering and nocturnal atmosphere. The make-up FX by Greg Cannom is pretty top-rate with many wicked and grisly images. The direction can feel loose, but it's visually enticing and at times suspenseful. It does look cheap, but this only enhances the mischievously neurotic air and helping out that tenor is Jonathan Elias' spiralling, steamy music score. The cast are on a real high. Chris Makepeace and Robert Rusler are ably good as the two central characters. Gedde Watanabe admirably pulls the strings in his obnoxiously weedy comic part. Grace Jones gets top billing, despite saying nothing and having little screen time. However she's naturally imposing and her dominance comes from her luridly effective physical actions and appearance. Especially those eyes! A bubbly and sincere Dedee Pfeiffer steals the film for me, and you got a memorably eerie Billy Drago as an albino thug of a street gang. Sandy Baron was also good fun. The comparisons with After Hours (1985) are justified, as both follow a path of triggered events during one bad night in an unrecognisable part of town for the unlucky foe/s. Also I wouldn't be surprised if From Dusk Till Dawn (1996) was influenced by 'Vamp'.A neat, showy and off-kilter little horror/comedy romp of the 80's. "},{"Title":"16 Candles meets 13 Ghosts","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" If you like campy 80s flicks, don't even bother reading this review. Just go watch the movie. Now.What more can be said? Vamp is totally 80s to the max. Let's begin with the actors... We've got Chris Makepeace (Meatballs, My Bodyguard) sporting tight jeans and a oh-so-fashionable blue football jacket. We've got Robert Rusler (Weird Science, The Facts of Life) sporting a lovely pastel shirt and wool blazer with the sleeves rolled up to the elbows. Then we've got Gedde Watanabe (Long Duk Dong in 16 Candles) reprising his classic nerdy role, only this time without the horribly contrived Asian accent so you can safely laugh at him without feeling racist. And of course we've got Grace Jones, 80s icon extraordinaire (Conan the Destroyer, A View to a Kill) sporting a wire bikini that makes Princess Leia's brass swimsuit look like a nun's habit.But for my money, the actor who steals the show is the late, great Sandy Baron as Vic the seedy nightclub owner. You've definitely seen his mug all over TV in minor roles that always stole the show (on Seinfeld he was the cranky retiree who gave Jerry the astronaut pen). He definitely steals the show in Vamp as the lovably sinister old timer who just wants to get to Vegas, even if it means selling his soul to a clan of bloodthirsty vampires. Sandy even has a few dramatic monologues which add depth to this otherwise silly romp. When he proselytizes about his service of ridding society of the dregs, the wanderers and the losers, and he punctuates it with a toothy Cheshire-cat grin, it sends a chill right up your spine.Plot-wise, it's your basic creatures-of-the-night-run-amok-in-a-bar story. You know, the one Tarantino recycled in From Dusk Til Dawn 10 years later. Yes, Vamp was the original and don't you forget it.There's some great comedy in this movie, and for that reason it's hard to approach it as a horror film. The whole thing is tongue-in-cheek which takes away the terror and replaces it with laughs. It's a crying shame that director/writer Richard Wenk didn't do more films because he had a great approach to filmmaking a cross between John Hughes (16 Candles) and the Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker team (Airplane!).IMPORTANT NOTE If you buy the DVD, which you must, be sure to get the 2001 Starz/Anchor Bay release, NOT the 2011 Image Entertainment release. Why? Because the 2001 release includes the hilarious Richard Wenk short film Dracula Bites the Big Apple. His first film short, this is what got him the Vamp gig, and you don't want to miss it. Why they didn't include it in the 2011 release (dvd OR blu-ray) is beyond me.So there you have it. See this film for the 80s nostalgia, see it for Sandy Baron, just see it. Other campy 80s gems I recommend are The Alien from L.A. (1986) which was Sports Illustrated swimsuit model Kathy Ireland's big break, Elvira Mistress of the Dark (1988) which is so bad it's ...well... BAD. And although you've probably seen it you gotta see it again Beetlejuice (1988). "},{"Title":"Ever have one of those nights?","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" ''Vamp'' is an horror comedy of the 80's. With one of the ugliest vampires that I already have seen in my life (yeah, they won the vampires of 'Angel'series.), being the master of the vampires, Katrina, the ugliest and most exotic vampire already showed in television! Three young men go to a bar looking for strippers to entertain their sorority's parties. The problem is, that the bar they choose is full of vampires,including the strippers of the place and the guards. Katrina, the 'master'of the place, kills A.J., transforming him a vampire. Now they have big problems to go out of the place, since one of the rules, of never showing a visitor the vampires, is broken. "},{"Title":"A decade known for its successful vampiric tellings","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The 1980's were a great time in horror. There are some out there who believe the majority of the titles were nothing but straight cheese but that's not always the case. This special decade in time gave movie producers the opportunity to boast some impressive special effects that brought many outdated themes current with the young audience of the time. One of which that benefited greatly was that of the vampiric sub- genre. After Hammer's numerous and desperate attempts to cash in on the countless reincarnations of Dracula, movie-goers lost interest. Something needed to be done and the result was a successful one. Titles like 1985's Fright Night (and yes, including its sequel) and 1987's Near Dark, starring Bill Paxton, are perfect examples. One could even mention the venerable Lost Boys and '83's The Hunger, starring the ever-popular David Bowie.Vamp follows suit when it comes to campy yet fun vampire flicks. Essentially, I liken it to Fright Night - certainly not the most serious collection of titles in the sub-genre but fulfilling enough. The premise concerns a young group of college kids who decide to embark on a roadtrip. Their final destination? To visit a nightclub that turns out to be less than ordinary. As you can deduce from the title, I'm sure you're aware of the trouble the main characters are in for. It's interesting to note here that a young (well...younger) Billy Drago makes an appearance as an offbeat thug, wandering the dark alleys of no-mans- land. You may recognize Drago for his contributions to Takashi Miike's twisted Masters of Horror tale Imprint, Michael Jackson's You Rock My World video, an episode of Supernatural, an episode from the Friday the 13th series back in '88, or an episode from another horror/sci-fi anthology entitled Monsters, that ran from 1988-1990.Vamp has that 80's flair to it that doesn't exist in any other decade. What mainly catches my interest about the 80's is the fashion, first and foremost, and the music that was released at the time. I appreciate the experimentation that was occurring behind the scenes but I'm still not overly impressed by the mainstream flavor. Vamp has every cliché you'd expect which is why I'm sure they consider it a comedy. Although humorous, the makeup is no joke - they had talented artists on board for sure. There will be times you'll ask yourself, Wait, why did he just go and do that? There will be moments with lewd and immature behavior...possibly even jokes that just aren't funny. If you're a fan of the protagonist looking much older than his intended age, brave 80's fashion, and a soundtrack that will bring you back, you won't be disappointed by Vamp whatsoever. Here's your assignment for the weekend Go out and rent Vamp, Fright Night, The Hunger, Near Dark, and Lost Boys. Go one step further and put on the Fright Night soundtrack (admittingly I have songs from that in my collection) and pay tribute to this splendid era in horror. Have a report on my desk by Monday and if you have anything bad to say about the 80's...I'll murder you in your sleep. "}{"Title":"A good, solid and enjoyable mix of comedy and horror.","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Keith (Chris Makepeace) and his college roommate AJ (Robert Rusler) are sent on an fraternity initiation that involves hiring a stripper for a party. They convince the most unpopular kid in college Duncan (Gedde Watanabe) to lend them a car, Duncan's only condition is that they take him with them and pretend to be his friends. They head into Los Angeles to find a strip club. Looking through a local paper they decide on the After Dark Club. Once past the cockroach eating doorman Vic (Sandy Baron) Keith and Duncan grab ringside seats and watch the show while AJ tries to find a suitable stripper for the party. Katrina (Grace Jones) takes to the stage and performs a dance which leaves everyone in the club spellbound. AJ goes backstage to try and get her to perform at the party. Back in the club Keith is being hassled by an attractive waitress, Alison (Dedee Pfeiffer) who says she recognizes him, at one point Duncan comes out with a great line he says you don't have any friends who want to remember me do you? Nah, I didn't think so. Later on in the night he also asks a different waitress what time do you get off? she replies 2.30 Duncan then says can I watch!? When AJ doesn't reappear from backstage Keith becomes suspicious and starts asking questions. As the night draws on Keith realizes this is no ordinary strip club and as his night continues to go from bad to worse will he live to see the morning and save his friends? Written and directed by Richard Wenk I liked this and thought it was good fun. The way Wenk films the night scenes is highly stylized, he uses a pink and green neon lighting effect. For instance there is a scene when Keith is walking in an abandoned sewer system, as he walks down a tunnel one side of it is bathed completely in pink and the other side in green, almost all of the exterior night shots are lit this way, it looks quite cool if a little unusual. The special make up effects by Greg Cannom are for the most part impressive, we get a ripped out heart, bitten necks, slit wrists, death by high heeled shoe, a melting face and decaying vampires. Surprisingly, considering it's set in a strip club there isn't a lot of nudity, hardly any in fact. The acting was fine even if Chris Makepeace makes for a slightly dull leading man on occasions, Dedee Pfeiffer makes for a very sexy heroine, and best of all Grace Jones didn't say a single word throughout the entire film which is just the way it should be. The script is a little slow to get going, it takes over half an hour for the horror elements to kick in, but when it does it's great fun. Although Duncan as the comedy relief didn't always work and became annoying on occasions, and why when their running around in Los Angeles is there no one else anywhere? Not one single person, or car. Overall I liked it, you could certainly do a lot worse. Recommended for some fun. "},{"Title":"Love at first bite","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This has to be the most underrated vamp flick that i have come across, most could be put off by bottom shelf, fading icon Chris Makepiece gurning his way through frat-cliche after another, but sit tight and you will become witness to invention in a low budget movie not seen since the likes of The Black Gestapo and You can't buy love. Grace Jones makes compelling viewing as the said vamp and the soundtrack is a lesson in the tried and tested sublime to the ridiculous pitch. All in all this is a quality movie and very creepy i might add, could have toned down the pink and green lighting though (maybe Jerry Bruckheimer got a job onset as exec producer) "},{"Title":"Vamp...'Camp' With an Edge","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Well as usual most people don't get it. I mean the ones that gave it a low rating. This movie is what it is. Camp with an edge. And no, I don't mean 'camp' as in a 'gay' sense. Camp as 'outragously affected' or 'something self-consciously exaggerated'. Camp...Thanks in great part to Geddy Watanby. Playing the rich geeky college kid having to draw in 'pretend buddies' with his car and his money. He could be the best friend you'd never want to be seen with in public. Edge...Thanks to Snow and his crew. Here's a group I think we all wouldn't want to run into at a coffee shop late at night in a part of town where the majority of residence seem to be Vampires and sewer rats. Camp...Dedee Pfeiffer. An over the top upbeat perky cheery dancer/cocktail waitress whose neck has somehow escaped her vampire co-workers fangs. Edge & somewhat camp...The great and underrated Grace Jones. The head vampire whose eye-popping mouth dropping mesmerizing performance is only out done by her vampire persona (yes, somewhat camp), thanks to some great make-up and special effects. Edge...Location/scenes & music. For this you have to see the movie, speaks for itself. Camp...The copy cat 'Hitchcock' tilt camera effect. Although this was probably done hoping to effect the purpose that Hitch used it for, in a film such as Vamp, at least for me, it achieves a 'camp' effect drawn from the 'camp' side of this film.I rated the film a 7. I rated this film for what it was, not for what I thought it should be. It was never intended to be a great cinematic piece of work. And it may not be the best 'camp' film either. But as a 'camp' film with an 'edge', it works out to be a solid 7. "},{"Title":"Indulge you're teeth into this '80s vamp great!","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Before there was From Dusk Till Dawn...before there was Tales From The Crypt Presents Bordello of Blood...there was VAMP! Grace Hill (from Roger Moore's last Bond movie) plays a vampire-leader who owns a strip-club and does erotically-weird dances for the customers. Also, there's a vampire who works for Gracey, and he reveals to us, that nobody ever tells anybody their going to a strip club. And that's a good reason the fanged-frights always work at strip clubs. Robert Russler from A Nightmare On Elm Street 2 and Weird Science appears in this superbly entertaining midnight snack. "},{"Title":"Once Bitten!.............","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Some might say that living in the past is not a good thing! But when I think about the movies that I remember fondly from my formative teenage years the Richard Wenk written/directed Vamp has remained a firm cult favourite of mine ever since then.Just recently I thought I would dust off my Anchor Bay release and give a welcome return to old familiar territory after watching many a dud of late, and truth to tell the movie has not lost any of it's style and wit after all the years.Granted the presence of Grace Jones is the main selling point of the movie, and from the original poster release, video release and the Anchor Bay release, her face is plastered all over them, I've never been a fan of the woman, I've never found attractive and her music has no appeal whatsoever.For me the main stars of the movie are the protagonists of Keith & A.J. ably assisted by Duncan as they go on a nocturnal search for the perfect stripper, why you might ask? To gain access to their chosen frat house, they offer to garner the services of said stripper to entertain the frat boys and make it easier for them to gain admittance to the frat house of their choice.Sounds like a simple task Right? If only! As our three heroes discover to their cost as their journey into hell more or less begins when they have a run in with Billy Drago and his cohorts, from there they head straight into the After Dark Club, and then the real horror begins.Any horror fan worth their salt knows the story, so I wont tread over familiar ground but needless to say Messrs Makepeace(who looks like a young Mel Gibson) & Robert Rusler make a great double team, I could take or leave the Dedee Pfeiffer character and the presence of the late great Sandy Baron as the After Dark Club emcee really gives the movie a certain edge.A truly great vampire movie, that has in abundance a great visual style, a seriously good soundtrack, the first song played in the After Dark Club when Candy(Sweet Sweet Candy) is dancing is still my favourite, plus Gedde Watanabe's line to the waitress when he asks her what time do she get off is still a classic.Once bitten forever smitten that's how I feel about this 80's entry in the vampire genre.My rating is an immortal 10/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best Vampire movies ever made!","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Seeking out a stripper for a big fraternity party, three college kids enter a strip club & decide on the wild exotic stripper KATRINA. However what they don't know, is that not only is she a vampire, but the rest of the staff is as well & while many walk into the club, they don't walk out. Now with their lives in danger, the three & a childhood friend of one of the guys, that is working at the club (& is the only human besides another club employee) must find a way to escape & kill the evil creatures before they too become permanent members of the night shift. VAMP is a film I saw many years ago, but had a devil of a time tracking it down many years later. Fortunantly I was able to stumble upon a copy & let me tell you it was as fun if not, funner than when I first saw it! The monster effects were simply amazing. The acting was good & the direction was well handled. Despite the plot, the film is not sleazy at all & the film has many moments of suspense & tension to keep one on the edge of their seats. Highly recommended to all horror fans, a fun & funny horror film! Sadly it's yet another 1980's gem that is all but forgotten but deserves better. If you have not seen the movie & manage to find a copy, I highly recommend you see it! A great film to watch with a group of friends!**** stars "},{"Title":"A stylish and under-rated 80s vampire comedy.","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Want to know where Quentin Tarantino got his idea for the script for Robert Rodriguez's From Dusk Till Dawn? Well, replace that film's bank robbers with a group of hormonal teens, swop gorgeous Salma Hayek for scary disco-diva Grace Jones, and turn Mexican biker-bar The Titty Twister into a skid-row strip club, and what you've got is Vamp, an under-rated teen horror from the 80s that was undoubtedly the inspiration for Rodriguez's horror hit.Vamp follows three frat boys, Keith, AJ, and Duncan (Chris Makepeace, Robert Rusler and Gedde Watanabe), as they venture to the wrong side of town in the hope of hiring a stripper for a college party. After a run in with a nasty street gang, led by albino thug Snow (Billy Drago), the lads pay a visit to The After Dark Club, a sleazy joint that, unbeknownst to them, is home to a nest of vampires that feed on the lonely patrons.When AJ is fed to Katrina (Jones), the queen of the bloodsuckers, Keith and Duncan attempt to flee the city, along with cute waitress Amaretto (Dedee Pfeiffer), but find their escape hampered not only by countless members of the undead, but also by Snow and his fellow gang members.Featuring a witty script, excellent art direction, great make-up effects from Greg Cannom, and lively, fun performances from all involved, Vamp proves to be one of the better 'cheesy' horrors of the 80s, and is my third favourite teen vampire film of the decade (after The Lost Boys and Fright Night). The film makes stunning use of garish, coloured lighting (perhaps inspired by Dario Argento's Suspiria, which uses similar strong colours), giving the whole affair a freakish and rather unsettling look; this disturbing atmosphere is further compounded by a feeling of complete helplessness that is reminiscent of Scorsese's similarly surreal After Hours.Admittedly, Vamp does occasionally veer a little too close to dumb teen comedy territory, and one or two scenes are rather convoluted or silly (what kind of vampire keeps metal drums full of flammable liquid in their crypt? And that Formica quip.... weak!), but on the whole, this is a refreshingly offbeat and stylish effort that deserves more recognition.7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Deserves to be remembered","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is a decent vampire flick that, unlike some of its 80's counterparts (Fright Night, Near Dark, The Lost Boys) has been long forgotten. It features the exceptional concept of a group of ancient, once-powerful vampires now reduced to a bunch of losers who get their victims by operating a strip club in a desolate part of town (and believe they're performing a public service by getting rid of the bottom-rung members of society). Much more could have been done with this idea, but the focus is on the teenage leads as they stumble into the club and can't seem to stumble out. Chris Makepeace and Robert Rusler are okay, not too memorable, but Deedee Pfeiffer stands out for her incredible cuteness. Gedde Watanabe seems annoying at first but turns out to be a funny sidekick--his dying word is hilarious (seriously, watch the movie just for that). Sandy Baron also has a standout role as the pathetic club owner, and Grace Jones is, uh, quite freaky. For some reason the director has gone completely overboard with a neon pink and green color scheme, but it gives the movie a distinctive universe. The only irritating thing, if you like tradition with your vampire movies, is that the vampires turn into distinctly non-vampiric monsters when they attack, but this can be tolerated. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Grace Jones is a Vampire!","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" There are only two films that I can remember Grace Jones starring in. One is the James Bond vehicle A View to A Kill, and the other is Vamp.An 80's comedy horror about a couple of college students Keith (Chris Makepeace) and AJ (Richard Rusler) looking at getting into a fraternity to make use of their accommodation. The only condition for them getting in is that they have to get a stripper to their party. With no car, they make a deal with the Duncan (Gedde Watanabe) who is the only guy on campus to take them to find a stripper.Unbeknown to them they head into a city after dark, to a club run by vampires (clearly an idea nicked by From Dusk till Dawn). Having travelled hundreds of miles it's a fight for survival to find a way back to campus against Grace Jones' head vampire and her many minions.An incredibly cheesy but thoroughly entertaining movie, littered with equally cheesy dialogue where the characters are goofy but likable and the use of Grace Jones as the head vampire is a stroke of genius. Just as Arnold Schwarzenegger gave The Terminator a great robotic performance, Grace Jones has the creepiness and down right weirdness which makes her perfectly believable as a vampire.Similar to Scorsese's After Hours, the film is mainly set at night in a strange environment where the locals are vampires instead of oddballs. It shares the same energy and enthusiasm, it's hard not to like this throwaway 80's film. The effects are above average and the acting is good. Sure it's dated with the haircuts, fashion and style, but there's no denying it, it is a fun and easy watch and there aren't many of those around these days. "},{"Title":"80's teen comedy with a horror twist","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The 80's may have been the decade I grew up in, but I'm far from nostalgic for its (often) mediocre movie offerings. I'm not a big fan of film favorites like Sixteen Candles or Goonies. There's nothing wrong with these films; it's just a matter of taste.Until I read the back of the DVD case, I hadn't heard anything about this film. Nothing. The plot seemed fairly standard, a group of fraternity pledges head for the seedy side of the city in search of strippers and discover a sinister spot called The After Dark Club. It was touted by Anchor Bay as a horror comedy. At $4 how could I say no? The parts that really impressed me were as follows. First, there was the demon-esquire vampire makeup. I'm always a sucker (pun not intended. I shouldn't have even drawn attention to it, really) for good character designs, even if the film itself is mediocre (example Return of the Living Dead 3). The vampires here look really ghoulish. I also enjoyed how it felt like a legitimate 80's teen flick due to the antics of Gedde Watanabe (of Sixteen Candles). Almost as if it were spoofing the genre with horror, only not. (Hey, it makes sense to me!) There were a few laughs too, even if they're mostly that eye-rolling, oh-my-God-so-80's type of way. (Sometimes I felt guilty for laughing). But more importantly, it co-stars Deedee Pfeiffer. Ever since I saw her in The Midnight Hour (at the age of six) I've had a huge crush on her. She pretty much made the movie (for me).Let's face it, this is no Lost Boys. But there is enough here for any true horror fan to enjoy. Or if 80's nostalgia is your thing, there's plenty of that too. Definitely worth a view. "}{"Title":"Under Rated Cult Classic!!","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I remember seeing this movie when i was about 10 years old i loved it and as soon as the digital versatile disc was formed it was the first film i looked to start off my collection.It came along around the same time as Fright Night which for me is another vampire cult classic of the 80's.I love the characters very funny Robert Rustler as one of the main stars was excellent as well as Billy Drago as Snow, i loved the settings with the made up town and the coloured street lamps very surreal.I think the reason why people have gave this film low ratings is because it's played for laughs which i believe isn't a bad thing it still has it's scary moments with Grace Jones as the head vampire and it wasn't afraid to throw it's fair amount of blood without going over the top.I would recommend this film to anyone and as the person in the previous post said everyone i have showed this film to really enjoyed it, it's in no way slow at all in fact i would say it's the opposite entertaining from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Silly, comedic, Vampire flick about the dangers of female sexual predation","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Deliciously bad vampire film with strong Freudian overtones! This is the quintessential buddy film and day gone really really wrong film. Vamp is worth watching just to see Grace Jones as the tallest, meanest leanest blonde vampire ever! There is no missing the film's satirical message that female sexuality is a threat to sweet innocent young men and their bonding. The plot is thin (Well, no thinner than a Lethal Weapon story) Two young college kids want to impress their mates by providing the stripper for a college party. This leads them to the bad side of town, a scuzzy bar and a thoroughly evil vampire nest (in pure Hollywood style) and of course hilarious consequences. Watanabe is a hoot and the film plays on and with all the traditional stereotypes while maintaining a stiff upper lip over plastic vampire fangs and fake blood. Well worth the time to watch if taken with a sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Another 80s Class horror","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Here's a classic horror thats still getting talked about today that has Chris Makepeace and Robert Rusler as two guys trying to get into a fraternity, all what they need top do is hire a stripper. When they cant find someone they see Duncan who will be their friend for a week if he gives them a car and takes him with him on their hunt to find a stripper, they one they want isn't what she appears to be.Deedee Pfieffer and Gedde Watanabe are brilliant in this film not to mention a half naked Grace Jones who plays Katrina, if you look at this film it has the same sort of dialogue as from dusk til dawn. strangers going to a seedy bar and get a shock.Just remember one night stands can be a KILLER "},{"Title":"A very cool, clever and hugely enjoyable 80's horror comedy hoot","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Mild-mannered college student Keith (affable Chris Makepeace), his more brash smooth-talking best buddy A.J. (the equally engaging Robert Rusler) and hopelessly geeky wannabe hip nerd Duncan (a hilariously dweeby Gedde Watanabe) venture into a dark, remote and dangerous Los Angeles neighborhood in search of a stripper for an upcoming fraternity party. The trio discover the seedy and sinister nocturnal establishment the After Dark Club, where our protagonists find out much to their dismay that the diabolically enticing and exotic main attraction Katrina (a mute, but stunningly effective and alluring portrayal of pure animalistic evil and raw sensuality by Grace Jones) and the rest of the club's staff are all vampires who are eager to take a lethal bite out of the boys.Writer/director Richard Wenk offers a winningly quirky and clever blend of offbeat black humor and straightforward gruesome horror, ably creating and sustaining a properly seamy and spooky oddball nighttime atmosphere, keeping the pace snappy and steady throughout, and staging the shock scenes with a considerable amount of grisly aplomb (the moment where Katrina calmly tears a bumbling minion's heart out and her fatal seduction of A.J. are especially startling sequences). Popping up in nifty supporting parts are Dedee Pfeiffer as an endearingly ditsy waitress, Sandy Baron as the sleazy club emcee, the ever-reptilian Billy Drago as a creepy albino street gang leader, and Hy Pyke (the unforgettably nutzoid bus driver in Lemora A Child's Tale of the Supernatural) as a vampire hotel clerk. Elliot Davis' stylishly garish cinematography, Jonathan Elias' funky score, and Greg Cannom's excellent make-up f/x further enhance the deliciously macabre merriment of this extremely cool and enjoyable fright flick. "},{"Title":"I don't get this movie's low rating.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Everyone I've shown this movie to (several friends on several occasions) loves it!  It's fun, creepy, funny, and offbeat.  The filmmakers did a great job of setting up and delineating their unreal world.  Some other viewers have commented on its pacing, and that some stretches seem boring, but I haven't found that--almost every scene has some sort of odd or funny element to look for, and the overall production design is pure genius.Maybe people were expecting this to be a biopic of Jean Harlow. "},{"Title":"Great horror movie!!","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Vamp is a great movie! The comedy mixes with the horror to form an entertaining time! Grace Jones gives a great performance of Katrina! Very recommended. The rest of the cast is funny, and it's really worth it "},{"Title":"Las Vegas or Bust...OR Volare!","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is one of those weird little films that has the power to grow on you. Ostensibly, it should not be all that much as it details the story of three college boys in search of a great stripper as appeasement for joining a fraternity. How quickly we derail from that story(in fact it just about disappears and never resurfaces again) and go to the dark, twisted, removed world of the After Dark Club. This is where the guys are to find their stripper - in this case a very bizarre, strangely erotic, wholly creepy Grace Jones! There we find a sub-culture, apparently unbeknown-st to the police - who either look the other way or fear this bad part of town, of vampirism hidden behind the facade of a decaying strip show. Now, we do get some girls showing us their wares, though this really is not the major point of this film. We do get some genuinely eerie and scary moments as well. We do get those God-awful special effects that are so common in the 80s. We do get Grace Jones and all that that entails. But the primary purpose of this film is to interlace humor with all of that. It succeeds. I laughed quite a bit actually. The guys running the club are hilarious, particularly Sandy Baron who is the emcee and wearing some pink/red lounge blazer like a comedian might from yesteryear in the Catskills. He keeps ranting about he wants to take the act/show/everything to Vegas...his great dream. He of course works for Katrina, Grace Jones, the Egyptian vampire who owns the place. Anyway, we soon get one boy meeting Katrina and the other boy trying to find him and the story runs pretty strongly just from that. Comedy abounds from moments with a strange albino non-vampire group after the boys being assaulted from vampires in the community(the little girl flying and biting the neck of Billy Drago had me in stitches!) to the bizarre ending where we get this great rendition of Domenico Modugno singing Volare!. Of course that means to fly in Italian, and it is that tongue planted firmly in cheek that made this film enjoyable for me. As I said before, there are some truly scary moments as well. The atmosphere is very well-done by director Richard Wenk sans those atrocious special effects. One can definitely see how this was an inspiration possibly for From Dusk till Dawn. "},{"Title":"Breezy film that is aware of its potential","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Two college students, Keith (Chris Makepeace) and A.J. (Robert Rusler) are given the daunting task of finding a stripper for a frat party by a demanding fraternity that they are both eager to join. So desperate, that they embark on a road trip with friendless, desperate uber-nerd Duncan (Gedde Watanabe), whose car they are forced to borrow. Upon arriving at a mysterious night club where the customers are strange, and the employees stranger still, they are entranced by the bizarrely enticing dance of Queen Katrina (Grace Jones). When A.J. propositions her for the party, she proceeds to rip his throat out, revealing herself to be a pretty nasty vampire. Before he knows it, Keith must survive the night along with cute waitress/stripper Amaretto (Dedee Pfeiffer) and make it to sunrise.This very 80's horror (complete with rolled-up sleeves, dodgy pop-rock music, and crap sunglasses) combines the two most popular mainstream genres of the decade - teen comedy and horror. The problem is that it's not entirely successful at either. Yet without exactly pushing the boundaries, it's a nice way to make 90 minutes fly by without having to focus your brain on anything in particular. The horror is just silly and gruesome enough, and the surprising charm of the two leads helps raise a smile or two - though they do seem to be channelling popular 80's icons like Ferris Bueller.I was actually rather taken by the cinematography, with the rainy, smoky streets illuminated by alluring greens and reds giving the film an almost seedy quality, and it's just over-the-top enough to give it an other-worldly feel. I was captivated, as ever, by the larger-than-life Grace Jones, who while not be the most attractive woman in the world, there is something about her that is just fascinating and I couldn't take my eyes of this strange being. Her introductory striptease (if you can call it that - more like an avant-garde performance piece) is just as weird and unconventional as you would hope. Throw in the adorable Dedee Pfeiffer and you have a breezy film that knows exactly what its potential is, and never strives to be anything more.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"shocking colours...","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I remember watching Vamp on TV, many years ago. It was the Italian dubbed version of course, and I clearly remember it was impossible to understand what was happening on screen at times, because of a very bad lighting. I found recently the DVD for 2 euros in a street market. Wow! I usually fear the digital re-masters, because sometimes they add too much light to scenes that worked better when you couldn't see much of the low-budget SFX defects! Well, this wasn't the case... This film has an hallucinating, fantastic colouring and the DVD quality do it justice! A dreamlike space (kinda reminded me of Stephen Sayadian's Dr. Caligari at times), wonderful in its very 80s, yet futuristic set designing. Katrina (Grace Jones) is beautiful erotic as hell, disgustingly scary as well. Vic (Sandy Baron) is just... masterly! The main characters are a bit unoriginal and the plot is a little weak, but there isn't one shot I didn't like in this movie! Maybe all those pink and green lights hypnotized me... that sewer looked comfortable too! I've considered Vamp a mediocre horror/comedy film for about 10 years, just because I didn't really SEE this movie and I've been wise to give it a second chance! It is worth watching for its beautiful and creative shooting, setting and... yes, for the 80s college-movie's homour, the fangs, the blood, the make-up and the sexy lap dancers!P.S. Unfortunately (just as for many other Italian DVD versions) my copy of Vamp has no English subtitles and the Italian ones are only a bare transcription of the dubbed version... so you're more disoriented by them than helped, whenever you can't get English words or expressions you don't know, or just too far or background talking. Yeah, I hate dubbing... "},{"Title":"Quite dull.","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Not a very successful mix of horror and comedy. Too many dull and deadly stretches, too many endings, too much effort by Grace Jones to little effect. Furthermore, it's an ugly-looking movie, and the bland lead characters never come fully alive. Any good points? Well, SOME of the special effects are quite impressive, and there are perhaps two or three good lines....     (*1/2) "}{"Title":"Bloodsucking '80s comedy","Date":"30 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" VAMP is a well-known '80s comedy about a strip club that just so happens to be home to a gang of vampires who murder their patrons and drink their blood in order to make a living. The story writes itself and is a low budget yarn with plenty of vampire jokes and humour and a few bloody death scenes to keep it moving along. As an '80s comedy horror flick it's one of the lesser ones I've seen, purely because the execution isn't great and the jokes aren't very funny.I can lay the blame for this squarely on the shoulders of the various writers who really should be making this on par with the likes of RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD or NIGHT OF THE CREEPS. It pales in comparison to other '80s vampire movies like FRIGHT NIGHT and THE LOST BOYS. Story-wise, the set-up is a little similar to FROM DUSK TILL DAWN, but without the urgency or excitement of that movie. Instead what we get is a whole lot of teen speak and boring character humour, and a memorable striptease sequence from the ever-bizarre Grace Jones. Some of the gooey special effects are good, and it's a delight to see Billy Drago in support, but otherwise VAMP is a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Watchable but it really should have been more outrageous.","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Dumb teen sex comedies centered around high school or college students were big in the 80s and vampire films were starting to see a big resurgence thanks to several surprise hits in the subgenre, so VAMP was a no-brainer green light for its time. It has since fallen through the cracks and it's pretty easy to see why. It failed to come close to matching the commercial and critical success of FRIGHT NIGHT (1985) or THE LOST BOYS (1987), wasn't stylish enough to rope in the artsy-fartsy crowd like THE HUNGER (1983), wasn't inventive and atmospheric enough to gain a cult following similar to that of NEAR DARK (1987) and couldn't even retrospectively be viewed through the rose-colored nostalgia glasses like THE MONSTER SQUAD (1987) because it's not quite charming enough. Not that this is a bad film per se; it just happens to be just OK in most areas while never really excelling at anything.Dipsa Phi fraternity pledges Keith (Chris Makepeace, from MEATBALLS) and AJ (Robert Rusler, from A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 2) talk themselves out of a silly hazing ceremony by agreeing to get anything the frat needs for an upcoming party. That turns out to be a stripper and, since they're living in a small town, strippers require a two hour drive into Los Angeles to acquire. The problem? Neither of them has a car. They're then forced to enlist the aid of the friendless, extremely annoying and pathetic try-hard Duncan Spriggs (Gedde Watanabe) to get them there. Duncan agrees in exchange for a week's worth of their friendship (?!), which may make this 'comic' depiction of an Asian- American even more offensive than Watanabe's turn as Long Duk Dong in SIXTEEN CANDLES. The three guys finally arrive in L.A., have a run in with albino gang leader Snow (Billy Drago) at a diner and finally make it to the After Hours Club in once piece. After viewing a truly strange performance art strip act by exotic club owner / star attraction Katrina (Grace Jones), AJ gets permission to go to her dressing room to discuss employing her for the frat party. He doesn't return. Keith eventually realizes that nearly the entire strip club, including the emcee (Sandy Baron), the bouncer (Brad Logan) and most of the dancers are actually vampires. They usually prey on vagrants, bums and other people no one will miss, but this time they've made a mistake with AJ and now must cover their tracks by eliminating all evidence he was there. Since Keith himself is part of that evidence, he teams up with an excessively perky non-vampire waitress / dancer (Dedee Pfeiffer) and basically just tries to survive the wacky night.I've seen numerous people question Grace Jones' sex appeal as the sultry queen bee vampire who runs things. Sure, she's not for everyone, but in my opinion she is the only truly memorable aspect of this entire movie. The former model turned singer and actress doesn't utter a single word in the film but manages to be both intimidating and creepy thanks to her offbeat demeanor, ultra-bizarre Egyptian-themed wardrobe choice and androgynous facial structure, which is made even more striking thanks to blue contact lenses, white face paint and a bright red wig. There's a good reason it was her image and her image alone that has been used to market the film over the years and if anything this film suffers most because she's underutilized and not on screen nearly as much as she should have been. Aside from the presence of Jones, the makeup effects from Greg Cannom are good and the production values in general are adequate down the board. It's also VERY 80s and the whole film is shot through with a hideous neon pink and green lighting scheme. What is most surprising of all is just how restrained, unexciting and glib the whole thing is considering the premise involves vampires working out of a strip club. In other words, this would have been much better had it been a little more freewheeling and uninhibited than it is. This same idea would be done much better later on in FROM DUSK TILL DAWN (1996). "},{"Title":"Just awful","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Here are some non-negative points of this movie 1. Proficient use of colored smoke-filled lighting. Very reminiscent of early MTV. 2. Fabulously cheesy last second gesture by dying vampire. 3. I'm kind of glad to Chris makepeace made more than one movie. Although this one probably put an end to his career. 4. Great 80s fashion and hair. 5. Grace Jones wore some pretty cool body paint. 6. I liked Grace's vampire makeup. Not one of those 'sexy' vampires. Almost as good as Kinski in Nosferatu.7. Can someone explain to me why anyone would leave 3 50 gallon drums of flammable liquid in the lair where you sleep? Was it for their kerosene heaters during the winter? 8. Nice use of wacky 80s Asian stereotype. 9. The performance by the'renfield' type club owner was pretty good. Other than that it just stunk. "},{"Title":"80s Vampire Film","Date":"16 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Two fraternity pledges go to a sleazy bar looking for strippers to entertain their college friends. They have problems with transportation, Biker gangs, and worst of all, the staff of the bar, all of whom seem to be vampires, with Grace Jones playing the head vampire.First, concerning Billy Drago as Snow... I definitely needed more Drago in this film, so that is my biggest complaint. Where was Drago? Not in this film very much, that is all I know.I am not going to go so far as to say this is a great film or a forgotten classic or anything like that. It is not. Now, I guess I could say it predated From Dusk Till Dawn as a film with a strip club and vampires... but to say one inspired the other is probably not accurate. "},{"Title":"erotic vamps","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is one I never touched before because it was filed under comedy over here. I don't have any problems with comedy but spoofs aren't my thing when they come out of the US. But I follow the Arrow Video Blu Ray releases so I had to pick it up finally. Men, did I regret it that I didn't pick it up earlier. It is indeed a comedy but it also has a lot to do with horror. The storyline is very simple, two guys have to look for a stripper and go to the wrong one, one filled with vampires, oh yes, it was copied later as From Dusk Till Down. Not amused with American comedy I must say that I did laugh a lot with this flick. So stupid sometimes those guys are. But if you take a closer look then you will see that the director Richard Wenk did know his classics, they way it was filmed with the green and purple colours did remind me of those Italian Dario Argento flicks like for example Suspiria. The fact that Grace Jones is in it gives it another reason to watch. But she doesn't speak here but gives a good performance. Of course it wouldn't be a horror if it doesn't have any vampires and it does. The effects are all well done and the killing of Grace Jones is one to look for. Naturally Richard didn't forget that it was shot at a strip club so now and then there is some nudity. To end, it has a perfect mixture of comedy and horror, and look out for Billy Drago and Dedee Pfeiffer and Robert Rusler, common names in the horror genre. "},{"Title":"Fang-tastic horror comedy.","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Three College students (Chris Makepeace, Geedee Watanabe, and Robert Rusler) from a town head to the big city in search of strippers for their party as they discover a perfect place called The After Dark Club. They meet the owners, the lovely strippers and of course the star attraction who is the seductive Katrina (Grace Jones) who aren't what they appear to be as they are actually bloodthirsty vampires seeking their blood.An outrageous and sexy horror comedy that has gained a cult following since it was first released in 1986 and it's one of the most underrated vampire movies ever. Though not as awesome as Fright Night, The Lost Boys or Near Dark when it comes to 80's vampire movies but it's still a charming and entertaining flick with dark humor and decent acting. It co-stars the sexy DeeDee Pfiefer (Michelle's sister) and Billy Drago (The Hills Have Eyes remake), the true star of the film is none other then Grace Jones whom i think made a memorable role as the title vampire queen. The make-up effects by Greg Cannom (Bram Stoker's Dracula and The Mask) are superb especially the first transformation of Jones to a vampire and the score is quite 80's but very good, it's one of my favorite vampire movies and a must see if you like horror comedies and vampire movies.Also recommended Fright Night 1 & 2, John Carpenter's Vampires, From Dusk Till Dawn, Evil Dead II, The Monster Squad, Vampire Hunter D, Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust, Interview with the Vampire, The Lost Boys, Re-Animator, Grindhouse, An American Werewolf in London, The Hunger, Dracula (1931), Bram Stoker's Dracula, Underworld, Underworld Evolution, Blade Trilogy, Def By Temptation, Shaun of the Dead, Once Bitten, Scream, Lifeforce, Wolf, Love at First Bite, Vampire's Kiss, Return of the Living Dead, Buffy The Vampire Slayer (Show and 1992 movie), Idle Hands, Demons, Cronos, House, Taste The Blood of Dracula, House of Dracula, Dracula has Risen from the Grave, Blood The Last Vampire, Van Helsing, Bordello of Blood, Vampyres, Son of Dracula, Blacula, Innocent Blood, Pumpkinhead, The Forsaken, Daughters of Darkness and Salem's Lot (1979 and 2004). "},{"Title":"Lacks bite in a number of areas","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" If you've ever wondered why New World Pictures went out of business several years after Roger Corman sold the company to others, VAMP would be a pretty good place to start. The ideas behind this movie are promising, but I found that the actual execution of these ideas almost entirely failed.To begin with, what do you think you'll get when you combine vampires with strip clubs? That's right, you think you'll get both a lot of bloody violence and sex/nudity. But the movie seems curiously determined not to deliver the goods. There's hardly any blood, no real sex, and only a couple of scenes of (fleeting) nudity.The next way the movie fails is with the production design. I thought that the movie looked very unattractive. While the movie doesn't look seriously cheap, the low budget is pretty obvious in most shots. Also, there's a murky, dark look to everything, even in the opening scenes that take place in the daytime. And when it's night, many scenes are lit with a very unattractive colored light, puke green and pink primarily.Other problems I had included the characters (pretty unfunny wimps, and an offensive Asian stereotype) and the fact that the tone of the movie was surprisingly muted despite the presence of vampires and their pursuit throughout of new victims. Is there anything I liked about the movie? Well, I thought Grace Jones was good. In her scenes, she managed to be both pretty creepy and sexy. But she's hardly in the movie at all, so even she can't save this movie.I realize that, after reading the other user comments, I am in the minority when it comes to this movie. Believe me, I WANTED to like this movie. I like a lot of low-budget exploitation movies. But for the reasons I listed above, this simply didn't do anything for me. FROM DUSK TILL DAWN may have ripped this movie off, but I found the results of that movie somewhat better. "},{"Title":"Billy Snow and Gedde Watanabe make it watchable","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Keith and Vic are two fraternity pledges who go to town to look for some ladies of the night for their frat. Seeing as neither have a car they have to borrow Duncan's (80's staple Asian go to guy, Gedde Watanabe). He obviously pleads to go along with them. They find themselves in a bar owned and run by vampires, a stripping vampire queen (Grace Jones), and Billy Drago as an albino gang leader, not in that order. The best parts of this film revolve around Billy Snow and Gedde Watanabe. I'm not really a fan of Grace Jones and always blamed her somewhat for Conan the Destroyer being as bad as it was. So her scenes did nothing for me. But overall the film is a pretty fun time waster, if nothing else.Eye Candy Tricia Burns as Candy gets topless My Grade C+ DVD Extras Commentary by Director Richard Wenk, and actors Chris Makepeace, Dedee Pfeiffer, & Gedde Watanabe; Dracula Bites the Big Apple 22 minute short film; Poster & Stills gallery; Rehearsal footage; Blooper reel; 7 TV spots; and 2 Theatrical Trailers "},{"Title":"so so movie but it lacked bite","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" When I saw this film it was a bit of a let down, Grace Jones as a Vamp, that had a lot of potential but it never fulfilled the anticipation it promised. As for the movie it self, it was a good flick with some good dark humor and the 2 frat boys saving the day killing the evil vamps and waking of into the sunrise as a new couple and the guys best friend who is now a vamp himself and following along in the sewer was funny to see and i was glad to see that the movie did not do i have to kill my best friend role, instead the friendship was stronger the the blood lust good for it. though a good movies in the b-movie group it does pale in comparing to Underworld, or Near dark, but was infinitely more enjoyable the From Dusk to Dawn "},{"Title":"Disgraceful Grace Jones movie","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie was perhaps intriguing and sensual at its time, but the overall impression is that is does not deliver anything it promises It is not funny, not scary and by no means sexy. The plot is simple Two college kids go to the big city to find a stripper to please their college fraternity. They end up being chased by some not-so-classic 80s villains (Billy Drago amongst them) into a strip club filled with vampires, with Jones as a queen of sorts. It takes for ever for anything to happen, and when it sometimes does, it is all in pink and green neon, even underground. Grace Jones is supposed to be the main attraction in this horror flick, but her dancing number is at best mildly artsy. There is no way one can get engaged in whatever plot there might be, and hard to find anything to cherish - not even for its lameness. "}{"Title":"Friends for a week?...","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Two fraternity pledges go to a bar looking for strippers to entertain their college friends. They have problems with transportation, Biker gangs, and worst of all, the staff of the bar. Because they all seem to be vampires. Oh, and Grace Jones, who does the most boring strip in the history of film....So we have three guys who go on a road trip, and we have the token comedy one, throw in some Vampires for good measure, and you have a cult movie.Just not a very good one. For starters, Jones must have done this as a favour, because she's hardly in it, yet gets all the credit and her face popped up on every one sheet. Pull up to the bumper was a hit, and she hit Russell Harty, so I supposed it's justified.The rest of the cast are as bland as the story, and the humour is a little too in your face, once the vampires 'turn'.It's one of those movies that 'you had to be there to appreciate it'.I wasn't, and I don't appreciate it. "},{"Title":"Vamp","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" To become members of a fraternity, AJ(Robert Rusler)concocts a scheme to get in by bringing a hooker to their party. He'll persuade his pal, Keith(Chris Makepeace)to use nerdy, rich Duncan's(Gedde Watanabe, scene stealing as always)car..and wallet.. to drive to the city to pick up a hooker(..or hookers, but preferably one will be sufficient). They immediately run into a no-good albino thug(Billy Drago)and his group and escape a scrape. But, their night takes a turn for the worse when they find a strip club, called After Hours whose boss, Katrina(Grace Jones)is an Egyptian vamp. The ones under her employ are vamps as well, and soon poor AJ will make the mistake of meeting Katrina in her living quarters back stage after her provocative, unusual number for the crowd of patrons. She'll tear into his neck leaving him for dead..until they find out that he was not alone and actually had two friends along, Keith and Duncan. Luckily, a non-vamp, Amaretto(Dedee Pfeiffer, who is a wonderful, welcome presence)who had a past kiss with Keith will assist him when he's running for his life and looking for AJ, who had been temporarily disposed. But, Keith doesn't just have the vamps to contend with, the Albino has rounded up his gang of co-horts so escape for the poor guy seems nearly impossible. That's not counting the number of vamps who live around the club and underneath in the abandoned sewer system below. Finding that his best friend is indeed a vampire, Keith and AJ have a very awkward moment where friendship will be called into question as the blood-thirst becomes unbearable. Keith will find that a route out of the clutches of those vamps around him seems almost impossible as even his friends are after his blood. It'll come down to Keith and Amaretto to somehow find a way out of the situation they find themselves as even Duncan is turned over to the dark-side, and even escaping in a car will be a daunting task as garbage men are corrupted by Katrina as well. Katrina has a man under her, Vic(Sandy Baron;always dreaming about Vegas)that watches after things in the club..always returning to Katrina when mistakes are made by her hired help or when things regarding their secret may be divulged.Silly, colorful, stylish 80's vampire comedy is quite lurid thanks to the setting around the strip club. The casting excels as Makepeace is quite a likable hero displaying his dismay, confusion, and horror at what is taken place around him. Sandy Baron has some of the best lines as he explains to Makepeace about there being no escape and that their business is a lucrative one for it eliminates the degenerate slime of the world by making them lunch. Watanabe carries a facade of sophistication trying to sound rich with his voice..he so desperately craves to belong to a popular group and Keith & AJ provide that glimmer of hope as he often shells out bucks for their beer amongst other things. Then you have Pfeiffer as the sweet, bubbly love-interest with an aura of natural charm. She really shines bright, radiating such an, at times, quite sleazy flick. And, she's sexy to boot which is a knock-out combination, a winning role she should be proud of. Rusler has some great moments as a conflicted vampire, trying to determine what's best when faced with possibly drinking his best friend's blood or falling on the stake. Except for a jaw-droppingly bizarre opening act, Grace Jones has limited time on screen. Her dance number stops the show, though..it's hard to forget. And, her feast of Rusler's neck is quite gruesome. She's equally exotic and menacing, never uttering a word, using her sheer presence to seduce and captivate the viewer. Good make-up effects, and a heavy dose of humor really make this a surprising gem ready for fans of 80's horror. It is a required taste, however, for it dwells in some rather scuzzy places. Great use of neon shading the buildings, streets, and sewers bring an atmosphere that reminds us of the time this flick was made. Billy Drago has like 5 or so minutes and compliments Grace in the menace department..although, his work is often used for laughs, even though his intensity is at a high as he confronts our heroes ready to inflict damage. The violence includes a stripper vampire stabbed in the heart by the heel of a stiletto shoe, a heart ripped from the chest of an employee by Jones who was displeased with her mistake at selecting a victim with friends, and a smashing finale where we see a vampire's face strip away at the sight of sunlight. And, Jones' transformation(..teeth protruding, eyes rolling back, toe nails extending)into a vampire is eerie, and her ripping away at the neck wound of a victim she's feeding from is perfectly savage. Really has that kind of off-the-wall, disastrous, exhausting night in the life premise where a character escapes one perilous situation after another, wondering, like the viewer, what could possibly happen next..maybe, that's what draws me to this movie. "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The only time Robert Rusler attempted to act. Not bad, better than he was in Weird Science.His best part was when he showed up early in his underwear.Chris Makepeace was cool in this one. What ever happened to him?  "},{"Title":"What the  .....!","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" What the hell was that!? I sat through it hoping it would get better, and guess what? It did not! The acting was wooden to say the least. The story line totally unbelievable. The effect were cheesy and I guess the budget was non-existent. Possibly the worst movie I've ever wasted my time on. I'm a Grace Jones fan, but from now I'll just listen to her music. She was bad in Bond, and just plain vapid in Vamp.So, as to the odd bits You spin round three times in your car and go from daylight downtown rush hour to darkness in Vamp City (nowhere near Vegas)! Who were the albinos? Is that information saved for a potential Vamp II? What was with the sewer scenes - Oh, it's safe, I've been here before!!! They find the vampire lair, which just happens to have several drums of kerosene lying around in it! Come on, I'm sure even vampires that are afraid of fire would not be that stupid! There are 5 words to sum up this film Bad bad bad bad bad! "},{"Title":"Mediocre, but serves its nostalgic purposes. (spoilers)","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" My 80s favorites, Chris Makepeace, Robert Russler, and Gedde Wantanabe star as three college guys who visit a sleazy city bar full of blood-lusting vampires. When one of the buddies allows his hormones to get the best of him, and he gets transformed into a vampire, the other two guys befriend a quirky girl to help them escape.Grace Jones makes an exceptionally eerie exotic vampire, though the special effects looks like most vampire movies (like the make-up they consistently used in the Buffy series). Not really meant to be a scary feature, but Gedde Wantanabe, as the nerdy college friend who doesn't take much to get drunk, adds the much needed humor to pull away from too much mediocrity. Without the much scare, of course, you would definitely need something to hold your attention, if of course you weren't tempted to see it in the first place because of the familiar 80s faces (including Dedee Pfeiffer). Not bad, but unless you add to the cult following, it may only be something you want to watch once just to see a somewhat new wave vampire feature. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Two college students for a fraternity initiation have to go out to a sleazy town and hire a stripper. Upon arriving they quickly decide on the wild & kinky Katrina (Grace Jones). Problem is Katrina and most of the workers at her bar are vampires. Sometimes stylish horror film features a good (but with no dialogue) turn by Grace Jones and a very appealing and sexy cast. Entertaining, but with very little scares and supense though.Rated R; Sexual Situations, Nudity, Violence, and Profanity. "}]