[{"Title":"An electrifying roller coaster ride of a movie!","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"94 out of 116 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film, is without a shadow of a doubt, one of finest, most imaginative comedy horror films ever made.  Raimi, has put all the aspects of the film together in masterful fashion.  The camera work and sound effects are pulsating, and the timing is perfection.  And in Bruce Campbell, the film as a lead actor who gives an exceptional performance.  Campbell plays Ash, an everyday, supermarket attendant who suddenly finds himself thrown into the unusual situation of having to defend himself against, zombies, evil spirits and even his own possessed hand, just in order to survive the night. I laughed, I gasped, and I gripped the arm of my chair throughout! If you like your comedies, black and hilarious, and your horror, gory and sensational, then look no further.  Raimi has created the definitive comedy horror!  Fantastic!  "},{"Title":"DIABOLICAL entertainment for the wicked!","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"79 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Exorcist made you feel respect and fear to the Devil. Sam Raimi's Evil Dead II makes fun of the Devil and demon possession. Although there are some really scary scenes, there are some really twisted funny situations that would leave you wondering what the f*** just happened?!. The movie is funny for the wrong reasons. I eventually don't laugh about when a man is breaking himself dishes on the head. I don't think it's funny when a man is repeatedly beaten up by grotesque characters. I would never imagine a man getting eaten by a demon locked under a cellar and throwing gallons of blood! Evil Dead II makes it look hilarious in a wicked kind of way. For example, when Linda's head tells Ash that she is being tormented, and suffering in hell; you can feel a little scared but the next scene has a corpse without a head holding a chainsaw. There's no time for logic here, just sit and enjoy!It also has the ability to make you feel tense and I must say, scared. The combination of demon possessed people, EVIL sounds (I love the weird noise in the movie), wicked laughs and chanting (dead by dawn!), and intrepid camera angles are the perfect ingredients to make a sui generis Horror-Comedy movie. Watch out for the A Farewell to Arms joke, the whole situation with the evil hand, and the eye that gets in a woman's mouth!.Sam Raimi went too far for the good reasons. He created an unbelievable and unforgettable work that has served as inspiration for many movies in recent years. The movie is easily one of the most visually stunning Horror movies of all time, for sure. Die hard fans of gore get an eye candy for an hour and a half. Raimi created a cult movie in all the sense of the world. Groovy!. Dead by Dawn will never bore you because in every scene there's a feeling of uncertainty and that makes it even more interesting. There are no rules here. The plot is as scary as you can imagine but it's held in such a way that it isn't taken very seriously. I mean, demon possession caused by the Necronomicon is something that happens in the real world. Not exactly with that book but it can happen via satanic books and rituals. Raimi takes it to a different level of humor mixed with gore. Bruce Campbell deserves a special mention. He delivers a wicked, solid, and totally believable performance. Something you haven't seen before mainly because of the strange situations he goes through. His performance could be described as a solo. Easily, one of the best performances of any actor in a Horror movie. Also, one of the characters that suffers the most in any movie! Ash is beaten up by demons, humans, objects, etc. Even possessed creatures make fun of him. The gore here is great, glorious. You get decaps, mutilated bodies, a hand cut off, bleeding demons, etc. Blood spread all over the cabin is the common denominator. One of the goriest movies of all time. Watch Evil Dead II to witness one of the most creative, brave, and goriest movies of all time. It delivers something for everyone. It has action, gore, spectacular camera angles, and some action! Check out Ash V.S. possessed Henrietta. * After it, phrases like join us!, swallow this!, and specially groovy! will be part of your daily vocabulary. Recommended for every Horror fan in the world. This movie is an obligation to watch. "},{"Title":"Come to sweet Henrietta!","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"85 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead II Dead by Dawn is the sequel to the ultimate experience in grueling terror. Evil Dead II is the definitive cult flick and perhaps my favorite horror film (top five at least). Bruce Campbell takes on the role of Ash once again in this hilariously horrific sequel to a legendary movie. Few sequels live up to the original and fewer still surpass it. This is one of those rare instances. This movie is out of this world. Sam Raimi is a genius with a camera and has gone on to create some damn fine films. He deserves every amount of success he has gained. The script is inventive, highly original, and funny as all hell. It's a mix of horror, laughs, and gore; or splatstick as Campbell calls it. Once again, Campbell's facial expressions alone are worth the price of admission. If that doesn't get you the laughing deer head will. Evil Dead II Dead By Dawn is a true horror masterpiece. A completely original concept, some screwy camera angles, and one Bruce Campbell make for an entertaining combination. If you don't like it, I'll swallow your soul, I'll swallow your soul. "},{"Title":"Violent, gruesome, over the top, a GREAT movie!","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"75 out of 102 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Nonstop fun as a group of people are trapped overnight in a remote cabin and tormented by the evil dead. Not really a sequel to The Evil Dead--more of a remake. Director Sam Raimi expected this to be R rated and figured most people never saw the unrated (meaning it was X) first one. So, he decided to just redo the movie--just quicker, less gorier and with STRONG doses of comedy (the first one was dead serious). He did it, cut some gore but it was STILL unrated. So it was released (with the gore never put back in) and, like the first, didn't do too well. And, like the first, it quickly acquired a following and is now considered a great movie!Basically once the movie gets going it never stops. It's more a comedy than a horror movie--a very SICK comedy! Hands are cut off, eyeballs go flying, BUCKETS of blood are thrown around, knives and axes are used, etc. If you go expecting a horror film, you'll be disappointed. If you approach it as a sick comedy you'll love it! I recommend this highly but only if you have a strong stomach!The sequence with Ash (Bruce Campbell) and his possessed hand is a horrific and comedic highlight. Cool ending too. "},{"Title":"Raimi and Campbell are back for a bigger and juicier sequel!","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"47 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead II (1987) After the huge success of the first film, Sam Raimi andBruce Campbell reunite for this Quasi-Remake/Sequel.  Ash and his ladyare off on a nice trip through the woods.  They stop off and rest inside anold cabin.  Does Ash realize that he's been here before, or hasn't he?  Raimi  and company (armed with a bigger budget and over the top special effects) bring us the second installment of the Evil Dead series.  This film focusesmore on black humor and camp instead of shock and horror.  Technicallythis film is far superior to the one that was release a few years back and in  many ways it's a better film.What a better way to spend the night?  Watch Evil Dead II with some ofyour friends and let the party begin!  Leave all logic at the door. Remember, this is a movie, and a fun one at that.Highly recommended!A++ "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever Made...","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"56 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ... in the evil dead series. From the very beginning I couldn't stop smiling... every time I saw Bruce Campbell i laughed and every time there was a fight I chuckled. It is an extremely fun movie with a no mercy attitude. Sam Raimi perfects his shaky cam shots and first persons and makes for the most enjoyable experience in a long time. The plot is sturdy (identical to Evil Dead) and the technology is painful (purposefully). The movie moves leisurely from event to event. The supporting cast are stupid and bring more trouble to the film (a much needed element) and the best part is, the carnage starts 5 minutes into the movie. A no-think great movie, possibly the best movie the horror genre has turned out in the last 20 years. "},{"Title":"Horror Movie Played For Laughs; Extremely Entertaining","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"38 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of the few horror movies I truly enjoyed, because the film offers a great combination of horror and comedy. It adds up to a very entertaining 85 minutes.There's a lot to like in this kinda-goofy movie nice visuals; good humor to counteract the scariness and gore of a horror story; a small amount of ridiculous theology compare to what usually is offered in this genre, and some totally outrageous scenes. They include a woman's head loose and then biting a man's hand with the rest of her body running around with a chainsaw; a hand with a mind of it's own, monster-type grandma and grandpa in the cellar, chase scenes through a forest with trees coming to life and attacking people, on and on....wild, wild stuff.My main complaint is not enough lulls. There is too much action, and it's so intense it's almost too much to watch in one continuous sitting even with its fairly short length. One needs a break once in a while!There is no credibility in here, but that's okay since I think most of this is played for laughs more than horror. Bruce Campell suffers physical damage that would have killed a person many times but within seconds, he's back to normal. Campell, by the way, must have set the all-time record for making rubber-faced wild faces in a movie, more than Jim Carrey. However, this movie certainly isn't one to be scrutinized for realism. You have to look at it, with all the gory scenes and shocking violence as not much more than just tongue-in-cheek satire on horror movies. It's great fun. "},{"Title":"A rerun it may be but it is still an unsettling, funny and enjoyable rerun thanks again to Raimi and Campbell","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"32 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Having lost his girlfriend to the undead, Ash is forced to face the possessed corpse of his former lover Linda and cut her up with a chainsaw to stop him becoming her victim. However the demons in the cabin are not that easy to stop and soon his hand has become possessed as well. While he battles to stop his hand killing him, a group of four young people are heading to the cabin in seek of shelter for the night, only to find themselves trapped in the same fight as Ash as barely managed to survive thus far.Despite that fact that Sam Raimi is now a proper director making summer blockbusters like his life depended on it, it is still heartening to see that his frenzied style is still present in his work, albeit it not dealing with such extreme material as that which made his name famous decades ago. While Evil Dead II may be a complete repeat of Evil Dead in terms of the basic narrative and content, it is still worth seeing because of Raimi's skill as director and writer of the film. In the UK Evil Dead earned notoriety for being one of the video nasties that the BBFC took such objection to and, in doing so, probably greatly boosted its cult appeal here, and to rerun this film is not a major problem because it does have enough energy and good qualities going for it to be worth a watch if you're into your horror.However horror fans may find it a little tame by modern standards although I still found it to be pretty scary and gory &#150; certainly considering it was made almost 20 years ago with a budget that would barely buy you an A-listed movie star these days. The film is also pretty funny and is full of dark humour and comic moments that make it more entertaining than a gory b-movie has any right being. But here's the thing, the success of this film and indeed the whole trilogy, is mainly due to two people &#150; Sam Raimi and Bruce Campbell. Raimi drives everything with his unique direction that places the action somewhere between a horror and a cartoon. It has great camera work, frantic shots and a real flair for the unreal; it is very hard to describe but it can be seen it many of his films.Campbell's ongoing cult status has only been helped recently by Bubba Ho-tep but this is where it basically began and part II only sees his continue his good work as Ash becomes more of a hero than he was in the first film. He still has the cowardly quality that I loved in Ash but now has weapons and kiss-off lines to compliment his new status. As before his performance perfectly matches Raimi's direction and I can totally understand why the two have kept their close relationship decades later &#150; they really seem to get each other here. Support from Berry, Hicks, DePaiva, Domeier and Bixler is just about passable for this type of b-movie stuff but really the cast is dominated by Campbell playing his best character to date.Overall this is a gory, cheap horror movie that won't appeal to everybody but to those that get it, it will be a hugely enjoyable, gory film with a great sense of humour. Director Raimi and actor Campbell truly make the film work better than the material would suggest it should and, on the basis of any of the three films, it is no wonder that this is such a timeless cult horror. "},{"Title":"It Ups The Ultimate Experience In Grueling Terror","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"31 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is equal to the original Evil Dead, here we have ASH the lone survivor from the first encounter with the evil dead, fighting off the deadites yet again. ASH encounters some unexpected guests and now everyone must fight for the lives, or become the evil that hunts them.Sam Raimi does an excellent job of keeping us scared in a cabin in the middle of nowhere, with the dead surrounding us. When ASH is alone in the cabin, we are alone in the cabin and every creaking sound we hear feels like it's right beside us. The eery feeling is not as terrifying as the original, because the original was a punch in the face of terror. This one is more of a drench you in the face with blood, instead of a punch. The touch of dark comedy is great. ASH versus his hand is some comic gold and is a great way to give you some breathing room when you're not terrified of what might happen next.The script of course is just one guy in a cabin against the dead, but what makes it different is the great one-liners Swallow This, Groovy. The movie showcases other characters that hold no emotional value to the viewer what so ever. You don't even feel sorry for the hillbilly who gets stabbed, slammed by the door, kicked, yelled at, while still being stabbed mind you, dragged and then finally something unknown happens to him under the cellar, but it involves gallons upon gallons of blood.The ending to this film sets up the third installment ARMY OF DARKNESS, which is a total turn around from the first two. The cameo of FREDDY'S glove is a classic nod to Craven's work...or a diss, however you look at it. The whole idea of an evil unknown force underneath you in a cellar is scary enough, not to mention the fact that we have to go down there with our hero, who's armed with trademark boomstick and chainsaw.This film holds one of my all time favourite scenes. Can you guess it, it's when Ash saws off his own hand with a psycho laugh, while blood splatters across his face and his laugh slowly grows into agony and screaming. If you love blood, dark comedy, great directing, classic B movie acting, one-liners and want to be scared ****less, then check this movie out, as well as the original.This is what horror is all about, the gore, the atmosphere, the EVIL DEAD "},{"Title":"Fantastic Lunacy!","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While the original EVIL DEAD was genuinely a horror film, this one went completely the opposite direction and decided to amp up the gore factor to make it basically a demented cartoon show. EVIL DEAD 2 DEAD BY DAWN is really a re-telling of the same events from the first story, but in this case, only Ash and Linda (Bruce Campbell and Denise Bexler) come to the cabin and less than 10 minutes into the movie he has played a recording from a professor who mouths the infamous lines from the Necronomicon and unwittingly brought his girlfriend to an untimely death, though she herself becomes re-animated and returns to torment him as a severed head and a body with a chainsaw in its hands who unwittingly slices itself in two.And this is only the beginning of a movie that will not let down the zaniness, as the professor's daughter makes an appearance with her partner and two locals and get sucked into the madness that ensues. Raimi uses a hyper-kinetic editing to make the essentially silly story even sillier -- the POV of an eyeball flying into the screaming mouth of a woman is a (pun intended) scream -- and distorting the dead into stop-motion figurines only adds to the lunacy. Looney Tunes gone berserk (even the furniture becomes possessed), not precisely frightening, but swiftly paced and with great use of Bruce Campbell's over-the-top acting and slapstick humor. Hilarious, entertaining stuff. "}{"Title":"The Sequel to the Ultimate Experience in Grueling Terror indeed","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the type of film we really wish we made ourselves before some else thought of it. It's intelligent but not entirely complex ... entirely enjoyable yet a serious piece of film making ... everything adds up to cult status. It's the type of film your uninformed friends (or mine at least, I'm surely surrounded by fools) dismiss as trash without giving it a chance.Raimi showed us the thrills, chills and blackly tinged laughs he could bring about in the first in the series on a virtually non-existent budget. Here with just that little bit more he retreads old ground but everything still works ... probably more effectively too! Seeing some of props used and slightly off production values (the 'muppet' headless girlfriend in the shed, the demon head stuck to camera attacking Ash towards the end, Ted Raimi's ripped old lady from hell suit and the quickest of glimpses of set floor boards during one stage of shooting) shows how Raimi was still constrained by budget issues.Seriously though, who cares ... this film has 6 different colours of blood, some seriously funny slap-stick scenes (didn't think I'd say that anytime soon) and a chemistry between lead Campbell and director Raimi that let the jokes flow freely.Campbell proves himself a master of face contortion, self-harm as well as flipping himself over! So many classic scenes in such a short space of time ... my favourite being when Jake is dragged into the cellar and a torment of pink blood comes pumping out. The camera work is as dynamic and as fast paced as in the first outing, the shot of ash standing by the remains of the bridge at the start of film standing out for its grandness among otherwise less cinematic shots.The film leads on nicely to the 3rd installment in the series with one-handed Ash getting sucked into another dimension to face the undead in jolly olde England (or something like that). It really is no wonder that the in-store geeks/pop-culture snobs of High Fidelty described Evil Dead II as the greatest movie of all time.'Groovey' indeed. "},{"Title":"Demented fun!","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"27 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Not so much of a sequel to Sam Raimi's groundbreaking horror feast the Evil Dead, this is more of a reprise of the same film with more proper equipment, professional pacing and further developed gore. Sole survivor Ash (Bruce Campbell in the role of his life) returns to the cabin in the haunted woods and faces the same demonic forces he dealt with in the first film. The first half is kind of like a one-man horror comedy show that provided Campbell with his constantly growing cult-icon status. Ash chops up his possessed girlfriend, loses essential body parts and nearly goes completely insane up in that shed. The second half introduces new characters or - in other words &#150; fresh new victims to dissect. Sam Raimi updates his initial Evil Dead idea with rushing camera movements, inspired gore and comic book-style action. The pacing is fast and the blood is omnipresent! According to most horror fans, this is the finest installment in Raimi's trilogy (completed in 1993 with 'Army of Darkness') but I still prefer the charming cheapness of the original. Nevertheless, this is one outstanding horror adventure. Campbell's acting skills have remarkably improved and Sam Raimi's directing also is a lot more solid. Great fun, warmly recommended to every horror fan and admirers of twisted black humor. "},{"Title":"Extremely cheap, yet well crafted film  loads of great scenes!","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sequel or remake? There has always been a huge debate whether Evil Dead II is a sequel or a remake, since the second film contradicts the story that occurred in Evil Dead. Such as, the ending of Evil Dead ends with Ash being chased down by the evil spirit which deceased the other characters. However, after the paraphrase of events at the start of Evil Dead II, which only features Ash and Linda and Ash is once again hit by the same evil spirit. That's where the story begins in the second film.So, the book was destroyed in The Evil Dead, whereas it appears again in Evil Dead II. This certainly isn't a huge factor. Actually, if one can recall James Whale's 1935 masterpiece sequel entitled Bride of Frankenstein. There is no question that director Sam Raimi used the Whale masterpiece as the blueprint for his sequel. In Bride of Frankenstein, the film starts with a prologue that recaps the events of the first film, however, completely contradicting the entire ending of the film which is where the sequel starts. I understand that Raimi was going through legal issues, so he was forced in this position to contradict the first film, but he certainly used the way that made Bride of Frankenstein the classic in remains. Not to mention, in Frankenstein, it is a straightforward horror film, whereas in the sequel it is a macabre, satirical film that uses the blend of horror and black comedy at it's finest. No doubt Raimi's Evil Dead II uses the same concept.So is Evil Dead II a sequel or a remake? It is undoubtedly a sequel! A fairly good one as well, that in many ways surpasses it's original prototype. It's certainly not one of the most visually inventive, relentless, and truly original films ever made as some claim it to be, it's not even one of the top films of it's very own genre. However, it remains one of the best full-on gore slapstick's ever seen. The script is witty, and well written (mostly on the part of Scott Spiegel). It's no secret that one of films main inspirations was The Three Stooges, along with many other slapstick comedy's. Though it's director Raimi's unbelievable POV shots, weird lighting, stop motion animation, moving hand held camera, etc. that makes the film work.That being said, Evil Dead II just isn't a grade-A horror film, it isn't on the level of the classics such as, Peeping Tom, Freaks, Nosferatu, Vampyr, The Phantom of the Opera (silent), The Man Who Laughs, etc. It does not have much of a plot. It has very little acting, little continuity, and no logic. Evil Dead II is a classic cult horror film in every sense of the word. You simply have to come along and experience it for yourself. "},{"Title":"More Evil than the first; bloody fantastic!","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I didn't think it was possible, but Evil Dead II surpasses the   original in nearly every way. It's scary, it's gory and lastly, it's   hilarious. It's pure, inspired comic mayhem and madness for 80   minutes straight! It's no secret director Sam Raimi loves to torment   star Bruce Campbell, putting him through the most grueling experience   an actor should ever go through. Essentially, it's a sequel/remake of   the first film, and Ash (Campbell) is once again battling the forces of   the dead, which have been resurrected by the reading of passages from   the dreaded Book of the Dead. But unlike the first movie, the Three   Stooges-type humor is rampant and outright, and it makes this entry   deserving. The funniest scene of all is Ash having to sever his   possessed hand, of course after it literally beat the living crap out   of him. Not to be missed.    10/10 "},{"Title":"Nowhere near as good as the first one,but still pretty cool.","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Evil Dead is probably one of the most popular horror films of all time and it has inspired too many horror flicks to name.It is not only extremely scary,but also gory as hell.In comparison to that masterpiece Evil Dead 2 is nowhere near as gruesome,but it is still worth checking out.The camera work throughout the film is spectacular and the special effects made by Mark Shostrom are pretty good considering the budget.The cinematography is really beautiful and the action is furious.Some scenes are deliciously funny especially when Ash cuts off his own demon-possessed hand or when a woman swallows a flying eyeball.Sam Raimi was a really talented guy,he could be a real horror master but nowadays he is making Hollywood garbage.What a shame!!!To sum up,if you love horror movies this one is a must-see.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"rosebud","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" this is by far, the scariest movie i have ever seen. and it even made me laugh. i saw this a very long time ago, in the theatres, and i had never heard of Sam Raimi at the time. this film is an example of what you can do with a bit of money and a brilliant mind. using cameras, sound,editing and anticipation, what we have here is an engrossing, raw horror movie with a uniquely charming eternal champion. and i loved the special effects, which includes his use of sound and camera work. they weren't up to the block-buster digital computerized seamless stuff we see now, but for me this only added to its' charm. the film also didn't take itself too seriously either, which is always appreciated. i really like the character of Ash, and his progression from ordinary guy to cocky, evil dead fighter. as for Sam Raimi, it didn't take long to see just how gifted he is as a director, and i couldn't wait to see what he could do with a bigger budget. i think his track record now speaks for itself. this is a hard-core, for horror fans movie. i'm only guessing but i think baby-boomers who want to be scared will love this film. i also like seeing Bruce Campbell show up in Raimi films, like the face in the crowd in the last shot in Dark Man, right on up to his television shows and the power-tripping gate-keeper in Spider Man 2. He uses his brother in his films too,(aarrgh Henrietta!) nice to see, as well as seeing his partner's wife in cameos in his other films( great punk look, xena). i understand that Bridget Fonda asked Sam to give her a small role in Army of Darkness because she is such a fan of the movies, and probably of Mr Raimi as well, whom she worked with in A Simple Plan. great film. my understanding is that he has written the screenplay for an Evil Dead 4. this is great news to me, and makes sense considering how Army of Darkness ended. Army didn't scare me, but i loved it all the same. i don't know what to expect from a fourth one....scarier than hell or campy fun, or both? i say, bring it on! he wont have any trouble getting real money for #4, which he didn't need in the first three to make them so truly great. so, trust me on this. if you love horror films, check out Evil Dead 2, dead by dawn. i wouldn't watch it alone either. i don't care how macho you are. it's an engaging roller-coaster,fun ride. not for the uninitiated and not for Sleepless in Seattle-type fans. this is pure, classic, camp with a great ending. "},{"Title":"If she went into those woods, you can forget about her !","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Our hero Ash returns in this 1987 blood bath of a follow-up to The Evil Dead. The king of slapstick horror does a bang up job of combining laughs and plenty of gore to create one of the most memorable and beloved horror movies of all time. What some people may or may not know is, the movie, intended to be a sequel, was actually a revisited version of the first film. In this version, Ash(Bruce Campbell) returns to the dreaded cabin in the woods with only his girlfriend Linda(Denise Bixler) and his infamous Oldsmobile. What was meant to be a quiet, relaxing get-a-way in the woods, suddenly explodes into a bloody night of survival when Ash is forced to do battle with the evil that lies within the woods. Possessed trees, zombie mothers, and one demonic hand all set the stage for Ash as he risks life and limb(literally) to make it through the night. Joined later by Annie Knowby(Sarah Berry) the daughter of Professor Raymond Knowby,(the man who unlocked the mysteries of the book of the dead)Ed Getly,(Richard Domeier)and two wanderers Bobby Joe(Kassie Depaiva)and Jake(Dan Hicks)Ash and his crew must survive the night, or be dead by dawn.The true genius of this movie is not only the fact that it was shot very well on a low budget, but there is very little speaking. All the scares, and shock factors of the movie rely on Sam's brilliant use of silence to scare the pants off of you when you least expect it. Couple that with the concept of Ash, a average joe who can barely tie his own shoes, and just happens to be mankind's only hope against the greatest evil of all time, and you have one of the most groovy horror flicks ever created. In the words of our hero Hail to the king baby. Strap on your chainsaws, and get ready to kiss your nerves goodbye. "},{"Title":"Kiss Your Nerves Good-Bye!","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ''Evil Dead II ''is a very funny trash comedy that I watched just yesterday and I had a lot of fun! I thought this movie was older then actually is, because the character's hair in general looks from the 60's. I love the scene where Ash loses his hand and he attached a chainsaw to the stump. The monsters and the special effects are not perfect and you can clearly see that is a doll in many of the scenes, but that's what makes the movie a trash cult. Ash is a young adult who takes his girlfriend to a recluse place thinking that they are going to have a good time. The problem is that Ash plays back a professor's tape recorded recitation of passages from the Book of the Dead, and this makes many zombies,evil spirits and monsters to be awaken. Linda is possessed and becomes a zombie monster, and Ash needs to prevent himself to have the same faith. "},{"Title":"Oh that hand!","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Whether Evil Dead II was a remake or a sequel doesn't matter. What does is that it's an ultra-super-cool movie with every gross crazy thing that you could imagine! The plot (loosely) concerns Ash (Bruce Campbell) going back to the cabin and having to battle the evil spirits once again. But of course, the whole thing is really an excuse for a series of gags involving blood, eyeballs, and finally Ash's hand. In my opinion, the whole hand sequence should be registered as one of the greatest scenes in movie history, right alongside the Yellow Brick Road in The Wizard of Oz and Slim Pickens riding the bomb in Dr. Strangelove. Only stuffy rich people would be incapable of liking this movie. "},{"Title":"Best horror movie ever","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" if there was one movie that makes me wish I could go back to being 11 years old and watch again for the 1st time it's this one. Starting out as a terrifying demonic scare fest then with ash through his ordeals becoming a badass. I remember being one of the 1st kids to see this one right before going to summer camp and of course had all the other kids in my cabin convinced it was a true story and that happenened in these cabins. That the demons and necronomicon were real and still here. Convincing them that the counselor's all knew about the evil but were too afraid to mention it and that's why they slept in the locked main building and left us kids alone outside all night. Of course that came back to bite me when it was time to go to bed and my imagination would catch up to me and I would start to think what if I'm right and it's really out there😨? I guess compared to today's standards of human centipedes and hostel todays youth would probably find it bland but this one will always hold a special place in my heart.... The year I went to camp with the evil dead and survived =O. I have to wonder if I traumatized any of my fellow campers who hadn't seen this movie with my tales of terror about this movie lol. Eventually some of the kids were so scared they were moved to the locked main building and the counselor's weren't happy with me. "}{"Title":"If you're looking for a good laugh, you found it.","Date":"8 November 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For a movie that wasn't a big budget. And the hero of B movies. Bruce Campbell pulls off an amazingly funny movie. Start to finish, the dark humor of this movie was well done. For anyone just wanting a goodnight laugh, Halloween marathon, or just wanting to watch a cheesy movie. If finishing this movie and you still want more, try out Army of Darkness. Sure like any other movie it has it's goofs, but it all just adds to the enjoyment of the movie to noticing these things. Without Sam Raimi we wouldn't have had this masterpiece. I have to give it 10/10 due to it just making me laugh and knowing so much has came from the Evil Dead movies. Comics, a musical, action figures. If you end up loving this movie, it just doesn't end with it. Go out and explore the love that came from this movie! Here ya go! And don't forget the original! The Evil Dead! Just as great and low budget! GROOVY! "},{"Title":"Evil Dead 2 Dead by Dawn","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The movies plot is very simple, people trapped in a cabin while demons attack them, seams simple enough, but the crazy stuff that the demons do to the people make this movie immensely entertaining. The hero of the movie is Ash, and he's already survived the first Evil Dead and now he's the only survivor. but later on the owners of the cabin return to it and then they all need to fight to stay alive. The movies writing felt very natural in the way the people talked and interacted with another, but that doesn't mean it's without it's campy one-liners. The campy one- liners are all memorable and don't hold the movie back, if anything it helps the movie. Now the main thing about the movie that holds your attention is that you have no idea whats going to be thrown at our protagonist next. It could be trees attacking the cabin, your own hand getting possessed, or an eye popping out of a skull and into someones mouth, all this zaniness really keeps your attention and makes the movie very fast paced and enjoyable. The main character of Ash is one of my favorite movie character's ever because of Bruce Campbell's performance, he's able to do serious acting when needed and at the same time he's able to be campy when needed. Whats surprising for the type of movie this is, is how good the camera work is. You get so many shots at many different things that are all edited together perfectly. But the movies biggest strength would be most other movie's biggest weakness, and that is the flaws in the movie, the little imperfections. These imperfections work in the favor of the movies campyness and they make the movie perfect because you can tell that everyone working on the movie put there best effort into it. It showed that they didn't make the movie to make money, they made it to make an enjoyable camp filled horror comedy that will stand the test of time. This movies great for it's enjoyment, horror, comedy, camp, and all around the inspiration factor that says make your own movie to just make a movie my rating 10 out of 10. In the words of Roger Ebert the movie is Manic, inspired genius. A great time! and in my own words It's the most original, and entertaining horror film ever made "},{"Title":"I'll Swallow Your Soul!","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a cabin on cocaine!! Ash returns for the role of Evil Dead 2 giving out his best performance yet!! Poor Ash is getting tormented by the demons messing with his mind and himself. Sam Ramini gives out more of his classic camera-work making this movie work how it should be. The woods running, the reversed footage, and gory effects. I loved how ED2 completely changed from a good straight up horror movie as ED1 to a comedy/horror. Its a perfect balance for the Evil Dead trilogy. Ash from becoming a wimp in ED1 to a hero in ED2. What kind of action star has a chainsaw connected to their hand and a their trusty boomstick... Ash of course!! And forever he will be one of the greatest horror icon. This movie will live on! "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Horrors of the 1980's","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sam Raimi's sequel to the original 1981 Evil Dead. There was more of a budget for Evil Dead 2 and was created from the original story line but with a bit of a punch to it.Ash Williams and his girlfriend Linda take a vacation to a small cabin in the woods, romantically entangled they love the place and the area. Ash finds a book and a strange knife in the basement, the Necronomicon Ex- Mortis (the book of the dead)which the dead spirits and demons come to life by reading pages in the book. A romantic holiday soon turns into a nightmare.This movie seems to have it all. Gore, suspense, great camera angles, storyline, script, dark comedy scenes and quotes.Highly recommended "},{"Title":"Ash comes back for seconds.","Date":"15 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Five years after releasing his horror masterpiece The Evil Dead onto unsuspecting moviegoers, Sam Raimi returns for a sequel along with Bruce Campbell. This time it would have a higher budget ($3.6 million), different cast members, an aspiring make-up effects team and a slapstick tone that would contrast itself from the original film.The always strapping but irregular Ash Williams (Campbell) and his girlfriend Linda (this time played by Denise Bixler) are about to have the hellish weekend stay of their lives. Once again, they unwittingly play a dead professor's recordings of mystical summonses from the Necronomica, better known as The Book of the Dead. When his girlfriend unexpectedly gets possessed by evil forces, Ash becomes trapped in the cabin with no means of escape until four people show up. Now teamed up with the professor's daughter (Sarah Berry), Ash faces a one-man battle against the forces with only his chainsaw-hand and a sawed-off shotgun. Will Ash win the fight and get the girl, or will he find himself in desperate peril? Evil Dead II is one of the few sequels, especially in horror, that managed to be as great as its predecessor. The film adapts to broader, more comical characteristics such as laughing furniture, a runaway possessed hand and several memorable one-liners I'll swallow your soul!, Groovy! etc. As for Bruce Campbell, he gives another great performance as an older but wiser variation on Ash Williams. Instead of the meek innocent Ash from the first film, Campbell is now prepared, armed to the teeth and a lot more muscular. Despite these additions, it never managed to sacrifice some of the darker aspects that made the original a classic.Gone were the primitive make-up effects from Tom Sullivan, the task for that position was handed to Mark Shostrom along with three Pittsburgh natives, Greg Nicotero, Robert Kurtzman and Howard Berger. Their cutting-edge creations such as the Possessed Henrietta and Mr. Rotten Apple Head are brought to bloody life on a limited budget with fewer resources. The reason these effects hold so well after nearly two decades was because the less money you have, the more creative you are.Off to encounter the Army of Darkness!Possessed Henrietta I'll swallow your soul, I'll swallow your soul! Ash Swallow this! "},{"Title":"Bruce and Raimi are pure Genius","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Raimi is well known for his Spider man series but not as much as his evil dead series which is equally as good maybe even better.This is a gore fest mixed with great comedy and the cheesy quotations from Ash makes the film even more enjoyable.This film is remarkably much better than the original Evil Dead but don't be so surprised first read on By mistake i stumbled upon this film thinking it was actually a zombie film, sorry if you expected that but in all honesty its more of a ghoul kinda film. If no one agrees with me then write a complaint but to me a zombie is something that is slow, non Witty, dumb and don't talk thats not at all what is portrayed in this film.Acting is very over-dramatic but it's supposed to be so don't think you've bought a rubbish film when you switch on. Great direction from Sam raimi and definitely worth waiting for EVIL DEAD IV.If you want a good hour and so of gore slash and thrash then this is a perfect film for you, if you like black comedy same again, if you like old films then this again is the one for you. It's a true tribute to some of the best film legends you'll see. In some way you can kinda say this is one of the best horror films made if you can label it that.But anyhow this film is definitely in my top five films of all time Buy it, rent it and enjoy it 10/10 "},{"Title":"Simply a flawless masterpiece of horror perfection!","Date":"15 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Picking up where the previous film left off, we find our hero Ash (brilliantly played by Bruce Campbell in what is easily his best performance) stuck with battling various demons in the cabin from the first movie and even having to battle his possessed severed hand at one point. When more people arrive and become possessed, he is forced to arm himself with a chainsaw, which he attaches to his arm in place of his hand, and a shotgun, which he carries in a holster. Ash faces off what is revealed to be the ultimate evil in this highly entertaining horror sequel. Let's break it down.I watched Evil Dead 2 for the first time when I was very young, shortly after seeing the 1981 original. I thought the first film had a unique charm about it and was definitely imaginative, but other than that I was never too crazy about it. With that in mind, I popped this film into my VCR with fairly low expectations. Let me just say that I was blown away by the amazingly captivating story that unfolded before my eyes. The structure of the plot and the way it was told was simply extravagant. Ash quickly became one of my favorite horror characters of all time with his transition from a cowardly nerd to a heroic, one-liner spitting, chainsaw armed, shotgun toting action hero. The solitary woods setting gives the entire film a very gloomy and hopeless mood, which definitely works to its advantage. This is by far my favorite horror film (and possibly my favorite film in general) of all time, alongside Return of the Living Dead. This is a must-see, or better yet, must-have for every horror fan in existence. This gets a solid 10 out of 10! Groovy! "},{"Title":"This legendary b-movie will always have a place in my heart!","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So bad it's good, how about so AWESOME it's DOUBLE AWESOME!!! For a b-movie the acting is not bad, you can see Ash(Bruce Campbell) pain when he looks in the mirror. They didn't force it down your throat with words, a picture says a thousand words and the words were saying WHAT THE F***! Well his reflection did speak some words hinting to what he was thinking, but that part was awesome and ended up in a strange twist. If you're impatient and just want to get to hilarious over-the-top gore then no worries, the action starts 5 minutes in and there's even a head decapitation. This movie is like no other, many copy cats have come and gone but no one can make a movie like Sam Raimi. Ash girlfriend gets possessed and she spins around like a ballerina awhile her head stays in place, his hand becomes possessed and tries to kill him, a girl is killed by a tree, and a guy loses gallons and gallons of blood in a awesome scene that you'll have to see to believe. I recommend this movie to wannabe film directors, b-movie fans, people with a sense of humor, and horror movie fans. So leave your brains at home and go see this at a friends house, it's gonna be a groovy time.P.S. Bruce Campbell is awesome! P.P.S. Did I mention Bruce Campbell is awesome, he has a chainsaw on his hand and a sawed off shotgun in the other!-Cooper Solano- "},{"Title":"A trip into a world of horror and comedy!","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Evil Dead trilogy still comes through as top notch, low budget, scary movies in the style of such titles as Nightmare on Elm street. This particular chapter of the trilogy _ Evil Dead II _ gives us as much as you can expect from a sequel, and more. That is to say, you must expect more ghoulish demoniacal possessions; more hand-held camera movements; and more, much more BLOOD! However, Evil Dead II starts to separate it self from other movies in this genre (and its prequel for that matter), particularly in a growing non-sense comedy style witch very smoothly sets in. Although one might think that horror and comedy don't mix, Sam Raimi really pulled it off. For that purpose its clear that Bruce Campbell gets carte blanch with his character Ash. You can't help to laugh in some of the scenes inside the lodge with his over the top performance. But don't worry, because the horror and gore side of the movie is still there, all the way to the end. So, if you were a big fan of the first movie, and are not in the mood of something a bit different, don't watch this. On the other hand, if you can keep an open mind about it, then you'll get a great trip for sure. Enough said! I don't want to spoil it for you! "},{"Title":"Groovy!","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This deserves more than 7.9 on here, Bruce Campbell is at his best as Ash. Definitely better than The Evil Dead (still worth a watch if you haven't seen it.) When I first watched this, I expected more of the same but it becomes more of a comedy that the Evil Dead films is best known for and I loved it ever since. Sam Raimi tried to make it less of an X rated by making the blood splatter coloured green, blue and a little bit of red added in (a little bit in evil dead standards) but still became an X rating. Surprisingly not a big success in the cinema (like the other evil dead films) but got a cult following which is no surprise.If you're bored and have nothing to do, go and buy Evil Dead 2, it is worthy in your DVD collection! "}{"Title":"The best Evil Dead movie, and one of the best horror movies ever made.","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I bought this film, I was a bit skeptical. The first Evil Dead movie was brilliant. I thought Evil Dead 2 wasn't going to be anything special at all, due to the mix of horror and comedy. I usually don't like when a horror film has some elements of comedy in it, but this time it worked.Evil Dead 2 revolves around Ash, as he brings his girlfriend Linda to the same house which he and his, now dead friends, were staying in, in the first Evil Dead film. They find this cassett, on which there's a spell being read by a professor. This spell awakens the demons out in the woods. Their first target is Linda, who becomes one of these Deadites. Ash finally manages to kill her, but that's not the end of it all. When he finds out that the bridge, which is the only way back, is broken, he has to stay in the cabin and fight the demons from the woods. But this time, weird thing happen to him - which are a bit funny. After some time, the professor's daughter and her entourage show up at the cabin and help Ash to kill the demons.I don't really know what it is that makes me like this movie so much, but it's probably Sam Raimi's brilliant creation of these demons and Ash, of course, with his chainsaw and shotgun - hilarious! Do NOT download this film, do NOT rent this film, but BUY the film! It's really worth having in your collection. This movie won't let anyone down, that's a promise -D Evil Dead 2 gets a solid 10/10 - excellent "},{"Title":"Sheer Brilliance","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead 2 was by far the best horror b-movie I have ever seen. Its cheap effects and terrible acting only serve to emphasize the humour and irony depicted by director Sam Raimi. Not only does Evil Dead 2 completely retcon everything that happened in its entirely serious predecessor, it does it on a very low budget, which always leaves room for laughs. I may seem to be picking on this great movie, But I assure you every moment was enjoyed. From the second the legendary Ash cuts off his own possessed hand with a petrol chainsaw, I knew this film was destined for great things. Several buckets of fake blood and plenty of latex later I was not disappointed. Ranging from flying eyeballs, blood spewing walls, dancing corpses and of course a good old spattering of tree rape, Evil dead 2 completely re-writes the conventions of the classic B-movie. With its obvious tongue in cheek style and purposely bad narrative, this funny, action packed horror romp really did brighten my day. From start to finish you will be laughing and cringing at this masterpiece of film, and will want to watch it again and again.This beautifully made horror parody to this day remains a cult classic, so I recommend anyone reading this to go and invest in what I can only describe as sheer brilliance. "},{"Title":"Awesome film","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although I prefer the hardcore horror of part 1, part 2 offers creativity of a whole new thought. Now with his hand possessed, Ash not only has to fight toothless redneck tow-truck drivers, a preppy scientist, ghosts, and a trashy redneck woman, but he now has to go mano-a-hando with his own hand. Now the hand communicates through sounds and gestures as it tries to draw Ash into its web of evil.As these people start to fool around and be as ignorant as possible, it is once again Ash who has to save the world. Now, with a chainsaw where his hand once was, a shovel, and his trusty boomstick, Ash fights the main cog in the evilness. A large, Freddy Kruger-like beast who makes Ash's hair turn grey (A la Nightmare on Elm Street). As his new girl/friend/love interest reads from the Necronomicon, Ash fights this truly large beast, and deadites. As the final battle ends, Ash gets thrown into oblivion, only to land in medieval times... "},{"Title":"A Horror Classic. The God of Comedic Horror!!!","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" PROS Great acting. Bruse Camdell was perfect for the role, he was very believable as the character of Ash. The scene where Ash cuts off his hand cuz it went evil was pure genius. The slapstick comedy was tremendously funny as it always is. All the demons were just flat out awesome. The Animation was the best in a Horror film at the time and is still great to look at. A very good film for the low budget of $3,500,000. The film is one of those few horror classics that you can watch over and over again and it never gets old. Better Than the Original Evil Dead. Not to mention how awesome it was to see Ash go evil and try to kill everyone.CONS The first 10 to 15 minutes was kind of on the boring side. The film seemed to be a remake even though on the back of the DVD it says he returned again to release the evil once again. They made a few mistakes in the film but its hard to notice. And it is semi inconsistent with the 3rd film Army Of Darkness. The film ended.CONCLUSION Even with all the mistakes, the semi-boreingness, & the inconsistanties; the film still takes my breath away, the good things about the film makeup for all the semi-bad. The Film is a classic accually its the classic, Thats why I give it a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Who's laughing now?  I am!","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Man, I love ED2.  If you've heard of this and are researching it on IMDB, then odds are you've already seen it, so there's no need to explain what it is about.  It follows the first rule of a horror/comedy which is don't make the monsters funny, make the characters funny.  When the monsters become funny, the horror is lost, and a stupid movie is born.  Funny things can happen TO the monsters, but they themselves cannot be the source of the laughs, and that's the case with ED2!  The deadites are truly menacing and there are some great scares, but Ash the hero is the one who draws the laughs.  Scared out of his mind and a bit on the slow side, Bruce Campbell acts the way a normal person probably would under these circumstances, namely he screams in terror and fights for his very life.  The best horror/comedy ever made.   "},{"Title":"Groovy","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This one actually surpasses the original in just about every way. Out of the Evil Dead trilogy most people refer to Evil Dead 2 for a reason. Two is basically what makes this trilogy stand out. This is probably the film that made Ash a iconic figure in the horror genre and probably made the chainsaw the iconic horror weapon. It's more crazy and humorous than before and has way more supernatural elements going on. In fact this time the whole cabin looks like it's been possessed. Bruce Campbell again plays Ash but he now feels like a trademark character in these genre. His facial expressions and his crazy laughs are a classic. Everything is just more humorous this time around in a good way. It just has many innovative elements which adds onto the originality from the first. This one is a classic for a reason and shouldn't be missed out on. Especially if your into the horror genre.8.6/10 "},{"Title":"A perfect mix of horror and comedy at an amazing pace","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The two main genres this film represents are horror and comedy. The jokes and scares are blended together in a perfect smoothie, the scares in the movie are so silly and over the top it becomes funny but the aspect of horror still remains by having the exaggeration still base around the macabre and the sinister. This perfect blend of horror and comedy produces the perfect emotion in the viewer which I call nervous laughter (Another pretty much perfectly crafted blend of these two genres is in Shaun of the Dead when the two main characters first meet the zombie girl named Mary).The low budget style which permeates the film helps not only creates more laughs but also makes you smile and kind of inspire you in a weird way. The fact that a string holding a flying eye can be clearly seen and a hand can be seen opening a door to help let the camera through it and the fact that the zombie's make-up can be seen peeling off makes you view them not as goofs and mistakes but as little jokes. It's hard to describe the feel a low-budget films gives you but it can be summed up by showing that the director (in this case, Sam Raimi) wants to make a film so much they will put their heart and soul on putting script to screen despite the fact it may be god-awful in it's effects and presentation. Also, I think this movie is a movie that makes people into film makers. If a talented director uses rather rubbish effects but makes the film great nonetheless then maybe you can even if you don't have that much money. Money is not what makes a film, it's the heart that does. Many big blockbusters are emotion-less machines (Star Wars prequels, Transformers). But dedication in a film gives it heart (Peter Jackson's early movies and El Mariachi).The pacing in this film is also ridiculously amazing. There is literally (and I do mean literally) constant horror and comedy. There is no scene without a joke or scare or both like I said earlier. Some may say that the cutting back to the scene where the people get off the plane is slow but it goes on for about a minute and no more. This persistent of the genres make this one of the most entertaining films of all time.Honestly I'd skip the first Evil Dead movie and go straight to this one. Not only is the first film covered in this one in 5 minutes like it's a previously on... but also the scares are scarier and there is more jokes, there being very few in Evil Dead 1. See this movie if you love being entertained, I think it would be very hard to find someone who doesn't like this movie, unless there one of those stupid people who think violence in films is evil. "},{"Title":"The Freakest Wactrg","Date":"16 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Exorcist made you feel respect and fear to the Devil. Sam Raimi's Evil Dead II makes fun of the Devil and demon possession. Although there are some really scary scenes, there are some really twisted funny situations that would leave you wondering what the f*** just happened?!. The movie is funny for the wrong reasons. I eventually don't laugh about when a man is breaking himself dishes on the head. I don't think it's funny when a man is repeatedly beaten up by grotesque characters. I would never imagine a man getting eaten by a demon locked under a cellar and throwing gallons of blood! Evil Dead II makes it look hilarious in a wicked kind of way. For example, when Linda's head tells Ash that she is being tormented, and suffering in hell; you can feel a little scared but the next scene has a corpse without a head holding a chainsaw. There's no time for logic here, just sit and enjoy!It also has the ability to make you feel tense and I must say, scared. The combination of demon possessed people, EVIL sounds (I love the weird noise in the movie), wicked laughs and chanting (dead by dawn!), and intrepid camera angles are the perfect ingredients to make a suit generous Horror-Comedy movie. Watch out for the A Farewell to Arms joke, the whole situation with the evil hand, and the eye that gets in a woman's mouth!.Sam Raimi went too far for the good reasons. He created an unbelievable and unforgettable work that has served as inspiration for many movies in recent years. The movie is easily one of the most visually stunning Horror movies of all time, for sure. Die hard fans of gore get an eye candy for an hour and a half. Raimi created a cult movie in all the sense of the world. Groovy!. Dead by Dawn will never bore you because in every scene there's a feeling of uncertainty and that makes it even more interesting. There are no rules here. The plot is as scary as you can imagine but it's held in such a way that it isn't taken very seriously. I mean, demon possession caused by the Necronomicon is something that happens in the real world. Not exactly with that book but it can happen via satanic books and rituals. Raimi takes it to a different level of humor mixed with gore. Bruce Campbell deserves a special mention. He delivers a wicked, solid, and totally believable performance. Something you haven't seen before mainly because of the strange situations he goes through. His performance could be described as a solo. Easily, one of the best performances of any actor in a Horror movie. Also, one of the characters that suffers the most in any movie! Ash is beaten up by demons, humans, objects, etc. Even possessed creatures make fun of him. "},{"Title":"Horror Movie Perfection","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As a fan of horror movies, I think that this movie is one of the best horror movies ever.I love this movie's sick sense of humor as well as the brilliant suspense and the special are excellent as well. This all comes together to this delightful thrill ride.Ash has to be one of the greatest heroes ever to be in a movie. He is just so unrelenting, No matter how much sh*t you throw at him he will always come back more awesome then ever, When his hand gets possessed he just lops it of & replaces it with a chainsaw. You don't mess with a guy with a shotgun & a chainsaw.This is horror movie excellence and I love it. It's an easy 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A very funny horror-movie!","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ash and her girlfriend went to a deserted cottage in the wood. What they don't know, that the house are doomed.Evil Dead 2 is a very funny horror-movie, but have a few silly parts. You curry a many times when you see the film.Evil Dead 2 is better than the first Evil Dead-movie. I like funny horror-movies, but I want to have quality in this sort of horror-movies and Evil Dead 2 have that.Bruce Campbell is a very good actor and make a very good role in this horror-movie.Sam Raimi have capacity to make fun and horror! "}{"Title":"Necronomicon gone bad.","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" All ye hail, he who fell from the sky to deliver us from the deadites. Grimly fiendish Evil dead 2 is a stylish comedy horror by director Sam Raimi who wrote and directed the original Evil dead and third film -Army of darkness. It's not so much a continuation from the first but more of a retelling gone into madcap extreme. The horror starts almost straight away after a quick introduction that is alike in essence to the first film. Dark forces are called up from the surrounding woods by the playing of a tape recorder when a hapless couple dabble with it. And so begins the start of a relentless horror which results in one man struggling to stay alive and safeguard his sanity. Ash-Bruce Campbell plays the comic hero to great effect. The zany camera work and atmosphere make the film both haunting and psychotic. All the ingredients in the film amount to make it the best horror show you will ever see. If not. You're going' down. Chainsaw. "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel!","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Here is one of the great bad movies! A legendary artwork from the genius of Sam Raimi and beloved of myself. Terrific sight gags, a lean and mean Bruce Campbell as Ash, and soul swallowing demons! Ash and his woman Linda want some time alone so they shack up in a deserted cabin. Unfortunately it was being used by professor Knowby while he translated The Book of the Dead and when Ash plays the recording evil spirits are summoned. Having to chop up your girlfriend makes you a little loco and when demonic forces are screwing with you it just gets worse. About half the film chronicles Ash's struggle against insanity and the unholy terrors. When everyone else arrives they misunderstand the situation of course, heck - there's some maniac with a bloody chainsaw and shotgun in the Knowby's cabin. They learn soon enough Ash isn't perfectly sane but right on track with his assessment of the situation. Unfortunately the newcomers aren't the hardy breed though, and they fall one by one. In the end Annie is able to recite the passages to dispel the evil with her dying breaths but Ash is dragged through the time warp and into the medieval past. I really love this movie, the Hand is a riot! More movies should use the idea of the main character's hand becoming possessed and menacing them. Like... ...Dirty Dancing! Now what if Swayze's hand had become possessed and he was trying to deal with that while doing the Tango or something. Hey, what about Forest Gump? Hehehehe! (Say this in a Gump voice.) And mah hand was acting all funny like, it even tried to stab me. Momma never said nothing bout no hand trying to stab me so that jus didn't seem right. What it boils down to If you have not seen this film you are missing out. "},{"Title":"brilliant film-making","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Here is one of the great bad movies! A legendary artwork from the genius of Sam Raimi and beloved of myself. Terrific sight gags, a lean and mean Bruce Campbell as Ash, and soul swallowing demons! Ash and his woman Linda want some time alone so they shack up in a deserted cabin. Unfortunately it was being used by professor Knowby while he translated The Book of the Dead and when Ash plays the recording evil spirits are summoned. Having to chop up your girlfriend makes you a little loco and when demonic forces are screwing with you it just gets worse. About half the film chronicles Ash's struggle against insanity and the unholy terrors. When everyone else arrives they misunderstand the situation of course, heck - there's some maniac with a bloody chainsaw and shotgun in the Knowby's cabin. They learn soon enough Ash isn't perfectly sane but right on track with his assessment of the situation. Unfortunately the newcomers aren't the hardy breed though, and they fall one by one. In the end Annie is able to recite the passages to dispel the evil with her dying breaths but Ash is dragged through the time warp and into the medieval past. I really love this movie, the Hand is a riot! More movies should use the idea of the main character's hand becoming possessed and menacing them. Like... ...Dirty Dancing! Now what if Swayze's hand had become possessed and he was trying to deal with that while doing the Tango or something. Hey, what about Forest Gump? Hehehehe! (Say this in a Gump voice.) And mah hand was acting all funny like, it even tried to stab me. Momma never said nothing bout no hand trying to stab me so that jus didn't seem right. What it boils down to If you have not seen this film you are missing out. "},{"Title":"A creative installment of the classic horror series","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When the first EVIL DEAD came out in 1982 or whatever 80 something it was gore after gore after gore in such a small budget and it became known as one of the most shocking films. Then when EVIL DEAD 2 came out director Sam Rami give it a new turn on the first one. And also adding a very good blend of slapstick humor into it.Ash (Our well known hero) is back on the road to the cabin in the woods with his girlfriend Linda (The one with the missing head) this time and all too soon they came upon the book of the dead and release the demons upon the woods and same as the first one Linda gets killed in the same style and new characters and scenes came along, Annie along side with her boyfriend Ed (Soon to be Evil Ed) comes to the cabin to put the missing pages together and the redneck Jake and his girlfriend comes for the ride. The new moments added Ash's hand coming to life running around a dead old women coming out of the basement and a new spin on the attack of the forest (they do much more than raping)and added crazy comical moments into it which works very well.EVIL DEAD 2 is one of those well creative turns in low budget film-making, sequel to EVIL DEAD and prequel to ARMY OF DARKNESS. "},{"Title":"Is this really a... sequel?","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I still can't understand yet if this is a sequel or a remake. There's no connection between Evil Dead and it's sequel Evil Dead 2 Dead By Dawn. If you've seen Evil Dead 1 then you should know the drill with this one. While this isn't in anyway at all a bad movie, it doesn't do much to go above and beyond the gory glory of its older, and superior, brother. Dead By Dawn pretty much kicks off from the very beginning with people being possessed by the dead. This version has a bit more of a twist, and this is also the movie where Ash gets his signature boomstick and chainsaw arm. Dead By Dawn also focuses more so on being a horror comedy, still leaning more towards horror, instead of being a full fledged horror like the older brother. It does succeed in doing this, but falls short at a few parts. Overall this is a worthy... uh... sequel? It's got a two in front of the name so I guess we can call it that. Just realize that there is NO connection (at least that I could find) between this and Evil Dead 1. I highly recommend it to those already fans of Evil Dead 1. Watch the first if you haven't seen this one yet, the overall series is very good, especially Army of Darkness. "},{"Title":"The best film ever made","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" They said Bruce Campbell overacted in this film. This is ridiculous, he was more composed than I'd be if my partner was killed and I was left alone in a cabin in the middle of nowhere possessed by demons who are trying to kill me whilst playing around with my nerves and laughing at me. He deserved an Oscar for this film. The faces he makes are the exact faces you would expect to see under such circumstances. He even runs through walls to escape them, he must have put all his energy into the role. He displays mental anguish so well that you feel it with him, it almost made me cry, it's not so much a scream inducing film as a n emotional roller-coaster. Whiile watching it for the first time my face slowly contorted into the very same expression Ash has when he is released from his possessor (the demon) and emerges from the mud. It stayed like that for around two minutes afterwards. The only tacky bit is the opening credits, the rest is pure genius. "},{"Title":"Simple, the definitive evil dead film, Raimi is the best","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Definite 10/10. Not many films have soul stealing demons who live in the woods waiting for Bruce Campbell to show up then release the forces of hell on hearing words from a 1000 year old book which give them license to possess the living and still manage to be funny. Cool film. Watch it, watch it again, watch it some more. i did. When can we expect a fourth evil dead? Sam Raimi has said that he wants to work on a new evil dead after spiderman 3 which may be a remake of the first one. Raimi is not directing the film but his company (ghost house productions) are producing it. F-ing great film (they made me cut out the 'prohibited word')!! I sincerely advise any horror lovers to watch this film and anyone who has seen and liked another Sam Raimi film (e.g. the Spiderman movies, Darkman). "},{"Title":"Best movie...ever","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is, without question, my favourite movie, and one of the best done films of all time. It strikes a happy medium between ED1 and AoD, and it works amazing. Bruce Campbell is a god, and he shows it in this film. A macho guy who is dumber than a box of nails, who can spew punchlines like no other (well maybe Freddy comes close).Of course, this movie would be nothing without Sam Raimi, one of the best, most underrated directors in the past 20 years. Despite landing the spidey movies, he still deserves more credit for his work. Some of his camera work is revolutionary, and he is great at torturing Bruce, especially in this film.If you haven't seen this film, you must go get it now. I've seen this film a countless number of times, like the other 2 ED films, and this one is by far the best (although they all rock). Groovy! "},{"Title":"Whoa, what an awesome movie.","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I recently got around to seeing Evil Dead 2. I really liked the original, yet nothing prepared me for just how insanely gory and awesome this flick was. I don't really remember the plot, but it doesn't matter at all. This movie was gore. That's it. No plot, just pure unadulterated gore. Just the way I like it. Spoilers ahead Some of the insanely cool gore effects in this film included a headless body slicing itself in half with a chainsaw, a bloody, deformed possessed fat chick spinning on the ceiling, and some chicks face being squished to the point where her eyeball pops out of its socket and lies into a person's mouth. Wow. A lot of Spiderman fans don't realize how disgustingly gory old Sam Raimi movies are. Well, that's all I really have to say. This movie ruled. "},{"Title":"One of the movies that really deserve the term CLASSIC","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Oh my god. This is really one of the funniest, goriest and best filmed horror movies I've ever seen. Maybe it's actually the best in these categories, but I normally don't put anything on top to be better than everything else. You probably heard of these infamous scenes, where all kinds of body parts fly around, demons manifesting themselves in the flesh etc etc. This movie is definitely a must-see for all horror movie lovers out there, you will love it. Good, the effects and the monster make-ups could as well be made in the 50's, but who cares! It's that kind of nostalgic and well paced energy which makes Sam Raimi one of the best horror directors out there, along with George Romero, John Carpenter and Wes Craven. If you haven't watched this movie, go see it, and if you already know it, watch it again!!!! "}{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" No quite as good as the original, but it is an entirely different genre. As some people hate this movie, and some love it, I will give a basic summary and small thoughts.Ash (Whose last name is never mentioned throughout the series) and his girlfriend go to a cabin in the tennessee back-woods (Where in the original also contained two friends and a sister, cut due to no need) where they unknowingly resurrect the dead. Ash is left alone, and round 2 begins. As the night dwells on, he completely dismembers his girlfriend, lops off his possessed right hand, and continues to fight along side the cabin owner's daughter and a redneck couple. The owner's daughter, Annie, confronts her possessed dead mother, and the final fight between good and evil begins. Has the good won, or is an earlier event that Ash experienced the precursor of something bigger? I've already told you too much.This is not a remake unless you watch the first five minutes period. The rest goes in a totally different direction.And from now on, anyone who starts a subject This Movie Sucks! will be removed from the boards. I and the sane population are tired of these. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A favourite of horror and gore fans everywhere, and virtually a remake of the first film as Ash again finds himself trapped in a house in a solitary forest which becomes overrun with zombies and deadites. That Necromonicon is at it again! Campbell again steals the show, one of the most under-used and underrated actors around. Raimi keeps the film moving at a quick pace, and some of the camera work, including the chase shots through the house as doors explode off hinges, lots of strange POV shots etc etc show his flare as a director if not as a storyteller. But the main selling point is the gore, of which there is lots, and the set-pieces involving a flying eye and a possessed hand. Again the effects are good by today's standards-with today's technology, stop motion could be very effective. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One of a kind...","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is really good, and its one of kind!Its one of the best horror/comedy movies of all time, and I never get sick of the scene when all the furniture of the house was laughing at Ash! You don't see that kind of greatness in today's movie.This movie has a lot of style, and it can be seen when Ash puts the chainsaw on his chopped off hand. The way it was done was very impressive.This movie is really fun, and you can watch it with your group of friends and have a great time.This movie is classic for everyone to watch, and its way better than spider man will ever be. "},{"Title":"comedy horror genius","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of those rare events.... a sequel better than the original. Raimi, Tappart and Campbell deliver in spades what the original lacked. As funny as it is gory and as silly as it is scary this remake/sequel is a brilliant retelling of the haunted woods story with all the silly gore, one liners and occasional one worder's (groovy) and physical stunts you could ever wish for (the one man brawl is a Bruce Cambell speciality). Much more tongue in cheek than the first film, this is more like 'The Three Stooges' (a major influence of Raimi's) meets Dawn of the Dead. Daft, crazy, funny, gory and manic only go someway to describing this wonderful film. I love it to living death.....  "},{"Title":"It's all about the chainsaw...","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sam Raimi and Bruce Campbell come back to the woods to try and capture what made the prequel so great, and almost succeed. I prefer it's predecessor, but that is not to say this is not a good film. The reason is not because this is an inferior film, they're just very different. The original had vomit-inducing ultra-violence and shriek-inducing scares and thrills with a tad of black comedy thrown in here and there. This is the exact opposite, where the scares and violence are toned down, but the comedy and camp value has been scaled up. For reasons that don't make any sense to me whatsoever, ED2's first ten minutes or so are a recap and mild remake of the first, supposedly due to the fact that Raimi could not get permission to use footage from the original to put in this sequel. I don't know about you, but I don't see how that's necessary. Rarely do sequels include exact footage from the original, even more rarely is it needed. So for what it's worth, I've heard all of the reasons and it just doesn't add up. Fortunately though, this doesn't matter much and does not take away from the film as a whole...it's just not exactly a sequel and not exactly a remake. But it is, exactly, a very entertaining film.Now what I do prefer in this film compared to the original is that the characters act in ways that are slightly more plausible. The first film had me screaming at the screen trying to help out the characters. Don't go outside, look behind you, and for God's sake, get the damn chainsaw and go to town on those nasties! Saw their friggin' heads in half! Here, my voice was saved a bit as Ash must've heard my advice from earlier and decides to bust out the bad boy flesh eating zombie stomper and shred their minion asses into oblivion. Never have chainsaws been so much fun.We are also treated to the same wild and uninhibited camera work from Raimi, something that made the original stand apart from the rest of the genre for that attribute alone. Raimi does not disappoint here. His frenzied technique fits perfectly and he knows it. Watching the Darkness from the woods chase Ash as he tries to escape into and through the house is truly an awesome sight. As for the camp value, unless you're dead, you'll find some humorous elements here amongst the insane absurdity. And I will state, for the record, that I enjoy this film's ending much more than the original's.A delightful addition to the horror/comedy genre, and a different although worthy sequel/remake. If you liked the original, you'll find something interesting herein.  "},{"Title":"Hail to the king, baby.","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I never saw the first Evil Dead, and I plan to, but I did see Dead by Dawn. HOLY FISHSTICKS BATMAN! I've never seen anything quite like this. Geniously fusing horror with comedy (not to mention Bruce Campbell's trademark one-liners), you've got yourself one freakishly enjoyable splat-fest.......And if you can't tell by my enthusiasm for this movie already, that's a good thing.From what I've heard (darn you all who have seen the first movie!!!!!), Evil Dead II is essentially a remake of the first, but going to a less darker, less scarier tone. The comedy has been upped though.The overall story is this Ash (Bruce Campbell) and girlfriend Linda go to the infamous abandoned cabin for a weekend alone, in director Sam Raimi's trademark beat-up Oldsmobile (in practically every one of his films, with the exception of The Quick and the Dead....Cause you wouldn't see one of those in the 1800's...). Ash discovers the Necrimonicon, the book of the dead, and its ritual dagger, and makes the mistake of playing the reel-to-reel tape of the owner of the cabin reciting verses....Which (surprise!) awakens the evil spirits and captures Linda. After trying to destroy Ash, it's off with her head, and I'd give everything away if I said any more.Surprisingly, more people know about this film then the landmark original, which sparked as much controversy as it did acclaim (it was personally reccomended by Stephen King), and one-upped the original by boasting a bigger budget, better acting by the front man (Bruce Campbell even admitted that in the first film he was still perfecting his acting skills and may have gone a little overboard), tongue-in-cheekiness, and an overabundance of gore, which all horror fans should be happy to hear.So, before I ramble on till Kingdom come, go and watch this movie. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"One of the most imaginative films ever","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I first came accross this film in a documentary on TV, and was desperate to see it. When I finally did I was definitely not disappointed and I have seen it many times since. It never gets boring because it is so eccentric, and I never fail to love watching it. It is both gruesome and hilarious, although it does get pretty painful at times. The special effects are fantastic, and the zombies are so evil and so entertaining, which is unlike most zombie films where they are, frankly, pretty boring. The bit where all the furniture and ornaments start laughing at Ash is probably my favourite bit, because it is so surreal. Bruce Campbell is just wonderful. He has a slightly cartoonish appearance which fits in with the whole feel of the film so perfectly. I believe no film fan should miss this film, whether they normally like horror or not. "},{"Title":"One of the Best!","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A very fantistic horror experience!  This movie is a true classic, its a pleasure to watch this horror film over and over with friends.  Although the scary scenes in the first film are no where to be seen in this partial remake, they are happily replaced by comedy and an almost spoof like feeling.  This movie is one big bloody cartoon.  The character of Ash played by Bruce Campbell is no longer the squemish wimp of the first film, he is transformed into the one-liner spitting, chainsaw weilding action/horror icon of the next film; Army of Darkness.  And the gore from the first film is still here, only this time in higher quanities and different colors. For those who have not seen the first film but have seen the more mainstream Army of Darkness, check this film out cause you are in for a treat.  "},{"Title":"One of the best horror films","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wow!! I've seen this movie more than once, and I don't get tired. I think this is one of the best horror films I've ever seen. Why? Well, it has suspense, it has gore, it has a crazy directing by Raimi and an excellent acting by Bruce Campbell. Also, there are other things that has nothing to do with horror but are well used. First of all, the humour. It's excellent!! Moviegoers who love to see those 'Scary Movie' flicks, should see this film, and see how a film can take laugh of some horror cliches. In the bad side, I must critic the secondary actors. I didn't care very much about them and their fate... but, this is all about Ash, isn't it? )  "},{"Title":"Probably the funniest horror movie ever","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This cult classic is a must see.  It is so ridiculously funny while consistently following the footsteps of the horror genre. Sam Raimi definitely has something going here with an excellent performance by Bruce Campbell.   I love the incredible POV shots done in this film.  The shot design of the film is just so awesome. This is definitely a must see for all film students and also ppl who are interested in sound design because sound is the key factor that makes this film work so well. This film is a treasure of American Cinema.  "}{"Title":"not as good as the first one","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While the ideas engine room is clearly running on low fuel for this sequel (cue much re-hashing) it takes the silliness, gore and black humour levels to new heights, and this quickly becomes the content of the film.  Sure, plot, effects etc. are all liberal borrowings from other horror movies, but why carp?  The packaging says 'say good bye to your nerves' and the film definately lives up to it's billing as a bullying, jangling, loud, slap-stick, slap-in-the-face experience of a film.  Great gags. Groovy! "},{"Title":"You can remake a bad movie, and make it a classic!","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This revamped version of the original Evil Dead is one of the staple horror classics.  In High School we accidentally rented this, going on 14 years ago now.  After watching it once, I was hooked. It really was amazing when later I rented the original and realized that two was just a better version of one.  If you haven't seen number one, don't bother!  But, if you haven't seen Dead by Dawn, you need to get to the video store immediately and check this one out. "},{"Title":"Sick,Twisted,Gore filled fun!","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *Plot spoiler* If you want to go into the movie fresh dont read.Ash and his girlfriend go back into the same isolated cabin as the first movie.There they hear a tape recorded by professor Knoby reciting passages from the book of the dead.The passage unleashes all kinds of evil,that comes out at night.As the movie goes on so does the horror and humour.Dont take this movie seriously or you will be mad you did.This low budget film has a cult following and it earned it. "},{"Title":"Not intended to only scare!","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first evil dead movie was a creepy little movie.  Evil dead 2 on the other hand is not just for scares.Sure, the movie has some creepy parts in it but it is more fun and acting than it is scary.  This is pretty much a remake of the first but this one has more fun with the story.  The evil dead series is converted from a horror movie to an action comedy.  The heart of the movie is really Ash who in this movie really has a fun character.  He is the wise ass demon killing tough guy in this one.  The movie is at its best when ever he has I fight with the demons.  I loved the first one but the second is much better and tons more fun.  If you like a horror movie that has fun and doesn't take itself seriously then get off your ass and see this movie.  It's a classic for all fans of horror movies. "},{"Title":"The best of the trilogy...","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When watching the Evil Dead movies you have to keep an open mind, and an open stomach. Being a huge fan of movies with lots of gore I can give you the statement that this is one film that doesn't shy away from the fun. Although the director, Sam Raimi, did in fact take a few steps (like changing the color of the blood) in order to avoid an NC-17 rating - and a lot of good that did, eh?The beginning of the film is basically the same (but revised) thing as the first Evil Dead. Big-chinned Ash(ley) travels with his girlfriend to a quaint log cabin on, what seems to be, some deserted mountain. But odd things happen after he plays a tape recording that reads aloud passages from the Necronomicon the book of the dead. The primary difference between this one and the first Evil Dead is the group of victims that fall to the wrath of the evil dead. Rather than a group of friends, it is a group of strangers, who all get tortured in horrible ways (especially Ash) till either their demise or the end of the movie. One particularly lovely scene involves a headless, naked, female zombie ballerina dancer whom pursues Ash with a chainsaw.Anyway I recommend this film to anyone who's a fan of the horror genre or anyone who just likes a fun ol' movie, but doesn't mind the sometimes extreme ridiculousness that comes along with it. But although this is a great film be prepared for major scenes of continuity.*Gore 10/10*Suspense 1/10*Overall 7/10 "},{"Title":"Love this film","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I snuck in to see this film underage when it was first released and without having seen the first one and laughed till I hurt and jumped out of my seat. Nowadays the scares aren't there for me but I don't laugh as hard but I still love this film. It has just the right tone, and shows what can can be done in a film. People who like Armageddon and think those that don't are too uptight should consider this Armageddon was total crap, and I think this is genius. Bruce Campbell just cheers you up.  "},{"Title":"The best of the trilogy","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When watching the Evil Dead movies you have to keep an open mind, and an open stomach. Being a huge fan of movies with lots of gore I can give you the statement that this is one film that doesn't shy away from the fun. Although the director, Sam Raimi, did in fact take a few steps (like changing the color of the blood) in order to avoid an NC-17 rating - and a lot of good that did, eh?The beginning of the film is basically the same (but revised) thing as the first Evil Dead. Big-chinned Ash(ley) travels with his girlfriend to a quaint log cabin on, what seems to be, some deserted mountain. But odd things happen after he plays a tape recording that reads aloud passages from the Necronomicon the book of the dead. The primary difference between this one and the first Evil Dead is the group of victims that fall to the wrath of the evil dead. Rather than a group of friends, it is a group of strangers, who all get tortured in horrible ways (especially Ash) till either their demise or the end of the movie. One particularly lovely scene involves a headless, naked, female zombie ballerina dancer whom pursues Ash with a chainsaw.Anyway I recommend this film to anyone who's a fan of the horror genre or anyone who just likes a fun ol' movie, but doesn't mind the sometimes extreme ridiculousness that comes along with it. But although this is a great film be prepared for major scenes of continuity.*Gore 10/10*Suspense 1/10*Overall 7/10 "},{"Title":"very funny movie","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the best horror/comedy movies ever. Bruce Campbell does a great job acting throughout the whole entire movie. The fountain of blood scene makes me laugh every single time. The zombies look better in this one then they did in the first. This is a great movie and probably the best in the trilogy. "},{"Title":"Uhuh...that's right...the best film I think I have ever seen !","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead 2 has got to be the best of the Trilogy if you could call it that !  The second of the three films is basically a remake of the first.  Once Sam had sold himself with ED, he gathered enough financial backing to make the second.  I mean let's face it the main character (Ash) is stupid anyway, but who returns to the same cabin a second time with another girlfriend !!I've always been a fan of Sam Raimi.  There are plenty of moments of slapstick throughout this film, wonderfully innovative camera shots/angles and even the speed of the movie is increased at times to give it that Benny Hill flavour !Have to admit I loved the scenes with the possessed hand.  He really did look relieved to chop the damn thing off.  Well wouldn't we all be !? "},{"Title":"The best bit of Bruce Campbell","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Of the three films, this is the best. I've seen all kinds of stuff in this genre but this hits the mark from start to finish. I especially like Bruce beating himself silly... "}{"Title":"Comedy horror masterpiece","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead 2 is probably one of the funniest horror films ever made. Bruce Campbell is great and the effects are good. This film deserves the huge fanbase that it has. One of my favorites, 10/10. "},{"Title":"Groovy!","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is, quite simply, the very best splatter movie ever!  Imagine Stanley Kubrick and Troma studios collaborated, imaginative and brilliantly innovative film-making meets a perverted love of gore and more goo than you can shake a dismembered arm at.  In the words of Jack Black in High Fidelity What you you say if I said I hadn't seen 'Evil Dead 2' yet?I'd think you were a cinematic idiot and I'd feel sorry for you.  It's funny, it's scary and the soundtrack kicks @$$! Do yourself a favour, immerse yourself in gore today. Groovy! "},{"Title":"Creepy and scary horror feast with  plenty of gore ,  guts  and loads of blood","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Amusing and terrifying bloodfeast in which Ash/Bruce Campbell returns for a second round when he takes refuge in an abandoned cabin and taking place subsequent transformation the people into evil demons until only Ashley J. Williams remains to battle the evil . This frightening , strikingly designed horror/comedy movie achieved a lot of success thanks to its unstopped terror and humor , including continuous resemblances to the original version also directed by Sam Raimi . It deals with a 20th century guy , Ash (Bruce Campbell) , none too bright hero , who finds caught between scary monsters located into a ghastly cabin in which unwittingly emerge resurrect demons . As the lone survivor of an onslaught of flesh-possessing spirits holds up in a cabin with a group of strangers while the demons continue their attack . As Ash along with his shotgun , and his chainsaw finds the ¨Book of the Dead¨ and subsequently to confront a nasty witch . Later on , square-jawed Ash must fight an army of ghouls and generally causes all those wreak havoc . An eerie , tongue firmly in cheek sequel of the original festival of gore and gags in which an ancient book of magic , Necronomicon , invokes a crowd of joke-tossing , flesh-snacking skeletons . Exuberately gory and filled of guts flick , and filled with primitive special effects , by using stop-motion technique . This comic book extravaganza is blending from previous version ¨Dead evil¨ with creepy creatures submitted a fantastic possession have transformed into flesh eating . Highly adequate make-up and appropriate special effects with enjoyable monstrous creatures and apparent technological exuberance . It must be stated that this is one of the grossest , disgusting and most brutally unnerving movies in the eighties . A fun retelling providing chills , hilarious situations and grisly horror and isn't apt for squeamish neither feeble stomachs . The producers insisted upon using different colors of blood to avoid an X rating , this proved futile, as the MPAA gave the film an X anyway ; after cuts, they received a more desirable R rating . This independently produced gem features sets and production standards but is skillfully narrated and results to be an exciting horror/comedy film . Sympathetic acting by Bruce Campbell as improbable hero . Although Bruce Campbell was displeased with the studio's delayed release of the film and their re-editing of it , as he stated he wasted a year of his life waiting for the film to get released to cinemas . This one is Bruce Campbell's favorite film of the trilogy ('The Evil Dead', 'Evil Dead 2 Dead by Dawn', and 'Army of Darkness' in which Ash is hurled back to the 14th-century through the powers of an evil book and attempts to get back to his own time) . There appears cameo by Sam Raimi as the first Medieval knight to raise his sword and give his speech before hailing to Ash and the Zombified Henrietta was actually played by Sam Raimi's little brother , Ted Raimi . Thrilling as well as rousing musical score by Joseph LoDuca . Colorful and evocative cinematography by Peter Deming , though most of the film was shot on a set built inside the gymnasium of the JR Faison Junior High School in Wadesboro, North Carolina . The motion picture was well directed by Sam Raimi , but many scenes were deleted from the movie and according to official reports, all of them and original version of the movie are lost . All 3 films can be seamlessly cut together , including some introductory footage in the follow-ups . The first installment was ¨Evil dead¨(1983) by Sam Raimi with Betsy Baker , Theresa Tilly and Bruce Campbell who finds ¨The Necronomicon¨, dealing with a group of friends are vacationing in Tennessee woods when go into a mountain cabin and they find the book of the dead , then begins a possession demoniac and they undergo an eerie changing at night and going on a murderous rampage . Followed by two sequels with similar actor (Bruce Campbell) , producer (Robert Tapert by Renaissance pictures) , musician (Joseph LoDuca) and compellingly directed by Sam Raimi . Its sequel was this ¨Evil dead 2 , Dead by Dawn¨ (1987) also starred by Sarah Berry , Dan Hicks , Kassie Wesley DePaiva , Ted Raimi , among others . And ¨Army of darkness¨ who finds Ash accidentally transported to 1300 A.D., as he is trapped in the middle ages where attempts to retrieve the Necronomicon so he can return home ; this is a big-budgeter film , while its predecessors were low-budget , it was stunningly directed by Sam Raimi with great originality , though takes parts here and there , too . It's become a cult favorite thanks to its relentless terror , irony , graphic horror but has still tongue-in-cheek . Well worth watching for terror and gore lovers . "},{"Title":"It's kind of a remake, but then again it kind of isn't....Sort of!","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead II once again sees Ash (Bruce Campbell) battling the evil demons in a run down cabin in the woods with his teenage friends. Its the centrepiece of the Evil Dead Trilogy and yet it feels a little like a remake of the original, it does follow on from the events of the first film but the similarities between the two are very apparent.Once again there is plenty of horror, gore and chills; but this time there is even more humour than in the first outing, and once again it is a great film.The character of Ash and the direction of Raimi combine well again and this time the effects have improved a little too.7/10 I still prefer the first film, but in truth they are about as good as each other. "},{"Title":"Roller Coaster Ride","Date":"12 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead 2 was once again directed by Sam Raimi and it's supposedly a sequel to the original The Evil Dead, although I see this film as more of a remake of the original with a bigger budget and a different goal. The Evil Dead is one of my favorite films of all time, it's a film that took many chances and I respect Raimi for going through hell to create that project. Evil Dead 2 had about 10 times the budget of the original film, so is it good?For the most part, I really like Evil Dead 2. It's a completely different film than the first one. The first one was actually trying to be creepy and campy. This one is a straight-up slapstick comedy with horror and gore elements in it. And it really works. For me, the first minutes of the film that are focused entirely on Ash are just as good or even better than the original. And for me, that's saying something. I know a lot of people prefer this over the original film and I can definitely see why. Ash becomes the iconic character people have grown to love and the film is just hilarious and crazy. Some things don't make any sense at all, but it's established by the tone of the film that it doesn't matter. However I do think this is a flawed movie, at least for me. And yes, I do prefer the first movie in the franchise and I'll explain why.Ash is one of the coolest characters in movie history. He's funny and delivers some of the best One-Liners ever. Every second of the film he's in frame is gold. However, the film deviates into this subplot of other people getting in the cabin with Ash and for me personally, I don't like any of them. To the extent where I just want them to die, quickly. If the entire movie focused entirely on Ash, it would have been great. Instead, when these people reach the cabin, some of the focus is taken off him and it just hurts the movie for me. Also, in Evil Dead 2 there are many jump scares that seem to be there for the sake of being jump scares. In the original there were some, but they all felt earned and they came when the movie needed them. Here, they're just all over the place.In my opinion, Evil Dead 2 feels more than a roller coaster ride than a movie. It's crazy, the gore is ludicrous and nothing really makes sense. Again, these are positives. However, I do believe the movie should have been entirely about Ash and they should have brought down the jump scares. But again, the costumes and makeup are amazing and the effects are great. The ending also pretty much sums up how insane this movie is. It's a flawed movie, but an entertaining and enjoyable one. Funny as hell, too. It's worth your time.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"possibly the funniest movie of all time","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" **Some minor spoilers ahead**The plot of ED2 concerns a young man named Ash (portrayed brilliantly by Bruce Campbell) bringing his girlfriend to a remote cabin the woods. There, they find a mysterious and sinister book called The Necromonican. They accidentally activate the book in a way that summons the evil dead - creatures which are either undead or demons. The rest of the film concerns their torment at the hands of these creatures.In one scene, Ash's hand is possessed by a demon. In a wonderful slap stick sequence, the hand, now with an evil mind of its own, begins to bludgeon Ash by breaking dishes over his head. Desperate, Ash decides to cut off his own hand. But the hand is still alive and menacing him, so he places it under a bucket, then puts a heavy book on top of the bucket. The title of the book A Farewell to Arms. To this date, there are still people who believe this movie was meant as straight horror. It is, in fact, possibly the most most hilarious movie I've ever seen.A sequel to the origin Evil Dead - an imaginative film which was nonetheless more horror than comedy - director Sam Raimi, operating with a slightly higher (but by no means high) budget than the original, really outdoes himself here. The camera work, editing and special effects are all meant to amplify the humor and camp, and all of it works beautifully. Interestingly enough, those who do not respond to the humor in this movie seem to find it incredibly scary as horror. So I would recommend this film to anyone who either appreciates black humor or simply enjoys a good horror film. If you don't fit into either category, you can skip it but then you're missing out on a true low budget classic.Props to those who recognize that when Ash says groovy! the actor is doing a perfect impression of Clint Eastwood. "},{"Title":"The best horror movie in the world?","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil dead 2, or how to make evil dead 1 ( one of the best horror movies) even better. Evil dead 2 is pure genius. Less horrific than the first movie but with some touch of humour. half of movie is like just a series of good idea. between the laughing scene, the hand scene etc... there's no time to be bored. The old special effects make the movie even better now, cause it give some very weird, and scary feeling. Bruce Campbell is just hilarious, with his unique amazing and bad acting that everybody love. Sometimes we just want to watch this movie to see him. Replaced in his context, the movie was very original, and brought a lot in the horror genre. Basically Evil Dead 2 is the definition of fun and it's certainly the best funny horror movie ( with shaun of the dead ) "},{"Title":"Hilarious, black comedy horror","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What a ride this was. It's horror, gory, demented , and funny. Bruce Campebell is more of an amazing actor than I ever considered before. He does a lot body acting. Jerky and shaky because he's terrified. He goes crazy a couple times(the laugh scene).The cinematography is pretty amazing. Zoomed in face close-ups of fast moving scenes. There's a lot of amazing special fx, pre-cgi times, and I loved it. Yes, great directing by Sam Raimi. He really does deserve the kudos he gets.To top it off, it's really a good horror story with a well explained reason as go why this is all happening with deadites and all. However, this doesn't take up much time. It's simple and to the point, which is just right for the quick pace of this movie.I found myself laughing many times at one crazy scene or another. Yet, it's such a gore fest. I recommend this to anyone with a good appreciation of black comedy. "},{"Title":"Remake or Sequel???????","Date":"16 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead 2 has been hailed as one of the greatest horror films ever made, and i can totally see the critical praises it's getting. To be perfectly honest it's kind of pointless for me to do a positive review on this film because, what do i say that has already been said by other people, it has a great sense of humor,Bruce Campbell is having the time of his life, The effects still look amazing, the camera work is great, and that is it of me writing a review of it. It's a very good horror/comedy movie, i Strongly recommend to any horror fans and Sam Raimi fans. also, one more thing to write is what my summary said up there its this a Remake or Sequel, i say it's a sequel because, Sam Raimi's intention was to not remake the first, it was to be a sequel but, the problem was he could not get the rights to the first movie so, he and his crew had to film something new. in the future, i wish Sam would go back and put his First movie footage on to this film. "},{"Title":"Not as amazing as the first, but still pretty amazing!","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the second instalment in the series we're back in the cabin in the woods with our main character Ash. After a brief introduction (it's not really an introduction. It's more of a short remake of the first movie, because most of the characters are missing) of what happened in the first movie we see Ash go back to his normal human state, but given the fact that the bridge to safety has collapsed he has to find a way to escape his undead girlfriend and all the other demonic creatures lurking in the forest.Evil Dead 2 is a great sequel and a great addition to the franchise. The story might even be better than the first one. We get more explanation on the reasons why all these strange things are happening whenever someone reads from the flesh-cover book. This adds more meaning to the series as whole, because things just happened in the first movie. There was no explanation why that book was in the basement;why people go mad when they read from it;why the forest was possessed. Most of those questions get answered in the second movie. It's good to have an origin story and with the second one that's what we get. It's good to point out that humour has a much bigger part in this, than in the first movie. It works much better as well.The acting, music and cinematography are all top-notch, as they were in the original. Those swooping forest shots make an appearance again, but they look much sleeker and better made.The movie has a lot of high points, but the special effects are right at the top. They're the main thing that has been improved from the first. The make up is a touch more realistic too, which adds to the intensity and the realistic aspect of the movie.The only bad thing I can think of is that it slows down around the beginning of the second half. Even though not as good as the first, the movie is a success and a must-see for all horror fans.Acting - 9/10 Cinematography - 10/10 Idea - 7/10 Joy - 8/10 Music - 8/10 Script - 9/10 Special Effects - 8/10 Overall Rating - 8/10Just as a last note, except a lot of weird things to happen in this movie. Very funny, but A class weird. Look forward to a scene with a stuffed deer in particular.P.S.This is my first review guys, so please be gentle. I hope I improve over time. My writing must be the most robotic thing anyone has ever read. I love watching films and wanted to be a part of the reviewing experience. Let's just hope I get better over time. "}{"Title":"Dr. Drew says...  8 out of 10","Date":"26 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead II (1987) The Good, the Bad and the HeroicSynopsis Classic go to abandoned cabin in the woods and bad things happen style of movie starring Bruce Campbell, who reprises his role as Ash Williams. Technically more of a reboot than a sequel, the movie follows Ash and his love interest back to the little cabin in the woods where another reading from The Book of the Dead makes things rather interesting for its new inhabitants.The Good Honestly, if you can't watch this movie and have a freakin' blast doing so.... I don't know what is wrong with you. For starters, don't take yourself or the movie so seriously... life, and this movie, are better that way. Raimi takes the concept of the original film and sort of reboots it (which can be a little confusing upon first view). It's basically the original Evil Dead on steroids. The result is a MORE over-the-top version of the original where Ash is now solely in control of the screen time, which is a marvelous thing. It's almost like Raimi and his writers are sitting in a room thinking, How much ridiculously awesome stuff can we throw on the screen? Okay, yeah... let's do all of this!. It's brilliant. He leaves nothing on the table and the result is a wild, wacky movie with a frenetic pace. You just have no idea where he is going to take you next and it's a hoot. Also, the fact that he centers the movie around Bruce Campbell was a wise decision and ultimately makes it comparable to the original. If a different casting decision is made, this one is likely forgotten and Army of Darkness never happens.The Bad Well, the fact that it's basically a retelling of the original story (or maybe re-imagined is a better way of saying it) is a cop out of sorts. Most would think a sequel (thus the name of Evil Dead II) would pick up where we all left off. But no, Raimi instead revisits old stomping grounds. If he had failed to come up with new ideas, this would be a big problem, but thankfully, the acting of Campbell and the wild imagination of Raimi save this movie and honestly, make it very comparable in quality to the original - which from me, is high praise for the sequel. Some of the effects are tad out of date, sure... but the fact that the film is a little more black comedy versus straight-up horror helps the film date a little better. The characters not named Ash are pretty boring as well. Or maybe it is just that they are overshadowed by Campbell's performance. Either way, this tends to bog down the later parts of the movie a bit.The Heroic Speaking of Campbell's performance... it is one of the all-time greats. In a vacuum of performances, Campbell's is truly Oscar-worthy, which many might think is a ridiculous thought. Still, I can't think of a single other A-lister that could do what he did and bring more value within the confines of what this movie is. In fact, Bruce Campbell IS the movie! Watching him slowly go insane is one of cinema's true pleasures. Campbell lays it all on the line and not for a minute does he disappoint. His catapult to cult status is no coincidence. It was well earned. "},{"Title":"A Sequel Done Right","Date":"13 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead II (1987) shows us how a sequel should be done. Very few films can mix the genres of horror and comedy, but Evil Dead II manages to do this, and do it very well. It really can make you scream and laugh at the same time. The film has acquired itself a large number of fans.Bruce Campbell returns in his iconic role as 'Ash', the gun slinging, chainsaw-wielding, slayer of evil that we've come to adore. Ash is once again trapped in the cabin in the woods, and is once again fighting away the evils summoned by 'the Book of the Dead'.Evil Dead II is a 'retcon' sequel, meaning that it changes the facts from the first film. It's more of a retelling than it is a remake. This gave the film makers a greater degree of creative control, because they could make up the rules as they went along. If there was something in the original film that they disliked, they could completely ignore it. Likewise, if there was something they wanted to do for the first film, but were unable to, it could now be included.Evil Dead II doesn't have the same atmosphere or buildup from the first film, instead opting for going straight to the action. This makes it less of a horror film than the first, although it does contain enough scares to warrant a viewing from horror fans.In Evil Dead II, Ash is constantly battling his own demons, literally. Throughout the film he frequently becomes possessed, alternating between the characters of 'Ash', and 'Evil Ash', further blurring the lines between hero and villain. This amps up the danger from the first film, because Ash is now becoming the creature he's been trying to destroy.The fact that Ash is his own worst enemy is played up even further when his hand becomes possessed. This entire sequence leads to some great slapstick moments, breaking up the horror with bouts of laughter. It wasn't enough in the first film for Ash to fight just his possessed friends, but now he has to fight his own possessed body parts. If you can't trust your own hand, then who can you trust? Evil Dead II shows us what would have happened had the original film been created on a greater budget. The effects are better and the gore is slightly more realistic. The film still makes use of stop motion effects, which, while not having the same realism as CGI, is still a delight to behold. The acting at times can be cheesy, and almost deliberately bad. Like the first film, Evil Dead II is a parody on the horror genre by being intentionally cliché. It's aware that it's making fun of itself, and it has great fun doing so. Sam Raimi's creative camera-work also makes a return, showcasing an incredible ability to capture point of view shots.The amped up gore gives Evil Dead II an almost cartoonish quality. Some of the situations are completely implausible, but we can forgive them because of how amusing they are. The film is highly creative, showcasing new ways to frighten an audience.If Raimi has done anything, it's listening to his audience. He kept everything that audience loved, the grittiness, the over-the-top violence, and tried to implement something new, which is the slapstick humour. The film's ending, while not giving away too much, is very creative and sets things up great for the third installment.True fans of horror might be disappointed for the sudden change in tone, but Evil Dead II still packs enough scares to sway over most. "},{"Title":"All but a one man show","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After watching Army of Darkness and fully enjoying it I figured I was obligated to watch the other two Evil Dead films. The first struggled to be a real horror movie, can't say it was all that great. Evil Dead 2, however, is a great film, and a good 75% of the film is all Bruce, holding his own. Even scenes where Bruce gets attacked by some creature or demon he is the only real actor there, creating a few classic slap-stick comedy moments as he is essentially beating the crap out of himself.Gore to a hilariously excessive degree makes any in danger of being grossed-out remember that its just a movie... This may be the funniest horror movie ever made, with a wit sharper than Freddy's twisted sense of humor. Some moments left me haunted and disturbed, Ash's dead girlfriend dancing and the lullaby of the possessed mother in the cellar, but for the most part the film is far from serious...This film really awakened my deep love for practical effects, which I had all but forgotten in this age of movies over polluted with CGI. While the effects seem painfully simple, that makes them all the better...The best part of the film, undoubtedly, is the creation of the hero who is ASH. The chainsaw and boomstick are in supporting roles and the battle for survival is on. If this movie doesn't have you laughing, cheering, and mentally disturbed by the end then something is wrong... Classic, easily equal to Army of Darkness... "},{"Title":"Worthwhile Sequel","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While this film overall isn't as entertaining as the original, it's still a worthy sequel that get's it rightkeeping enough and changing enough.After an inaccurate recap(for many reasons out of their control)the film begsn right where the original leaft off with Ash exiting the cabin at sun rise. However, the rising of the sun means little as Ash is trapped in the woods still. Add onto that a group of people come to the cabin to check things out, getting caught in the middle.The biggest problem with this film is not the more comedic tone. The biggest problem is all these new characters. They are the most annoying bunch of twits to ever enter a horror movie. The film would've been miles better if Ash was leaft alone to deal with these demons. They really bring the film down. The cast from the original weren't exactly 3 dimensional but they were likable at least.As for the tone of the film, I'm sure even those who haven't seen it have heared that it's a much different breed. While the film took on an overall dead serious tone with some cheese, this one is all about cheese and guts. It surprisingly works. There are some very hilarious moments in this film and watching Ash transform into his action hero esquire self that would take over Army of Darkness The effects are more polished then the original and the acting from Campell improved, although I can't say the same for the other actors in this bunch. The make up is equally as good as the original, and to top that all off is a uinque, darkly comical ending. "},{"Title":"The BEST OF THE EVIL DEAD FILMS - Awesome!","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bruce and Sam deliver on EVERY level. The laughs are non-stop. The gore is gruesome. And I swear, Bruce's performance was Oscar-worthy.This is the kind of film I wish were made today. Seems like most people don't focus on story or performance, they just toss some blood in and maybe some T&A. But Evil Dead & Evil Dead II were different. They made me life-long Sam Raimi and Bruce Campbell fans.And Evil Dead II is the best of the lot. Worth watching over and over!Stand-out scenes Ash battles his own hand. Just thinking about it makes me laugh. From the beating Ash takes from his hand, while it's still attached, to Ash hunting for his then severed hand, with a shotgun.Also, Ted Raimi in the enormous old woman zombie suit is funny. Poor kid was abused by his brother (Sam) something awful. "},{"Title":"An absolutely excellent follow-up to Evil Dead!","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have to say that this is definitely one of my favourite films of all time. Bruce Campbell gives one of the finest and funniest performances i've seen. The film's constant movement from one horrific happening to the next leaves you wondering how Campbell's Ash retains any threads of his sanity. Even when it's just him in the cabin dealing with a variety of gruelling experiences Campbell gives every scene his all, filling them with a strange mix of disgust and humour. The scene where Ash has the entire room laughing at him (including the furniture!) has to be one of my favourite bits, it's almost as if Campbell himself has finally lost it. Raimi's direction is superb, I love the rushing camera movements and angles. This is a great film which relentlessly throws comedy, horror and gore at you (and Campbell) in vast quantities. If you're looking for something which will entertain you, scare you, and gross you out at the same time then this is definitely the film for you. "},{"Title":"Who's laughing now?!","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" (I just found out Raimi has authorized a re-make of Evil Dead, which is what II essentially is. If a series is obviously not quite done, why stop, go back, and remake what you have already done. If Bruce Campbell is not available, leave Ashe alone! I am sick of do-overs! It worked for Dawn of the Dead, but not Texas Chainsaw, and Shaun of the Dead was better than them both! EDII is a better film than ED, and I will never be convinced that you can re-make the first film better than the original re-make was done. Does that make any sense? Don't fix it if it ain't broke.) I originally saw this film in a theater(in Connecticut, when I was 17), and I will never forget how seriously I took the film, up until Ash has a laughing fit with every inanimate object in the room(the lamp is still my favorite). That was the day I realized there was more to horror than...well, horror. There is humor, however dark; there is anguish, no matter how badly acted(here I refer to the first film); and there is something quite amusing about a hand that gushes gallons of blood. This will always be one of my all-time favorites. "},{"Title":"Funny, bloody and deadly","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is most definitely Sam Raimi at his best. The story basically takes off where the first film left us, but this time the director and all his crew manage the perfect balance between comedy and gore/horror. The comedy is mainly due to Bruce Campbell's excellent performance as Ash, the stereotypical anti-hero. Combined with Raimi's unique camera angles, moving shots and great sense for directing this creates a creepy yet hilarious ambiance which doesn't disappear until the very end of the movie. The backup characters are all really funny and typically dumb, and all the monsters costumes and make-up are perfect. I think Sam Raimi is a great director, A Simple Plan being his best movie since ED2 so I just hope he forgets all about spiderwebs and starts working on Evil Dead 4.  "},{"Title":"Better than the first one!","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What a great movie. I feel sort of bad in that I regard this movie as a great camp- comedy more than a slasher horror. There is plenty of blood and guts to go around but ...chainsaw... come on, that's just funny stuff! I know that Sam Raimi made the movie on the premise that it was a scary horror movie and it is, but I think of it more along the lines of a horror-comedy mixture. This is a good one to watch with your buddies late at night for a good laugh fest. This movie really is great! "},{"Title":"Best of the Trilogy","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First and foremost, I want to say as a horror fan and a person who is intense with details, Evil Dead II is not a remake. Yes, Evil Dead II did take a lot of things from the original but that should not be taken as a negative. Most sequels from its originals do not stick with the formula, making the sequel not as enjoyable. When someone thinks of the best sequels, nobody can give you more than Terminator 2 or Godfather Part II. Evil Dead II fits in on the list. Bruce Campbell breaks out and shows his heroism in this movie. He is on the offensive, not the defensive like the original. With this in mind, it is clear that the spook appeal is gone from the original. Even with this said, Evil Dead II still contains the occasional jump-out-of-your-seat thrills.My suggestion is to not come into this movie thinking you will be scared out of your wits like the first one. Evil Dead II is rather a joke on the movie and horror itself, than a Halloween or Friday the 13th film that never seems to lighten up. Sit down and watch Evil Dead II for the enjoyment. The ratings for this film do not lie- IT IS THE BETTER EVIL DEAD movie. In wake of the Spider-man sequel coming out soon, you should not be worried. This movie is a good reminder that Raimi can pull of a better sequel that matches or surpasses the original.  "}{"Title":"one of the greatest horror/comedy films of all time","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is bar-none one of my favorite movies as well as a truly satisfying piece of entertainment. This time around, in addition to terror, Raimi showcase his comedic genius as well. This is one of the few movies I've seen besides the Godfather II, and Aliens and Terminator 2 where the sequel was superior to an original that wasn't half bad. Bruce Campbell is amazing as Ash, and gives a wonderful performances as the square-jawed hero. This is similar in tone to the darkly comedic Roger Corman/Vincent Price collaborations based on Poe's stories such as Masque of the Red Death except, arguably, better. Raimi uses some great camera techniques similar to the ones in his first movie (the good old strap a board to a camera and run technique was pretty much invented by Raimi). The special effects are great too. A absolute must see for horror movie buffs and those with a strong stomach and a dark sense of humor, as well as anyone who's ever read a comic book (Raimi's visual style and the manichean notions of good/evil are heavily influenced by that). The only cons to the film are its basically a remake of the first film with the newly introduced comedic overtones (so some might feel like theyre watching the same movie) and a larger budget. Quite honestly, the first film was scarier since it lacked comic relief. While not for those with weak stomachs, and despite similarities to the first film, Evil Dead II still comes extremely recommended. Tons of fun. "},{"Title":"I feel like someone just walked over my grave.","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Somewhere between a remake and a sequel, we have Evil Dead II. It is interesting how this movie has divided many horror fans. Some don't like the comedy aspects of the film, and some of us seem to feel that it fits in pretty well with the over the top nature of the story. I am one of the latter horror fans. Let's face it, the first movie was a great horror movie, but how much more could you do with it? Would you rather see a sequel in which Bruce Campbell is attacked by demons for an hour and a half? Sam Raimi did a great job coming up with ways to keep it all fresh, and the comedy was one of those innovations. All that said... I still like the first movie better. One thing that part II does better than part I is the character development. The characters are a lot more personality driven in this installment. Hats off especially to Dan Hicks for the greatest redneck role ever captured on film. I'd love to see him in something else.While there are shortcomings here, this one still makes it into my top 10 list (along with part one). A final note If you've seen part I and then see part II but don't like the comedy angle... don't see Army of Darkness because you'll hate it.9 out of 10  "},{"Title":"If you expect a horror, you're likely to be disappointed, and if you expect a comedy too... but...","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There are very mixed opinions about this movie I see, some trash it cos it's not a real horror, others say (well, 'write' actually) the jokes are pretty weak (and not even real jokes, after all) and so it does not even work as a comedy. Many others, on the contrary, are enthusiastic about it. Well, IMHO, the deal here is just to understand what this stuff really is, and if I had to describe it in one word I'd say it is grotesque. Don't focus your attention on the horrific elements, not either on the funny elements, but rather on the total weirdness of the whole. Yes, this movie is a gem of weirdness, it's a caricature of a horror movie; it exaggerates the stereotypes of that genre, therefore ridiculizing them (but not necessarily presenting them as plain funny).The first one of the series I saw was... well, the last Army of Darkness, and I really enjoyed it as a comedy, so I managed to see this one, thinking it was pretty similar and guess what? I was disappointed 'cause I considered it more of a horror flick than of a comedy. Then I read the comments here and realized that for many other guys happened the opposite thing they saw the 1st Evil Dead, enjoyed it as a horror, and expected this sequel to be something similar, but they were disappointed 'cause to them this looked more like... a comedy. What's the moral of this rigmarole of mine then? Here is if you're looking for a horror movie get rather the first Evil Dead, and if you're looking for a comedy get rather Army Of Darkness; ED2 falls in between but nevertheless it got its own appeal, with its odd moments and weird hysterical characters (Yeah, Ash rules, but what about the witch in the cellar?). If tragi-comic, absurd and grotesque situations charm you this is definitely worth a go.7/10 "},{"Title":"Who´s laughing now, huh!?","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is great! After a month of fighting to see this movie I have now done that. And the movie is great. This sequel is more like an Evil Dead I with a new budget. Because it's almost the same things that happends all the time, but now it is done with much better effects. And come on; who can't resist to laugh in the scene when Ash gets a lot of whopass from his own hand (!!)... and also when he saw it off with the infamous CHAINSAW.A very good movie actually, I'm just dying to see the third one (Army of Darkness). I like it very much and give it 9 of 10./Cypher "},{"Title":"This sucked compared to the first Evil Dead","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I knew this film wasn't supposed to be scary like the first Evil Dead. I thought it was supposed to be more of a funny horror movie. Well, I didn't get many laughs. If you want to see a funny horror movie with a lot of gore, then see Dead Alive. That one was great.  This movie is basically a rehash of the first Evil Dead, except it leaves out all the creepy things.(SPOILERS) A couple of things I did like was when the eyeball lands in that girl's mouth.  And all this blood sprays out of the cellar onto the girl.  And I liked it when Ash says Groovy, as he is getting the chainsaw and shotgun.(END OF SPOILERS)FINAL VERDICT  I would recommend viewing the first Evil Dead over this sequel. I thought it was very creepy and even had funnier moments than the sequel. "},{"Title":"before spiderman","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  long before Spiderman there was a sequel to a good horror film called the evil dead. this sequel was the most outragious, wild, brilliant film i'd seen, and have seen since. the first half hour is absolutely brilliant. the hand sequence is unbelievable. and bruce campbell is just sooo good. we just cut up our girlfriend with a chainsaw, now does that sound fine? he makes lines like these work so well, you'll quote them forever....be warned "},{"Title":"Join us...!","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Want to see some movie with a bunch of friends? Look no further - this movie is just perfect. The Evil Dead II is a half re-make and half a second part. The beginning is almost the same as in part one - the main character (Ash) is driving with his girlfriend to a cottage. He finds a tape-recorder, plays the tape, and through the voice recorded on the tape wakes up the dark powers drowsing in the forest. Because of strange accidents and coincidences - a couple of people get to the cottage and the killing may begin. The hut turns into a slaughter house, fingering hands get nailed by shotguns, girlfriends' heads get cut off by spades, blood spills in outrageous streams and you laugh your brains out. The unbelievably funny violence is served with grace and lightness. Finally - Ash becomes a real hero with a sawn-off shotgun and a chain-saw - Duke Nukem of the eighties. It all ends kind of surprisingly and I really don't want to spoil the surprise, so I won't tell you how. So - just go get get it and don't take it seriously...you will be entertained. "},{"Title":"Amazingly funny film!","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This ranks as one of the funniest movies I have ever had the pleasure of seeing. What I really like about it is it's unpredictability, who knows what's coming next when there is Bruce Campbell in it!.Bruce Campbell is a legend, he has been in a few flicks but the Evil Dead trilogy has got to be his best. I have seen all three of these films and the first one remains one of the goriest pictures I have ever seen. It is rare to find a sequel that outclasses the original but Evil Dead 2 does it with ease. Bruce Campbell's energy playing Ash brings the film to life as well as his great one-liners and the storyline.I recommend this to anyone, just sit back and enjoy!.Rating 9/10. Groovy. "},{"Title":"Even my mum loved it!","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is pure entertainment.  Even my mum loved it!  The punchiness of the cinematographic timing enables the film to combine great slapstick with true shocks.  I personally think it'd be a healthy horror option if you want to treat your 12 year old kids to a few shocks and laughs. Bruce Campbell is a true star with many similarities to Jim Carrey and seeing them together in the new film Mr Majestic should be really interesting. "},{"Title":"The sheer brilliance of Evil Dead 2","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the film that made Bruce Campbell my favorite physical comedian, not many other actors can do what he did and make it as believable. Sam Raimi's idea to fashion the film after the Three Stooges was a stroke of pure genius. "}{"Title":"Brilliant use of camera","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is creepy.  The shot of the imageless thing chasing the lead character has become famous.  It was the best way to portray sheer terror.  The silence, the flowing movement of the unrelenting evil... brilliant.  Done in the original, lower budget, it was a breakthrough.Cinematography, comic-book style writing, and surprising acting make this b-movie one of the best films ever. "},{"Title":"Spewing blood and laughing furniture","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Anyone who considers themselves to be a fan of horror, comedy, B movies, or Bruce Campbell must see this film at least twice. A movie so good, Idle Hands borrows a little of the premise (Evil hand running amok).  Had to show a clip of my favorite movie back in college and I chose Evil Dead 2.  Whereas we watched 5 minutes from each piece, the class watched a half hour of mine.  I can't be any clearer.  Don't rent this movie, buy it.  Watch it with some friends and some beers (for those old enough to drink). In fact, I'm going to rewatch it again (for about the thirteenth time). "},{"Title":"Campbell is a genius","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ***CONTAINS SLIGHT SPOILERS*** I think this review is basically going to take the form of me praising every little thing Bruce Campbell does in this film. From laughing hysterically with a possessed lamp, to beating himself up in the kitchen, he is the main nerve of the film. The scene where his hand becomes possessed and drags him ever further towards a nearby knife sums it all up - more acting genius in that one hand then most big stars have in their entire bodies. Perfect delivery of one liners and facial expressions help him cope with this most unfortunate situation (all summed up in one scene, where he observes himself in the mirror - you just cut up your own girlfriend with a chainsaw...does that seem o.k to you?). The supporting cast is great too, from the hillbilly and his obnoxious girlfriend to the innocent couple who arrive by plane half way through. Combined with the acting we have excellent camerawork, particularly in the scene where the unforseen enemy chases Campbell through all areas of the house - and the sheer idea behind this - seeing it from the monsters eyes - and the horror on the potential victims faces - all without the viewer actually knowing what this fiend looks like. Purists may bitch and whine, but this film does have everything, and thus is well deserving of 10/10. "},{"Title":"LOOOOVVVVEEEE this movie","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i cannot get enough of this movie.  It has the right mixture of Horror and screwed up humor to keep you going all night.  Bruce Cambell is truly an acting god.  Groovey.  And Sam Raimi, this is his best movie of all time.  The evil force pov shot, genius.  Amazing.  makes me want to have a chain saw arm.  And there's enough multi colored blood to fill a swimming pool.  This is truly a classic among classics.  Godbless you Sam Raimi.   "},{"Title":"This is fun for the whole family...","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ... excluding mom, dad and kid sister! Maybe it is made out to be a horror-film, but that just makes this one even funnier. Bruce Campbell is a brilliant (We all love that word when it comes to performances we like, don't we, folks?) physical actor, and this film allows him to run wild, and that is, whatever the plot might be, funny as H***.9. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  OK, that's a cool movie, but not THAT cool. It's very nice to see Ash doing funny things and killing the deadites... But the first is still the best... You'll see, here, a little bit of comedy, but here you can see horror too. And it's cool... "},{"Title":"this movie shaped my life...","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ever since I first saw this movie when I was in grade 2 that one summer night with my Uncle I have become a huge fan of Bruce Campell and Sam Raimi movies. This movie is such a masterpiece I could go on all day about how good this movie is. Definetly one of the most original horror films out there, the camera work is sheer genius and introduces a lot of new techniques never done before.  "},{"Title":"Split my gut as Ash spills theirs!!!!","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Never,in cinematic history,has a film with so much gore and so much splatter been so entertaining and hilarious!And although their are somes folks who laugh at violence for their own morbid reasons (and those,like me,who love a good Grade-B horror flick to wallup at) few can argue that Ash is,without a doubt,the #1 chainsaw-weilding, adrenaline-charged,un-luckiest hero the horror genre has ever seen!!! EVIL DEAD 2-the GREATEST COMEDY-HORROR of ALL TIME(S)!!!!!! "},{"Title":"This Movie ROCKS!!","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Proof that a sequel can be better than the original.  Evil Dead II may have fairly cheesy effects, hoakie story line and humorous scare attempts, but Bruce Campbell pulls it off with fantastic ability.  Evil Dead II was definitely am improvement on Evil Dead, only to be out done by the next installment in the series, Army of Darkness.  There's a reason this series is a cult classic "},{"Title":"The Greatest Film Ever Made!Tm","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Greatest Film Ever Made! This is my description of Evil Dead 2, you will probably want to ask why the sequel to a crappy 1982 gore-fest is the Greatest Film Ever, but I'll get on to that later.The film starts with a re-run of the first Evil Dead, only it has been re-shot. In this new version, only Ash(Bruce Cambell) and Linda go to the cabin, not five of them as there originally was. This pretty much renders the first film obsolete, but it should clarify that this is not a re-make, but a sequel. After this 'mini-Evil Dead' Ash is thrown through the woods on an unseen revolving crucifix. Then the film really starts.Ash is alone in the cabin, where he slowly becomes insane, and his hand becomes possessed (Give me back my hand!) It is at this point in the movie that the audience should realise that this is not a straight horror film. It is a comedy-horror. When Ash's hand is possessed we see the best pysical comedy ever seen! Easily beatng Jim Carrey beating himself up in Me, Myself & Irene. Then some people come to the cabin and the film shifts into blood-soaked high gear, and we are taken on a rip-roaring rollercoaster of a ride, ending up in the best set-up for a sequel ever!Now, you are probably still wondering why I have called it the Greatest Movie Ever. It is because no other film has combined so many genres and made it work. It has Horror. It has comedy. It has action. It has a bit set in Medival times. It has cheese(Bruce Cambell's performance in the first 5 minutes). There's a sort of romantic-thing going on between Ash and Linda (Yes, I know, It's disgusting). I could go on. To sum it up...Groovy... "}{"Title":"WOW","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I first heard of the EVIL DEAD series when I saw a review of one of the new DVDs last year. I searched the IMDB for more info and got it, telling myself, You gotta see these movies. Well, it took a few months, and I didn't get around to it until a friend asked me if I'd ever heard of Evil Dead II. I told him yes, and I'd been meaning to see them. He told me they were pretty good, and so I finally got to the local Movie Gallery(ED1 was out at Blockbuster) and watched them over a weekend in December. They blew me away. Evil Dead II stood out, however. I don't know if it was because of the style it was shot, the humor, action, horror, or what, but EDII had quickly become my favorite movie. Sam Raimi and Bruce Campbell are my heroes, and I watch the DVD( a must for anyone) almost weekly. This movie is the definitive movie for casual, obsessed, etc. fans everywhere. It must be seen to believe. "},{"Title":"You will wet your pants by being scared and laughing!","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie and without a shadow of a doubt this is the best of the series and actually has that good acting we all like. I like this movie because all of horror movies have no balance of horror and comedy. This movie has them both. It is pretty scary and it relaxes itself at the middle with a piece of comedy. Ash and Linda must save the world from invading dead that is summoned by the Necronomicon, an ancient sumerian text that was used in burial services and by the archaeologist who repeated the words used in the burial rights.  Ash is played by Bruce Campbell and this movie is a 5 ***** star horror movie. Directed by Sam Raimi.  "},{"Title":"As the great Ash says, Groovy!","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you EVER get the chance to see this film, SEE IT! It totally rules!But seriously, this isn't just a horror film, its a laugh-out-loud comedy as well. It seems to make you laugh before trying to shock you. If you don't believe me, just watch the hand vs. Ash fight scene. Classic.Probably the best of the trilogy mainly because of its diversity in genre, but Sam Raimi's direction and Bruce Campbell's O.T.E. acting is first rate.As the man says Groovy! "},{"Title":"Great Site","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film rocks, the zombies are cool, the action funky, and the gore, a moderately pleasent experience, as in the flying eyeball, hair-eating zombies, and ash and his chainsaw. Not for faint-hearted but all together......Groovy! "},{"Title":"I laughed, I cried, I wet my pants","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie takes two genres of cinema, horror & comedy, to combine them and come up with one of the greatest movies of all time. No one could have done a better job than the duo of Sam Raimi and Bruce Campbell. Bruce plays Ash, an idiot who unfortunatly stumbles across the Necronomican Ex Mortis, or, the Book of the Dead. Ash wakes up the evil force, facing the consequences, Ash must battle the evil he has woken. Sam's original idea's (besides his Three Stooges homages) and Bruce Campbell's acting make this movie so great. If what you are looking for is an original, interesting, comedic-horror get Evil Dead II. Even if you aren't looking for that, don't be afraid to dabble in these waters. Evil Dead II is a great movie with a strong following. And if you happen to watch the DVD, after you are done with the movie, watch the commentary. It's been hailed as one of the best, as well it should be. "},{"Title":"Fun before dawn...","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is for TRUE horror fans. If you're sick of horror movies starring whatever teenagers are on Fox being chased by people with funny masks, dip back and partake in this classic rampage of fear and nuttiness. This movie was made for creepy fun. Dig the pedigree Sam Raimi and Bruce Campbell. When these two get together, fun and insanity ensues. This flick started alot of the trends used by directors now, including the bugged-out moving-monster-cam-on-the-ground. If you saw Army of Darkness, this is the prequel to it and it's just about as weird. So for those who are trying to avoid horror movies made to sell soundtracks with fake ska bands and Rage wannabes, you need to get this one.    "},{"Title":"The GREATEST SEQUEL EVER MADE!","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After watching The Evil Dead, I wondered if Evil Dead 2 could even come close to being as good. Well it is my favorite of the UnHoly Trilogy (Evil Dead, 2, Army of Darkness) Lets face it. Ya got a guy who goes to a cabin with his woman and evil spirits arise and then unleash the buckets of blood. Its Evil Dead 1 meets the 3 Stooges a.k.a. BRILLIANT! "},{"Title":"This film is fantastic for so many reasons...","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is fantastic for so many reasons.  It has to be one of the funniest films I've ever seen, definitely puts all other horror spoofs to shame.  The special effects are great especially considering the tiny budget Sam Raimi had to work with.  Bruce Campbell pulls off a brilliant performance and also helps add a touch of realism to what is an otherwise extremely bizarre film. "},{"Title":"ok","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Nowhere near as good as the first Evil Dead Film.  This is not as gory as the first, it is lamer then the first, and it will never be as good as the first.  It is basically the same story repeated over again.  People have nerves to call this a horror classic. The first was a horror classic. "},{"Title":"Great film, very funny, very intense","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is, without a doubt, one of the funniest films I have ever seen. It's no wonder that it was voted #34 in a recent poll of the top 50 comedies of all time by Total Film readers. It's just a pity that there are so few people who really get it, a lot of people I have spoken to about it seem to think it is just another gorefest (great English eh ?), and don't realise that is one of the best horror-comedies ever made. The best of the three, and in my opinion Sam Raimi's best film to date. "}{"Title":"Sickeningly funny film which should be on the 'must see' list for all fans of black comedies / horror flicks.","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This absolute classic film was a real stomach churner for it's day. Although the idea has been copied many many times this remains the original black comedy horror film. The film, expertly directed by Sam Raimi, starts as it means to go on. Within 5 minutes of the opening credits, one of the main characters is dead and the other gets possesed. What follows is a real treat - a must see, and above all, a very very funny film. N.B. Watch out for the scene where Bruce Campbell tries to shoot his own hand and ends up almost knee deep in blood and goo! It has to be Cinemas biggest Blood-Bath! "},{"Title":"Bruce Campbell shines in the best terror movie of all times!!","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After the succeed with Evil Dead I, Sam Raimi had to prepare a sequel as soon as possible. Five years after The Evil Dead, Evil Dead II Dead By Dawn appeared with a great expectation.One curious point is that the film is not a continuation of the Evil Dead. It's a remake of the story, quite changed but still the same base. Instead of being a pure frightening horror movie, Sam Raimi included the comical part of the action. And with the performance of Bruce The Master Campbell, the movie became an incredible success.The combination of Bruce Campbell and Sam Raimi has created one of the best terror movies of all history. Evil Dead was the first and the best, Evil Dead II improved several things from the first of the saga, and the Army of Darkness concluded the Evil Dead Trilogy with a film full of adventure and less horror.But, in my opinion, Evil Dead II is the best of the three, because it's frightening & funny at the same time, Campbell rocks in the film with his outstanding performance, and the effects are very original and well-done for a non-commercial production.Just say that Evil Dead II is a must see for everyone who likes the horror genre!! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Sam is the Man","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sam Raimi is God and this movie proves it. Even on a budget of 2 million, Raimi does what others can only dream about. A great pace horror spoof with enough twists, turns and just flat out insane scenes makes this movie required viewing at least once a month. Still not convinced? Rent this movie to see Bruce Campbell's incredible battle with his own hand! I can't wait to see what Sam will do with Spiderman in 2001.  "},{"Title":"Comical remake of the best horror movie of the 80s.","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When you have to describe this film in one sentence it's like this Evil Dead part 1 where 50% of the gore is replaces by hilarious slapstick and one-liners.Yes, it's more of a black comedy with some nasty gore than all out splatter like the first movie. You can't take a movie seriously in which a sawed off hand gives it's former owner the bird. It's almost as if the writers of the Naked gun dropped by for a visit. Almost a replica of the original, the story follows the same road as in the first. Ash drives to a cabin in the woods with a new girlfriend, accidentally brings the demons back to this world and hell breaks loose again, only to make the movie become one big joke. First of all, it's totally incomprehensible why Ash would even THINK about setting foot in a cabin again, let alone willingly speak out the lines that would bring out some evil force. Did he suffer from amnesia after what happened to him the first time?  It's almost as if Sam Raimi, the director said ignore the first movie, and start with this, then go see Army of darkness.If his intention was to make a comic book like horrormovie, he succeeded. The brilliant photography is almost another spirit as it races through the woods, tilts and spins. Bruce Campbell is fantastic as an anti-hero, especially when spitting out one-liners.  However, never is this movie scary or shocking as the first movie, and that's always what i go for when watching a horror movie. As a spoof it's hilarious, as horror it's only average. However it's still an extremely entertaining and brilliantly shot film, so personally i'll give it a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I give 9/10","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you like horror, this is still a pretty good movie, but don't be expected to be scared when you see this. Evil Dead II is packed full of bumps in the night that will make you wet yourself from laughter rather than fright. It's non-stop gut-wrenching laughter all through the movie as Bruce Campbell (Ash) does an awesome part of being as humorous as one horror-movie star should be. Don't get me wrong though. This movie still does a good job of being scary, it just covers fear with humor. After you see it, if you stop and think about it, it still belongs in the horror section of your local video store. "},{"Title":"The film that made the legend","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For Sam Raimi the Original Evil Dead was this way into the business, but Evil Dead 2 was what distinguished him from other directors.  The film has so much energy which only adds to the horror and the comedy.  This makes it one of the all time classic horror films.  The film also elevated Bruce Campbell to iconic status for the exploits of loser Ash , pushed to the edge of sanity and then over.Evil Dead II - Often copied, never matched.  The ultimate cult movie  "},{"Title":"Groovy.","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What can I say about Evil Dead II?  The movie is the very definition of cool.  It's a hilarious horror movie (usually the best kind).  While not my favorite film in the series (Army of Darkness has my vote, narrowly beating out this one), it does have the single funniest scene (Give me back my hand!).  If you're in the mood for something bizarre and saturated with grooviness, buy, don't rent Evil Dead II. "},{"Title":"The Best Of The Evil Dead Series","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you were to watch the entire Evil Dead series (Evil Dead 1+2, Army Of Darkness) you would notice a transition in the genre of the movies.  Evil Dead mostly leans towards a typical horror film, that believe or not, still gives me chills, while Army Of Darkness is a comedy/horror that openly parodies Indiana Jones, Gulliver's Travels and The Three Stooges.  Evil Dead 2 is a happy medium between the aforementioned and gets about as perfect as a sequel can.Evil Dead 2 is a B-movie that pokes fun at B-movies.  Sam Raimi took no pains to hide the fact that he had a minuscule budget and the effect is some really wonderful moments involving animated mounted dear heads and the creature you never see but only through it's vision.  Bruce Campbell is also brilliant in this film, especially when his hand turns on him ala Dr. Strangelove.I think this film is spectacular and the best of the series.  It is well worth watching, as well as the rest of the series.   "},{"Title":"Hollywood B horror at it's finest.","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What could be better than a $100 million high budget, super-effect filled horror movie with the same plot as it's three predecessors?  An old Hollywood B Horror movie with the king of one-liners, Bruce Campbell.  This movie has everything you need, bad effects, totally predictable plot twists, unbelievable monsters, and best of all, a script full of great lines. Bruce Campbell carries the movie with his bag full of one-liners that he throws at everyone, and everything.  As well as his great innovation, MacGyver style, with a chainsaw hand, as a replacement for his old one.  Ashe, his character name, is by far one of the best heroes of all time, who else could battle dead lovers and monsters as creative as what Sam Raimi, the king of Zena and Hercules, could come up with.  Sam Raimi was and is a creative genious, and should be considered as such.  This movie is one of the best movies, and definatly the greatest horror film, especially if you're tired of the constant plots that Scream and the I Know movies can't get away from.  "},{"Title":"The One with all the blood in...","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Picture the scene. You and you're best mate (who has a very handsome chin) have just made a film on an excruciatingly low budget, and it's come up trumps. You have more money than you know what to do with and you're a little bit shocked by the fantastic response your first ever movie created. So what to do?? Well, surely the answer is obvious. Go and remake the first one, only with a bigger budget. WOOHOO!!! If you've seen the Evil Dead (1) then the storyline will be hauntingly (hehe) familiar. The only real difference is, better quality all round, a little more blood (well, you can never have too much blood) and a sublte movement of toungue, now pressed more firmly 'in cheek'. In summary Bruce Campbell (King of Chin) screams a lot, comically falls over a lot, cuts off his hand and generally acts smoother than a frictionless-moleskin. Sam Raimi (King of Zoom lenses) runs around in circles with the camera a lot, zooms in needlessly a few times, and makes himself, and schoolmate Bruce, another shedload 'o cash. - enjoy... "}{"Title":"Scary and funny.","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This, although it is a horror film, is one of the funniest films I have seen. Wild camera angles, bizarre creatures, and minimalist but funny and memorable dialogue make this one of the best horror films I have seen. Forget its video nasty reputation (mostly caused by its more horror oriented predecessor) if you are squeamish, for the gore that there is is mostly for splatter comedy. However, despite the humour in the film, there is a sense of brooding menace and plenty of heart-stopping moments to please any horror fan. Also, it has on of the best endings ever filmed.  "},{"Title":"If you love this, you'll love Dead Alive (Braindead)","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Please, fans of this movie, you must see Dead Alive if you haven't already.  Alongside, Evil Dead 2, they define the blood-n-guts-comedy genre.  I won't say which one is better, that is for you to decide.  I love them both.  But everyone I meet thinks Evil Dead 2 (along with Army of Darkness) are they only movies of this type.  Not so.  ED2 pretty much came first, tho, so it gets credit for that (and for being absolutely hilarious)! "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is my all time favorite movie.  There is just something about this movie that makes me want to watch it over and over again.  I think the make-up in The Evil Dead II was way better than the make-up/special effects in Army of Darkness.  If they make another sequel, they should go back to the old way of doing things. "},{"Title":"The perfect blend of gore, guts and guffaws.","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Few satires have worked as effectively as Evil Dead II. Mocking every convention of the teen horror genre, Sam Raimi administers horse doctor doses of equal parts gore and humour to create the most hilarious splatterfest on film.Like its self-aware contemporaries such as Re-Animator, Evil Dead II stands as one of the best Saturday-Night-At-3AM films ever committed to celluloid. "},{"Title":"why is evil dead II my favorite film?","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love evil dead II.  I first saw evil dead (the original) in the 7th grade. And it really was a disturbing and frightening film, for a 7th grader.  So when I saw evil dead 2 in a video store i had to rent it.  This movie is one of the first movies that made me feel like i was watching a live action cartoon.  Bruce Campbell plays physical comedy and cheese to a T.  And he looks like such a classic movie star while he does it.  This is only a horror film because the title says so.  It will make you jump, but it always brings you back with a laugh. The camera work in this film is brilliant, a total barrage on the senses. and few film moments are as disturbing and infectious as the giggling living room.  if you like this film you should try and find Raimi's film crime Wave.  not as well made but it has its moments.  Also Cassie Wesley (Bobbie Joe in Evil Dead II--the chick that eats the eyeball.) is from my home town, and we are all backards hicks like that.  "},{"Title":"Groovy.","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you've seen the first movie, it takes a short while to get into, as the first ten minutes are a summary of the first flick.  The best parts of the movie feature Bruce Campbell and Bruce Campbell alone.  The movie is like watching your dad (the same guy that can't figure out how to get the printer to work) trying to save the world from Hollywood evil. Brilliant. "},{"Title":"Slick and stylish -- a perfect Christmas movie.","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What would Halloween be without ghouls, phantasms, or Bruce Campbell? The Evil Dead series has a fanatic following akin to The Rocky Horror Picture Show and UHF. In the spirit of all cult picks, it has its own idioms and terminology. Evil Dead was scary, but Evil Dead II with its over-the-top gore and a sense of humor, which is sorely lacking from most horror films, became an underground classic and turned its leading character Bruce Campbell into a cult hero. Think of Night of the Living Dead meets the Three Stooges.Ash (Bruce) takes his girlfriend up to a deserted cabin. What harm could there be in borrowing a place for the night? However, evil incantations are said and his fiancée becomes one of the living-impaired. He is forced to dispose of her and in the meantime is attacked by a powerful force that lives in the woods. For the better part of the film, the phantasm is never seen. We see through its eyes as it follows Ash knocking down trees or trying to break through doors. This is always a good approach to horror, because the fear of the unknown and not showing the specter right away is psychologically more terrifying. It is very effective and frugal for low-budget films. In most horror films the creature seems silly and the audience's fear is taken away.Later in the film, we get the superfluous humans who come to the cabin to find out what happened to dear-old archeologist dad. He wrote them that he had found the Necronomican (sp?) -- the book of the dead. Now these friends and family of this archeologist are going to be fodder for the apparition. They will be turned into 'deadities', the living impaired, so that Ash can dispose of them in interesting and shocking ways. Ash has to live to see the sun light or he will be dead by dawn.What sets this film apart from others in its genre is style and humor. In one scene, Ash's hand is possessed and he has to cut it off or the hand will do him in. After he lobs it off with a chainsaw and it escapes its imprisonment from a pail covered by the book, Hemingway's Farewell to Arms, it runs amok like an evil Thing from The Adam's Family. This scene is played off like a Three Stooges skit and the possessed hand alludes to Dr. Strangelove.Try to find all of the movie's allusions. The many horror ones are obvious -- all of George Romero's films, several unknown B-films, the original Evil Dead, and mucho, mucho mas. Now try to find all of the Scorsese allusions.I like this film on a multi-faceted level. Bruce's performance is an understatement of panache and ruggedness. The over-the-top gore is done with stylistic humor. The humor helps the more squeamish viewers. The direction of Sam Raimi is quite good. The sequel Army of Darkness is a good movie too. This film is entertaining to watch and not just around Halloween. Just watch it with the lights off and a chainsaw next to you. "},{"Title":"one helluva ride","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  EVIL DEAD 2 is a cinematic rollercoaster that flies off the tracks and just keeps on going.  Sam Raimi has made a film that's a scream in every sense of the word.  wonderfully twisted humor, and non-stop action (especially near the end)makes this my favorite of the Evil Dead trilogy.  Let's go!! "},{"Title":"Brief appraisal of my favourite film","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Don't be fooled by the title, this is no dumb slasher film. Evil Dead II combines Sam Raimi's trademark style with some of the funniest moments ever seen in a horror movie. While the familiar camera chasing people through the forest filming technique is remarkably good at building tension, some of the most horrific scenes in the film may actually make you laugh out loud. You'll root for the hero as problem after problem is heaped on him, but you'll never want to be in his shoes! "},{"Title":"The Most Visually Interesting Film EVER","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is quite possibly one of the best movies of the century, but it isn't really critically acclaimed.  The visual effects in this film are remarkable - I guarantee that you will NEVER see another movie like this (unless you count Evil Dead 1 and Army of Darkness).  Sam Raimi is a genius with the camera, and Bruce Campbell is easily the most underrated actor ever. Campbell sells every bit of the role of Ash, no matter how unbelievable it gets.  Check this movie out, it's well worth your time. "}{"Title":"Why isn't Bruce Campbell a star??","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bruce Campbell makes this movie and this series.  The horror/comedy mix has never been more perfect than it was in this sequel/remake of Sam Raimi's The Evil Dead.The script follows several small groups of people trapped in a desolate cabin in the backwoods as they combat the unleashed evil of the Necronomican, or The Book of the Dead.  How could this be funny?  Trust me, it' hilarious.  Camera work, jerky movements, over-the-top special effects, and most importantly, Bruce Campbell.  His plastic face and manic overacting take this movie to a new level.  It's impossible to describe, so you'll just have to watch it.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"funny, scary, original.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sam Raimi has some of the best movies, Evil Dead, Army of Darkness, the list goes on but Dead by Dawn; Evil Dead II is a masterpiece.  Scenes of his dead girlfriend dancing 1/2 rotted for him with her head coming off, the laughing furniture, Bruce Campbells 1 liners, the A-team style combat readiness, Ted Raimi's portrayal of the demon mother, it's all too good.  I have watched this film over 100 times & still love it.  Tons of blood, Candarian Demons, evil going ons.  I suggest it to all horror fans.   "},{"Title":"Great horror flick","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film has it all; scares, laughs, a heart-warming story....well maybe not a heart-warming story, but it still rocks. How come it isn't insanely popular??? Good question. I never really understood how such a great find could go so unrecognized. This is a true MUST SEE movie. "},{"Title":"Good, but not as good as evil dead","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was really good. I love bruce campbell he just rocks.  This movie is however more of a comedy then the first one.  This is not a bad thing but I just prefer a more serious horror film. Now thats not to say its not scary because it is, It just has a few funny segments of humour. Overall though Sam Raimidoes a amazing job. Overall 8/10 "},{"Title":"Very gory. Very funny. Very entertaining.","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First of all, the effects, make-up, camera work in this film are brilliant. Sam Raimi does an excellent job of mixing the hilarious jokes with the frightening scenes (the Farewell To Arms bit). Lots of memorable one-liners are here for example Groovy; I'll swallow your soul!, etc.. The opening sequence is excellent, and the scene in which Ash's hand gets possessed is one of the funniest parts in this movie. This gets 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Best movie with no plot ever made!","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Even though the plot in Evil Dead 2 is just a weak patchwork to tie gags together, it is still a classic. Why? Because its so d*mn funny, that's why. Definitely the best movie in a great three part series. "},{"Title":"ARGH!","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bruce Campbell; what a guy! Over the course of the film he decapitates his girlfriend, has to kill her again with a chainsaw, loses his hand, is punched, bitten and generally driven mad and finally... well, it's a great ending.As long as you take this film on its own terms it's a great laugh. Buckets of blood and cheap special effects as well as some very funny moments keep you watching, and when it does finally end you'll want to see Army of Darkness, the sequel. Which isn't as good, but never mind. "},{"Title":"One of the few horror films I'm willing to watch","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What can I say?This film is great. Bruce Cambell reprises his role as Ash from the original film although I would consider this to be a remake of the original, one that is much better.Classic Renaissance pictures.go see (and go see the third film, Army of Darkness The mediEvil deadXyzandra "},{"Title":"By far the best horror movie on the market!","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the type of movie that can be watched over and over. Wonderfully funny and scary. Bruce Campbell plays the part very well. If you haven't seen this movie then you're definitely missing out! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Simply hilarious!  Bruce Campbell is THE MASTER of whatever the hell it is that he does.  The entire hand sequence is, in my opinion, one of the funniest I've ever seen, in any movie. "}{"Title":"The Sequel to end all...","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As far as sequels go, this has to be the best. Forget Terminator 2, Aliens and all the other examples. First off, it is a sequel,  not a remake and Ash doesn't go back to the cabin. The first ten minutes are definitely a re-cap of the first film, with a stronger sense of humour mixed in. The camera work, acting, effects, everything surpasses the original. The ending is so original for a horror film that it adds the cherry to a perfect cake. Don't worry if you haven't seen the original, pop some corn, sit back and enjoy one of the funniest, original and scariest sequels (nay films) ever made. "},{"Title":"one of the most hilarious movies","Date":"31 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i recommend this movie for anyone who enjoys stupid horror movies. it's just the best, and so realistic too! "},{"Title":"an incantation opens the gate to a parallel dimension, an evil dimension, and now the gate must be closed.","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a definite spoof on horror movies. It is also, in my opinion one of the single most hilarious movies ever created a definite must-see.  "},{"Title":"From somebody who knows nothing about the first film..","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...but has thoroughly enjoyed the second one since it came out in 1987. From reading other comments apparently history has been rewritten in relation to the first, but I can't speak to that. Let me just say that if you haven't seen the first one the second one fills in enough details that you know what is going on.The film starts with Ash and girlfriend Linda taking a romantic weekend trip to a cabin. It's a cabin that Ash knows about, but says he does not know the owners, thus he really doesn't know their whereabouts. He says they'll just claim to have gotten lost in the woods if they show up. The cabin is actually where Professor Knowby brought the recently discovered Book of the Dead. We know this because Ash finds the tape recorder and plays Knowby's entries. On the tape Knowby speaks aloud the words that are supposed to resurrect the evil dead - those evil spirits that inhabit the forest and world around us. Once brought to life they can apparently manipulate objects and possess people at will, in search of a way back into this world via possession and a way to harvest souls for hell. Those spoken words do their work, and the evil dead are brought back to this world. Well it is nighttime, and since that is when the evil dead are active they immediately begin to make Ash's life a living hell.Meanwhile, Knowby's daughter Annie is on her way to the cabin with more pages from the Book of the Dead where she thinks her parents are doing research. She has with her a research assistant, and two locals who show her a way around the destroyed bridge that leads over the canyon to the cabin - a bridge destroyed by the evil dead to trap Ash where he is.There is confusion at first as Ash fires a shotgun through a closed door when he hears the four trying to enter the cabin - considering what he's been through up to that point that's no wonder. Likewise, at first Annie looks at the blood and destruction of the cabin and thinks Ash killed her parents. However, it is soon obvious what the real enemy is here, one you cannot see or hear, one that can possess anything, anyone, or even just part of a person. It can make the dead appear as they did in life, it can make the living appear as demons. One particularly creative thing done here is that you see things occasionally from the evil spirits' viewpoint as they rush through the woods, making an awful roaring noise, headed towards the cabin. The action and the chaos just never lets up from the time the forces of evil first attack the cabin. It's hard to describe, and I know it sounds strange, but there is enough tongue in cheek humor merged with some really riveting horror, that you don't feel completely drained from the intensity of it all. For example, when you have both a possessed lamp and a possessed stuffed deer head laughing at you, things get both so horrible and funny that you feel you are watching a satire of a horror film. Only the very end confused me a bit, and maybe that is because I haven't seen the first film. I'd recommend it as horror well done in a different and creative style. "},{"Title":"The Flaming Groovy!","Date":"18 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Yes indeed, Sam Raimi and Bruce Campbell are back to shake some action with this remake of their own The Evil Dead (1981), only this time with more money and more overt humour. A quick prologue sets things up nicely, then BAM! Ash (Campbell) and his squeeze are in the cabin of doom and about to be part of a night of unholy demonic terror.It's a nightmare of the black comedy kind, where Raimi and Campbell invite us to a party and then gleefully pummel us into submission - and we sado-masochistically enjoy it! Ash has grown a pair of cojones and decides to fight back against the demonic forces, cue mucho action with chainsaw and shotgun. There's a quip on the tongue for our hero as well, even as he is battered from pillar to post to make the action work.Raimi isn't interested in extraneous scenes or exposition, he strips it bare as the pic hurtles along, all while he brings his technical skills with camera and sound design to the fore. The humour is often outrageous, dementedly so, while it's nice to find a group of film makers who don't feel the need to now throw blood and guts at the screen every other scene just to make a formulaic impact.Bonkers, chilling and devilishly funny. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Brutal movie!","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One moment I got DVD of Evil Dead (2013), thanks to big brother. I was so surprised. It was great movie, I enjoyed a lot! And then a few days later or one month, I heard that original Evil Dead 2 will be on TV ! I'm was so excited and It was like to me Eh, it's two chapter, but okay and I'm so excited to watch it.When I watched it, I thought that is funny and kinda strange movie because I never watched horror films from '80s. But anyway, I loved it seriously. I'm really glad they made a such great movie.I'm so more excited for new series Ash. vs. Evil Dead. Now has ratings from 98,160 users, I can't wait to they get 100k! D I'm just obsessed with Evil Dead movies. 11/10 "},{"Title":"Fast paced, hilarious, and creative (funniest horror movie)","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Evil Dead (first movie) was a good movie. It was cheap, it was self aware at its own cheapness, it had some hilarious jump scares, and it had great timing with its humour. It always knew how to hold something scary long enough to make it funny.Evil Dead II is almost the exact opposite of The Evil Dead, but in a good way. While The Evil Dead's humour generally revolved around showing someone die for 5 minutes or just how obnoxiously long it takes to fight the evil. However, Evil Dead II is INCREDIBLY fast. Not only does it have a short run time, but so much happens to quickly that it makes the movie hilarious. The movie is so half- assed and so quick that it is hard to catch your breath because the jokes keep on coming. This is literally the funniest horror movie I have ever seen.The movie starts with a brief recap of the first movie at the beginning (and yes, this movie has a recap and is NOT a remake; as some would like to believe). The movie then quickly leaves us off with where the first movie ended and continues from there... and man does it take off. Non-stop weird shots, strange angles, ridiculous concepts, dancing zombies, laughing furniture, demented hands, and tons of really fake looking blood. The movie has so many continuity errors in itself that the errors are their own joke. Sometimes the possessed people will have different colored blood, sometimes the clothes will change on actors, and supposedly sometimes there are multiple actors playing the SAME character! The movie is a joke on every level.DEFINITELY watch Evil Dead II. While it does work as a standalone movie, I think part of its humour comes from how different it is from the first movie. The Evil Dead felt like a b-movie that was aware of its lameness while Evil Dead II feels like a full fledged comedy. "},{"Title":"Evil Dead 1.5.","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Is Evil Dead 2 better than the first one? Depending on your tastes I guess it's entirely debatable, but to me Evil Dead 2 is a superior quasi-sequel remake that builds upon the comedy and bloodshed. Taking it to new levels of absurd, when I first saw this movie at the age of 16 I can happily say it would take over the next 6 months of my life. It started to disrupt my schoolwork, I would show friends and talk about this movie so profusely, I would actually be upset if the person I was explaining it to hadn't seen it.Almost like a parody of the first movie, we have Ash Williams (Bruce Campbell) and his girlfriend Linda, take a romantic getaway to a seemingly abandoned cabin in the woods. After coming across a certain tape recorder, Ash plays a tape of an archaeology professor who begins reciting passages from the Necronomicon (Book of the Dead). This leads to the unleashing of various demons and spirits, who are nothing but blood thirsty.Ash gets a lot more developed now, and it makes us really connect with the character better. Also that has to be mentioned is the level of slapstick Bruce Campbell has to endure this time around, it has me laughing every time I see it. Sam Raimi continues to incorporate a lot more unique camera techniques, and I feel that the scene where the POV shot of Ash being chased around the house has to be one of the best horror scenes ever. When everything is said and done, the film does extraordinary well in keeping us entertained with great make-up, gore, and laughter from all inanimate objects. In many ways I see it as some kind of obscure live action Looney Tunes episode, but to see parts of The Evil Dead (1981) redone with a larger budget kind of makes me respect this one just a little more.Final Verdict Shows that a movie can succeed without much of a story, and can totally keep the laughs up strong. It's great to see a sequel that doesn't have to entirely repeat itself in order to capitalise on the success of the original. 10/10. "},{"Title":"I love this kind of evil","Date":"12 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" These are one of those sequels you like so much, you choose it over it's predecessor. Evil Dead 2 is like one terrifying ride, you don't really wanna get off, where special effects, whizzing camera shots and angles rule which are used exuberantly. It's ongoing, that flying human eye which Campbell nearly swallows, which wouldn't go down too well, I always remember. These are the reasons is why this movie is so much fun. BC, a Raimi favorite, the lone survivor of the first, returns with his sweetheart back to the scene of the crime, so to speak, where all those demon forces and evil spirits are long gone, we hope. By example here, sometimes hope doesn't work, where so begins another frenetic and maddening and unreal experience, where soon Campbell's the only one to carry it off, and in that case, it's a blessing as through the business of the role, his crazed, and chaotic self can also bring humor to his performances. BC is one of those bloody good but underused actors, where here re really see what he can make out of a role. If opting to choose an Evil Dead to watch (we won't mention Army Of Darkness cause that's crap) I would of already picked this one, without second thoughts. It's one thorough and exhilarating roller coaster of horror. Poor Campbell, he's reliving a mayhem of hell, left to fix up this madness, his work cut out for him, all cause that other couple opened the bloody cursed book again, with it's human skinned pages of flesh That hairy, crossing broken bridge shot, was awesome. "},{"Title":"I don't know what's going on!","Date":"12 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay for a simple idea such as 2 people go to a cabin in the woods and unwittingly unleash a demon from a book and they have to survive while the people studying that book return to the cabin this has probably the single strangest execution you can ever imagine for an idea such as this. But I will say in defense, when it's sane, it's actually not that bad.So I already explained to you the plot but now I think I should tell you the insanity of it. Well there's a scene where after Ash defends himself some more of the spirit he sits down on a chair and breaks it. Then all the furniture starts to laugh at him, including a Deer hunting trophy (which looks like a prop from a Jan Svankmajer film). Ash then starts to laugh with the furniture. Can you make any sense out of what I typed as being insane? Even some of the art-house films I've watched don't do stuff this crazy.So with stuff like that in mind I bet you're thinking Well, what's good about this movie? I like the atmosphere of it even though it wasn't as good as Evil Dead 1, Bruce Campbell as Ash is really fun to watch and unlike the first one where I think the zombies ruined it - the ones in this movie aren't as annoying except when they do stuff that makes me think wait,zombies can do that?.So if you can get past how bat-sh#t crazy things get in this movie (and if you can't then I really don't blame you) then this is actually not a bad movie. At the end of the day this movie is average at best, I would say check it out if you know full well that this one has some really insane moments that get no explanation whatsoever. "}{"Title":"The Ultimate Cult Classic!","Date":"23 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For whatever reason, I've been on a horror kick for the past few months, which is odd because it's a genre for which I've never had much love. I've seen some good and some bad but it all made me want to go back to one of my favorites. A movie I had seen in over a decade EVIL DEAD II. There is so much awesome in this movie and I'm pretty sure anyone reading my comments on here has already seen this movie so I'll probably just use this space to share my love for it. In an age where the new horror movies flooding theaters on a yearly basis are near carbon copies of each other, following the same formulas and hitting the same notes, just remember we'll always have Sam Raimi's cult classic to fall back on. The argument could be made that EVIL DEAD II is more comedy than horror, but any movie that features supernatural tree rape and loads of chainsaw violence are going to have a foot in the genre. The movie is essentially the same premise as the original Ash Williams brings his girlfriend to a remote cabin in the woods for some romance but finds a tape recorder containing readings from the Necronomicon&#x85;the Book of the Dead. As the words are spoken aloud, an ancient evil awakens and terrorizes Ash, driving him to the point of insanity. But hope is not lost as he is soon joined by a handful of visitors, one of which might be able to decipher the texts and find a means of sending the evil back when to the depths of Hell.Where do I begin? I love pretty much everything about this movie. It is the ultimate low budget movie that proudly displays the love of the craft from everyone involved. The cast and crew endured less than favorable shooting conditions and minimal resources but their desire to create a memorable piece of horror/comedy fun drove them through it all to create the epic-ness that is EVIL DEAD II. Sam Raimi and crew have an obvious goal of pushing the envelope of taste to the very edge without going over to the point that their movie never would've seen the light of day. When you think about it, the violence in EVIL DEAD II is pretty brutal. Decapitations, stabbings, dismemberment, blood and ooze everywhere&#x85;but it's all done with this screwball tone that makes it less cringe-inducing and more laughable. When a character is dragged to their death through a basement trap door, it's accompanied by gallons and gallons and gallons (and gallons) of blood pumped from below in tidal wave proportions. Ash cutting off his demon-possessed hand is preceded by a Three Stooges-inspired fight between Bruce Campbell and himself in the kitchen. While the movie is still totally inappropriate for kids for the content, there isn't a whole lot you could consider scary about this horror classic. Even if you the humor injected through the film's total absurdity isn't enough to keep you laughing instead of screaming, the film's minuscule budget ensures that nothing here will be sending you screaming from the room.I love, love, love the practical effects of this film. Raimi shoots for the moon with only enough budget to cross the county line, but he uses every conceivable trick to craft his film. Miniatures, matte paintings, and puppetry give this movie a perfect retro vibe. Creature effects are done with rubber suits and make-up, and camera tricks are used to perfect cheesy effect. And let's not forget Bruce Campbell, the man who became legend thanks to his role as Ash Williams, hero of the EVIL DEAD series. I honestly don't believe anyone but Campbell could've pulled off a character like Ash. Equal parts stone-cold hero and bumbling moron, Ash wages a one-man war against the Evil Dead. When the series was rebooted with EVIL DEAD in 2013, I enjoyed the movie but the one thing it could never recreate would be this character (and I'm glad they didn't try). Campbell gets it. He and Raimi knew just what this character needed to be this time around and they absolutely nailed it.EVIL DEAD II is a movie that needs to be passed down through the generations, whether it be by friend of family. I was introduced to the series by a friend when I was in high school; he had the movies on VHS and we binged on them in a single night to introduce them to me. When my daughter gets old enough, you can be sure I'll be sharing this movie with her. EVIL DEAD II is a classic. It's rare that director and his crew do so much with so little, especially in an age when most movies do the exact opposite. Keep the love for this movie alive and share it with future generations of fans. "},{"Title":"Screw you forces of darkness, here comes a sales clerk with a chainsaw!","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I must say I never had time for the 'slice-up the helpless victims' genre of horror films, even though I spent most of the 90s working my way through the Friday 13th/Halloween films (Part6+Jason goes to Hell/Curse of Michael Myers my favourites because they break that mold). For that reason I never really cared much for The Evil Dead which fell very squarely into that genre but love, love, love Evil Dead 2 because it's so very different. It simply oozes imagination from every pore, the pace is relentless and the slapstick humour wonderfully relentless. No insult to the rest of the cast but a terrific performance from Bruce Campbell who without a shadow of a doubt owns this film (although a great deal of credit must go to Ted Rami who suffered horribly in his bodysuit as the witch in the cellar, the bit where he tips his head to the side only for all the sweat to drip out is much more horrific than any of the fake gore on screen).It's funny now to think that this was considered one of the 'video nasties' at the time of its' release, it looks so tame nowadays. Sure there's a lot of blood Shining style but the bodycount is in single figures, it's not at all sadistic and actually is pretty tongue-in-cheek and good humoured. A great thing about the DVD is the commentary, Bruce Campbell and Sam Rami are just wonderful with their comments, informative and funny as hell. Shame no Bob Tapert to complete the trio. All told an irreplaceable classic "},{"Title":"Groovy ; D","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In this one, Ash finally picks up the chainsaw, yeah!! I have to say upon initial viewing I was dumbfounded but exhilarated. Usually horror films are unintentionally funny, I assume when they are trying real hard to be scary. I won't call any one out, but I'm sure you can think of a few, several, lots, more than a few.lol This film got me into the idea of dark humor and for that along I admire it. Bruce Campbell is terrific in this film and the cast is just secondary to him in reality. The comedy fits in quite nicely with the horror, which truth be told can be quite scary at times.Joseph Do Luca returns for the score, and it still fits the film quite well. The make-up by Mark Shostrom is more than enough to hold its own against the original, and there's some pretty gory scenes in this one as well. The photography is just as great and it's just a very good visual experience in itself. Ash seems to be somewhat adjusting to the cabin from hell and its demons in this film, exemplified in one of my favorite scenes in the film; where quite disturbingly, everything in the room begins to laugh manically. And Ash, in his madness, joins them. It was out right funny and to die for, but probably the best example of this is when he decides to use the chainsaw near the climax, and says Groovy D "},{"Title":"A weird sequel, but nonetheless awesome to watch. Kiss your nerves goodbye.","Date":"24 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I will start with a common question regarding this movie; is it a sequel or remake? Well it's sort of both. Having seen the previous film helps, but isn't really necessary. The director Sam Raimi claims that is is a sequel, and that the differences between the first movie and Evil Dead 2 flashbacks is because of ownership rights to the scenes from the prequel which lead to them having to re-shoot them. In my opinion the differences is so extreme that it should qualify as a remake. But nonetheless Evil Dead 2 continues the story of the first movie.Now this movie is definitely a bit of a cliché, but that's what makes it so great. Imitating it's predecessor in so many ways, evil dead, living trees, demons, chainsaws, it's simply a very enjoyable horror film. Alos where the first one may have left you feel a little uncomfortable, this movie makes you feel better with it's more humorous tone. I actually think they made a little fun of themselves making this movie. And what more can I say about Bruce Campbell, than that he's awesome. In the first movie he spent most of the time freaking out and surviving almost on pure luck. In this one however, he's merciless. He grabs a chainsaw, a shotgun, says Groovy for some reason, and kicks ass. The thing that makes the Evil dead trilogy some memorable is definitely Bruce Campbell himself.Once again I feel I've got to mention, this movie is R rated for a reason. It's not as gory as the first one, and as I mentioned it a little funnier than the first one. So just don't show it to any kids, I would say anyone over 13 or 14 could get through it as long as they got the nerves for it. The movies tag-line was kiss your nerves goodbye, and their not holding back.So for this hilarious and nerve wrecking horror masterpiece I give a 10/10. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Horror Movies to Watch","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead II was an original concept with probably one of the greatest B list icons of all time starring, Bruce Campbell. This movies has the makings of one of the greatest horror movies ever made. The first Evil Dead was over the top just straight horror, this however was the first crack at incorporating comedy and humor into the series. You will see more of it in Army of Darkness. Now this honestly was not out to impress and did not star big name celebrities, but it was probably one of the most well done horror movies that I have ever had the privilege to view.10/10 "},{"Title":"One of the most exciting, all out hilarious and damn right retarded films of all time!!!!","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead 2 is one of the best films ever made. The reason's mainly are because of a certain classic chemistry between Sam Raimi and Bruce Campball, the retarded but very excellent direction, the class horror/comedy element, a laughing moose head, a retarded hand that fights back and the over the top story. Bruce Campball plays Ash - the sole survivor of the original 'Evil Dead' returns with his girlfriend Linda to the remote cabin in the woods. Ash then finds a tape recorder that a professor has used to record incarnations from the Book of the Dead. When turned on the recorder releases a dark and horrific force from the surrounding woods.A very funny horror comedy with real heart. It takes nothing seriously and everything deliberately. Empire magazine quotes- Sam and Bruce are Gods and damn they right about that. "},{"Title":"An awesome horror comedy!","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Five years since Ash (Bruce Campbell) battled the demonic creatures in the woods in Tenessee, he has thought to have forgotten about that horrible night. Now he sets off on a vacation with a girl named Linda to a secluded cabin in the woods, over there he discovers an old black magic book, a dagger and a reel-to-reel tape containing recordings of a professor whom has translated the book's spells. Ash unknowingly releases evil spirits that start to torment, haunt and possess anyone around him into vicious demons as he fights the creatures, his own possessed hand and southern hicks.An asskicking and action packed sequel to the brilliant 1981 horror classic The Evil Dead, writer-producer-director Sam Raimi has conjured up an excellent sequel that surpasses the original. While some may say it's more of a remake then a sequel, i would have to say that i love the way it works as a semi-remake/sequel together in one film. The film is over-the-top gory and has many good laughs to make it a horror comedy classic for the 80's! the make-up effects by KNB are excellent along with the nifty low budget special effects and has more of the same charm that made the original so dang popular.While the first one is an excellent and gory as hell scare-feast, this sequel stands as a comical and bloody yet slimy feast for the eyes, ears and nerves alike. "},{"Title":"Evil Dead, too!","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have no interest in involving myself in the pointless debate about whether Evil Dead II is a sequel or a remake. It really doesn't matter, there's an argument for both sides and so the endless debates will, of course, go nowhere. What is not up for debate is that the movie begins with a recap of what happened in the first film, and then there is another group that heads out to the woods to spend a weekend in the creepy cabin in the woods. They discover a recording of a man studying the Necronomicon, The Book of the Dead (also found in the cabin), which included incantations that bring forth all manner of bad things.Soon the movie becomes strikingly similar to the original, resulting I suppose in the controversy about whether it's a remake or a sequel. Personally, it feels like a rethinking of the first movie, where certain ideas and effects are fleshed out in ways that the financial constraints of the original film wouldn't allow, as well as a beefing up of the significant comic relief. Indeed, for all it's blood and gore and self-mutilations and animated severed limbs, this is one of the funniest horror films I've ever seen.One thing that is shown in part II is a visual presentation of the evil force in the woods, which is sadly a disappointing attempt to add more complex special effects into the movie, but the majority of the film will be remembered as Ash's truly classic battle with the evil force in the cabin, which ultimately starts to take over his own body, but he is able to stop it by cutting off his own possessed hand. Love it or hate it, this stuff has never been done in a horror movie before, and that's not the only genuinely original thing. Even furniture becomes possessed and laughs hysterically at Ash, and we laugh along with them. This is about as fun as gore films can get! I think that one of the best things about the original film was its meager budget, but the best thing about the trilogy as a whole is that it is a horror film that is intended almost exclusively for horror fans. Bring a date to watch this movie and I'm willing to bet that you will find yourself lonely in a hurry. Evil Dead II is packed with horror thoughts and ideas that seem to have come out of nowhere, they are so over the top and unique. Ash is attacked by a severed head, a headless body, and his own severed hand in the movie, along with countless other beasties, and the effect, due in no small part to his hilarious reactions, is horror entertainment of the highest order.Of course, the budget is bigger now, but Raimi was able to take more money and still retain the same feel of the original film, except that he was able to give us more detail and use more effects this time around, but definitely without selling out. Whether he did this later in his career is up for debate, but in the first sequel in the Evil Dead trilogy, it almost seems like he took more money from bankrollers who expected a more accessible horror film and then tricked them, giving us a movie that is still intended for the original fans.Raimi soon moved away from the gritty horror genre with more accessible films, like The Quick and the Dead and the astonishingly brilliant A Simple Plan, before moving into mainstream Hollywood with the Spiderman movies, but it is the simplicity of the Evil Dead films that his fans will always remember with the most fondness. It is telling that the Spiderman juggernaut is known, among fans, and being directed by the guy who made the Evil Dead films, and not the other way around. Peter Jackson, on the other hand, will always be associated with the Lord of the Rings films, while his own early horror films are all but forgotten. For horror fans, there are not many truer films than the Evil Dead series&#133; "},{"Title":"Funnier and more Gruesome than the original","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bruce Campbell is a genius in the acting world and he revises his role of Ash in this sequel to Evil Dead. We as the audience get caught up to speed as to what has happened and from there on out it is nothing but Black Comedy at its finest. Sam Raimi really made a gem here. Yes it is a little goofy and a little 'what?' at times but this movie stands along on its own pedestal amongst others of its type. I prefer this installment over the original by far and I would recommend it to any horror fan of any type. The noises the 'Evil Dead' make in this film are horrifying and the way Raimi crops up the chase sequences is classic, it truly had me gripping the edge of my seat. Do not miss this flick if you have!! "},{"Title":"The second flick in this series a gory good time.","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I did not remember this movie being as funny the first time I saw it, but then I was just a kid. Now years later with my sense of humor effectively warped I had quite a few chuckles. This is of course a sequel to The Evil Dead, but then it is not quite a direct sequel. The first part of the film sort of recaps the first, but then it doesn't. You will notice only Ash and his girlfriend are shown at the cabin. The cabin is significantly better looking on the inside and there are various other differences as well. Still, this does not detract from this film as I like this one better than the first. Campbell as Ash is great, the first part of the film is like a one man show of someone doing a self torture stand-up. You get to watch a man have his hand possessed and proceed to beat the crap out of himself. And the scenes of Ash laughing along with the rest of the cabin is like a demented episode of Pee-Wee's playhouse. Soon though others arrive, of course they are just fodder for the evil dead to possess and kill. The effects are good for the most part, and where they are not so good it is usually done in humorous manner. The chainsaw arm is cool, and it is a nice ending as well considering the third part. I kind of wish Sam Rami and Bruce would make more horror movies as they are very good at it. "}{"Title":"A funny and gory zombie movie","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Rated R for Strong Violence/Gore. Quebec Rating13+ Canadian Home Video RatingR(should be 18A)Evil Dead II is the second film in the Evil Dead trilogy.I have not seen Evil Dead 1 or Evil Dead 3Army Of Darkness.I really enjoyed Evil Dead II.Its a fun b-rated zombie movie filled with gore and comedy.I didn't see the first movie but from what I read, it was a pure zombie horror movie with no comedy.Evil Dead II and III however have a good mix of horror and comedy.There is a little recap at the beginning of the film with different actors/actresses from the first movie so some people think this is a remake.But it is a sequel.Ash is still in the cabin fighting off deadites and trying to get rid of them with two archaeologists and two rednecks.This time he has a chainsaw for a hand and a sawn off shotgun which he calls his Boomstick.He uses it to kill the zombies(deadites).With a surprising ending, Evil Dead II is a very fun and gory horror movie that I recommend to horror fans.9/10 "},{"Title":"A good sequel.","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead 2 is a slapstick horror film since some parts are a laugh like when he's hand is possessed and he's fighting with it and the cuts it off with a Chainsaw. Who's laughing now!? Another scene is the laughing furniture, the way Ash laughs with them is a classic.The eye popping scene was good as well, Ash seems to have more of a character in this one. In the first he was just a guy trapped in the cabin, in this one he's more of a bad ass especially when he gets the Chainsaw attached to the stump of his hand and the sawn-off Shotgun.But he still shows fear so that's another interesting thing about the character. Bruce does a great job again as Ash.A great sequel to the Evil Dead. 10/10 "},{"Title":"If you like so-good-it-knows-to-be-so-bad-it's-good movies, I can highly recommend Evil Dead II to you","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This one is a crazy campy horror-comedy. Helmed by Sam Raimi this is the (sort of) sequel to the campy, more serious gorefest known as Evil Dead. Although it takes place after the last film, the events of the previous film were retconned to cut out some characters. We start with our hero and the last film's survivor, Ash, being chased and possessed by the Evil Dead.This film, like the previous film, has lots of gore and generally grossness, usually involving copious amounts of blood and the mutilization of body parts. However, ever since aspect of the film is done with some amount of self-conscious parody, without becoming a spoof. Evil Dead II is assuredly a horror film, but at the same time, it doesn't take itself perfectly serious. Nowhere is this more evident than in the writing and in Bruce Campell's acting. Bruce's character turns from regular guy to a sort of manic semi-hero/anti-hero and Bruce plays him by seriously overacting, but in such a way that you believe the character to be genuine (especially given the ridiculous, yet horrific, nature of the story). The film is also home to some gem lines, such asHenrietta (Demon-possessed) I'll swallow your soul! I'll swallow your soul! I'll swallow your soul!Ash (pointing a shotgun at her) Swallow this!This blend of ridiculous seriousness and comedy horror would further be refined in the amazing tour-de-force of campiness and low-budget production, Army of Darkness. But as it stands, it remarkably entertaining and Sam Raimi's direction elevates camp into an artform. If that's possible.The film is full of flaws, from the awful production values to the cliché-ridden dialogue to the overacting and utter ridiculousness in the face of grotesque horror. The genius of Evil Dead II is that it turns all of its flaws into strengths. I burst into laughter as I witnessed Ash struggle with his possessed hand (screaming, Damn you! Give me back my hand!!) turning the film into a bizarre Tom-and-Jerry scenario. When buckets of fake blood explode onto the screen, I can't help but be amused rather than frightened and the glory-shot at the end of the film being contrast against an overwrought Nooooooooo!!!! just serve to make the film somehow better, rather than worse.Yes, it's cheesy, crappy, silly and underproduced and reaches beyond its means. And I honestly couldn't be more entertained by that. This film is utter garbage of the best kind. If you can handle gore and deal with the ridiculousness of it; if you like so-good-it-knows-to-be-so-bad-it's-good movies, I can highly recommend Evil Dead II to you. 8/10. "},{"Title":"an insane, wicked, and utterly hilarious sequel!!","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sam Raimi's bigger budgeted follow up to his horror masterpiece The Evil Dead (1981) is one of the greatest horror-comedies of all time!After a brief re-enactment of the first film, Ash is once again stuck in that possessed cabin as those pesky evil spirits run wild!Evil Dead II mixes horror and comedy as no other film ever has. It's a wonderfully over-the-top ride from beginning to end, like the original Evil Dead the sequel plays out like a relentless high-speed roaster coaster ride. Raimi's touches of horror are gory and shockingly good, while his moments of slap-stick humor are outrageously funny. The special makeup FX are effectively freakish whether they make you laugh or scream!Bruce Campbell returns as our terrorized hero Ash. Campbell does a tremendously funny performance as he is a champion of physical-comedy! The part in which his hand becomes possessed is especially memorable.A wickedly fun horror-comedy all the way, Evil Dead II ranks among Raimi and Campbell's greatest work.*** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"An explanation of why people like this movie...","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The simple answer It's just ridiculously funny.The longer explanation No, Evil Dead fans aren't crazy, but I will concede that it's a very subjective form of humour. I find that most people I talk to about this movie (or Army of Darkness) liked it because it's so crazy, inconsistent and unrealistic. The special effects are cheesy, ditto with the dialogue and plot, but that's the charm of this series of films.My understanding is that others enjoy it when you can see cables pulling props around or crewmen in the background. The movie acts so serious at parts but at other times it's obviously just absurd. This is why I like Evil Dead II (and to a lesser extent, Army of Darkness). I enjoy that one scene can be scary and then the next can be funny. I find that to be a very good mix of genres. I like being able to feel tense only to have that feeling dispelled by a wacky joke.This IS my favourite film of all time. Of all the films I own or have seen, this is one of the few I enjoy watching over and over again. It has some great camera angles, visuals, as well as terror, comedy and something that can only be described as awesomeness. *SPOILERS* That scene where Ash gets on his battle gear is what I'm talking about when I say Awesomeness *END SPOILERS*.My advice to anyone who hasn't seen this film (or maybe any of the films in the series) 1) Watch them in order Evil Dead, Evil Dead II, Army of Darkness 2) Watch them multiple times I'm a HUGE Evil Dead / Bruce Campbell (actor of main character), but it took me a few tries to get into the series. The first time I saw Evil Dead II I didn't understand why people thought it was so great. But after watching the series a few times, I came to the conclusion that it really grows on you.10/10? ... I don't think so... Groovy/10 "},{"Title":"Who's in my fruit cellar? Someone with a fresh souuuuul! ***** out of 5","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ah, what can I say that hasn't been said before? I mean seriously. Evil Dead II is a work of horrific/comedic genius! This is a film that kind of reminds me of one of those spook houses that come around at halloween time. You walk through it and while it's scary and all, it's also when you find yourself laughing at the same time.This is just a terrific spook filled, gross out, barrel of laughs.This is also the movie that made Bruce Campbell the icon he is. Sure he was great in Evil Dead, but this one established him as the true chainsaw wielding, talk backing hero. Groovy.There are a ton of memorable lines here. Oh, and the acting by the co-stars is definitely a step up from the previous entry. Not that it matters. This is about demons possessing people and making them do horrible, evil, disgusting things and believe me, you'll see all that and more.And you'll never have more fun seeing such madcap madness.......but then again there's 'Army of Darkness'. "},{"Title":"3 words Ash's Chainsaw Hand","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is excellent. While it is not as scary as the 1st it, you don't have to sit down and prepare yourself to watch it. You could just sit down and spontaneously(spelling?) decide to watch it. The movie starts as a slight recap of the 1st only with Ash and Linda. You then continue from where the 1st movie left off, seeing Ash go slightly crazy and having to chop off his own hand. The daughter of cabin's owner shows with some cannon fodder and upon getting shot at by a blood soaked Ash, manage to get him in the basement. Question why did Ash and co. go to that cabin as it is now obvious that it didn't belong to them? After locking Ash in the basement they start up the tape player and learn of the mothers death after possession. Then the corpse arises and tries to attack Ash, who fortunately escapes. After that it becomes a battle against the demons with one girl being dragged away by plants, a guy getting killed by the dead mother and the other guy becoming possessed, AND the evil manifesting the daughter being stabbed by the hand, and Ash getting sucked into medieval Europe after defeating the evil. All in all an excellent movie that is very fun to watch, and teaches a few useful lessons. For example Duck Tape is not used enough in first aid. "},{"Title":"Another Walk Into The Woods","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead 2 Dead By Dawn sort of re-creates the first one (Because they couldn't get the rights to the first one, they had to do it this way). Ash and his girlfriend Linda go to the cabin and find the Book of The Dead and the tape recorder left by Professor Knowby. Playing the tape, the evil is unleashed and Linda is soon possessed by the demons. Ash ends up killing her, but he soon becomes possessed by the evil and has to cut off his hand. Meanwhile, the cabin has some company in the form of Annie, the professor's daughter, their assistant and 2 country folks. Soon, they become trapped by the evil in the forest, as well as Annie's mother, now possessed, who is down in the cellar.The second entry in the series is not as graphic as the first(One unfortunate soul ends up swallowing a flying eyeball), and plays it mostly for laughs (Groovy!). Consider it horror lite. Still, it is a good follow up to the original. The ending, of course, leaves the possibility of a sequel (See Army Of Darkness.). "},{"Title":"Greatest gore on earth!","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ah, don't you just love it when a film opens with a blossoming love story, and then pile drives you into the gates of hell? Not many sequels can surpass it's predecessor, but this one did with flying colors (especially red). Director, Sam Raimi, gives you about ten minutes to breathe at the beginning, but once the horror starts, it grabs you by the throat and doesn't let go until the end. You laugh, scream, yell Please, don't go down there! at your TV, jump, bite your fingernails, cover your eyes and then do it all over again. Ash (Bruce Campbell) give's a great performance, as a guy who's having the worst night ever. It's not bad enough, that demons want to swallow his soul but his own girlfriend becomes the undead, which forces him to cut her into pieces with a chainsaw. Raimi uses camera angles never seen before in films and horrific scenery that is terrific. I have been a horror movie fan since I was a child, and this film has been number one on my list since it's release. A bloody, gut spewing, hell of a ride... "},{"Title":"Groovey - Bruce Campbell's fight for life!","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sequel/remake of Evil Dead finds Bruce Campbell, one of cinema's most abused heroes, still battling those pesky demons, this time with the help of a hick, the hick's girlfriend, the daughter of the professor who unleashed the pesky demons, and the associate professor of the professor who unleashed the demons. Along the way Bruce exchanges his right hand for a chainsaw.I definitely liked this one better than the original, don't ask me why. Lots of stylized imagery and dark humor (severed hand gives former owner the finger) but no tree rape scenes. One of my personal favorite bits is the scene where all the objects in the cabin start laughing at Bruce.And remember, don't go out that door until after day light!Followed by Army of Darkness.  "}{"Title":"Good horror film!","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Minor SpoilersThe Evil Dead series is a very dark and yet humorous series directed by Sam Raimi and it stars Bruce Campbell!The sequel is good but takes a bit to get use too.There are no sex scenes but a little nudity and the film is dark and gory.Bruce Campbell looks so different in the film.The first two are good but My favorite of the series is Army of Darkness but I recommend seeing them is order.This great for horror fans!Movie Nuttball's NoteAt the end of the film when Ash meets the knights that very scene was not in Army of Darkness as it was redone. "},{"Title":"A Rack for Sam Raimi...","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...to put his off-beat brand of humor on sums up Evil Dead 2.  Basically it's a Bruce Campbell vehicle, as his lantern-jawed hero (is it just me, or does Campbell look like Jay Leno's brother?) stumbles through incredibly gruesome and hilarious encounters with the Deadites.  Actually, ED2 does tend to drag in spots while Ash is alone in the cabin, but picks up a bit once a new batch of cannon fodder...I mean, the rest of the cast show up. Overdoes itself intentionally to excess as a parody of the blood n' gore of both the original Evil Dead and horror movies in general.  "},{"Title":"A blast to watch.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There is no real critical comment to make about this film. It basically comes down to this, if you like great B-horror films, this one should be at the top of your list. I had so much fun watching this movie that I must have watched it 100 times since. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Among the best","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's right up there with RE-ANIMATOR and TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE. Not everyone will appreciate comedy mixed with horror, but it is still scary as hell. So how does it hold up almost 20 years later? Not bad. The demon woman in the basement still is the stuff of nightmares. The severed hand sequence in the kitchen still evokes an uneasy mix of laughs and revulsion. It sure beats the followup, ARMY OF DARKNESS, which tried to please too many people right down to its trite title. "},{"Title":"Groovy! A lot of fun, even if it's not a masterpiece or anything","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A spawn of the same cult film pool as such diverse projects as The Goonies and Donnie Darko, the Evil Dead series is similarly one popularized (and yes, to some extent overrated) by its endless legion of fans, most of whom were teenagers when the originals came out, and are now in their twenties and thirties. Each film separated by six years, Evil Dead, Evil Dead II and Army of Darkness (or Medieval Dead as some fans enjoy referring to it as) all certainly hold a certain low-budget fanbase appeal. None of them did very well financially, at least not in theaters (particularly the third, which had the largest budget and flopped on initial release), but the same can be said for Donnie Darko, the flop of 2001 that went on to do very well on video and has played continually at midnight showings across America, enticing new fans every day.Evil Dead II Dead by Dawn stars Bruce Campbell as the returning Ash, the hapless hero who visits a remote wilderness cabin with his girlfriend only to inadvertently unleash the Deadites from another world. After his girlfriend is possessed and murdered by one of the demons, Ash finds himself fending for his life in the cabin and enduring endless physical pain.This is a film set free of logic, cohesion, and reality. Ash murders his possessed girlfriend but never really seems to mourn his loss. Soon he's cutting off his own hand and doesn't really seem to miss it very much in the following scenes (he replaces it with a chainsaw &#150; a clever idea that nevertheless is totally and utterly ridiculous). If I cut off my hand, I might be sort of upset, but not Ash &#150; he doesn't really seem to mind, and it doesn't seem to hurt him very much, either, as he immediately wraps it in a bandage (which must have a magical effect, because blood never stains through the fabric). Furthermore, Ash never seems to fear death from blood loss, or the fact that when he returns to civilization, he might have a hard time convincing local authorities that he's not responsible for the murder of his girlfriend and the visitors who show up midway through the film and all proceed to quickly die painful deaths at the hands of the Deadites.No matter. That's not the point of this film. Evil Dead II is pure fun, and nothing more. With this in mind, its strong fanbase comes across as being rather intimidating &#150; visiting any Evil Dead message board will reveal some people who seem to thrive on this film, daily reciting quotes, acting out scenes, and dreaming up scenarios for the (pending) sequel Army of Darkness II. That begs the question Is Evil Dead II really deserving of its critical and public acclaim? Having been referenced by Jack Black in High Fidelity as the film you must see in order to stray away from devolving into a movie idiot, Evil Dead II is a fun experience with a charismatic, energetic lead performance and a clever and witty script. Before I saw EDII, Black's recommendation in High Fidelity (&#133;there's so much blood!) was a joke -- a parody of the macho male action, sex, nudity, loud music attitude. After having seen Evil Dead II I realize that Black was right -- the blood and guts really do make it worth seeing &#150; they almost become a punch line to the joke, such as when a body is dragged into a fruit cellar by a demon and a spew of excessive fake red water drenches the heroine as the corpse is churned into a million pieces.So, no, it's not a masterpiece and it probably isn't quite deserving of its strong reputation. It's that type of movie, where you kind of enjoy it for the cheese factor &#150; and don't try to heavily criticize its flaws, because to do that would be way too easy. And obvious.The film is more of a remake than a sequel, recapping the events of the first film, dropping three characters, and generally picking up somewhere in the middle. For example in the original Evil Dead Ash stumbles upon the Book of the Dead, and he does so again in this movie. Many events are totally re-filmed as if they never occurred. It's a rare beast of a sequel &#150; somewhere oddly in between continuation and smug self-parody.I personally prefer the original Evil Dead if only because I find the horror elements stronger and the comedy far less goofy (if there are even any traces of comedy in the original at all). Evil Dead II goes a bit too far sometimes &#150; the dancing furniture is lame, for example.However, no one can say this series lacks originality. Instead of presenting us with a banal representation of the original film, director Sam Raimi reunites with Campbell and creates a whole new beast &#150; packed with excessive physical humor (think ultra-violent Three Stooges on a macabre level), self-parody, tongue-in-cheek humor, and what Campbell himself described as splatstick comedy. On top of that, Campbell is much better here than he was in the original (where he seemed to be a pale shade and more cowardly version of the typical action hero persona) &#150; Ash is still somewhat of a coward but Campbell lends his character a great sense of irony here that if anything only establishes Ash as one of cinema's most iconic characters.Overall, Evil Dead II is a really fun ride, with a superior performance from Campbell. It may not be on the same level as the original in terms of horror or just general enjoyment, but it's still a blast. Groovy, baby! "},{"Title":"Dead by dawn...","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ash, the sole survivor of THE EVIL DEAD, return to the same cabin in the same woods and again unleashes the forces of the dead. With his girlfriend possessed by demons and his body parts running amok, Ash is forced to single-handedly battle the legions of the damned as the most lethal and groovy hero in horror movie history.This film starred Bruce Campbell, Sarah Berry & Dan Hicks.Evil Dead 2 is more of a remake of the original than a sequel, it's much better than the first film and another thing I prefer in this film is a lot funnier, the first film was supposed to be as serious horror film but it was funny because it was so bad and this second one was funny because it was a funny film. I do recommend this film as it is better than the original.***/***** Good. "},{"Title":"Kiss your nerves goodbye!!!!","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't know if IMDb will take these as spoilers, so I will list them just in case.Ash, the sole survivor of THE EVIL DEAD, returns to the same cabin in the woods and again unleashes the forces of the dead. With his girlfriend possessed by demons and his body parts running amok, Ash is forced to single-handedly battle the legions of the damned.This film starred Bruce Campbell, Sarah Berry & Dan Hicks EVIL DEAD II is much better than the original as in the first film you laughed for all the wrong reasons but in this one it is just hilarious. I especially like the hand scene when he is smashing plates over his head etc. A funny horror/comedy movie that you can't help but laugh at. I recommend this movie. People may ask why did he go to the cabin again after all that happened in the first film. This is more of a remake than it is sequel, so go give it a watch and enjoy EVIL DEAD 2.***/***** Good film. "},{"Title":"Outrageously violent and hilarious","Date":"10 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This half-sequel, half-remake of Evil Dead outdoes its predecessor in almost every aspect.After a brief recap of the events of the first film (Which does not include Ash's sister or best friend, further emphasising this is more of a remake than a true sequel), Ash still has no real way to escape the haunted woods and decides to defend himself from the demons inside the cabin, only to be joined by some strangers, one of whom is the daughter of the archaeologist who discovered the Book of the Dead which started everything and they work together to banish the demons permanently. Bruce Campbell returns as Ash and is delightfully hammy in the role. Everything he says and does, from the corny lines to his facial expressions, make me burst out in laughter. The other actors do a decent job, but Campbell just steals the show.Being on a much higher budget than the first Evil Dead means that the special effects are much more lavish and impressive than the first movie which really spectacular uses of animatronics and great monster designs not to mention the Ray Harryhausen style stop motion animations. It is a visual feast for the eyes.If there is anything that this movie has that is inferior to the first, it's that, having more of an emphasis on comedy, it is less atmospheric and spooky than the first Evil Dead which is a real shame, in my opinion however it is still entertaining and I love it more than the first Evil Dead.If you enjoyed the first Evil Dead and have not seen this movie, then it is a must-see, with hilarious slap-stick comedy, fantastic special effects and a brilliant main character. "},{"Title":"A Genuine Review of The Evil Dead II","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Evil Dead 2 is a fantastic sequel to an already excellent original. Evil Dead 2 is sort of like a sequel/remake if that makes any sense. Evil Dead 2 is about Ash heading up to an isolated cabin in the forest with his girlfriend for a little R and R. Things go from 0 to 60 when Ash decides to read a passage from an ancient,evil book. Then we are introduced to a group of people that are also headed to the cabin to research the book when they find a bloodied Ash spinning strange tales of possession and death. Soon the vengeful demons come back for another round but this time the group is prepared and they put up quite a fight.I personally like this one better than the original but that is just me. If you are a horror comedy fan see this flick, you will love it. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Good, but not as good as the first one.","Date":"24 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm in the camp that says that there is more to movie making than special effects, and if it's a really good movie the budget doesn't matter. Evil Dead 1 seemed much more intense, and the demons seemed much more demonic. Evil Dead I was just more in your face. I'm glad I watched it since I'm crawling through the zombie genre classics, but really don't classify it as a must see. I'd say watch Evil Dead I, Return of the Living Dead, Dawn of the Dead, Dead Alive, and maybe Planet Terror if you're still in the mood for zombies, but again PT is not a must see in my opinion either. Mainly because I seem to have an aversion to Tarrantino as an actor. Love him as a director, but he just gets on my nerves as an actor. Still planning on watching Army of Darkness, but honestly I'm about zombied out. "}{"Title":"Evil Dead 2 Different.","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I watched The Evil Dead I instantly fell in love with it. And when I was told there was a sequel I said Hell yeah gotta buy it! I put it in the DVD player and was instantly confused. It doesn't leave off with the first one. It tells a completely different story. The original started with five people heading toward a cabin in the woods. Then in this they dropped three of them. But that wasn't to bad. I could have lived with that until I began to notice Sam Raimi started to take more of a comedic approach toward this movie. In the first one it was grueling terror as said in the sub title. But in this one, it was as if they put the three stooges in a horror flick. Still a good movie, but was disappointed in the changes made. "},{"Title":"Blood Guts and Happy Times!","Date":"22 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" !before you start watching!While i didn't grow up in the 80's I stumbled upon this movie with little interest. I didn't read any reviews I didn't have any expectations i didn't have a clue what i was in for!Now i can truly say, this is the best horror/comedy franchise ever! The graininess...the other worldlyness! depraved and hilarious yet fantastic! the camera work is ingenious the low budget element really helps this movie. i love every thing about this movie... its magic! because of its vague cartoony out of this world realism that seeps through every weird part of the brain and slowly starts to make you laugh out loud while you watch... ) absolute horror and comedy gold! Sam Raimi is genius! Bruce campbell the man!Its about overacting! weirdness.... and just provocative goodyness! Gore Satire , and realms which no man dares to go!!!!Enjoy this fine movie!Its not for everybody, But this is a work of art people! "},{"Title":"You've got to (severed) hand it to them!","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Here we are with the absolute classic follow up to the absolute classic that was Sam Raimi's classic The Evil Dead...absolutely. Evil Dead 2 (sometimes subtitled Dead by Dawn) which was written and directed by Sam Raimi and co written by his old buddy Scott Spiegel was released in cinemas in late 1987. Upon release it was seen as little more than a cult film, but I think people generally agree that it's grown into much more than that over the years and is 'officially' (probably) a real quality, classic and original film.At its heart it is essentially a 'remake' of the first film with a bigger budget, the first Evil Dead (Raimi's debut 'proper' film), released in the early eighties was made on an extremely low budget for that kind of squelchy, horror nonsense. The film starts off with our 'hero' Ashley Williams (played by the king of B movies Bruce Campbell) and his girlfriend Linda driving out to a remote cabin in the woods for a romantic getaway. Things soon turn, um, 'undead-ish' however, when they play an old recording of passages read aloud from the book of the dead, this 'kills' the romantic bit and they soon just want to getaway! This awakes an unknown, evil presence in the woods, something that's never-quite-seen (until the epic conclusion of the film that is). This leads to the following 90 minutes of gory, cartoon splatter! Upon release there was a fair bit of confusion regarding the beginning of the film. The sequence in which Ash and Linda drive out to the cabin and play the tape was actually more of a 'recap' from the first film to bring us up to speed (apparently, due to copyright and ownership, sequences from the first film weren't allowed to be used for the beginning of Evil Dead 2 at the time). Some people weren't sure why Ash would bring 'another' Linda back to the cabin he barely escaped from in the original, and while Ash isn't exactly portrayed as the brightest of characters I'm sure he's not quite stupid enough to go back and spend another weekend in that horror hideaway, no matter how cheap it is to rent!Evil Dead 2 starts 'properly' with the sequence where Ash is forced through the forest by the evil&#x85;.'force'&#x85;thing, which directly follows the first film's ending (the last shot of the original Evil Dead is of the force&#x85;thingy...smashing through the cabin and slamming into Campbell's screaming face). Ash is flung through the air and crashes into a giant tree, after slamming to the ground and into a sizeable puddle; he emerges temporarily possessed by the evil force. Night is driven away as the sun comes up and Ash reverts to his former self only to pass out again. When he awakens, we realize he's slept through the entire day and there follows a mad dash back to the cabin to escape the newly awakened force&#x85;..thingy. One of the great things about Evil Dead 2 is that from this point it never lets up! Ash is literally flung from one terrible event to the next for the rest of the film with barely a moment to recover from the last scene. Some of the highlights include a show down with his half buried, headless girlfriend (which he has to hack up at the end of the first movie), an elaborate sequence in which Campbell - proving he's the world's greatest actor (unofficially) &#x96; battles his own possessed hand&#x85;.then lops it of with a chainsaw and the climactic battle with Henrietta, the 'witch in the cellar'.The fully 'zombied up' Henrietta is played by Sam Raimi's younger brother Ted, who, along with Raimi's car (a delta '73 oldsmobile) has appeared in numerous Raimi films including Drag me to Hell and the Spider-man trilogy. The brilliant, over the top special effects were created by (the then 'up and coming') KNB group comprising of Greg Nicotero, Howerd Berger and Robert Kurtzman, who've gone on to do practically every special effect in every film since (including Land of the dead, Ghost Ship, 13 Ghosts and even Kill Bill vol1). An interesting fact (or not) is that the blood colour was changed from red for the most part to either green, black or at one point yellow in an effort to avoid the film being 'unrated', which would've limited distribution and screenings at certain cinemas. This also adds to the overall comic book or 'cartoony' look, much in the same way the famous 'crushed crayon' red blood did for the original Dawn of the Dead (ahh, another classic). While we're on facts that might be interesting but probably aren't, cabin in Evil Dead 2 was all a set, recreated in the gymnasium of a local school. The 'actual' cabin burned down shortly after filming of the first movie was completed&#x85;so, there you go! Not wanting to spoil the (presumably black) magic, but if you look closely during the scene in which Ash is chased through the cabin at the beginning, the shots are angled a little too high and you can actually see where the set ends, but you have to be a 'special' kind of nerd to have spotted that&#x85;.um&#x85;&#x85;. "},{"Title":"Camp classic of horror comedy","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Directed by Sam Raimi, written by Sam Spiegel, and starring lovable ham Bruce Campbell, Evil Dead 2 (also known as Evil Dead 2 - Dead By Dawn) continues Ash Williams' (Campbell) unfortunate saga in a remote cabin in the woods, where a group of evil spirits possess the living, turning them into screeching, gooey, and hilarious monsters, after being summoned by readings from The Book Of The Dead.If you have seen The Evil Dead (1981) then be prepared for even crazier shenanigans as Ash fights for his life, even to the point of cutting off his own arm It got into my hand and it went bad then attaching a chainsaw to the stump. Filled with terrific one-liners, and Raimi's trademark directing style utilized to perfect effect, Evil Dead 2 raises the level of camp at least one big notch up from the first film. The Evil Dead was scary and campy, Evil Dead 2 is pure horror satire.GROOVY! is this particular film's standout catchphrase, and is another one forever linked with Campbell - his collaborations with Sam Raimi have resulted in such classic camp films as the first in the trilogy The Evil Dead, then Evil Dead 2,Army Of Darkness (1992), and have also spawned several video games based on the films, with Campbell lending his voice. "},{"Title":"a gruesome pleasure of a classic gross flick of gore","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Late at night. A cabin in the middle of dark woods. Strange growling noises outside. Blissfully oblivious to the dangers lurking in the dark, one couple passes time playing piano and dancing. An idyllic image is pretty quickly shattered as some ghost or other monster (most likely, the one lurking in the dark) shatters the window glass and kidnaps the girl. After literally several seconds, the poor and innocent creature is transformed into a zombie and throws herself at her frightened-to-death boyfriend. Fortunately, playing the piano is only one of many of his talents. The guy takes a shovel and cuts off the zombie-girlfriend's head. (That is a razor-edged shovel, mind you.) Then, before the evil force also turns him into a zombie, the sun comes up and drives the evil away in an almost cleansing-the-soul moment. The guy is safe&#x85; for one scene.This atmospheric opening is but a taste of what follows. What's in store for us is lotsa incantations, otherworldly monsters, screaming chicks, zombie-mothers and ghost-fathers, and, on top of that, like a cherry on a cupcake, there is a chainsaw! When the couple from the opening, Ash (Bruce Campbell) and Linda (Denise Bixler), play a weird recording, they hear incantations read by a Professor Raymond Knowby. The recording summons up some evil creatures from another world/dimension/afterlife (choose the correct). What the professor reads are the passages from Necronomicon (rings any bells, HPL fans out there?). Any child knows you never read from Necronimicon out loud, dah! And you most certainly don't record it! (The professor should be renamed Knownot, not Knowby.) By the time things start to make twisted sense to Ash, there enters another four characters. Only one of them is important the professor's daughter Annie (Sarah Berry). The evil possesses different inanimate objects so our characters are pretty much in a deadly trap inside the cabin. Going outside is no good either since the evil also possesses the trees and the woods. They only thing left &#x97; to fight back.(...) The rest of my review's on my movie blog. Check it out http//queenofthegrubs.wordpress.com/2011/08/01/verve/ "},{"Title":"Groovy . . .","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When Ash (Bruce Campbell) decides to take his girlfriend, Linda, away for a romantic weekend he gets more than he bargained for. Upon playing a tape in the cabin they're staying at, Ash releases an unseen force which brings the forest to life &#x96; and his weekend to a halt.Sam Raimi, now with a bigger budget, decided to employ all the over the top effects he couldn't afford when he directed the original. This remake/sequel is as good as it gets for most horror aficionados, but many argue its existence was unnecessary. It's the film that started Sam Raimi's career and a step into Hollywood for Bruce Campbell's chin (inside joke).The first film was made on a shoe-string budget and quickly reached cult status due to its creative use of very little. The second had a lot to live up to and it's not hard to see why the team were happy to rehash it.Direction 9/10 (Sam Raimi is hungry for it. You can see him forming as a director) Cinematography 8/10 (Peter Deming really used every part of the budget to make it work) Editing 9/10 (Fantastic combination of shots to over-animate the performances) Acting 8/10 (Bruce Campbell is the capital B in B-Grade acting. Loved every minute of watching him) Dialogue 7/10 (Sam Raimi and Scott Spiegel ) Sound 7/10 (Some great original concepts here) Effects 9/10 (Not as impressive as the first, taking into regard the budget, but just as effective) Art Direction 9/10 (Randy Bennett & Philip Duffin never let it go flat throughout the film) Costumes 7/10 (Vicki Graef & Randall Ouzts did a good job fitting different styles to each character) Music and/or Score 6/10 (The music was a bit choppy in many parts and not very powerful)Total Score 79/100The chemistry between Raimi & Campbell is what makes this such a treat to watch. Their hunger to explore new territory and courage to experiment is motivation enough to get any amateur film maker excited. If you like fun films and feel like a quirky horror, you've come to the right place. "},{"Title":"Swallow this","Date":"27 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For those of us who enjoy a little humor with our gore, this is the cream o' the crop. There are a ton of reviews here so I'll keep it brief. If you are expecting to be outright scared throughout this is the wrong flick for you. Expect a solid amount of stooge type gags and characters created, more or less, to get killed off. If you have an issue with many horror movies taking themselves a bit too seriously, check this one out. I first saw this one when I was about 7 which might have distorted my view on reality quite a bit. What can I say? There is something about the Bruce Campbell ham and Sam Raimi's twisted creativity that still has me watching this at least once a year for the past 20 years. "},{"Title":"Doesn't make any sense, but very enjoyable","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One night in summer I was bored and decided to watch a horror movie on youtube; I decided to watch this movie for some reason and it's not until the movie finished 3 minutes and I was interested in watching more.. I found some parts from this movie to be somewhat very scary like that semi driving demon voice and awkwardly, that tree rape scene was sort of scary as will; don't know why it's scary and it had to somehow freak me out. I have to admit that I think 'Evil Dead 2' makes no sense, but it's very enjoyable; kinda of like those cheesy slasher films that have no good plots but are pretty much watchable. At the end, I thank all the cast and crew that worked on this film. "},{"Title":"the cinematic equivalent of noodles","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Cult films are a funny group of films, some receive that status due to being so bad that they are actually good, other are just iconic and memorable, and you can always have films that started movements in either fashion or culture. If Evil Dead 2 is any of the above it would be the second one - iconic and memorable - due to the moments that are created throughout the film, moments such as 'groovy', ash having a fight with his hand, the camera on the end of a stick, there are loads. But for all the iconic moments, is this example of cult cinema actually any good? Well here's the funny thing - I appreciated the tension and the progression of the plot, the comedy and the scares (however wafer thin), I enjoyed it all. But at the same time I didn't really enjoy it, it felt as though there was something missing. Now maybe, now I've grown up a bit cinematically since I last seen it, so its references and its nuances don't thrill me in the same way that they once did? I don't know. But its definitely missing something, it's like the cinematic equivalent of noodles. You enjoyed it when you were having it, but once it was finished you have a 'is that it' sort of moment. You wish there was more to it. "},{"Title":"Kiss Your Nerves Goodbye!","Date":"20 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead II. After Sam Raimi, Rob Tapert, and Bruce Campbell delivered the Ultimate Experience in Grueling Horror, they're back for more with Evil Dead II Dead by Dawn! After losing all his friends to flesh-possessing demons, Ash is forced to continue to hold up in the cabin and fight off the demons. However, when a group of strangers arrives at the cabin, Ash discovers that one of them may hold the key to stopping the demons once and for all.Evil Dead II is a great follow-up to the original gore-fest. The film does change in it's tone, but the dark humor is fantastic. The special effects are also great. The acting is, as like the first, awful. However, Bruce Campbell is perfect.Even though it's been thoroughly explained many times, people still insist that Evil Dead II is a remake. All one should do is skip the first 7 minutes of simplified recap, and watch on. It's a sequel. They didn't add a II at the end just to sound cool.In the first film, Ash was rather wimpy. However, in Evil Dead II, he's just sick and tired of the constant onslaught of demons, and he becomes the ultimate movie badass. From his chainsaw hand to his sawed-off shotgun, Ash is finally the guy that you don't wanna mess with.So, all in all, Evil Dead II is awesome, about on par with the first. It's funny, it's scary, and it's fun as hell. I loved Evil Dead II. "}{"Title":"A Jewel from Sam Raimi","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is a must-see for any B-rated, hack and slash horror lover. Sam did a great job balancing seriousness with dark comedy and just the right amount of cheese insures a good flavor of entertainment. Sam also gets very creative with the camera throughout the entire movie, shooting scenes and angles that are very unique in their own right. Bruce Campbell also perform one of his two magnum opus performances in this movie (the other one was Army of Darkness). Bruce Campbell plays his character so fluidly that sometimes it is hard to tell that he is acting. The dark comedy within this film is mostly slap stick and situational, but is played off well and sometimes can make you cringe while you laugh. The commentary on this track is priceless and worth listening to at least once. "},{"Title":"This movie redefines 'over the top'","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It isn't just the hyper-movable camera (Raimi trademark by the way). Neither is it the excessive violence and gore. It's when you combine those two with old-fashioned slapstick and other physical humor that you begin to get the idea.If number one in this series of evil dead was an unnerving shock-horror flick, then Evil Dead II (whether you call it a sequel or a remake) is more of a comedy under the guise of a gory attack-of-the-zombies movie. Even so, it has its fair share of things that will jump up and scare you. It certainly has its share of ghoulish comic-book inspired humor that a lot of people might not find funny. Those people might want to bring a bucket. "},{"Title":"BanZai!!!","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is Sam Raimi' finest moment.I gotta say this movie will haunt me for the rest of my days - Bruce Campbell took me to the edge and back again from normality to madness and then back again briefly until they brought out the sequel - Army of Darkness.This Movie made me feel like I was there and that is rare, sure there are others with the same effect but this one added years to my biological state and now I am prepared for the Evil and I hope Sam is filming.But seriously if you haven't watched it then give it a go and be prepared for something special, something of legend in the world of movies. "},{"Title":"A classic horror film","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I haven't seen the original Evil Dead, so it's hard to know what to think of this film. But I really did enjoy it and consider it a classic horror film above most others. It also throws in a rare mixture of comedy to the boil, which contributes highly to my 7/10 rating.It is a VERY well-made horror film; fantastic camera-work, realistic blood and gore, and the actors chosen are perfect for their roles, especially the sexy young Bruce Campbell as Ash; although in this film, you are made to not care for the victims.Is it as genuinely frightening as films like The Exorcist and The Ring? No. Sometimes it is extremely scary, but the main aim is not to scare the living bejesus out of you like I've heard the first one did, but to make you laugh as well, and the result it works better than I had ever imagined.I highly recommend this film to anyone who enjoys a good laugh, and likes their horror movies extremely gory. I know I do.7/10. "},{"Title":"Evil Dead 2 Dead by dawn","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A terrific sequel to a terrific movie. Although it does seem to be less of a sequel as Ash (Bruce Campbell) has pretty much forgotten everything that happened in the first film. My only problem with the movie would be that fact. He begins by taking his girlfriend to a secluded cabin in the woods. Now i'm not sure if this is meant to be the same cabin from the first film or a different one. It never really explains it all that clearly. Ash begins the horrors of the deadite resurrections by playing a tape recorder he finds on a desk. You would think if this was indeed meant to be a sequel instead of a stand alone film then Ash would surely remember what happened the last time the incantations were played. It seems he doesn't though as he plays them anyway. His girlfriend becomes a deadite and she is killed in basically the same fashion as his girlfriend in the first film. The main addition to this film would be the more in depth look at the necronomicon and it's evil ability. This film runs flawlessly into the 3rd part Army of darkness as it continues from the ending of Evil Dead 2 (much in the way Halloween one and two continue into each other). All in all this is a fantastic series and Sam Raimi is a genius. He was one of the very first to mix horror with comedy and the Evil Dead films have plenty of both. I recommend watching the entire series in order, but feel free to skip over part one if you feel the need as it really doesn't affect the other two films (Evil dead 2 and Army of Darkness) and you won't really lose any of the meaning. Evil dead one is more of an introduction to the entire storyline but to receive the full picture it is needed to view all 3 films. I would've included more about the storyline and plot of the film(s) but being the type who would rather see them myself than read about it i'm leaving that up to YOU to decide if you're ready to veiw them. "},{"Title":"An absolute classic....","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This Sam Raimi big-budget debut is sheer brilliance. Largely a tip of the hat to all the classic scare flicks, with a fair share of black humor, and Lovecraftian overtones.See why Bruce Campbell is a cult hero. The female cast members are also very hot. The dialogue, special effects, camera work, music, and acting all work pure magic.This has got to be the only movie I've seen more than five times, with the exceptions of Matrix, Terminator 2, and La Femme Nikita.This is definitely a don't miss. If you're a fan of thrillers, this is one you'll want to own. "},{"Title":"Not straightforward, but a hell of a time","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched this right after the first Evil Dead, expecting it to start up where the last one left off. Not only was it tonally different, but it almost completely change Ash's character, and pretty much rewrote and compressed into the first few moments what had happened in the first movie. This threw me for a loop at first, but by the time Ash's hand was smacking him around the cabin I didn't care. Usually I would like there to be more continuity in both story and character, but Evil Dead 2 makes up for it by being just plain awesome. I did not like that they redid the tree rape from the first movie, because that was one of my all time favorite horror scenes. But I forgive Raimi these little things, because he made a fun, campy flick for schlock fans everywhere. Who else found themselves chanting Stop hitting yourself! Stop hitting yourself! during the hand scene? "},{"Title":"Priceless and over the top!!!","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i just finished watching ED2 and i can say it's the best gore-black-comedy that has ever crossed my gore-terror thirsty mind... i'll check army of darkness tomorrow, but i can say undoubtedly that if you loved ED1, then this one will make you cry for more!!! but you'll cry with blood tears and zombie laughs!!! this film is so over the top!!! PLENTY of GORE, BLOOD, ZOMBIES, AWESOME SPECIAL EFFECTS, PAIN and PURE BLACK HUMOUR -> that's right, capital letters!!! it is impossible to stay away from such a master piece!!! there's not one single boring moment in the movie, it's pure terror from the first minute to the most unexpected and unpredictable end!!! the movie hero makes leatherface (the Texas chainsaw massacre) look like a church chorus boy and swallow this is just the most wicked line ever in the gore/terror movie history!!! this movie is a pure show no mercy to people wishing to see cubic litres (not litres) of blood spilling all the time and creative scenes as the dance of the dead bride or the inphamous zombie hand... pure magic and entertainment!!! too bad the scale only goes till 10, the movie makers and the characters should get a 20, and i'm being modest... just run as fast as you can and rent it, and trust me, i'd change a date with a nice girl to stay home watching this masterpiece, it's PRICELESS!!! "},{"Title":"They don't make them like this anymore.","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Good old classic horror movie which delivers everything a horror fan wants. More blood, more limbs, more scares. Overall More fun!Bruce Campbell returns as Ash, the foolish but cool hero who has to fight for his life and kill his friends when they get possessed and turn on him. KNB Effects Group (Kurtzman, Nicotero, Berger) really did an amazing job with this movie. The amount of monsters, limbs and all others kinds of special makeup effects alone is worth watching this movie.Once again directed by Sam Raimi.Funny, Scary and one hell of a ride! 10/10 "},{"Title":"The Dawn of Splatstick","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Shaun of the Dead. Undead. Dead & Breakfast. Bubba Ho-Tep. Without Evil Dead II, it is more than likely that none of those films would exist. This film really did usher in a brand new form of both horror and comedy. A form that is now lovingly referred to as splatstick.Before I even begin the plot summary, I will say that if you have not yet seen The Evil Dead, DO NOT watch Evil Dead II. By no means is it a stand-alone film. That said, the story is of Ash (Campbell), the hero from the first film, who, like in the first film, must do battle with evil demons summoned by the ancient Book of the Dead. That's really about it.So what is it that makes Evil Dead II so special and so different from The Evil Dead? What makes it more than a cheap rehash? The answer is simple humor. The Evil Dead was a low-budget classic of frightening, gory horror, and while there are certainly some very funny moments of extremely black humor (it somehow manages to make a man decapitating his girlfriend with a shovel seem hilarious), it was a rather intense and horrifying ride. Evil Dead II, however, is just the opposite. It has moments of frightening horror, but it is really a screwball comedy reminiscent of The Three Stooges (whom director Sam Raimi is an avid fan of). Gags include a projectile eyeball flying into someone's mouth, guffawing possessed furniture, a possessed headless corpse putting a chainsaw in its own neck, and my personal favorite, a sequence involving a possessed severed hand and a copy of Ernest Hemingway's A Farewell To Arms. Trust me, it all sounds much darker in writing than it is in the film; it's all quite light-hearted (as much as possible considering the subject matter, anyway). This type of bloody macabre humor would come to be known as splatstick, and would be utilized in many more films to follow.Yes, there were a few splatstick films prior to Evil Dead II (Re-Animator comes to mind), but what really sets II apart is its sheer inventiveness. Everything just feels so fresh and exciting, even today, as the film is approaching its twentieth anniversary.And of course, no review of this film would be complete without at least one reference to B-movie icon Bruce Campbell's performance, which can only be described with the word awesome. He's not quite achieved the level of bada*s-ness he's at in the second Evil Dead sequel, Army of Darkness (which is in a class all its own), but he's getting there.Evil Dead II's influence is widespread and undeniable. While it is personally my least favorite of the Evil Dead series (I look to The Evil Dead for horror and Army of Darkness for comedy; II feels like a slightly diluted mix of the two), it is still a classic and essential viewing for any self-respecting horror fan.8/10 "}{"Title":"The Ultimate Experience in Gruelling Terror Just Got Better...","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Back in the day, when I had a full head of hair still and a growing lust for horror cinema, a friend gave me a battered-looking videocassette to view. The label read EVIL DEAD II in a faded red typeface. Being English, I had no clue what to expect, I'd never heard of the original EVIL DEAD as it had been swept up in the BBFC's roundup of so-called Video Nasties(movies deemed likely by a short-sighted and infantile board of censors to deprave & corrupt). Either way, the weekend arrived, my house filled up with friends, the tape went in&#133; and we were changed forever.EVIL DEAD II a sequel to the original EVIL DEAD &#150; the tragic tale of a group of teenagers assaulted by demonic forces while stranded in a remote cabin in the wilderness. EVIL DEAD II replayed the entirety of the first film (with several differences) in ten minutes, then brought more young folk out to the cabin to get generally mistreated by the demonic powers circling their cabin refuge like sharks at a shipwreck. Our hero is Ash, an average, slightly dumb guy who's out at the cabin with his girlfriend Linda. They find a tape recorder left by the previous tenant (a history professor working on the translation of an artefact he has discovered), and upon playing the tape release a demonic force into the woods around them. Linda gets possessed, Ash decapitates her with a shovel and then gets possessed himself (albeit temporarily). Plagued by demon-induced visions and a Linda that wont stay in buried, Ash descends into madness. Meanwhile four more victims arrive in the shape of the prof's daughter, a fellow colleague and a couple of local hicks out to make a quick buck. The circle is drawn, the demon's attacks build up in pace, and you just know it's all going to end in tears.EVIL DEAD II is like a ride on the best ghost train imaginable. It does not let up until the very end. Even the most ADHD-gripped teen can appreciate how balls-to-the-wall this movie is. Each gag is rapidly followed by another. I use the term gag as this movie, despite being filled with gore and violence, is funny. I mean fall on you ass laughing funny. Even when people are dying you have a malicious smile on your face. People get drenched in blood and goo, accidentally swallow eyeballs, get possessed and generally go mental, corpses are reanimated, trees come to life and attack and disembodied hands run amok. All the while the movie's tongue moves not an inch from its cheek. If you don't at least crack a smile at this film, you're probably dead already.Without a doubt though, this is Bruce Campbell's movie. As Ash he steals the show with bouts of world-class lunacy, crass cowardice, hammy scenery-chewing, physical comedy and occasional heroism. Ash is indeed a superhero in the making in this movie, soon after to become one of the greatest horror heroes ever. When he finally gets his act together to become the hero and dons his hero's armour I defy anyone not to think they're watching one of the coolest scenes in cinema history. Ash might be an idiot, but you'd want him at your six if demons were attacking your neighbourhood.The script is at times a bit limited and clunky, and some of the other performances are minimal. Also the effects sometimes look seriously bargain-basement. It doesn't matter in the slightest though. This is a film made with real passion, a sense of humour, and no desire to do anything that scare and delight the viewer. It's horror from a simpler age; one not afraid to be silly or gross in equal parts. It's classics like this that have cemented Sam Rami's career as a director to watch long before SPIDERMAN. EVIL DEAD II is without a doubt one of the greatest horror movies ever made. And if you've never seen it, there's only one thing you can do. Go out now, rent the tape for yourself&#133; and join the rest of us in the world of the Ultimate Experience in Gruelling Terror&#133; Come on&#133; join us&#133; join us&#133; join us&#133; "},{"Title":"Groovy","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The sequel to The Evil Dead. The first movie was an excellent example how you can be creative if you don't have the money for a lot of effects. And thus playing with camera-work to create the illusion that there is something happening.In this sequel, which is partly a remake, we see some of the same scenes as in The Evil Dead, but made with more money. Sometimes good, sometimes not so good. But Raimi adds something more to his film. Ash, the main character, was kind of a wimp in the first film but now quickly grows into a mean moron who is a wonder in one-liners. If you want too see a movie with historic one-liners (and hilarious scenes), you should see this one. At one point in the movie, Ash just keeps spitting them out. Again this is a nice masterpiece from Raimi, who sets his name as the inventor of horror movies with humor and also develops the character for the third film. "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A very funny horror film - whether the intention was to be funny is unknown, but the poor special effects and acting leads me to that belief. And don't watch it to be frightened, its low budget and quality certainly wont make you jump...Bruce himself is not too bad occasionally, but aside from the odd bit here and there, he either over acts or doesn't at all.The special effects are poor, the best best bit being the vortex at the end. It was made cheaply and certainly appears so.The ending is a fair surprise and was certainly designed to allow a sequel to be made. "},{"Title":"It is simply a great movie. Period.","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There is nothing I enjoy more than sitting in the dark, by myself or with a girl, with a bowl of popcorn and watching a horror movie. Even though any horror movie will do, Evil Dead II is by far the best of the best. Its not too scary for the girl, and the comedy isn't all that bad either. I mean, it is a B-movie and the acting isn't all that great, but if your in the mood for some monster-killing, tongue-and-cheek action, it is absolutely perfect. The best part of the entire movie would have to be the scenes before the end. One that comes to mind is the chainsaw modification scene. Although the majority of the ideas in this movie are the same ideas from the first movie, any viewer would have to give Sam Raimi credit for the chainsaw idea. I mean, it was completely original. Not to mention that just that scene alone has generated a staggering fan base. So, if you don't want to watch Evil Dead II for its entertainment value or for its comedy, at least watch it for the chainsaw action.(note Evil Dead Fistful of Boomstick IS AWESOME!!!) "},{"Title":"Best Horror-Comedy I've ever seen","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yep, its my opinion that this movie may be the best horror-comedy ever. Just a tad better than its predecessor, the first Evil Dead introduced the world to the warped mind of Sam Raimi, and a new master of physical comedy in the young Bruce Campbell. It was cheaply done, cheaply acted and looked cheesy...yet it was brilliant. There wasn't really too much comedy in the first one until the last half hour really, but was a lot scarier than most movies that are supposed to make the audience tremble with fear (i.e. Darkness Falls).Then, the second one came. A tad less frightening, a tad less disturbing, but hell of a lot funnier. It was almost a perfect mix of macabre images and silly humor, and is probably the closest thing to it to this date (let's see if Shaun of the Dead is up to the test). There are scenes that I will still remember, no matter how long it's been since I've seen the movie. What might be considered it's biggest flaw in the cheap special effects might be it's redeeming quality. With CGI getting shoved down our throats at every turn in an action movie, it's nice to see those cheesy effects which made the 80's horror movies so funny at times. And I'm not too sure if bullet time would have worked with scenes such as the guy getting thrown head first into a tree trunk. And quite frankly, I'm glad I never will.8/10  "},{"Title":"kickass movie, one of the best...","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Way back when I first saw this masterpiece I was amazed. I was amazed with how well-made, how funny and how brilliant it was. It blew me away! Bruce Campbell is, ad always will be one of my favorites much because of this movie. He's soooo funny. And the gore, and inventiveness of angles, sound fx and funny lines are put together in such a great blen you just gotta love it!Sam Raimi will be remembered for this. Not spider-man, not a simple plan, for the love of the game or any other... He'll be remembered for this true quality, make-you-laugh- hysterical horror-comedy that takes you places you've never been or even thought existed. This is a true classic. IT ROCKS!  "},{"Title":"Cabin+Woods+Evil Spirits = Hilarious Horror!","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sporting the tagline, `Kiss your nerves goodbye' - Evil dead 2 is essentially a re-make of Sam Raimi's first Evil dead movie. This time round the movie's bigger budget is noticeable in the effects department. However, the movie remains loyal by weaving in and out the original storyline. It differs with its slightly more tongue-in-cheek approach with more gore, more frights and an interesting twist at the end allowing for the classic pun in the third movie in the series The Medieval Dead.Bruce Campbell is back in his superb role as Ashley, the store clerk looking forward to a quiet weekend away with his girlfriend in a cabin in the woods. His weekend turns out to be anything but quiet. Inadvertently, he summons evil spirits when he finds spooky incantations on a tape recorder belonging to a Professor researching into the phenomena. When his girlfriend is possessed, Ashley is forced to kill her and buries her out in the woods. But she doesn't stay in the ground long. She returns to the cabin to aide the evil spirits in wrecking havoc and generally making Ashley's life hell. And they succeed with horrific and hilarious results.This is a gem of a movie paying tribute to the original, which in it's own right is an all time classic having inspired and influenced a whole new genre of horror flicks. The camera work, in particular the first person POV of the `demon/evil spirit' is unique for its time, producing astonishing results. Bruce Campbell's role is highly commendable. His facial expressions alone allow the audience to empathise with his agony. The film does lack the eerie spookiness of the original but makes up with the laughs and the gore that is exaggerated for maximum effect. A must for horror fans!  "},{"Title":"An unexpected masterpiece in horror/comedy","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  * MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS *First I saw The Evil Dead. I was very impressed with the whole movie and considered it to be one of the best horror movies ever made. Then I saw Army of Darkness, and was extremely dissapointed. The movie I had heard called 'the definitive cult movie' turned out to be an episode of Friends for Dungeons and Dragons fans. I talked at length about my reactions to both movies, and people generally said, You will probably still like Evil Dead 1 the best, because Evil Dead 2 is a cross between the original and Army of Darkness, so when I finally sat down to watch it, needless to say I had my doubts. But I needn't have worried.Evil Dead 2 is the ultimate horror/comedy for complete idiots (like me for example). People who will laugh at pretty much anything that is tasteless enough.So many classic scenes, all involving the legendary Bruce Campbell and some really, really screwed up zombies.I cannot recommend this movie enough. It can't be compared to either the first, or Army of Darkness, because the films are all just too different. "},{"Title":"A quality remake with superb horror make up.","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Poor old Ash he is just not having a good time with these holiday breaks in the log cabins, far up in the woods. Maybe he should of chose a different vacation. Confusing to some people this film may be, why would Ash return to the cabin after what happened in the past? I would say this film is a remake of the original rather than a sequel. The makeup and effects are fantastic throughout the film, i actually think part 2 was better than the first, the same as Aliens was better than Alien. There are not many horrors out there, especially the 80's type, where the sequel was better than the first. The story line is very similar to the first film but more detail and depth is incorporated into part 2. The gore level is pretty good, i think sadly some scenes may of been cut or removed before video release, but still there are a good few demons and demonic creatures popping up throughout the film. The ending involving the tree was too much and for me totally ruined the end. The scene with the chainsaw and the eye of the tree was over the top and should never have been used, but still it was a brilliant film. "},{"Title":"A stylish and slick horror movie that's not afraid to make fun of itself","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The problem with most horror movies is that they take themselves way too seriously.  Fortunately, 'Evil Dead 2', doesn't fall into this category. 'Dead' proves to be as funny as it is gut-wrenching.  The plot involves a man (Bruce Campbell) trapped in a cabin haunted by hellish demons.  Sure, some of the scares are standard horror gimmicks (i.e. zombies, severed hands, etc.). No matter, the film's strength lies in its satirical approach toward itself.  Most of the horror in the movie is purposefully made over-the-top and it works, in terms of humor. It's also a kick to watch Bruce Campbell, who also starred in the first 'Evil Dead', act like crazed psycho throughout the movie. 'Evil Dead 2' provides plenty of laughs for those with a strong stomach. Rating (7/10) "}{"Title":"AWESOME","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was VERY good. The effects were a little bad, but it didn't ruin the plot. I'm kinda confused if its a remake of the original or a sequel!? The part with Ash's hand being cut off and it running off, then showing Ash the finger still cracks me up. There were ALOT of funny parts and ALOT of jumpy parts. I give this movie a 10 out of 10! PURE GENIUS! "},{"Title":"Best of trilogy","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As far as I'm concerned, Evil Dead 2 is easily the best of the series. It strikes the perfect balance of balls-to-the-wall horror (as seen in Evil Dead) and humour (as seen in Army of Darkness). Bruce Campbell's second go at playing Ash also results in a much more interesting character. He's more charismatic than in the first film, but avoids the cartoonish action-hero version of Ash seen in the third film.The movie is so full of memorable scenes that it's easy to excuse the occasional bit of bad acting or low production values. Besides, I don't even think the effects look as bad as some people claim. I don't care what anyone says, I still think the puppet monsters and stop-motion effects are just as (if not more) convincingthan most of the CGI creations in many modern action movies. It all adds to the atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Gore you say??","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After buying Peter Jackson's Braindead some time ago, I decided to give the extreme gore genre a try. I tried another of PJ's movies, Bad Taste, and I didn't like it at all. After this mistake, I did some research, so I wouldn't end up with another (in my opinion) bad movie. After doing some internet surfing I decided to buy Evil Dead 2. After buying it started watched it; and here it comes It was a huge disappointment! The biggest disappointment was probably the gore. A couple of times in the movie, you'll see huge amounts of blood squirting from the monsters, the walls etc. That could have been really cool/fun, if it wasn't for one thing The blood is yellow, black or some other lame color! (They did it to get the age rating down). Blood should red, End of story! There was one scene where the blood actually had the real color, and in my opinion it was the best scene in the movie. Maybe `blood of all kinds of colors' will work for you, but I think it's the worst idea in film history! And to all those people who, for some reason, think there's a lot of gore in it Where is it? You don't even see Ash cut of his own hand! (which would have looked cool, if you ask me). The best features of the movie, is actually the `making of' included on the DVD. And as you might figure out; When the `making of' is better than the actual movie, how good can it be?I know a lot of people are calling it the best movie ever made, but that yellow blood just totally ruined it for me. Who knows if you'll like the movie, but it sure doesn't work for me. "},{"Title":"Join Us! In Watching The Best Horror Sequel","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the best horror sequel I have ever seen.  The new characters and new special effects separates it from the original Evil Dead as its own movie.  I'm amazed that the supporting actors and actresses have not been in many other movies in the past 16 years.  Bruce Campbell is better in this than in the original because he has more confidence in delivering his lines.  I don't even remember this movie coming out in the movie theater but I wish I had so that I could have seen it then.  The great directing by Sam Raimi is there as well.  He knows how to deliver the visuals.   "},{"Title":"Funny Gory classic!","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dark laffs and plenty o'fun can be found in Evil Dead II. Sequel? I dunno. But it is good. Bruce is great as Ash! Who's laughing now? Now that's funny! Rent it as a horror comedy with some good scares. Rated R for language, violence, gore, and two nude lady corpses! "},{"Title":"The best of the three.","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Perhaps there is some confusion about this movie.  The first ten minutes or so is a condensed version of the whole story of the first movie.  When Ash gets put through the trees and whatnot, the second movie begins.  It is the same night in the cabin and all, but a totally different story.  Bruce Campbell pretty much carries this movie from start to finish.  All of the sequences from the first movie are carried out in this one, to a point where all questions are answered.  His girlfriend is unearthed and comes back to settle the score.  Lot of great special effects in this one.  But, they were threatened by the MPAA, so most of the blood is rainbow colored.  You won't see much red blood is this flick.  Sam Raimi's brother Ted gives his best performance to date as the late Henrietta Knowby.  Someone's in my fruit cellar, someone with a fresh soullllll.  Bruce teams up with Prof. Knowby's daughter to send the evil forces back to their origin.  Seems that she has a major in translating the necronomacon.  After a couple of incantations from the book, a portal is opened, forcing all the spirits back in, and Ash as well.  Some of my favorite parts are the Henrietta skit, the possession of Ed Getley, and the whole evil hand skit.  Lot of funny moments in this one. And when all the objects are animated in the parlor.  This was a cabin completely constructed by the film crew, since the original cabin in Tenn. was torn down shortly after the first movie.  If you look close enough, you can see where they forgot to put the ceiling up in a couple of shots, especially when Ash is running through the length of the house.  You can also notice The Three Stooges inspiration in some of the gags, especially the eye in the mouth bit.  Pure slapstick throughout the movie.  You should notice the same style of effects in From Dusk Till Dawn, because it is the same company.  I have heard that Rodriguez kept saying Give me something like Evil Dead 2 through the whole shooting of Dusk.  This movie is in my top 10 of all time for all the zany antics and Ash's super ego.  The ultimate protagonist.  I rate this movie 4/5 for the multiple replay value. I watched this movie every day for a week after I got it on DVD.  You can pick it up almost anywhere for under 15 bucks.  But be sure to get the version with all the interviews, bonus footage, and making of.  You really gain more appreciation after viewing the bonus footage.  And if you already own the vhs, flip the cover over and read the liner notes.  I found them by accident.  Only printed on the animated cover though.  Don't miss this one. I personally think it beats the hell out of Spiderman and Raimi should return to his roots.  And I don't mean more Darkman films.  I think that Evil Dead 2 is the perfect marriage of comedy/horror/gore.  "},{"Title":"Fun horrorfest with a twist","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was hilarious and immensely creepy at the same time. It's Blair Witch Pro with a gory comedy twist. Horror must have been invented for movies like this. A must see for fans of horror movies, and a high recommendation for all those others who have the stomach for it. When i watch this one i grab myself a martini and put on a happy smile. Weeeeeeeee! "},{"Title":"I'll swallow your soul!","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was so bloody that you can't eat popcorn while you watch it. It's not as good as the first but really close. They put a lot of funny stuff for when he went crazy. The ending was a bit wierd with the chainsaw but still really cool. This movie has redefined the meaning of horror forever. No movie can compare to it.Sam Rami is the king of horror. I give it a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film always seems to get mixed reactions to it. But im gonna keep it simple this is the best in the series and the humour helps make the movie more camp and enjoyable. Ok so it acts like a remake more than a sequel but there are reasons why it seemed this way and when u understand it, you understand this movie.Bruce Campbell plays out rather dumb hero Ash who since the first movie has grown into a demon slaying fighting machine. Overall this movie is enjoyable and if you fail to enjoy this at all maybe just slightly there's something wrong with you!Overall rating ***1/2 stars out of **** "},{"Title":"Different yet the same as the other two films. A good movie.","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead II is a smooth transition from the horror of the first film to the comedy of the third. There is plenty of blood and gore like the first film, yet it is presented in a funny way. His severed hand, the way it talks, is like the humor in AoD. The deadites are still eerie but start becoming more like cartoon demons. The first Evil Dead had rather spooky deadites compared to the other two, but the comedy makes Evil Dead II and AoD good movies. Also, In my opinion, this is somewhat of a remake. The original 4 friends are not even shown in the beginning rehash of the first. The original Evil Dead should be a different movie and have EDII be a new movie. It makes more sense because of the humor aspect of EDII and AoD.Along with the story. Ash is stuck in a cabin in the woods and had just killed his possessed girlfriend. He starts to go insane it seems, trying to get away from the Evil. At the same time, a woman whose parents lived in the cabin, along with her boyfriend and two local rednecks, go to the cabin. Once there, all five have problems with the Evil and we get to see how they deal with it. It is a very good prequel to AoD. The only thing that bothers me with this movie is when one of the people turn into a deadite, it spews green blood when Ash starts hacking. Every other deadite has red blood and it looks gorier. Green blood takes the gore away. It not a person anymore. Still an entertaining movie. "}{"Title":"steady-cam and gore","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After its first apparition THE EVIL is back, but also Ash is back!The same place, the same beautiful cottage, a different slashed girl and the same guys' misfortune. Is Ash remaking himself?At the beginning he makes the same errorslistening a tape,open a book(reading is dangerous in horror films).THE answer to the question is NO; Ash is stronger and meets a new friend his electric saw!!! This film isn't  considered from critics as a good film and by the way is considered ugly if compared to the first evil dead. I don't think so. Bruce Campbell plays a fantastic role and Sam Raimi uses a 'true' steady-cam in a perfect way. It is true that the story is the same of evil dead, but it isn't possible to define this film only as a remake. It is more pyrothecnich and pleasant to see. The ending is the product of a person who is completely fool but is too much strange and unbelievable that it sounds good. "},{"Title":"Here's the real deal to the begining of this ridiculous classic","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Lots of people think the begining of Evil Dead II is a remake of the original. The truth is, when filming EDII, the creators couldn't get the rights to use footage from the first film, Evil Dead. So, Sam Raimi had to redue the scenes to make his recap of Evil Dead. When Ash and Linda go to the cabin, Ash finding the Book of the Dead, Linda becoming possessed etc. That was all just a recap of the first film, not an actual remake, even though the actress for Linda was different and Ash's other friends weren't present, it was just kind of a prologue of EDII, to set the basis of the story, just like how in EDII's sequel; Army of Darkness, they do a prologue. But, Evil Dead II's story doesn't actually start until the morning when Ash is found in front of the cabin and then hurled through the trees etc. That was the begining of EDII, the earlier events were just a recap of the first Evil Dead. No, this is not a remake of Evil Dead, this is what happened the morning and following time after the events of Evil Dead. "},{"Title":"Bloody Good","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sam Raimi's Evil Dead II goes just as far as its predecessor...then several steps farther. This is not a bad thing. The movie is a blood-drenched, sugar-happy, nightmare-come-true for horror fans. It's wonderfully imaginative and insane. Raimi fashions a world where almost anything can happen and does.Bruce Campbell's work as Ash is one of the film's greatest assets. Some of its best moments come when Campbell is the only actor onscreen, putting on a sort of slapstick one man show. These scenes would not work without Campbell literally throwing himself into his work, which he does with a vengeance. Give the man a hand.The entire production serves as a fitting centerpiece for a great horror trilogy, as well as a reminder of how much fun a movie can be. "},{"Title":"What the hell was that?","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Now I loved the first Evil Dead, that was awesome and the best of it's genre. I heard from everyone that the sequel was even better, so I just HAD to buy it. But Evil Dead II was very dissapointing. It was neither funny or scary. The jokes are incredibly tasteless and just plain embarassing. The ending is a sack of....nonsense. Strangely enough, everyone else who I watching with agreed with me. This goes in my list of the most overated movies ever, I just don't get what people see in this. I can pull a better film out of my.... "},{"Title":"A nice horror dark comedy cult classic","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead II is one of my favorite non-serious horrors/dark comedies.  There is probably no need for me to even mention the many memorables in this one, already the discussion of countless fans and reviewers all over.  Of course the crawling hand, Book of the Dead, and chainsaw for hand are well known landmarks of this cult classic phenomenon.Bruce Campbell is Ash.  One time I came within 10 feet of him at a bookstore promotional thing.  Ain't that groovy? Also check out Army of Darkness, the medieval time-warped sequel. "},{"Title":"Not a true sequel","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil dead II (dead by dawn) is not a true sequel. It has nothing to do with the original film. According to this movie the original never happened. I like the film and it is the beginning of the transition from Horror (Evil Dead) to Comedy (Army of Darkness) i like film and the few well done one-liners spit out by Ash (our one handed hero) The movie is a must see for ANY horror movie fan. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Sequel to The Ultimate Experience in Grueling Terror","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Horror sequels aren't always what you want them to be. Mostly,they are just in need of desperate cash so the idea of a sequelcomes to them but with Evil Dead 2, they made a difference... 'TheEvil Dead' was a dark, disturbing and plain horrific horror moviethat had you jumping out of your seat but 'Evil Dead 2 Dead byDawn' is a hilarious comedy. Funny, weird and Groovy! This filmhas it all A man mutilating himself (funny, of course), swallowedeyeballs, A severed hand killing people (the inspiration for 1999's'Idle Hands') and, of course, a decapitated dancing corpse. Yes,it's a horror movie with a difference alright and while some fans ofthe original 'Evil Dead' will be dissapointed that this is less horror,more looney tunes, others will be delighted at this film's strangeand original premise Of taking the original film and totally flippingit on it's head, simaliar to what 'Gremlins 2' did a few years later.Unlike that film however, this film picks up right where the originalleft off right at the very second. Ash, after a long demon filled night,is once again attacked by the evil force in the morning and fallsunconscious. Later on when he wakes up, it is almost night andthe horror is starting again. This time, the evil is almost mockinghim to the point where they possess his hand and start killing himwith it. But Ash is soon to be joined by four others, who are alsoseemingly doomed mainly by the strange demon down in thecellar by the name of Henrietta. It's up to Ash to kick some demonbutt. For me, 'Evil Dead 2' just improves on the original but isn'tanywhere near as good as 'Army of Darkness'. Still, the film isentertaining right up to the twist ending and for many this is theultimate in horror comedy. A film that has spawned endlesscopycats, some excellent and some just doing it for cash, 'EvilDead2' is THE original. "},{"Title":"groovy","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yes folks , we have a sequel..and the mother of all sequels it is. Each film in this trilogy is very different in style. Evil Dead was a grusome horror movie with gross out effects ..Evil Dead II however is a gross out comedy with over the top corny effects..and it never gets better than this. This shows Ash's evolution from a wimpy worthless coward to a cowardly madman who takes abuse like no other , and in the end straps on his shotgun and chainsaw and fights deadites in a groovy way.*spoilers possibly*This sequel is alot like the first one , and at the same time nothing like it too. It's basically the same plot , same story , same character Ash getting beat up by demons possessing 2 backwoods hicks , and 2 college students or something..anyway if you saw the first one you pretty much know whats gonna happen..except that this one combines lots of doses of slapstick and humor instead of chills and thrills..and of course it works. Only two directors have been able to mix horror and comedy..Sam Raimi and Peter Jackson..i've never seen it work in that many films with the exception of maybe Return Of The Living Dead.Don't expect much of a horror movie , expect a very rollercoaster comedy horror..and then check out Army Of Darkness for more laughs.10/10 "},{"Title":"WHO'S LAUGHING NOW?","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, me for one.*warning! spoilers herein!*This is the funniest zombie flick ever! Campbell's performance is spectacular, watching him run around, knocking the severed head attached to his hand off walls before being attacked by a headless, chainsaw wielding zombie is one of the most sidesplitting things I've ever seen. and as for the Posessed Hand, well... just pee before you watch this movie, or you'll wet yourself laughing.It should be noted that this movie, while not that scary, is REALLY, REALLY violent and gory. Oh, and the other actors kinda suck, except for Sarah Berry. The special effects aren't great, and there are many continuity errors. But who cares? This is a pizza-and-beer movie, and should be treated as such. Raw entertainment. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Masterpiece!","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is truly an underrated masterpiece. Like a movie made deliberately as a B-Movie, with each goof only adding to the level of fun, this is a flawless movie that is often misunderstood or ignored. Bruce Campbell gives a hilarious performance as Ash, an ordinary moron forced to fight demons in the woods, and the film is brilliantly directed by Sam Raimi. It is the best of the series, though Army of Darkness is close. Few movies are as much fun or as funny. It is easily the best film of its kind. I proudly keep it on my top ten list, between the Seven Samurai and Citizen Kane. You can watch this movie in any frame of mind and be entertained. I highly recommend it. 10/10**** out of **** "}{"Title":"hometown director makes good","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  O.K. so back in 5th grade I vaguely remember a friend telling me about a movie called evil dead in which a woman is raped by trees, and was the scariest thing he had ever seen. Skip ahead three years. The guy who worked at the local 7/11 Portland MI came to our careers class to discuss his film career, which as far as I knew consisted of painting Jason and Freddy in the 7/11 window. Well he told us about getting to visit the set of a low budget horror movie on the day that they shot the scene of a flying eyeball which landed in the mouth of a (future soap opera actress)girl. Now this guy wasn't very reliable(I happen to know he told a girl he had stomach cancer to get laid)but he also showed us a short really cool short Indy Jones spoof from the same director(wouldn't you love to see that)which lent creedance to his story. Imagine my surprise when I put all these pieces together to realize that he was talking about the classic Evil Dead 2 from Sam(Xena,darkman,herc,thegift,spiderman)Raimi.I showed my son ED2 today and can't wait to show him Army of Darkness which I think he'll like even more. And he was really impressed that the wrestling announcer in spidey was Ash. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest, goriest movies ever!","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love this movie, it's violent, it's funny, it's a great movie to watch with your friends and make fun of.  I love Sam Raimi, I love Bruce Campbell, and the scene with the hand is so f****n awsome .  I highly recomend this movie, not so scary, but very funny. I find your lack of faith disturbing "},{"Title":"drop dead laughing...","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok.  The greatest film of all time.  Who is to say it is not?  Midnight Express, Deliverance, Cuckoo's Nest, Clockwork Orange, all had one thing missing while the main character(s) had everything possible go wrong, they did not make me laugh my butt off.  I swear, I fainted the first time I saw this film, and I still need to pause it in order to catch my breath.  I have seen this film probably more times than any other and it never gets stale. Cool thoughts by some who say Ash never left the cabin, it's a continuation of the first Evil Dead.  We all can have theories regarding the Evil Dead/Evil Dead II relationship, but I just think it's funnier to think that Ash, after all he went through the first time, goes back for more abuse. And we are talking the worst possible abuse - beyond any sane person's imagination.  Thank you Sam Raimi, for you are completely insane to have come up with these three great Evil Dead films which are cherished so much by so many.  And thank you Bruce, for you are the King of Comedy. Groovy.PS  To those of you who don't like this film I would like to recommend Blind Waiter, a short by a very young Sam Raimi.  That'll serve you right! "},{"Title":"The way to watch this movie & the original.","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After viewing Evil Dead 2 last night and having seen Evil Dead I last week, I came to this conclusion and it confused me at first.POSSIBLE SPOILERSRent both movies.Watch the first all the way through.   At the end, after he is being chased, pretend that is the intermission.   Throw in Evil Dead 2, and fast forward through the beginning of ED2 to the part where ash is running from the demon (same part as the ending to the first movie).   Start watching.   By watching it this way, you get the full story.   Since all the people died (except for Ash) in the first movie, it simply was not necessary to include them in the beginning of this film.    So Evil Dead I gives you the whole story of events on how the demons are released, who was all at the house, etc.   Evil Dead 2 includes the 15 minutes in the beginning as a general idea of what happened.  All of the major details are intact.   But watching Evil Dead I then skipping over the first 15 minutes of the second movie is a much better way of watching the two because it gives you the FULL story. What details could anyone include in 15 minutes in relating to it's 2 hour predecessor.   SO, if you are confused, ASH DOES NOT GO TO THE HOUSE TWICE. It is the same trip.  )   BRILLIANT, in my opinion.  "},{"Title":"A horror movie classic!","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A classic horror movie. May have been underbudgeted, but great for its time none the less. Own DVD myself of all three of the Evil Dead trilogy. Sam Raimi and Bruce Campell are a magnificent duo. The fruit cellar in Evil Dead 2 is my favorite part of all three. "},{"Title":"Best of the 3","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Nobody else could ever be Ash.  Bruce Campbell sends this movie rocketing from scene one until the end.  He is in top form as the victim of evil and devours the rest of the cast with his outrageous performance.  A loose remake of the original Evil Dead but with a lot more money, better special effects, and truly excellent cinematography.  Absolutely perfect mix of wild comedy and great horror.  Not to be missed! "},{"Title":"A self-loathing send-up of the original Evil Dead film","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ** This review may contain spoilers for both Evil Dead I and II, proceed at your own risk **I viewed Evil Dead I and II back to back, and I find it fitting to post my comments about both movies in a review for Evil Dead II.  I expected Evil Dead II to be a sequel to the first movie, and I was surprised that it wasn't a continuation of the first film.Sam Raimi who directed both films must have received a ton of criticism for the first Evil Dead movie.  The proof is in Evil Dead II.  It's as if Raimi took all the elements of criticism he received as a dare that he couldn't make a movie worse than the first Evil Dead.  Raimi delivers on this dare by taking every point of criticism about the first film, and making these criticized elements worse and cheesier in Evil Dead II.  Evil Dead II comes off as an intentionally sabotaged remake of Evil Dead I.  Some examples you may be asking yourself?Did you find it odd in Evil Dead I that Ash's blood spattered face was always clean and pristine as soon as the camera angle changed for the next scene?  In Evil Dead II Raimi takes this one step further.  The scene in particular that sticks out in my mind  a woman gets showered with enough blood to fill a wading pool.  Her shorts are drenched in blood, leaving a huge stain on them when the blood waterfall finally subsides.  In the next scene her shorts look brand new, there's not a drop of blood on them! Gotta love those new stain resistant Dockers khaki's.Were you p***ed off in the first movie that Ash seemed to have these wonderful antibodies that prevented him from becoming a zombie?  Well that situation is rectified within the first 5 minutes of Evil Dead II. Ladies and Gentlemen please welcome the new and improved half-zombie Ash!Were you bored during the first hour of Evil Dead I when the plot moved slowly to build suspense?   In Evil Dead two as soon as the opening credits stop rolling, we're hit right off the bat with a fast paced `horror' action scene. There is no suspense whatsoever in Evil Dead 2.  The fast and intense pace at which the above mentioned supernatural attack scene occurs speaks as a metaphor for Raimi's reaction to criticism that Evil Dead I moved too slowly.The key plot elements are the same for both movies a destroyed bridge traps a small group of people in a cabin surrounded by an evil possessed forest. The previous occupant of the cabin was a researcher interested in a book of the dead that brought about the demonic possession of the forest and any that entered the cabin. There's a very cool ornamental dagger whose purpose isn't explained in either movie.  Even with the more modern special effects in Evil Dead II, I'd recommend you see the first Evil Dead, rather than the second.  Evil Dead I is quite suspenseful, it's a decent horror/gore film given the era it was produced in.  Evil Dead II is nothing more than a self-loathing send-up of the original.  "},{"Title":"Raimi Strikes Again...Genius Horror Abounds","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Much like the original, Evil Dead 2 is pure genius in both it's simplicity and execution on screen. Sam Raimi proves he a true genre great....kid at heart...and above all else...fanboyEvil Dead 2 succeeds in that i doesn't really brake new ground, or try to improve upon an incredible predecessor...it simply gives the fan's of the original more of what they want....with the sorta tongue in cheek, stomach in throat attitude that a good horror film should have.This film finds our dimwitted, comicbook-like expression coping hero, Ash (played by Bruce Campbell to perfection yet again), once again trapped in a creepy cabin the woods with some really nasty spirits....once again possessing the living, choppping them up, and having a helluva time doing it. The first thing many people will notice in the film is it's similarity to the original...in the form of it's plot...sequences...and even the way the characters all sort of seem to represent and resemble the characters of the first movie. The film does not embelish in character development, in favor of introducing them as a whole, and then introducing them in parts, bodily speaking that is )The gore is much the same, the spirits are much the same, and Ash, our chainsaw weilding hero is much the same as well.Sam Raimi...much as in the original...borrows from such other horror classics as Night of the Living Dead and Suspiria....wisely taking from them the root of what made them good.Do not let talk of the closeness of this film to the original scare you off, if you enjoyed the original, or have yet to even see it...you will enjoy this movie. It is delivered to the viewer in such a smashmouth, take no prisoner's way as to never let you really get your bearings or your feet on the ground, opting in stead to sweep you off of your feet, and take you on the ride of a life.If you can check that little voice inside your head that screams 'plot development, character development, and in a small way your sense of need for something completely new....and prepare your stomach for more the same blood and guts, blood shed and undead thrills...you will find yourself walking away from Evil Dead 2 hopefully feeling as though you have just seen yet another horror classic.And for those of you who are new to the Evil Dead universe...watch on a clear spring or fall night, with just a few candles on, and the window open...and i dare you not to jump ) "},{"Title":"Good, Bad, He's the guy with the gun","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Caution Possible Spoilers ahead. Evil Dead II is probably my favorite film to date. Bruce Campbell portrays the main character Ash, not as a super-hero but rather as a human being in a bad situation. He handles every situation with humor to deal with the maddening horror that surrounds him. Every time he dispatches a deadite he goes further down the spiral to madness thus making his character one with which the audience can identify. I thought the scene where he confronts himself in the mirror after killing his girlfriend was both scary and hilarious. The deadites were also very entertaining, as were the special effects. The camera angles and especially the sequences with the force rushing toward him or the cabin are great especially for the time it was made. The film is a little heavy on the side of gore but it is balanced by all the humor. Campbell's acting is a little over the top in some scenes but this was after all fairly early in his career. Sam Raimi does an excellent job directing this picture as he knows how to bring out the right response from his actors by putting them in very difficult situations. I find it funny that for as long as Bruce has known Sam Raimi, Raimi only saw fit to offer him a small part in Spider Man, go figure. Anyway if you like your horror mixed with a good amount of dark humor then I would highly suggest this picture. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film manages to capture the atmosphere of humor and shear terror simultaneously. This is no easy task. Few have mastered the art of horror comedy to the degree of Sam Rami. My words cannot explain the true insanity that falls before the viewer's eyes. The plot centers around Ash, a man in the woods dealing with evil forces that have possessed his girlfriend and his hand. This is one of those films you have to see to believe. A MUST SEE by all who appreciate perfect filmmaking. "}{"Title":"BOBBY JOE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is one of the best ive ever seen.  Most of the acting is great, especially Bruce Campbell.  The gore is great, and the best part of it alot of the gore is colored(to avoid editing) so its almost not gore at all.  This movie is hilarious, if you havent seen it before you will laugh your socks off.  this movie fall right smack dab in between its pedecessor and its successor( i.e. its kindof scary(The Evil Dead and really funny(Army of Darkness).  The only thing i can tell you to do is go out and rent this movie......RIGHT NOW!!!!!!!!Contains - Strong Violence and Gore, Some Language, and Brief Partial Nudity***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Better than the first!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is sooooooo funny! Forget Austin Powers films this is where the word GROOVY stems from in comedy in recent decades!!!Campbell is great and Raimi's direction is as always at a high standard!This film is so much better than Evil Dead and Army of Darkness.O.T.T ending coming up...HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA!  "},{"Title":"The Best Comedy/Horror Movie EVER!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not only that this is the funniest, coolest, craziest and stupidest (in a good way) comedy horror zombie movie, it is also one of the best sequels ever that is better than the original. It continues from where the original left off (with a rather different flashback at the beginning since Raimi couldn't get the old footage) where Ash leaves the cabin and is suddenly attacked by an evil Force. He gets possessed and seconds later it's dawn so he becomes human again. He tries to escape in the Oldsmobile - which has appeared in every am Raimi film - but the bridge is, well, had a split. Now the demented Ash is trapped inside the Knowby cabin with only a shotgun and uses a chainsaw to destroy his undead girlfriend. The first half of the film is just Ash turning insane as everything around him just, literally, laugh at him. After that four others come and the movie gets...well, not as great, but still very good. Everything that happens from that scene is just a bunch of spirits, evil Forces, live trees and, of course, zombies attacking them - the film doesn't seem to be going anywhere. It gets back on track when the Necronomicon comes in and they try to use it to send the dead back through a rift in time and space. It gets better the new demented, insane Ash Williams creates a chainsaw arm and uses his handy shotgun a little more. This is the Ash we all became to know and love - the action hero. He's even better in AoD. Prepare yourself for blood and gore of all different colors and flying eyeballs in the greatest comedy/horror/zombie sequel ever made - EVIL DEAD 2!!! "},{"Title":"one of the best ever...","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  seriously one of the most original and impressive films ever made.  any moron who has left a negative review JUST DIDN'T GET IT.  do yourself a favor and think outside the box a little bit... and watch this movie which defies description.  out of control in every way... not to be missed... by anyone! "},{"Title":"Groovy!","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A Film about Demons and your own hands smashing yourself over the head with Plates? Sounds Pretty Stupid, It is, but, It's still Ace, Loads and Loads of Gore, may put people off, but it's hilarious, and it's still remains a creepiness value, for some creepy horror like the demon in the cellar, aaah! But like the Eyeball scene, this film just loves comedy horror. It don't make no sense, but who cares, it rules! "},{"Title":"scary, weird, funny, it's the EVIL DEAD!","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The sequel to the original Evil Dead is far superior from it's predecessor. Though this it not as scary as the original, this one plays with the human mind in a sick way. This time the demons are very p***ed!!! and our hero Ash will pay suffer their madness. A creepy atmosphere, a great actor -Bruce Campbell-, scary characters, and kewl special effects make Evil Dead II an enjoyable film.I have no words to describe this movie, it's something you NEED to watch to believe, it's an experience you won't forget forget in a long time. Take part in the fantasy world of the dead and expect to be scared and wondering what's did I just watch?!.  "},{"Title":"The Best of the Trilogy...","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When watching the Evil Dead movies you have to keep an openmind... and an open stomach.  Being a huge fan of movies withlots of gore I can give you the statement that this is one film thatdoesn't shy away from the fun.  Although the director, Sam Raimi,did in fact take a few steps (like changing the color of the blood) inorder to avoid a rating over R-and a lot of good that did, eh...Anyway I recommend this film to anyone who's a true fan of thegenre, and now that I think of it, everybody else as well.  It truly wasone of those movies that deserve credit for bringing on sort of amovie revolution to the industry.  And like I said if you do decide towatch it be prepared for many of delightful elements, one suchbeing a headless, naked, female zombie ballerina dancer thatlater handles such powertools as a chainsaw... you'll see, or youshould see anyway.  Though this is a great film beware of majorscenes of continuity, which is mostly why it only gets a 9.9/10 in mybook. "},{"Title":"The funniest film ever made?","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The script, comic timing, and everything else that makes a great comedy is contained within this film. Instead of the serious, boring (seriously boring?) The Evil Dead we're served up Troma style comedy with the worst looking blood a film has ever contained (looks like dyed water to me). You won't be able to stop the laughter, your jaw will hurt, your sides will split (and spill red water). You'll never look at your hands in the same way again, in fear of them trying to kill you! Don't watch this for the horror, because it doesn't even try to provide it. "},{"Title":"quite possibly the best horror film ever made","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this happens to be just about my favorite movie ever...but aside from that,it's just plain good.it has everything you could ask for in a movieromance,blood,insanity,slapstick comedy,great one liners,great make up,good special effects,killing,and laughing inanimate objects.what could be better?and together with Evil Dead and Army of Darkness the best trilogy ever made....yes better than star wars! "},{"Title":"Harmless trash horror fun","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The original Sam Raimi film - the Evil Dead - was reasonably scary.  This sequel, or remake, hams the genre up big time in a flick that is not quite spoof but, equally, not quite serious.The acting and script are abysmally cheesy and the plot veers from one act of over-the-top violence to another.  Nonetheless, for those of a certain warped disposition, this remains one of the most enjoyable horror films around, with an hilariously absurd twist at the end.  These sort of films aren't meant to be taken seriously anyway, are they? "}{"Title":"BEST Horror-Movie EVER !!!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I see this film 2 times each year,at least.Saw it again last night! It's unbelieveable how Sam Raimi managed to make such an awesome gore/splatter fest! It's fast paced and halariously entertaining! Buy it,don't rent, You won't be dissapointed! Yiehaaaa,hack...slash...splatter...AAaargh... BEST HORROR MOVIE EVER!! "},{"Title":"Another great entry in the greatest horror trilogy ever!","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This Sucessful sequel is a semi-Sequel/ Remake to the masterful 1982 Chiller. It deals with Ash ( Bruce Campbell) who survived the night that he dealed with 7 years ago, he comes back to the Cabin and isthreatened by Demons again. It's got plenty of humor and Splatter to keep you amused including some Visual Gags.also recommended Evil Dead, Army of Darkness, From Dusk Till Dawn, Dead Alive, Poltergeist, Re-Animator, Day of the Dead, Making Contact, and night of the Living Dead. "},{"Title":"Excellent!!!!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead 2 is a classic. Funny, smart, scary, horrific....Bruce Campbell is excellent, his facial expressions are GROOOOOVY!!! To Sam Raimi and Scott Spiegel...very well written, shot and the effects are the best.   "},{"Title":"The 2nd but in my opinion, best of the Evil Dead series","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Think about this for a moment. You've just survived a hellish night of killing zombies, getting doused in blood, and generally, getting the crap beaten out of you. And if you're lucky, you escape the next day. That's just another day in the life for Ash Williams, a supermarket clerk.  At least, after he wandered into a cabin and found a book that resurrected the dead. But that's enough about that.Personally, I thought that this was the best of all 3 Evil Deads. It had action! Comedy! Horror! Thrills! Chills! Even Broken Window Sills! Basically, the 1st Evil Dead, Ash was a wimp. In 2, he's in transition. In Army of Darkness, Ash becomes Duke Nukem. And after all, he still has a job at the supermarket. Just a day in the life, huh? "},{"Title":"Super!","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is super! The second film in the Evil dead-trilogy. The first film I didn't really like, but this and the third was great.  Comedy and action in one.  So funny to be watching Ashley J. Williams (Bruce Campbell) fighting his own hand.  I personally like the third best, but this is also a classic! Groovy!!  "},{"Title":"Huge Fan, Possibly Bias","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSFirst off let me state that I am a huge fan of this movie.  Another point I would like to make is that, for all the people who asked the question Why would he return to the cabin when he knew it was possessed by demons, the answer is simple.  IT WAS A COMEDIC REMAKE!!!  I loved the movie!! Thats all I can say!But let me explain myself to separate myself from all of the other great one-line summaries with such statements as Best Movie Ever!!!  I am not one to easily praise a movie for I may just be the only one in the world that did not highly enjoy E.T.But back to the movie.  Bruce Campbell was able to masterfully pull of the slapstick angle and really give some humor to the little wussy Ashlee of the first Evil Dead film.  Sam Raimi realized what people wanted to see. A bigger budget with horror elements strewn about a cheesy horror plot.  If you are looking for a great plot this is not the movie for you.  If you want to see a poor man with a huge ego get his arsh kicked for an hour and a half, see it!!!  8/10   "},{"Title":"Great flick, good laughs.","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"     Take out the first five min. of this film and the last two min. and it picks up right where the first one left off with Ash going out of the cabin in the morning wearing the same blood stained clothes from the first movie and the demon busting through the house and hiting Ash. Then at the end Ash goes into the time warp where he ends up in the past. Then if you take out the first three min. of Army of darkness, it picks right up where 2 left off and what you have is something that all sequels miss, the whole story from start to end, put them all togather and it runs about 249 mins. and you'll never stop laughing or holding on to your chair. My hat's off to Sam Rami who has done something very few directors have done, and that is make a full trilogy that is better than any other horror film in the history of the cinema. No other film can do that. I would love to see Evil Dead 4 with Ash back at the University and S-Mart fighting off deadites because he didn't say every single word right. But for the most part Evil Dead 2 Dead by Dawn is the best. See it for yourself. "},{"Title":"`hail he who has&#133; delivered us from the terrors of the deadites!'","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although Director Sam Raimi is renowned for his work on Darkman, three years earlier his real masterpiece was achieved. Evil Dead 2 Dead by Dawn is the archetypal battle of good vs. evil. Raimi pits our hero Ash against hell itself in this black comedy. While aesthetically its appearance is that of a `B-movie' (Raimi in fact intended it to be so) it the content of the film that is the major redeeming factor. Ash, played by Bruce Campbell, is an ordinary man who must ostensibly save the world-a task to be taken seriously. This is however not an easy undertaking as he is stalked by his dead girlfriend, assaulted by his own hand, and injured in almost every manner imaginable. Blood, gore, a chainsaw, and `ole' double-barrel,' need I say more? "},{"Title":"Very inventive and clever.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am a fan of Army of Darkness. So of course I've seen the two previous Evil Dead films. It took me about five times to realize that this movie is not a cheesily similar film to the first Evil Dead movie. This film is a highly inventive film. I love Sam Raimi's camera work, and Bruce Campbell is Hilarious. Of course you might not see this film based on my evaluation, but please if you are ever in a thinking outside the box type mood check it out! "},{"Title":"Nothing good here","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILERS** Evil Dead II was probably as bad as the first. I just did not understand it, it sort of confused me in ways that i can't explain. But i mean the gore effects were terrible. I mean come on, green blood??? I mean this movie was definitely one of the worst horror films to come out of the 80's. And i think that Ash ( Bruce Campbell ) was supposidly going back up to the cabin where all the killing happened, the one his friends and him rented for a weekend in the first movie. Why would anyone do such a stupid thing? I mean he knew the place was posessed. I can't really remember the murder scenes to well, its been well over a year since i saw it, but i remember this much. It was absolutely stupid. 3/10. "}{"Title":"Groovy!","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  EDII is a wacked out horror-comedy, and definitely not for all tastes. In fact, the first time I saw it many years ago, I thought it was stupid. I was into serious horror films at the time and didn't appreciate the humor in it. It's almost a satire of the horror genre, even of the original Evil Dead. Years later I was able to appreciate it for what it is. If you approach it with this in mind, it's a scream of a good time. The original Evil Dead film was scarier, but the only humor in it was unintentional, ie incredibly bad acting, super cheesy FX. In EDII, we get better acting and better FX, still cheesy but they fit the tone of the film. The gore is so over the top it's hilarious!What really makes the film is Sam Raimi's camera work and Bruce Campbell's crazed acting and brilliant physical comedy. The bit with the evil hand is just classic.Folks who gripe about plot holes and the like loosen up, it's just a cheesy horror movie. You're taking it way too seriously. It's really a marvelous piece of work for a relatively low budget film, and there's a reason why it's earned such a cult following and is held in such high esteem by many in the business it's full of creativity.There's been a lot of controversy over the story not matching up with the first film. Here's my take on it It's not really a sequel. Ash didn't go back to the cabin. The events at the first of EDII are a recap of what happened in the first ED film, for people who didn't see it, but EDII is meant to stand on it's own. Army of Darkness is the sequel to EDII, so there are really only two films in the 'series', not three. I think the original Evil Dead is just a 'demo' if you will, of what Raimi really had in mind. Personally, I'm glad he increased the humor and decreased the hard core gore a bit, it makes it more entertaining. The last time I tried to watch the original Evil Dead, I could barely finish it, it was so bad. Of the three Evil Dead films, this one is hands down my favorite.The DVD of this is great, especially the commentary, one of the best I've heard. Buy it. "},{"Title":"imaginative, disgusting, revolting, all-around family film","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead II is a fantastic horror-comedy, but it isn't for people with a weak stomach.  There's a buttload of blood, but it's funny.  It's like The Exorcist Vs. The Three Stooges.  "},{"Title":"Why a re-make?","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ***********SPOILERS********* I expected EDII to be a true sequel, not a remake.  One messenger suggested there were legal difficulties with flashbacks from the original.  My son thought this was the story they would have told the first time, if they had enough money. I see them as two different stories, with the same result.  At least Ash was spared having to destroy the remains of his sister and best friends, as well as his sweetheart!Another messenger commented that the styles of EDI and EDII are different. I agree EDI was a true horror film, in spite of unintentional humor in the stupidity of the characters and the excesses of gore.  EDII was a horror-comedy, showing Raimi's development in that direction. I enjoyed both of them, on different levels.Like the writer of what a horrible horrible movie, I was a Campbell/Raimi fan before I learned about these movies.  Maybe EDII makes more sense if you've already seen EDI, but most of it makes sense to me, in a warped kind of way.  If it were truly logical, it would be a different kind of movie (and a LOT scarier)!  I think who turns into a Deadite and why depends on strength of character; Ash was the only one who could resist and overcome the evil within him.  EDII makes it clear that his love for his sweetheart helps him.I think EDII should have ended when he was sucked into the void, like EDI ended when he was attacked by the evil...it would have been a better cliffhanger!Comparing the two, EDI was a better horror movie, unresolved ending and all.  EDII was more the kind of movie I enjoy, where there's more humor. "},{"Title":"Bafflingly popular","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The cult success of this movie is puzzling to say the least. A plotless series of ridiculous gore effects and slapstick violence is what you'd find in a Troma movie, but director Sam Raimi tries to mix it with real horror in the style of Night of the Living Dead and ends up with a disconnected, awkward and bizarre mess. But James Cameron went from Piranha II to Titanic, Sam Raimi has gone from this weirdness to Spider-Man - a very uplifting thought, no?  "},{"Title":"one hell of a movie","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I haven't seen the other Evil Dead movies but I just saw this movie for the first time yesterday.  The movie is pretty creepy but not really scary, pretty funny but not in the way you would expect it to be, but an all-out blast.  Sam Raimi, this movie's director who would go on to do more legitimate movies like A Simple Plan and The Gift many years later, shows some great flare, even though nothing is really taken seriously.  The effects and camera work are pretty cool.  Everything else is incredibly over-the-top, including the story, the excessive blood, and star Bruce Campbell w/ his dialogue and facial expressions, yet unlike other over-the-top movies (Charlie's Angels, etc.), this movie supplies lots of general fun.  It's not quite a horror movie but more of a tribute to horror movies, all from a budding young director who now finds himself making Spider-Man.  This movie just has to be seen to be believed.  It makes me want to check out the other movies.   *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"A funny, violent cult masterpiece","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    Evil Dead was a somewhat funny, scary, and cheaply made movie that definitely brought back a hefty profit.  Evil Dead two was even better.  Perhaps the greatest of the three Sam Raimi zombie films, it is definitely the funniest and was a little bit less of a sell-out movie, so to speak.  I'm going to turn to Kevin Smith for a prime example in the thinking of saying that Army of Darkness, although an awesome movie, was still reeking of selling out while Evil Dead two was pure genius (well...) Clerks, the first movie in the Jersey trilogy featuring the charcaters Silent Bob and Jay and all written and directed by Kevin Smith.  Clerks was a materpiece in independent film making.  It was deeply insightful, hiarious, and overall entertaining.  It was made in a distinct style that quickly famed Kevin Smith.  Mallrats the next movie in the Jersey trilogy, was a little bit more of, as said before, a sell-out movie.  It was made entirely not to provide deep theme or insight, but to make money.  That is what Army of Darkness is to Evil Dead two.  Evil Dead two is a pure, funny, gorey movie that shouldn't be missed if you're into scary movies that just end up being funny. "},{"Title":"Swallow your soul!","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let's see... this is one of the best movies ever.  I know that it is  cheap looking and stuff, but that is why this is such a great movie.  It has very many funny parts in it.  The big-headed thing that is always trying to attack him is also very entertaining, and the cool parts are when he gets the chain-saw on as an arm, and when he says Groovy.  Swallow this. "},{"Title":"The funniest horror film I've ever seen","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a very silly film.  Lots of fun.  I almost wouldn't call it horror at all.  More sort of a very gothic looking comedy.  An excellent piece of comedy/horror, just check your brain at the door before watching this one. "},{"Title":"Swallow this!","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is like a Kandinsky meets, or perhaps eats, Alfred Hitchcock type of movie.  What the heck does that mean??!!  It means take the suspense from a Hitchcock movie and throw it around into a tale of something so abstract, absurd, and irrational you have no clue what you're dealing with but all you know is that it's edge of your seat fun.  It all works in the end, and this movie is easily a cult classic.  I warn you, do not watch this movie with a working and analytical brain because you will crunch it up and toss it out. Nothing means anything in this movie!  It's just good ol' sick fun.  And when I say sick, believe me I mean sick, there are fountains of blood and very graphic scenes of decapitation and just about everything else!  The name Ash instantly become that of a superhero, and quite frankly he is one of my favorite!  There are many memorable qoutes you'll here from this movie, my favorite is definitely when the monster starts yelling I'll swallow your soul... and Ash put a shotgun to its head and says swallow this in a calm, matter-o-factly kind of voice!!  If you're a synic, a pessimist, or a realist stay away from this one.  But if you're crazy then watch this and you will be crazier by the end! "},{"Title":"Groovy!!!!","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Reading some of the other reviews i feel that the ones who keep going on about the gore are just being ignorant. Who cares if the first one had more gore? This one isn't about the gore. And to be honest i feel that the worst parts of the film were the really gory parts. The bits i loved were the slapstick parts, the hand etc, the superb camera work and Campbell's comedic performance. I don't think Sam Raimi is quite as good as his buddies the Coen Brothers. But i still think that this is his definative movie blending comedy with horror in equal measures. If you haven't seen it yet, see it with a couple beers and a few mates. You won't be disappointed. 5 Star  "}{"Title":"This is more like it.","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I loved Army of Darkness, so the other day I rented the first 2 Evil Dead movies. The first one was a good horror, but not what I expected. However This one was right on the mark. It had all the elements that I loved in Army of Darkness. Also, it was loaded with humor both obivious like Ash talking to himself and more subtle humor like the book on top of the pile, which Ash uses to trap his hand. In fact most times I found it hard to be scared, because I was laughing so much. "},{"Title":"EVIL DEAD II--YOU CAN'T KEEP A GOOD GHOUL DOWN!","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Since the early 80's American horror movies have changed their format. Rather than move along with one scare after another and thus always keep the audience on the edge of their seats a new element was added,COMEDY.Not that a laugh now and then isn't a good idea, it is, but, almost every film from Scream to Nightmare on Elm Street has it's funny moments. It is getting to be a bit to much in my opinion. However, Evil Dead II breaks all the rules by being funny all the time. It works!! The cheezy special effects and Bruce Campbell's over acting add flavor to this simple but effective story.If you can believe that a man can cut off his own hand with a chain saw and then fight off, with great gusto, demons from hell your in for a treat. This film is relentless with one shock after another. Anyone who I know who has see this feature has the same opinion, it was a hell of a ride. I will give EVIL DEAD II a 10 for it's feverish enthusiasm, wonderful erie mood and extra special camera work.If you dig zombie movies, THIS ONES FOR YOU. "},{"Title":"Now THIS is how to do a sequel.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I didn't really know what to expect from this. I had seen Army of Darkness, and thought it fun if a bit stupid. Having been told this was better, I cinically settled down to watch it, and found myself enjoying it. Evil Dead 2 has to go down on the short list of sequels that are better than the original (which I have since seen and thought not as good. It is both dark, and very funny. Bruce Campbell was a very good lead, he reminded me of Jim Carrey. It is a great pity that he never found his way into more mainstream films. This isn't for everyone, but for those who like dark comedys with much body mutiliation, this is the perfect movie.Best Bit Groovy. "},{"Title":"Great on more than one level","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is an all time favourite of mine.  It works on two levels - as a genuinely scary horror movie, and also as a particularly morally bankrupt black comedy.  Fans of either genre will not be disappointed.  Bruce Campbell is brilliant in the lead role, and many of his cheesy one-liners are unforgettable.The film draws you in from the word go, with it's thick and tense atmosphere, and, thanks to some flashbacks at the beginning, it ensures that you don't have to have seen the first one to appreciate it.A Classic. "},{"Title":"Good Horror, Bad Horror, and Comedy.....a lil confusing","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ha well since everbodys basically told the the summary, Ill just say this the story made sense and the special effection were overdone or notsospecial ,the acting was good, THE HAND WAS HILARIOUS!!!Oh yeah one more thing did anyone notice when ashed was driving ,he crashed through the windshield and just got up....COME ON!!! He'd be decapitated....I just love the whole thing about him being a mechanical genious with his chainsaw...yeah like how its nerve activated! Man, Ive never seen so much smog in anymovie....alotta damn dry ice. I like how like an evil spirit in the morning threw ash like a mile away from the cabin,but when ash gains consiousnes hes only like 16 feet away from the cabin....WHAT THE HELL WAS THAT!!!?? But, those Shemps were cool!!!! A MUST SEE FOR HORROR FANs OF SLASHER, SPLATTER AND GORE , AND B-MOVIES!!!!      8 1/2 out of 10  "},{"Title":"truly original and fun","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie reminds me of The Blair Witch project. Not that the two films have anything in common except how they were made. With pure originality. The kind that says we got our own way of doing things, our own style, and let's see how the public takes it. if Blair Witch tried to be like films of the past it would never have been the success story that it was. Well, that's exactly how I feel about Evil Dead 2. It didn't try to be like other horror movies. It tried to do its own thing. In fact it didn't even have a tone like other horror movies. It had the blood and semi gore, but it was funny instead of scary. The difference was shockingly great. I had never seen anything quite like it. It had the kind of humor of such movies as The Full Monty and Joe Versus The Volcano where there is nothing particularly funny except the way it feels. The environment. No one liners, just hysterical setups. That's comedy at its best. Where its not tailored so everybody will like it or even get it, but so those who do get it see how amazing it is. You'll either love this one or hate it. If you hate it than I hate you because you are the kind of person who keeps restrictions on the film industry. The kind of person who wants every movie to be relatively the same. Well, I applaud people who make movies like this or like Arlington Road and have visions that haven't been seen before and are risky yet clever. Evil Dead 2 is remarkable because it knows how to have fun and yet it didn't learn it from anywhere. It came up with its own way to do it. In other words there are a bunch of reasons why this film is worthwhile and excellent. "},{"Title":"HA!","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Takes off where the original left off. With Campell fighting more demons. I love this movie. My plot description probably wont excite you, but this is the best horror/comdey around. Campell is a riot as Ash, and gore is plentiful. This is one of the funniest movies ever! And the best thing is - all the laughs are intentional!**** out of **** "},{"Title":"Is good in some ways but lacks some of the original.","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This one is good.  There is better special effects and more humorous situations.  Though the gore that was present in the first one isn't in it. There is a lot but not as much as in the first one, but there is situations that lead to better outcomes.  The fact that there is a lot more dialogue helps this one be better then the original.  Not to forget the dynamic use of Sam-cam.  The angles and music in it are great.  Also this one is better because there is more evil. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror movies ever!!!!!!!!!","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil dead 2 is the greatest horror comedy movie ever made, it set the table for the comedic horror movies to come such as, Dead Alive.  Sam Raimi shows all his true talents in this film.  This movie will make you laugh out loud in some scenes and be terrified in another. "},{"Title":"Who's laughing now?!?","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead IIDead By Dawn is quite simply the best dark comedy/horror film/spoof I've ever seen.  Basically a retread of the first film (a classic of a different color of blood), numero does stands by itself.  Our dumb but gallant hero, Ash, comes to a remote cabin in the wilds of Michigan (probably filmed somewhere in the Carolinas...I'd have to look it up), his girlfriend gets possessed by ancient demonic forces, and the fun begins. Hands that attack their owners, chainsaw appendages, possessed deer heads mounted on a wall, a WWF showdown between Ash and a witch, several different colors of blood this movie has it all.  Joe Bob says check it out, you'll love it. 8/10 stars, or chainsaws, or boobs, or whatever you want. See it already, damn you. "}{"Title":"Entertaining, original horror-comedy","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead 2 Dead By DawnRating ***½ /*****In the movies, a sequel has to be bigger and better than the original in order for it to be considered any good. And Evil Dead 2 succeeds in being both bigger and better than its predecessor.Evil Dead 2 starts out by pretending the original never happens. This would account for Ash returning to the same log cabin he was in in the original Evil Dead. Ash finds a recorder with a message on it. A message which releases an invisible evil into our world. The evil consumes Ash's girlfriend, then tries to consume him as well. Ash fights back against the evil, but with mixed results.The end result is a gore filled, perfectly directed horror-comedy, that only the great Sam Raimi could have made. Bruce Campbell turns out a classic over-the-top performance as Ash, the every man caught in a unique situation. There are other characters played by other actors in this movie, but it's not like anyone remembers them. However, if you have a strong stomach, and like camp films and t.v. shows, then go see Evil Dead 2. "},{"Title":"Better, if not equal to the first.","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the first film, 'The Evil Dead', there was no comedy incorporated into the script or anything. This film adds just enough comedy to lighten but still frighten the viewer.Worth 8 or 9 at the least. "},{"Title":"Better than Evil Dead, not as good as AOD","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERS!        Evil Dead II, practically a remake of Evil Dead is a good movie, but not great.  Ash, our favorite anti-hero from ED1 goes back to the woods with Linda, where they find the Necronomicon and all hell breaks loose.  Now, the first one failed because it was too tedious, but ED2 doesn't really have that happen.  The rift in space-time towards the end was a good twist, and so was that unforgettable part when Ash gets a chainsaw for a hand.  Other than that, it's pretty much the same as ED1, which in some ways is good, and some ways is bad.(BTW, the acting improved by leaps and bounds) 8/10 "},{"Title":"it's NOT very scary.....","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" before about 1 month ago, i had never heard of this film so when i read a review about how it was one of the most frightening films every made, i HAD to watch it.  what i actually saw was one of the most hilarious films ever made.  i went through the whole film practically crying with laughter, i couldn't believe that this was serious.  highlights include the plate smashing scene, the bit with selotape (excellent in slow motion, the laughing lampshades, the flying eye ball, the walking tree (?!) and the best part of all - the part where he gets the chainsaw outfit together and goes groovy, by the way, i'm also a big austin powers fan!  the actor who played ash should get the award for the biggest eyes throughout a film - he is not the worlds best actor and that's putting it lightly.  to put this into context in case you just think i'm being too hasty, i got really scared in scream and the sixth sense and i think that the sound of music is good. actually make that the best film ever but thats another story.  if you like really bad horror films and have a bizzre and surreal (think monty python) sense of humor, this is a must see film.  however, if you don't or your idea of a good laugh is war and peace then steer lear unless you want to be bored (whatever turns you on i supose).   "},{"Title":"Remember Evil Dead? Guess what? It just got better!","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  That is right people, Ash is back!  This film contains everything Evil Dead fans love and even more. More blood, more gore, more ammo, more victims and a hell of a lot more of those spectacular one-liners. This is another romp around the cabin from hell, Ash stumbling from sanity to insanity and obtains a HANDy new weapon. So remember, kiddies, when you go to watch this one pick a nice secluded cabin deep in the woods, have volume turned up loud so you can hear the glorious sound of ...well you fans know, and keep the shotty handy... cos ya gonna need it!  "},{"Title":"A very good sequel","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead II is much better than most of the sequels in the genre. It is not a pale imitation of the first one but brings up some new elements. It's much more like a comedy. The black humor is hilarious but at the same time it is still scary. The horror is more psychological than in the first one because it shows Ash (Bruce Campbell) slowly going insane.The film was quite weird though because I wasn't quite sure if it was a sequel or a remake. It can't be a true remake because the story is not the same as in The Evil Dead but on the other hand it wouldn't make much sense for Ash to go to that cabin again (He obviously didn't like it up there the first time).Some scenes are very funny as for example Ash fighting his own hand after it turned against him. But at the same time it was very spooky too. There are more effects in this sequel but I think The Evil Dead was more interesting to watch because it was made on an almost non-existent budget.Evil Dead II is a very carefully-made sequel and if you liked its predecessor you won't be disappointed by this one either.My rating 10/10 (Go for Army of Darkness to see the best comedy ever!) "},{"Title":"GREAT HORROR COMEDY!!!","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie, like Dead Alive(a.k.a. Braindead) is absolutely hilarious! Some moments are pure gems, like when Ash replaces his hand by a chain-saw, and says Groovy! You have to laugh. This movie has a very good mix of gore and comedy, but is still not as gory as the absolute king of gore Dead Alive. Very funny moments are always there to make you remember this is an horror/COMEDY film. Watch it with your friends and you will have lots of fun. THIS MOVIE IS ALMOST AS GOOD AS DEAD ALIVE!!! I know my brain does not work real hard during this movie but TOO BAD! It's a great movie to watch with your friends, and it's even better when you watch it along with Dead Alive.Anyway, 8 out of 10. Really funny. Don't take this movie too seriously, tough... "},{"Title":"Not A Remake A Sequel","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After hearing several of you comment on the fact that it is a re-make I can no longer be silent.  Evil dead II is not a remake it takes off where the first one let off.  The only reason why it seems like a re-make is caused by the first few scenes with ashes girlfriend still alive.  It was started in this way so that some one that has not seen the first one won't be completely lost.After killing and then chopping up his girlfriend we find are here heading out to his car the same as he did at the end of evil dead.  only this time we see him go flying through space crashing in to a tree and then becoming one of the evil dead.  Then he falls a sleep wakes up and its night again.The reasons for the strange beginning as I said were to make it so that someone who has not seen the original will not be completely confused.  I mean without that beginning the whole movie you would e wondering hey whats with this magnifying glass on a silver chain.  There are many other things that would not be clear without that beginning.So remember kids Evil Dead II  Dead By Dawn is not a remake of the original Its a sequel!!! "},{"Title":"screw everyone who thinks this movie sucks","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a great movie! Not as gory as the first, but who cares. This one is actually a horror/comedy, also a sequel/remake. Evil Dead II has so much more in it, that you forget it's really a remake. But in many other ways it's not.Let's get this out of they way. Yes, it is a remake, but hardly so. The film get to business very quickly. The first seven minutes of the film is kind of a retro of the first film. Then when the demons first possess him (but the sun scares it away) is right where is first film left off. Now the second epic really begins. But there are scenes that are back in there.SECRET In Nightmare on Elm Street, there is a scene where someone is watching The Evil Dead on T.V. In response to this, Freddy's glove can be seen somewhere in the fruit celler.This film is really a comedy. What's more comedic than a man who has a battle with his own hand, or a laughing lamp. This is where the sarcastic side of Ash really kicks off. RENT THIS FILM!! A must-see for fans of horror/comedy like Braindead (also called Dead Alive).Rating 7 out of 10 Groovy.. "},{"Title":"You got to see this movie!!!","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love what Sam Raimi has done whit this movie. It is so good,The screenplay by Bruce Campbell is  very very good.This movie is scary but the first is  more scarier,because this movie is a little bit funny too,but it should always be a little bit funny in almost every horror movie.This movie isn't the best in this  genre but it will get a high ranked place on my top-10 list. *WARNING SPOILER* it is a little bit suprising that bruce almost join the demons,but it makes this movie even better. *end of spoiler* YOU GOT TO SEE THIS MOVIE I think that the first one is better than this one, but this movie get's 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A Must See...","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This HAS to be one of the funniest movies I've ever seen.  It's totally original.  I didn't know whether to scream or laugh, and sometimes I did BOTH.  Although this is a low-budget movie, it's definitely worth a look. It's a favorite in my video collection. "},{"Title":"good horror-comedy","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Though Army of Darkness (Evil Dead 3) was an action-comedy the first two films are horror-comedy. Ash and his girlfriend Linda stay the night at a cabin that belongs to an archeologist who was studying the book of the dead. The evil that was awoken by the book kills Linda and several humorous attempts to take out Ash. Ash troubles increase when a group of people comes to the cabin one of which is the daughter of the archeologist. The film makes good use of creepy and funny elements to tell its story. The setting of the story is set up well and the film gets right down to business instead of dragging along. Funny of use the blood splashing all over the place especially the face. Lessons Learned Dead people look like walking rubber from a distance. Trees can leave their places so they can attack cabins. Trees have faces well sort of.  "},{"Title":"A true Horror fan's film.","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I recently re-visited the Evil Dead Trilogy over Christmas.  This is a good movie if you are a horror fan.  The Gore effects are cool and there are many classic sequences such as the famous scene involving a chainsaw and Ash's hand.A remake of the original, this is one of those rare films that is able to be both a horror film and a dark comedy as well.  Unlike Peter Jackson's excellent Braindead and Bad taste though, this film uses slightly more subtle methods to bring across its underlying themes.All in all, this is good fun.  Its not the classic that many horror fans would tell you it is, but have a few drinks and you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Ash vs. His Hand","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Is there some bizarre symbolism going on here? or is this just an excuse to go wild with slapstick improv? In any case, I think Jim Carrey should witness this amazing sequence of physical exuberance and the showdown between a man and his own hand (perhaps Bruce and Jim can do a movie together in the near future). Just another reason that makes this movie one of the best in its genre! "},{"Title":"Another Case of Cabin Fever","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sam Raimi and Bruce Campbell reunite for this follow-up to the goriffic hit EVIL DEAD. This is actually an improving remake of the first (pay attention to the familiarized story) that not only lets Ash win, but also shows what happens with a slightly larger budget (thanks in large to producer Dino DeLaurentiis's investment). We get more sophisticated special effects, including a hand with a mind of its own (one of the BEST scenes in any horror movie). If one word could describe this movie it would be GONZO. The violence can be repulsive at first, but suddenly turns a bit cartoonish and you end up looking at some twisted cross between a George A. Romero flick and a comic book.Sam Raimi is a wunderkind when it comes to his camera, and he proves it best with his tricks here, along with its predecessor. Although ARMY OF DARKNESS is too slapsticky and considered the worst of the Evil Dead Trilogy, it is still, in my opinion, a worthy look. If you see all three of the movies in order, you will see the complete idea Raimi had for this movie.But if you don't have the patience for that, you should still give his Hollywood invasions DARKMAN and THE QUICK AND THE DEAD a look at! "},{"Title":"Your mom's going to hate it","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Is it a sequel or a remake? The answer is a little bit of both. Ash (the fab Bruce Campbell) is once again tooling himself up with his shotgun and chainsaw to take on a bunch of soul swallowing nasties at a deserted cabin.This time the explosive violence has been turned down and the humour turned up, but the best of the scenes (like the immortal hand severing) are a clever mix of the two. The director's handling of the camera is exemplary, constantly shifting to weird angles and running all over the place like Cujo on prozac.Things are blown up, blood spews, heads are blown up and Campbell strolls through it all like the world's coolest super hero, dispatching zombies and one liners with relish. And you, you sick puppies, will saviour every moment of it.RATING ***1/2 (Out of four) "},{"Title":"Horror with Humour","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a good one but it can't measure with the original. Evil Dead 2 is a horrormovie with some humour involved.We have exactly the same story as in the original but still it isn't boring. We can recognize the atmosphere from the first Evil Dead movie. There is much more blood in this one though, Ash cutting off his hand with his chainsaw is just one example.Campbell does his part of the job great in this one too, but if Raimi had dropped the comedy it would have been the ultimate horror expirience. If you liked the original you won't be disappointed by this one, because the comedy isn't that bad, all I'm saying is that the movie could have been better without it.  "},{"Title":"The best Horror-Comedy of all time..","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love this movie.  I might as well just say it )  It definitely holds my record for most viewings in one year (around 80).  I wore out the tape I watched it so many times.  Everything is perfect about this movie.  It is one of the best of all time.  How can you not like a movie where a guy fights his own hand?  Or for that matter, a spoof of the arming scene in Taxi Driver? "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This has to be the finest horror-comedy film. Ever. It's full of movie in-jokes, deliberately-cheesy bits and some quite amazing camera shots. The most effective scenes are the point-of-view shots. At one point there is a HUGE P.O.V shot - there's something out there, it batters down trees and doors, smashes windows, breaks floorboards, sees Ash (the main character), chases him relentlessly for ages......then loses him, looks around puzzledly, and goes straight back out the way it came. The laughter comes just afterwards, as you realise just how pointless the last five minutes of film were. "},{"Title":"Bruce is my favorite","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was on my first date in high school and I went to the drive-in.  The first movie was EVIL DEAD.  Big fan of Bruce ever since.  On another date I was the one jerk in the audience of a theater to jump up during DARKMAN and say, BRUCE at the end.  Not given enough credit- especially after EVIL DEAD III.   LRB "}{"Title":"A good sequel.","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although it's more comedy than horror Evil Dead II is still a pretty good and entertaining sequel to The Evil Dead. Despite people who call it a  re-make of the first the movie is a direct sequel to The Evil Dead the only reason the first five minutes were re-done was because of copyright laws that Sam Raimi didn't own. I personally enjoyed Army of Darkness more however this movie is filled with great one-liner's and a great but brief scene with the hero fighting hiw own hand and it has a great ending too. I highly reccomend it to anybody who loves horror or comedies and if you don't at least get one chuckle from seeing this movie then I advise you to calmly remove the stick from your @ss.Dead by Dawn,Dead by Dawn "},{"Title":"Hilarious gore packed horror/comedy!","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Extremely funny, a complete opposite version of the original Evil Dead which also a good gore packed horror film.  Bruce Campbell does some crazy stuff and basically everything that can go wrong and does happens to him.  In the end you sort of feel sorry for him but you will still be laughing.  A part remake/ part sequel of Evil Dead.  If you enjoy comedy and needless violence like me than you will love this masterpiece of a flick!!! "},{"Title":"A treasure chest!!!!!!","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Where would America be without Ashley J. Ash Williams, the folk legend of the 20th Century????  This is really the story of Ash's coming-of-age, although the possession story works too... But oh, what to talk about first? I suppose I should say that Bruce Campbell (who I just discovered went to high school with my mother) was shafted out of the Academy Awards for this movie.  And since he is the heart of this movie, plus the Coolest Human Being On The Planet, I feel that that says it all.  Evil Dead II doesn't have a bad moment...and Ash is at his finest when he deduces without assistance that a horrible sound is maybe something...trying to break into our universe.... "},{"Title":"This movie is a killer comedy.","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you want to see horror watch some other movie but if you want a gory comedy watch this movie. It is full of gore and huourous jokes. Bruce Cambell is hilarious as Ash and I don't know about the other Evil Dead movies but if they're like this one I'm going to go out and get them. "},{"Title":"this has it all","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ash is back and better then ever. This movie has it all! One of the best scenes in this movie is the fight with his hand that was an absolute crack up!If you've watched the first you should see this one too *** Out of ***** "},{"Title":"The best gore infested film...","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love low budget, stop frame animation and action man hero style characters..Evil Dead 2 has it all...from living hands to dancing dead girlfriends..you have to love it for its originality whole cabin/forest setting..this was the film that made me explore a whole new film genre...realistic low budget horror..it's the best!!!  "},{"Title":"Evil Dead II - By far the best of the Evil Dead series","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  My guess on Evil Dead II is that Sam Raimi, once he had established his viability as a director/producer with commercial potential, went back and remade Evil Dead with a bigger budget and better actors. Bruce Campbell has almost 10 years more experience since the original Evil Dead and it shows, as he now gives a great performance as compared to his early semi-amateur performance in the original film.The plot of this film is nearly identical to its prequel - but otherwise the film is better in every respect. Better acting, better special effects, better direction, scarier, and above all funnier. While Evil Dead I gives the impression of being funny because it is so badly done - in Evil Dead II the humor is quite obviously intentional, and makes fun not only of itself, but of the viewers, especially those who take it seriously. As with all of Raimi's later films (after Evil Dead) - this film is campy, yet aware of that fact; stupid (and I use this in the most positive sense of the word), yet smart enough to realize that it is stupid - and it uses that self-awareness to great effect.In my opinion, what makes this movie great is that it is a by-the-books horror film that is aware of what it is, and uses that knowledge to make fun of itself in a way that is not obvious, and is actually quite subtle. Unlike Evil Dead I, which is obviously not meant to be funny; and Evil Dead III, which is obviously meant to be funny; this film walks the thin line in the between the two - funny if you take it to be funny, and a B-horror movie if you take it to be no more than that. That is the genius of Sam Raimi - unlike the 70's wave of directors (Scorsese, Altman, Kubrick, Penn, etc.), who made films with messages, Raimi makes films that can be interpreted differently by every viewer. I just wish he would leave the Producing behind and make some more movies, because no one else can make an over-the-top movie like he can. And Evil Dead II is the best example of his unique approach to film-making. "},{"Title":"The best horror flick EVER.","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bruce Campbell?  You are so cool it's not even funny.  Evil Dead 2 is the best horror movie ever made.  Ash, who goes on a camping trip in the woods to a cabin, takes on a whole whack of zombie demons in this movie who are released when a tape player recites a passage from the Necronomicron (Book of the Dead).  Along with some other people, Ash must destroy the evil and save the day!  Armed with a double barrel shotgun and a chainsaw attached to the stub of his right hand, Ash kicks some demon butt! "},{"Title":"Evil comes when you call its name 5 times .... yeah that is Candyman","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead was a good film, and I liked it a lot, but like I said in the comment for Evil Dead, i prefer this one.It still has the Original character Bruce Campbell played by Ashley Williams who is still living through the nightmare of The living Evil Dead.Every time I watch Evil Dead there is one sentence that I always remember....... you`re going to die, you`re going to die.I give this a 7 and a half out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can understand why they say, this is a cult movie! It's both scary and funny at the same time.This is one of Bruce Campbell's best parts and I can't understand, why he hasn't got better parts in movies! GO SEE THIS ONE!!!  "}{"Title":"The greatest horror film ever made","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is never boring. From the begin to the end this movie is exciting. Bruce Campbell is great, and it's the best film he ever starred. He carries the whole movie with his hyper acting.The plot seems unoriginal but how Sam Raimi has worked it out is terrific. His exaggerating style makes the viewer and Ash go mad. You'll laugh, you'll cry. But mostly you will love this movie. For many fans of the genre this is the best movie.The Evil Dead trilogy is one of its kind, the sequels are not based on the box office success of its predecessor like the Nightmare on Elmstreet series, Friday the 13th or Scream. The Evil Dead trilogy tells the story about a man, and his endless battle against the evil.  "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies on earth","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The story of ''evil dead II, dead by dawn'' is basically the same as the first evil dead. The major difference is the way that Sam Raimi(The greatest director of all time) directed it to become of one the most visually interesting horror movies of all time!! The camerawork is devilish and plunges the spectator into the demence that Ash, exquisitely interpreted by Bruce Campbell, experiences after playing a tape who wakes up the evil dead, who was hidden far away in the forest. This movie is also very funny, with references of the three stooges,like most of raimi's movies, and contains some good one-liners but not as much than in Evil dead IIIArmy of darkness. This movie is so concentrated  ,like the 2 other evil dead movies, that you cannot find it boring!! "},{"Title":"Pure genius.","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Rent.  Watch.  Worship.  Repeat. "},{"Title":"I laughed, I cried, I peed my pants...","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Oh man did we ever wear out the rewind button watching this movie! did we just see what we think we just saw? I never had to stop a movie because I couldn't stop laughing until EDII! We watched it about 5 times the night we rented it, but if you count in all the rewinding, we watched this movie for about 8 hours straight... ..a 10 out of 10..Groovy!  "},{"Title":"A Delightful horror packed with spirit, invention and breathtaking moments!","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is remarkable in every aspect. Raimi throws in more plot twists, camera tricks, special effects, character detail than Hollywood could ever muster. Cambell's acting is outstanding in every part and steals every shot that he is in. The film takes off at high speeds from the word go and never stops to give you a chance to remember what happened in the last scene...The script itself is a white knuckle ride through hell. It is very hard to describe this film anything less than a masterpiece of modern cinema. The hero of the film 'Ash' is one of the most memorable characters ever devised for big screen. If you want to be a film maker and need inspiration look no further. If you rent this one out and don't no anything about it...boy are you in for some treat. I do not want to tell you more  because that would just spoil it for you. Go and rent this out now!....but be warned..you will watch it again and again and again....... "},{"Title":"Best horror movie ever!","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead 2 is most likely the best horror movie of all time. It's loaded with gore, it has over the top acting by my idol Bruce Campbell, it has tons of black comedy (though not nearly as much as Army of Darkness, its sequel). Evil Dead 2 takes black comedy where it's never gone before. A cult classic usually has an element of black comedy, but Evil Dead 2 has so much that it doesn't take itself seriously. This movie has taken horror to a new high. This movie has inspired many cult classics such as Dead Alive, a movie which also doesn't take itself seriously. This movie rocks!! "},{"Title":"an experiment in messin with yr head","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  silly, over-the-top, gruesome, and all in all, not a horror film. i loved it.  raimi uses every device in the book, not just those in the horror genre like loud sound effects and the camera sweeping through the woods to signify the unseen terror.  then he inserts the 3 stooges and a few pages from tex avery.  suspension of disbelief is an absolute necessity, but who cares? don't you get tired of the same old s*** in horror movies?  see this movie for what it is farce. unfortunately for most horror fans, they usually stumble upon this movie by accident expecting great things from a movie called evil dead 2.  okay, be disappointed on the 1st viewing.  after that, sit back and enjoy it with the rest of us.  ash is laughing, why can't you? "},{"Title":"funnier than smashing plates off your face...","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie will reign as King of the Camp films for ever. Funny, scary when it wants to be, and entertaining the whole way through. sight gags aplenty. Blood in more colors than most tv's can handle. and a ridiculously macho, unflappable hero, who will not go into shock no matter how badly he gets mutilated. Only the moral majority will object to the way over the top violence. which is more like the old EC comic books than a horror movie. Rent this and Army of Darkness, for a saturday night marathon. OH, and don't forget the popcorn. "},{"Title":"* * * * (four stars)","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is, without a doubt, the funniest horror movie I have ever seen. The director, Sam Raimi, has done an incredible job of mixing hilarious comedy and Blood soaked horror together into one great movie.The movie's very inconsequential plot is about Ash (Bruce Campbell) and Linda (Denise Bixler) who go to a remote cabin in the woods. While there, they come across the Necronomicon. Ash plays a tape recording of the book's translations, which awakens an evil spirit in the woods. From here on out, the movie turns into a splatterfest, but a very original one at that. For an incredibly unique horror/comedy, see this as soon as you can.* * * * - classic, see it at once * * * - very good movie * * - okay, hits and misses * - garbage, see only if you have nothing better to do 0 - one of the worst movies of this, or any other year  "},{"Title":"Over the top fantastic...","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is my all time favorite horror film. I've seen many, many horror films, and by looking at my shelf, you can see for yourself, but this one outdoes any I've ever seen. Bruce Campbell goes over the top as Ash, the tormented hero. Although the first one and third are very good, this one is a sure classic. The gore is absolutely hilarious, as are the black comedy gags and one-liners, and the ending is a knock out. Bruce Campbell surely deserves more credit than he receives, and if most of the mainstream saw this film, I'm sure they would see Bruce's talent and start casting him in more flicks. Do not miss this one. It's the best of all time! "}{"Title":"I may be the last to comment, but you should still LISTEN UP!!!!!","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There is someone on this page named Dave, he complained about this movie, long story short I SUDDENLY DIDN'T LIKE DAVE!!!!!! This movie is awesome, a masterpiece, all the fantastic gore of Evil Dead 1, yet laugh after laugh, till he falls straight through time to Army of Darkness. as another person on this page said BUY IT!! it's not expensive, and it is the perfect film, Sam raimi must've done something like this,Recipe for Perfect movie.  Bruce Campell---one,       setting from Evil Dead---one,     comedy---lot's,    Gore---lot's,           put in big-budget-bowl and frappe with chainsaw. Best served with a big bag of buttered pop-corn. Enjoy  "},{"Title":"One of the best in the genre","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Probably the best horror-comedy ever made, along with Braindead. Bruce Campbell is certainly one of the best actors ever. This is a must see for anyone with a sense of humour.  "},{"Title":"Please see this movie","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Or even go out and buy it, it's cheap! This movie is supremely awesome.  GO SEE IT.  Don't be one of those I don't like any horror movie except for Scream of course people! See this movie, you will laugh yourself sick. Trust me.  Get off your butt.  Now.  I'm waiting.  Hurry up. "},{"Title":"INCREDIBLE!  A Horror Masterpiece!","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Any true horror fan should be proud that a movie like this was made.  Pure bloody-as-hell-sicko-comedy-thrills!  By far the best of the Evil Dead Trilogy (I love the others as well).  Some people just don't get it, and they are entitled to their own opinions.  But, they are WRONG.  This movie ROCKS.  Basically a different remake of the original (some people say it isn't, but COME ON!) with great camerawork and one-liners!  Bruce Campbell will always be remembered as Ash, and this film shows why.  Make sure to check out the equally bloody (less comical) first film, and the 3rd installment Army of Darkness (nothing BUT comical).  "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw Army of Darkness before I saw this, and although this movie is pretty campy, it definitely is a classic if you like sadistic humor! If you decide to rent this one, get Army of Darkness because you're left wanting more by the end.. "},{"Title":"Even Better than the original","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The sequel is really more of a remake of the original for the first ten minutes. Then, the plot takes a lot of twists and turns, unlike the first Evil Dead that is simply campy late-nite fun. There is much more humor in this film, with somewhat of a satirical view of itself. This is more fun than the original, where many scenes were just chaotic. This was planned out much more than the first in many ways. Sam Raimi plays with the camera a bit more with this film, and it turns out well. This is highly recommended for those who like this sort of twisted humor.  "},{"Title":"Groovy!","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is the PERFECT mixture of horror and comedy. Evil Dead was scary, Army of Darkness was funny, this is the best of the trilogy. Raimi re-tells a more simplified version of the Evil Dead in the first five minutes which allows him to blast straight into the action with Ash getting possessed. It's uphill from here.The effects are higher budget this time but not TOO high budget as was the case in Army of Darkness. Many of the scenes are remakes from the first but likewise many new scenes are copied in Army of Darkness (eg.Chainsaw arm/metal hand). You really don't need to have seen Evil Dead (though it helps) but you MUST see this before Army of Darkness, otherwise many gags in the latter will be missed.Get your friends round, crack open some beers, crank up the volume and watch this and Army of Darkness for the most entertaining night of your life. "},{"Title":"It's a crazy, funny horror, but it's a classic.","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  'Evil Dead' is a classic horror movie with a very funny element of craziness to it. Right from the off its non-stop evilness and to sum it up its hilarious, scary and one of the best horrors of all time. "},{"Title":"its all about timing...","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sam Raimi did a tremendous job on Evil Dead 2. while not a true sequel (the first movie is just sort of ignored), Evil Dead 2 features a fantastic script, great acting, and a chainsaw wielding Bruce Cambell who just doesn't give a damn.Within the first 5 minutes of the movie his girlfriend's been posessed, decapitated, and buried.beautiful. "},{"Title":"A laugh/shock/gore a minute fest","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Just saw this for the first time ever last night - and I was in stitches just about all the way through it. At first confused, and then bemused, the whole experience eventually defused when the you know what started laughing (once you've seen it, you'll know what I mean).Plot Who cares?? It's a gore experience, it doesn't need plot.Acting Bruce Campbell looks like he's been taking something rather quite strong - although it could be the make-up he wears for most of the film. Basically, the special FX are the main actors. Overall Just watch it with friends, and laugh like you've never laughed before. "}{"Title":"Horror slap-stick gore-fest","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ash is back! Unfortunately for him, yet again battling unspeakable evil and demons in a secluded log cabin. Following the plot of the first Evil Dead movie, our hero now possess some knowledge of the terror he is facing. But will it be enough to save him and the unlucky campers that just happens to drop by? Evil Dead 2 is not as scary as the first one but makes that up with being hilarious. Experienced movie watchers might know that Sam Raimi is a big fan of The Three Stooges which certainly shows in this movie.Watch and enjoy! Make sure your television set does not blur from the color red. "},{"Title":"Kicks","Date":"20 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie rules. It's a perfect mix of a really weird horror movie and a hilarious comedy. The best part of the movie is when the possessed henrietta comes alive from the cellar and yells DEAD BY DAWN, DEAD BY DAWN  its so freakin' funny  "},{"Title":"Greatest American Film","Date":"18 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Possibly the greatest horror film ever made, Evil Dead 2 is loaded with chills, thrills, chainsaw decapitations, and enough laughs to make you pee your pants. "},{"Title":"The element of comedy spiced it up...","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While I never really understood why they decided to slightly change the storyline a bit from part one to the continuation in part two, then it is still an interesting approach. And Evil Dead II is in fact a rather good movie; a sequel that actually surpassed its predecessor.The added element of comedy might not have been welcomed by all viewers, but I think it was a stroke of genius. It helped redefine the franchise that is The Evil Dead. And the increased budget did of course help too.Evil Dead II is a good combination of horror and comedy, and Bruce Campbell really was allowed to showcase his talents in this movie and made it clear that he is without a doubt the only one capable of being Ash.The effects in Evil Dead II are upped quite a lot compared to the first movie, and it really did help the movie. So there is a wider audience appeal to the sequel compared to the first movie.Similar to the first movie, the storyline is well-thought through and is coherent. It is easy to follow and you would be way off if you wouldn't enjoy this movie - but that is of course my personal opinion.If you are not familiar with Evil Dead II then it is about due time that you sit down and watch this great horror comedy. "},{"Title":"Fun, silly, gory sequel! I love it more than the original.","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead 2 Dead by Dawn (1987) is more than a sequel to a cult classic film from The Evil Dead (1981) this film is more of a prequel to the Army of Darkness (1992) that was made 5. years later. This sequel to the cult classic is the perfect balance between the horror of the original and the silliness of the third installment. It succeeds because it has fun with the B movie genre, never claiming to be better than it is while employing witty direction and dialogue. The scene I remember most is when blood splashes on the lightbulb, making the room glow red. The first time I watch it, this film really confused me a lot because I thought it was sequel to The Evil Dead but it had a lot of changes, which I love that. I have enjoyed a lot of this film, it is one of my second favorite movie's of the trilogy. Bruce Campbell is pure fun and it's witty. Don't get me wrong I love both of Evil Dead films, but I just prefer Army of Darkness more, because it has funny scenes and it has a happy ending, those two films doesn't have happy endings, that is why I love Army of Darkness much better. The film it is just more of the same thing. Literally. But don't take that as such a negative thing. With the success of the low-budget original under his belt, director Sam Raimi re-imagined his first draft and added many elements he just did not have either the time or the money to accomplish on the first pass. On some level, the film certainly works as a nightmare that has to be replayed by our poor reluctant hero Ash. second Evil pairing of writer-director Sam Raimi and star Bruce Campbell doesn't pick up from where the first Evil Dead left off, it instead reinvents some of the same characters from the first film, notably Campbell's daffy hero Ash and putative girlfriend Linda (played by Denise Bixler in this film), and plops them back in the same basic plot setup as the first film, in a kind of horror-comedy Groundhog Day scenario.Once again Ash visits an isolated cabin in the woods, turns on a tape recorder that has a professor spouting verbiage from the Necronomicon, and the next thing you know, all hell has broken loose, quite literally. Raimi is a director who may not win points for finesse, but he works in a manic, breathless style that is perfectly suited for the outré black comedy of the Evil Dead franchise, and that devil may care, throw caution to the wind spirit is what has made the Evil Dead trilogy (Army of Darkness was the third film, though there's evidently a Raimi-Campbell remake of the original Evil Dead in the offing) such a cult sensation and what continues to draw audiences to the films to this day. Evil Dead 2 Dead by Dawn is an extremely gruesome affair, but it's also laugh out loud hilarious a lot of the time, with Campbell's intentionally arch delivery and wide-eyed crazed, cartoonish performance style making the most of Raimi and co-scenarist Scott Speigel's reinvention of the Evil Dead premise. Evil Dead 2 Dead by Dawn is really a sly, if sometimes sinister, comedy, one blacker than, well, death, but which delivers some consistent guffaws mixed in with the more typical avert your eyes blood and guts.Ash (Bruce Campbell), the sole survivor of THE EVIL DEAD, returns to the same cabin in the woods and again unleashes the forces of the dead. With his girlfriend possessed by the demons and his body parts running amok, Ash is forced to single- handedly battle the legions of the damned as the most lethal &#x96; and groovy &#x96; hero in horror movie history! Welcome to EVIL DEAD II, director Sam Raimi's infamous sequel to THE EVIL DEAD and outrageous prequel to ARMY OF DARKNESS!Evil Dead II (referred to in publicity materials as Evil Dead 2 Dead by Dawn is a 1987 American horror comedy film directed by Sam Raimi and a parody sequel to the 1981 film The Evil Dead. The film was written by Raimi and Scott Spiegel (they wrote the screenplay during the production of another collaboration Crimewave), produced by Robert Tapert, and stars Bruce Campbell as Ash Williams.I love this film and the Evil Dead trilogy to death!!!!10/10 Grade A+ Studio Paramount Pictures, Rosebud Releasing Starring Bruce Campbell, Sarah Berry, Dan Hicks, Kassie DePaiva, Richard Domeier Director Sam Raimi Producers Robert Tapert, Alex De Benedetti, Irvin Shapiro Writers Sam Raimi, Scott Spiegel Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 24 Mins. Budget $3.600.000 Box Office $5.923.044 "},{"Title":"fun B-movie splatter horror","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ash J. Williams (Bruce Campbell) takes his girlfriend Linda to a secluded cabin in the woods. He find a tape recorder. He plays professor Knowby's recitation of the Necronomicon Ex-Mortis (Book of the Dead). Linda is possessed and Ash has to decapitate her. He finds the bridge taken out. Linda's head and body, which he buried, comes back to attack him. Ash has to cut Linda up with a chainsaw. His hand turns bad after Linda's bite. Meanwhile, Knowby's daughter Annie and others try to bring the Necronomicon to the cabin.Sam Raimi has a bit more money and he continues his Evil Dead story. It's as bloody as ever. There is some fun with the blood splattering B-movie. Bring some protection. There are some funny bits especially with the hand. The other actors are limited. It would have been interesting to see an one-man play with Bruce Campbell from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Just as demented and crazy as it's predecessor","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Heading off to a cabin in the woods, the reading of a demonic book unleashes a horde of vicious demons that plague a man and others that arrive there looking to translate the work forcing them all to fend off the beings.This one is easily among the top films in the genre. What works so well for this one is that there's far more emphasis on this one being unbelievably funny and hysterical as its utilizing physical slapstick comedy to do it's terrorizing and torture, resulting in this one containing numerous side-splitting gags. The possessed-hand material is superb slapstick comedy, from it striking him in the head with plates and grabbing at his face while the scenes of him hunting the disarticulated hand around the cabin are hilarious, Ash being tormented by the baying laughter and howling from the stuffed animals and furniture in the room and the over-the-top reaction to the situation by dumping gallons of blood from minor wounds. As well, there's tons of times here involving him tripping and stumbling over something, beating himself into the walls or with furniture to dislodge something stuck to him or puts on numerous factional distortions that are all quite hilarious. Still, beyond the hilarity this is still first and foremost a horror film so there's a lot of big scenes here that go for the chills and jumps quite effectively, from the opening battle with the possessed girlfriend in the woods and the ensuing POV chase through the woods into the cabin, a great battle with the reanimated body and the series of attacks down in the cellar all provide plenty of that. The finale is where all the best action is, as the possessed individuals become much more bold and daring in tormenting the remaining survivors, the humor gets dropped and the pace quickens substantially which not only highlights the nearly flaws-less make-up on the possessed, deformities and wounds as well as the fantastic finale that mixes some rather impressive action alongside the black magic workings featured here which makes this one all the more fun. There's really only one area here that holds this down which is the clumsy way this brings everyone together, letting him stay there along for a long period of time and sloppily bringing the group in later on. The cutaways don't do much and makes it seem like forever before they get there. As well, especially early in the movie, not a whole lot made sense. One character is possessed by the creatures, and remains so for the early part of the movie, then all of a sudden, in the middle it disappears and never comes up again. It's weird that something that powerful could be gone just that easily. Otherwise, there's not much this one gets wrong.Rated X/R Extreme Graphic Violence, Language and Brief Nudity. "},{"Title":"A horror/comedy classic that made the 80's great!","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bruce Campbell etches himself into history as a physically comedic icon in horror movie history with this gruesome but hilarious sequel to Sam Raimi's 1981 low budget gore-fest, The Evil Dead. This is a stand-alone film that has no connection to the original. Actually it is a sort of remake that has been improved upon with a more slapstick approach to the genre. H.P. Lovecraft's infamous Book Of The Dead is utilized once more, with an archaeologist stumbling upon its deadly passages and foolishly reciting them within the confines of a remote cabin in the woods. The demonic forces are once again unleashed, and Ash (Bruce Campbell) and girlfriend fall victim to the unseen demonic forces while attempting a quiet vacation. This crazy movie has it all. The action starts right away, and its a onslaught of bloody mayhem as Ash has to chop up his possessed girlfriend, battle his own possessed hand in a scene that defined Bruce Campbell as a dynamic actor. Super-fast camera shots panning through walls, busting down doors and hurling poor Ash through trees and car windshields. The on-going antics in this film resemble a sort of demented Looney Tunes like cartoon element, and when the rest of the cast, including the archaeologists daughter, and a couple of redneck locals, the hilarity really kicks into gear. The special effects are the classic stop-motion combined with make up and prosthetics that made the 80's great. Its Sam Raimi's finest hour as gallons of blood are sprayed, eyeballs pop out and fly across the room and there is mutilation galore, and its all done with a comic-book like style and glory. You'll love it! Raimi goes on to finish the Ash saga with Army of Darkness just before he hits the box office mainstream with big budget films. This was history in the making indeed. "},{"Title":"Truly great sequel","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Just finished watching Evil Dead II and it certainly delivers the goods! I found this sequel very entertaining, funny and original, but at the same time a bit less scary and disturbing than the first one. There are a lot of memorable scenes where crazy stuff happens to poor Ash, who had already suffered a lot in the first film. Speaking of which, Bruce Campbell is totally insane here and I appreciated his over the top performance, making his character much more interesting this time. Also, the practical effects are more polished and improved. Maybe it's just me, but I actually found the ones used in the The Evil Dead I more effective. I can't really say which one is my favorite so far since they are very distinct from each other and are both great. Now I will be heading to Army of Darkness, which appears to be one hell of a ride too. "},{"Title":"Within the cabin","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While Sam Raimi did base the first Evil Dead movie on his short movie Within the woods (a short a lot of people would love to see someday, but there are some issues with it, either rights issues or the material is not good enough, I guess), this is a sequel/remake of the first one. It seems like he was ahead of his time.We do get a previously on Evil Dead segment in the beginning, but it doesn't show the events that unfold as they were portrayed in the previous movie. It's like a short movie that changes the back-story a little bit. It also is a bit funnier than the first movie. Bruce Campbell is more than able to squeeze funny out of some situations. So while it seems like more of the same it is still more than entertaining. "}{"Title":"If you hate this movie, chances are I hate you.","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" To put my reviews in better perspective I read the one star reviews posted and I am pretty much disgusted. Here are a few thing you need to know about this movie This is a sequel, it is not unoriginal because it was one of the first movies in the gorefest genre, and it blends horror and comedy. Now onto the movie itself. This is in an everlasting battle for my favorite movie of all time, with the first Evil Dead of course. I have an extreme respect for this movie no matter how ridiculous it gets or how despised it is. In my opinion this is probably one of the easiest horror movies to watch because unlike most horror films it has a story, characters who can defend themselves, and breaks from the nonstop scares, which makes the scares even more effective. I loved this movie the first time I saw it and more than likely will love it to the day I die. "},{"Title":"Sequels rarely come any better than this","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead 2 is one of those very rare films - a sequel that surpasses the original. Where the original film was a straight ahead horror flick, this one adds comedy to the mix. In different hands such a move would prove disastrous, with both the horror diluted and the comedy not funny enough. But comedy-horror is probably the sub-genre that ultimately suits Sam Raimi's sensibility best. His kinetic direction, fast paced editing and reservoir of inventive ideas are put to their best use with the addition of comedy. While star Bruce Campbell turns in a truly hilarious star-making performance as the hero Ash. His knockabout acting style is something of a revelation here. Both men peak in this movie.It's technically a sequel, with events from the first film recapped in the early scenes. Once Ash is picked up by an unseen force and propelled through the forest we are at the point just after the first movie ended. To be honest though, it feels more like a remake than a sequel. A lot of important details are dropped from the first movie, such as the two other companions. But whatever way you want to look at it Evil Dead 2 benefits from the higher budget at Raimi's disposal. The make-up is rather good and there are better special effects throughout.Where it really scores though is in its brilliant combination of genuine horror with proper laughs. There are many scenes of pulse-pounding tension, there's a horrific hag in the cellar and loads of bloody splatter violence; this is offset with moments of inspired comedy mayhem such as the possessed hand or the demented laughter scene. There are many individual moments of originality sprinkled throughout though. Campbell is a real asset here; he understands the nature of the role perfectly. He's not just a great physical actor but also delivers numerous funny lines right on the button.The Evil Dead 2 is a triumphant combination of slapstick and over-the-top horror. You can't take it serious of course. It's like a gory comic-strip come to life. It's a movie that deserves being called a cult film. "},{"Title":"Wickedly entertaining","Date":"12 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead II is a departure from the first, in that it's not a straight-up horror film. After a short (slightly altered) recap of the first movie, we find Ash (Bruce Campbell) still in the cabin, having survived until daylight, the last man standing. But the forces of evil still lurk in the woods, and the bridge is out, so Ash is stranded.The tone is significantly lightened this time around, with much of the film spent on watching Ash get his ass kicked inside the cabin - whether it's getting beaten over the head with glass plates (by his own possessed hand) or being doused by a spray of blood from the walls. Just witnessing Campbell wage war with his own hand is worth the price of admission. There's so much Looney Tunes comedy and Three Stooges slapstick that you can't help but laugh at Ash's abuse (which seems to be the driving force behind the making of this film).It's the prototype for the horror/comedy we see so much of today. Even so, Evil Dead II bristles with so much manic energy, you can't help but appreciate the humor and sentiment from the filmmakers. A supremely watchable film of the highest order.8/10 "},{"Title":"Blood-Soaked Insanity","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Few movies have left an impression on me quite like this one. I remember after I finished watching it, my only reaction was, what the f*** did I just watch? It was one of the greatest movie-watching experiences I've ever had. Evil Dead II is quite simply one the greatest horror movies of all time.The first movie was a straight-up horror, with some sporadic dark humor thrown in. This one ups the comedy, but thankfully, not at the expense of the horror. Don't be fooled, there are some truly frightening scenes in this movie. And yes, the blood flows frequently, with one scene in particular possibly ranking as one of the goriest of all time. All different colors of blood and other bodily fluids show up along the way. But it's main influence probably comes from The Three Stooges. Sam Raimi's love of the The Three Stooges shows throughout the film's many comedic set-pieces. From a demon who can't stalk fast enough, to Ash fighting a possessed hand, and even some crazy antics with a flying eyeball. There are so many classic scenes in this movie, and all this is due to the absolutely awesome performance by a certain Bruce Campbell. This is the role that made him a B-movie legend; a role he was born to play. He would make an excellent Jim Carrey in some parallel universe, as he handles the physical comedy extremely well. The supporting actors do well in their respective roles, but Bruce steals the show completely.Everything from the masterful and innovative camera work, to the somewhat dated but extremely effective special effects, simply complete the package of what is one of the greatest horror / comedies of all time. Sure, sometimes the seams show, with various puppet strings and other goofs visible, but it's that same charm that elevates this movie to cult status. You owe it to yourself to see this movie, even if just once. "},{"Title":"The essence of Raimi","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" All artists change over time. Their evolution reflects their own personal growth, the development of their skills and the different influences that pass through their lives. If an artist is lucky, they'll produce a work that is uniquely their own. Something that embodies the purity of their own thought and feeling, without being too constricted by external forces or degenerately self indulgent. Evil Dead II is Sam Raimi's unique contribution to the common aesthetic.I realize that seems a bit pretentious when focused on a horror movie where a corpse dances, a man cuts off his demon-infested hand and a woman swallows a witch's eyeball&#x85;but it's true. Evil Dead II is the most honest, purest expression of his own vision. It's the thing that from start to finish, only Raimi could have made. The fact that it's a remake is what's so unusual.Evil Dead II isn't a sequel to Evil Dead, it's a retelling of the same story but freed from the expectations of others. Both films tell the story of a group of people in an isolated cabin with the infamous Necronomicon, the Book of the Dead. Both films feature unclean spirits summoned back into the world by words played from a tape machine. Both movies even feature a young woman who runs into the haunted woods and is molested by devilish shrubbery and the main character in both is a young man named Ash (Bruce Campbell). But there is a profound difference between the two films.Evil Dead has a great many startling and bizarre elements to it, but it is essentially a conventional horror movie. When he made it, Raimi was making what other people had told him made a movie a horror movie. It has the same dynamic and the same essential nature as other horror movies. When he made Evil Dead II, Raimi made what he thought a horror movie should be. And what Raimi thought a horror movie should be is Man facing terrifying evil&#x85;and surpassing it.Evil Dead II embraces the idea that the grotesque is both frightening and silly. That the proper response to the most extreme situations, circumstances where reality itself is out to get you&#x85;would look goofy. Raimi's vision was that terror taken to the otherworldly limit would be not even a hair's breadth away from silly. That's what makes Ash one of the great characters in film. Unlike others in horror films, who represent the audience desperately clinging to the real and the safe, Ash is confronted with the outrageous and the insane and he's right there with it all, step for step and crazed laugh for crazed laugh. Oh, he's frightened and he's frantic and he's jumping at shadows. But Ash doesn't reject the horror before and around him. He dives into it. He fights with it, not against it. What Ash represents is the idea that the indescribable nightmare out there isn't really out there. We're part of it and it is in acknowledging and accepting that, we can defeat it. What defines Evil Dead II are those moments where Ash is even more inhuman than the hellish monsters in those dark woods.By the time he did the third film in the series, Army of Darkness, Raimi had lost his purity of vision. There are only moments of the film that are at all scary. Ash become a figure of comedy in a world of laughably over-the-top creatures and situations. If Evil Dead was Raimi making what other people thought a horror movie was, Army of Darkness is Raimi making what other people thought a Sam Raimi movie was. It has all of the style but none of the heart.Which isn't to say it's a bad film. All three are enjoyable on their own merits, like many of Raimi's other works. Evil Dead II stands out, though, because it wasn't made by Sam Raimi. It is Sam Raimi. "},{"Title":"Funny and Scary","Date":"25 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This Evil dead 2 not as Dark The Evil dead and it more of comedy, which is not bad thing at all.The plot Sequel to The Evil Dead where Ash does not manage to escape the evil from the first movie. Retelling the story only leaves Ash and his girlfriend in the beginning for whatever reason. Ash must now survive another night in the cabin accompanied now by the Professor's daughter, a mechanic, an associate of the Professor, and the mechanic's girlfriend. But the thing in the darkness vows that they will be.This movie has some scary moments and the demons are still scary in this movie but the most is just playing hilarious! from stat to end, there still a lot gore in this movie, less then The Evil Dead.Not as awesome as The Evil dead but still fantastic sequel the acting from Ash was Outstanding.I am going to give this movie a 9/10 "},{"Title":"Evil Dead 2 Exercise in non-stop over-the-top jumbles!","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I found Evil Dead 2 to be quite different than the original. While it does have the same basic plot, Evil Dead 2 goes for more over-the-top comedy and silliness. That is what makes it so good. I have to be honest, the beginning had me confused, but as the film goes along, I grew with it. Some of the scenes, like the hand scene, and the talking lamps and animals were hilarious. But I did not find it quite as amazing as the first. I could not connect with the other characters as much, and I did find it got repetitive in the end. However, it is a classic and easily one of the ten best horror films ever. Bruce Campbell was also stronger in this film and more secure "},{"Title":"Swallow This!","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After a brief prologue that serves as half remake, half re-cap, Evil Dead 2 Dead By Dawn continues the unfortunate adventures of Ash (Bruce Campbell) and the demons that inhabit the cabin he once shared with his friends. Much more stylized and over-the-top than it's predecessor, Evil Dead 2 is certainly not for everyone. However, if you've seen enough horror movies in your day and can recognize and appreciate pure entertainment when you see it, you'll have a blast with this sequel.What is normally sacrilege for horror movies is a gift here. Forsaking a conventional plot, Evil Dead 2 instead delivers shock after shock topped with mountains of gore, so much so that if it were real, any sane person would start vomiting. By the time we're well into the second act, the cabin is wall to wall with blood and the first film has officially been outdone. Don't be mistaken, however; this movie is not just gore for the sake of gore. It's always there to serve a punchline and to further stimulate the over-caffeinated vibe the movie has going for it. And if you thought the first movie was brutal, brace yourself, because its sequel doubles up on just about everything. To describe what happens in this movie doesn't do it justice. Hell, no mind-altering substance known to man can compete with Evil Dead 2!Returning to his signature role, Campbell plays Ash quite differently than in the first film. Becoming the anti-hero, Ash whips out quotable line after quotable line, becoming an instant fan-boy favorite. Along with an ever-resilient Campbell, director Sam Raimi is back in the saddle and he's letting loose. For whatever reason, it seems like Raimi has more artistic confidence and less pressure and, in turn, delivers one of the purest, most unbridled horror film of the 80's. Evil Dead 2 plays almost as a gift to horror fans who had become complacent and grown tired of the typical slasher fare of the 80's. Almost as an oasis of the genre, it's a movie that you can come to time and time again when you're not in the mood for anything in particular, but know you want to have a good time. "},{"Title":"Like the first, this has next to no plot., but it's one of the funnest movies I've ever seen.","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Evil Dead trilogy stays about the same each film in quality and entertainment, but as they go on each one is more silly than the last in seems. The first Evil Dead was funny in a morbid way. It had some very dark humor, and was more of a horror film than a comedy. This movie has many horror elements to it, including several jump scenes and a very creepy atmosphere, but this a comedy. People who take this as a horror movie will probably be disappointed, but most people it seems in the first few minutes will figure out that this is meant to be funny, not scary.To (sort of) retell what happened in the first film, the first 10 minutes of the film show a different but similar story as the first movie, including leaving off exactly where that one did. Ash (Bruce Campbell) is stuck in the woods in a cabin haunted with Deadite demons that possessed his girlfriend and caused him to dispose of her. The demons are brought to life through a professor's recording of the Book of the Dead, and the professor's and a few others end up in the cabin with Ash. Blood, guts and hilarity ensues.Some say this is a remake of the original, and it's not, though it is similar to the first. Both take place in the cabin, though this one obviously takes place right after the first. Where most sequels pale in comparison to the originals, this one was even better than the first. The special effects were amazing. The over the top direction and acting were hilarious, including one scene where a moose head in the cabin begins to laugh and it's obviously infectious because soon the whole cabin including Ash in uproariously laughing. Weird and funny creatures are around every corner, as are the one liners from Bruce Campbell that go with them. There's little plot, but that's a good thing here so we get to see more creatures. One problem in this is the ending. It's a great, though bizarre cliffhanger, so make sure to have a copy of Army of Darkness to pop in right after to pick up where this leaves off.Overall, this is a hilarious, sort of scary comedy/horror film that takes from many genres making it an extremely fresh film. It's probably the best of the Evil Dead trilogy.My rating *** 1/2 out of ****. 80 mins. R for violence. "},{"Title":"Slapstick horror classic","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This particular movie is my favourite of the entire Evil Dead trilogy. It's a slap-stick horror-comedy classic! The first movie didn't impress me much because it was over-hyped when I was in high-school, and I didn't find it as horrific as it was made out to be. In fact, I tended to view the first movie less than scary for having monsters in it that reminded me of muppets!Anyway, this movie continues the plot of the first movie-the dire consequences that ensue when the notorious Tibetan Book of the Dead is read aloud, namely, the unleashing of lots of demons intent on killing humans.This movie contains some paradoxical time travel scenarios, which is most enjoyable.The hero of the movie has some great scenes involving parts of his body being possessed and how he goes about defeating the demon possessing him. It is riotously funny!If the first movie in this trilogy was a muppet horror movie, the second was pure slap-stick comedy and mind-bending plot-lines. The last movie in this trilogy I tend to remember as being like one of those matinée sword and sandal epics-like Jason and the Argonauts. Really, three movies, yet three different genres.For the second movie, get together with some mates, grab some popcorn, and enjoy the strangeness and silliness that ensues. "}{"Title":"A true grindhouse movie!","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" About the time Spider-Man 2 was about to hit theaters in the summer of 2004, not only did I started watching the first film on DVD but also wanted to experiment Sam Raimi's other features. I was at a dollar store where I saw the widescreen version of Evil Dead II sitting around in a case where I bought the film and became both entertained and interested in more of Raimi's work.Evil Dead II is the sequel to the infamous Evil Dead where Ash (Bruce Campbell) drives off to the woods with his girlfriend to get a little action until an evil spirit manages to possess Ash's sweetheart turning her into a monster. He kills her before realizing that the cabin is haunted where in some scenes he'll be possessed into a demon monster forcing him to chop his own hand off. Other characters from a babe scientist and her husband and a pair of locals go to the house to discover that something evil is in the house and discover what's going on before it's too late and they're all dead.The film is both scary and funny, but the special effects make it truly realistic where an NC-17 rating was almost added unless the blood wasn't red on all scenes. Even for an early Sam Raimi movie, I love how Bruce Campbell manages to blend in humor and seriousness at the same time where I couldn't help myself but laugh, especially the way Raimi likes to torture his actors. "},{"Title":"Laughing Deer Head","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was so ridiculous...but I loved it! This was like a more comical version of the original. The 1st movie doesn't even seem to exist in this one...but...who cares. Ash returns to the cabin from the first, and has his cheesy lines and whatnot. But I loved them. THis movie seemed to make no sense whatsoever, and every scene just got more and more ridiculous...but thats what makes it fun. People are gonna talk bad about this movie because of that. I got news for those people...this movie is supposed to be super-cheesy and corny. Its not meant to be serious or realistic. If it was serious or realistic...there'd be no Evil Dead to begin with! I couldn't stop laughing in this movie at parts...I think my ribs still hurt at times. I give this a 9/10. Only reason I don't give it a 10 is because some parts were just TOO much for me. Watch this movie however, you will like it. "},{"Title":"Splendid splatter comedy sequel","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was an old favorite of mine and I watched it again recently. Though it was not quite as brilliant as I remembered, I still had a great time. The film takes a far more humorous route than the fairly scary predecessor, although it is not without its shocks. The first half of the film is in my opinion the best, since Ash is alone in the cabin with the dead and Bruce Campbell gives an excellent off kilter performance. The first half is often surreal and creepy, with some fine humour too and a great anything can happen feel. The effects are more silly and splattery than realistic and it works well. The second half, when more people arrive and the bloodbath begins in earnest, I thought was less successful. The tone gets broader, the acting is brought down a bit and the film just doesn't have the same hold. The effects and gore are cool but not that scary or gruesome and there are far less jolts than the original. The finale is fun, but I would have preferred something more in the tone of the original. These faults are pretty minor though, as th film is still excellent fun and a more than worthy sequel to a genius original. "},{"Title":"Inferior to The Evil Dead","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was excited to see The Evil Dead II because I had heard from several different sources that it was better than the first one. I'm going to have to disagree, though it still is a great film. It's kind of a comedy version of the original.The effects in this one are fantastic, the acting, especially from Bruce Campbell, is fantastic and the story does a good job of being fun but still different from the original. I really liked the whole the with the chainsaw for an arm. This is a great movie.Anyone who's seen The Evil Dead needs to pop this in and check it out. You won't be let down. "},{"Title":"Slapstick horror at its finest!","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The sequel to The Evil Dead has arrived in Evil Dead 2 Dead by Dawn! The plot is practically the same; Ash is attacked, his girlfriend killed and everyone else gets slaughtered...is that a spoiler? Nah, because this is what Evil Dead films are...a showcase for Bruce Campbell to get the s*** knocked out of him! So even though the formula is the same, how is this film so much fun, and perhaps, arguably, better than the original? Well, the budget has been anted up from ten bucks to fifty bucks and the film, unlike the original which tried harder to be an actual horror movie, is a laugh riot! Albeit dark humor, there are several scenes with Ash losing his sanity before our eyes that are just hilarious. If there was one drawback not enough gore. But all in all, ED2 is great entertainment that has plenty of awesome camera angles, great one-liners, a severed hand, and touches of horror and comedy mixed to perfection! Thank you Sam Raimi, Bob Tapert and Bruce Campbell. "},{"Title":"Nice, Gory Sequel","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" SPOILERSEvil Dead Two is a very good sequel to Evil Dead. I think it's actually better. I liked the dark humorous touch to it. Not as brutal or bloody as the first one, but some very good deaths, and here they are Linda Possessed by Dead, decapitated by Ash.Ed Possessed by Dead, limbs cut off.Bobbie Joe Smashed by trees.Jake Killed by Henrietta.Henrietta Possessed by dead, head blown off.Annie Stabbed in the back by Possessed hand.One of my favorite sequences ever was the possessed hand sequence. Ash's hand gets bitten by possessed Linda's head and becomes possessed. Ash cuts off his hand with a chainsaw and it is still alive. His hand then runs into a mouse hole and is not seen again until it stabs Annie in the back. Again, another great sequence is the possessed Ash sequence. The title says it all. There is, of course, the showdown with Henrietta. Overall, this is a even better, gory, sequel.9/10 Rec. Films Evil Dead, Army of Darkness. "},{"Title":"Definition of a cult classic","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead II is a great flick. It has the creepy haunting horror aspects, the jump out of your seat scenes, plenty of gore for those who need it, and loads of comedy. Sam Raimey really captures the feeling of seclusion in and around the cabin. One of the great things about the movie is that the 'monster' is't the zombies as much as it is the intangible evil spirit. There are spots where the effects can be cheesy but it actually adds to the films charm. The characters are great as well The Daughter of the archaeologist and her preppy boyfriend, the backwoods hillbilly and his charming girlfriend. Then there is Ash. Its worth seeing for Ash's one liners alone.I love how the house in the woods looks like it has 3 rooms from the outside but when ash is running through it there is like 20 rooms. I found this to be an improved upon remake of the first Evil Dead. Enjoy "},{"Title":"Best movie in the history of the universe.","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I wasn't able to get into the Evil Dead trilogy at first because I watched them all out of order. I was put off by the over the top juvenile humor in Army of Darkness, but I now realize it was just an extension of what Sam Raimi was perfecting here. This is an awesome black comedy featuring some of the sickest slapstick I've ever seen in a movie, and loads of dry humor (example horrible demonic noises start coming from behind a bedroom door. Girl points to door and says, It's in there).The first half is basically a one-man comedy show starring the amazingly talented Bruce Campbell, who makes an idiot redneck into one of the most memorable movie heroes ever. In fact, when other people finally reach the cabin, it slows the whole thing down. That's my only complaint the movie is too long. It would have worked better as a short. For example, they could have done without the tiresome sequence of the girl running into the woods and the others coming after her (and no shock factor like in the first movie's version). I'm not watching this to see a damn search party, for heaven's sake, I'm watching it to see Bruce Campbell fighting off possessed body parts with a chainsaw and saying things like, You're going down! If your idea of a good movie is black humor combined with old-fashioned slapstick, this is the movie for you. It's a shame Sam Raimi abandoned stuff like this to make trendy crap. I'd rather watch insanity like Evil Dead 2 than the Spiderman movies any day. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Great and funniest remake-sequel","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you saw the first Evil Dead, you found a gory experience, and a bit disturbing (at least, I did). But, in this sequel, Ash, the starring character, comes back to the damn cabin from the first movie, and does everything as if nothing ever happens. So, he discovers (again) the tape recorder, they listen the translation from the Necronomicon Ex Mortes, and (Have I said again before?) AGAIN they summons the Evil Spirit from the Woods. But, the black humor, the terror some times, the performance of Bruce Campbell (as well as the rest of the cast) is awesome. And much more, if we see that these movies are make with a very low budget... well, there are masterpieces. There are great funny scenes (like the posessed hand waiting for Ash to reload the shotgun), huge bloody scenes (like Ash cutting his own hand and blood literally covering his face) and a little primitive FX, but well handled, which makes this movies (THREE of them) real classics, and, from my point of view, real CULT MOVIES. "},{"Title":"Better than 'The Evil Dead'","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'Evil Dead II Dead by Dawn' is essentially a remake of the original 'The Evil Dead', extended and made more professionally and with more experience than the first.Beginning with a short recap of the first movie, we join the sole survivor Ash. He is trapped in the cabin, slowly going mad as deadites torment him. Soon he is joined by Annie Knowby (the daughter of Professor Knowby, the archaeologist who recorded the incantations from the Necronomicon), Ed (Annie's boyfriend or something), a redneck named Jake and his girlfriend Bobbie Joe. Yup, Bobbie Joe...Now the forest has more victims to claim, and it isn't long before the deadites are back in full force. At first it seems like a rehash of the first movie, but as the events progress you can tell it is smarter than the first. Essentially the same story, but the horror scenes are better and more varied than the first, more comedy, the special effects are much much better. We also get to see Ash progress from the terrified survivor to the Cult-God 'Army of Darkness' Ash that we all love. Bruce Campbell rules. Going from the scared-pretty boy, Ash turns into the deadite-killing, one-liner spitting, King of Awesomeness.Hail to the King, baby. Sorry, wrong movie.'Evil Dead II' - better than the first movie - 9/10, still not for the faint of heart. "}{"Title":"b-movie classic","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For geeks everywhere, this is perhaps the ultimate embodiment of the b-movie, and Bruce Campbell is without question the god of the genre. Though I must admit that this is one of my favorite movies, it certainly suffers from an identity crisis. It seems that midway through the movie Sam Raimi and company decided that they didn't want to be scary like the gorefest Evil Dead and decided to simply play upon the inherent ridiculous nature of horror movies. Whether Raimi was attempting to inoculate himself against criticism by sending up his own movie or just genuinely decided that taking a turn for the ridiculous was more interesting, we will never know. What we do know is that Evil Dead II is one of the most frenetic, gory and entertaining flicks ever put to celluloid. Raimi is indeed one of the most influential directors of the last 20 years for his hyperactive 3-D camera work. This movie shows more than the original his innovative directing style which would eventually fully mature in the action scenes in Spiderman.Even though the movie is uniquely Raimi, Campbell, who took second billing to the zombies in the first one, truly drives this movie with his awful, hammy, yet brilliant acting. Truthfully, nobody else could have delivered the who's laughing now!? line, though that is not entirely a compliment. This is one of those movies you will either love it depending upon whether you have a love of the absurd or are genuinely expecting cinema. This is not a great movie, it's not even a good movie, but it is enormously entertaining and funny movie for those who enjoy schlock entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Proof the middle part of a trilogy can be the best","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERSLong before he began to direct box office hits like the Spiderman films (2002 and 2004), Sam Raimi wrote and directed a trilogy of films known as The Evil Dead. With a first film in 1981, and the conclusion in 1993, it was this middle section which, whilst slightly dated, remains the better part of the three.In Evil Dead II, Raimi has roped in friend Bruce Campbell to continue his role as Ash.J.Williams. Continuing on from the end of the original piece, the film continues with Ash being roped into fighting the forces of evil once more.With Raimi apparently planning the three films to work directly as one continuous story, it could be quite easy for the second part to be completely at a loss to some if they haven't seen the first. To deal with this, Raimi felt the need to have a brief ten minutes at the beginning in which he explains the events of the previous film. Whilst this beginning is by no means as enjoyable as the rest of the film, it remains necessary and is a clever way of introducing newcomers to the situation at hand and poor Ash's position.Raimi is part of what seems like an elite group of directors. Whilst some newcomers to that big chair behind the camera began working on television adverts, some of the most famous directors of the early twenty-first century began their careers making low budget films with unbelievable special effects and vast quantities of blood. Whilst Peter Jackson's earliest work includes the extreme Braindead (1992), Raimi began with this trilogy. It's quite tempting perhaps to compare and contrast just how much the directorial works of these two directors evolved. Both began with these wonderful films and eventually they both worked on huge blockbuster motion pictures (Raimi with the Spiderman films and Jackson obviously with the Lord Of The Rings trilogy). In a way it's worth wondering how the children who so adore the characters of those recent films might feel about Lionel from Braindead or Ash from this. They probably wouldn't understand.When it comes to actually considering the content of this sort of film, it can be tempting to condemn them for having such ridiculous plots and gore. This would be a shame however, mainly because the ultimate beauty of the Evil Dead trilogy is that there's just something brilliant about them. Whilst the third part of the trilogy did lack compared with the others, it was still a good film, just not as good as it's predecessors.The second part of this trilogy is superb for a few reasons. Whilst it does possess low budget special effects, these effects feel a necessary part to what this film is. With an extreme, cool character like Ash involved, to actually have amazing C.G.I. effects of future standards would be to ruin the film. By having someone behind the scenes firing fake blood through a hose at Bruce Campbell, there's this dumb humour to the situation which makes the audience laugh. With the evil hand and the possessed people as well, the excessive use of rubber to make them look evil works badly in terms of horror, but works brilliantly in terms of making the audience love this movie. Ultimately, by having so many dodgy special effects, this film becomes a form of cult classic. This trilogy gives the impression that it could be the sort of films where people gather in a group, put their feet up, crack open a beer, and laugh as Bruce Campbell's Ash saves the world from the forces of evil. The Evil Dead trilogy are never going to be terrifying, but they are going to be watched over and over again for being fun and for making anyone with a taste for the gross laugh out loud. "},{"Title":"The best Evil Dead.","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead 2 is by far superior to the original Evil Dead which was pretty poor indeed. Despite what a few people say about this movie it IS a remake of the original but made so much better in every single way. Ash is cooler, there are some comedy elements but still has a twisted horror feel to it that no other horror movie has. Some of the effects are a little bit dodgy but this was made slightly before the days of CGI. Ash is darned cool as a normal guy coping with the pressures of demonic spirits and without this man the film would be mediocre at best. I love the way the demons (not zombies! morons!) walk, very twisted and scary. The follow up to this called Army Of Darkness pushes the comedy even further which in a way spoils it. Evil Dead 2 is a horror with comedy element but Army Of Darkness is a comedy with horror elements which is about as scary as an episode of Hercules or Xena. Watch this and then Army Of Darkness and forget about the first one. Evil Dead 2 is fantastic in nearly every way and should be watched by anyone who remotely likes a bit of horror with a side dish of comedy. 9/10. "},{"Title":"BEST MOVIE EVER","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this movie is simply fabulous. The first movie was not scary either like so many of people complaints are (OOOOh the first one was so scary and then they ruined it with humor) the firsrt one was tongue in cheek becuase they had never made a horror before and had been making comedy movies for YEARS and YEARS and i think that this movie is another GREAT comedy movie to add to anyone collection. if you see this movie first try watching the original evil dead it will seem funny also. he has alot of funny one liners and just basic cheesy horror GOODNESS. i give this movie a 10/10. it will GREATLY satisfy all your needs for Cheesy Horror Goodness And just plain HILARIOUS comedy. I LOVE IT. READ HIS BOOK TOO, its as funny as the movies! "},{"Title":"The penultimate horror-comedy masterpiece!","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the funniest and most disgusting films ever. Countless other films have ripped it off in one way or another. For all its silly cliches it remains amazingly original.You also have to keep in mind that this film was made by amateurs, albiet incredibly talented, creative and resourceful amateurs, and the budget was also very low (not as low as the first though, obviously). And they managed to churn out this hugely entertaining cult film that never looks cheap. Even the stop motion effects fit in this film. All the actors too put in great performances, and apart form Bruce Campbell, none of them are (or were) real actors.You simply have to see it. Scratch that, you simply have to OWN it. This is my favourite of the trilogy, followed by the third and then the first (which is classic in its own right, but not as big on the laughs as this one). "},{"Title":"Ash is the best!!!","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yes, Ash goes through so much hell in the first movie...but much more in this movie.  It is obvious that the genious Sam Raime is a huge Stooges fan.  He must also like Peter Jackson...because there are a few scenes where somebody gets shot...and 100 gallons of blood spray out at FIREHOSE PRESSURE!!!  This even happens when a HAND is shot...yes, you heard me correct, a stand alone hand.   Way to go Tappert, Ramie and Campbell!!  You out did yourselves again!!!  Yeah!!! "},{"Title":"Anti-Kafka","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Spoilers!Somewhere between Evil Dead and Army of Darkness something happened to the series.Sam Raimi is arguably the best visual artist of the 80s.  If Brian DePalma demonstrated a knowledge of cinematography with The Untouchables, Raimi beat him with Evil Dead II.  His camera never sits still and exploits almost every shot that can change the look of the film, including the trademark Point-of-View shots.  Evil Dead II is the most fun you can have with camera angles and movement.Action and horror genres are all about repeating the same two or three ideas in different fashions and Evil Dead II is no exception.  Dominant references include Night of the Living Dead, The Exorcist, and Poltergeist.  It isn't scary, it isn't trying to be.  It ties to be what Tim Burton wants in his films--a funny Gothic exercise in visuals.  In this respect, Raimi is ahead of Burton except the Spider-Man movie wasn't able to use this inventiveness and wound up being a poor Batman/Superman cross-breed.  I hope that doesn't start a downward slide.Ash is the first hero of the 90s, everything you find in later heroes is in him.  Ahead of his time, no doubt.  Since the acting is an afterthought, Raimi annihilates cliches and remakes the original.  Just watch Ash fight with his hand, how much fun is that?  Overall, the film itself is stupid, but the picturesque merit of the Evil Cam chasing Ash is well worth your rental fee.  Raimi is smart, I will end it at that.  The only reason this gets a higher than expected rating is because AoD tries to make pop while ED2 insults pop and confuses the audience in the process.  Whee!  2 out of 5 stars.  P.S.--What does Raimi have against trees?  Is he an anti-ecologist? "},{"Title":"Best Horror Film Ever!","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What can you Say about The Evil Dead Series?  They are truly the finest thing to happen to cinema since the invention of celuloid.  Sam Raimi has never quite matched the level of style and comedic timing he had in these films.And Evil Dead II, in my opinion, is the best of the series.  It is the perfect balance between grotesque horror, and three stooges-like slapstick.We are eternally grateful to you Mr. Campbell for giving the world Ash. Now let us pray for a fourth installment. "},{"Title":"The lesser of 2 Evils","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  EVIL DEAD & EVIL DEAD 2  (1983) (1987) *** each.  Bruce Campbell became an indie horror cult hero thanks to gonzo filmmaker Sam Raimi for his breakneck camera techniques in these disturbingly, graphic violent horror flicks made on a shoe string budget with buckets of visceral gore and blood to spare involving square jawed hapless human cartoon Ash (Campbell - all slapstick virile gusto) - and his friends on a woodland outing in an abandoned cabin unwittingly unleashing a demonic force to be reckoned with when they read The Book of The Dead summoning hellish nightmares and unsettling results including the sequel's use of Ash's appendage as a chainsaw accessory (!) Rapid moving camerawork, awkward framing and amateur acting all comingle perfectly in this fetid stew of campy terror including a forest's stalking and raping of comely young women !    "},{"Title":"Not as good as Part 1, but still good","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead 2 is not as good as Part 1, but still a Fantastic horror movie. The Evil Dead series has become one of my Favorite movie series. This movie is packed with Humor and wacky zombies. I love the story and I wish there was more installments in this series.I recommend The Evil Dead series to every Horror movie fan.10 out of 10Fans of horror movies like this should Check out Puppet Master, Skinned Alive, Sleep Away Camp, Slumber Party Massacre, and other Full Moon Pictures flicks. For other recommendations, check out the other comments I have sent in by clicking on my name above this comment section. "}{"Title":"GROOVY","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead 2 picks up right where the first one left off with our hero Ash(Bruce Campbell) still stuck in the cabin with Evil lurking around.Evil Dead 2 is more of a comedy then a horror film.There are so many great scenes that i don't know where to begin.When Ash hand gets possessed that was just too funny.Director Sam Raimi was great, i thought he did a good job in the original but he does even better here.This is a must see.Not too many scares but great comedy and tons of gore.I give Evil Dead 2 10/10 "},{"Title":"Extremely brilliant horror comedy","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Those of you who think that this is a sequal to the Evil Dead are very much mistaken. Before watching this you should discard all knowledge of the original otherwise the plot is nonsensical.The hero once again is Ash (Bruce Campbell), the setting once again is the cabin in the woods (see what I mean? why go back somewhere your friends were killed?).Ash takes his new girlfriend to the cabin for the weekend and as you can guess the forces of evil are summoned, just like in the original. Unlike the original, more characters are introduced later in the film, rather than have all the characters introduced at the start and picked off one by one.This method allows for some extremely funny moments involving Ash battling not only the evil alone, but his own hand (watch the movie and you will see what I mean).Once the new characters are introduced the comic element of the film fades away, and apart from a few brilliant and incredibly timed one-liners the film reverts to the gore-based orientation of the first.I have to say that this film is more of a remake of the first than a sequal. But the film is funny and will satisfy horror fans. It is one of the few films that knows when to stop the comedy and resort to the horror, which many films have tried but few have pulled off successfully.And the events of this film lead up nicely to the Evil Dead's true sequal, Medieval Dead - Army Of Darkness. "},{"Title":"No-holds-barred...","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This time around, Sam Raimi throws in everything but the proverbial kitchen sink. It's an odd mix, bloody horror and slapstick humor (see Charlie Chaplin's THE GREAT DICTATOR, in particular the scene where a man is lynched from a lightpost, and you'll understand what I'm getting at here). Not that it can't be done, of course; we've seen it done, and done well, in movies like THE FEARLESS VAMPIRE KILLERS and YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN and RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD, etc.;  but it was more than a little strange to walk into a theater to see the sequel to one of the spookiest shoestring-budget shockers of all time, THE EVIL DEAD, and find oneself laughing one's head off. Money changes everything. Raimi indulges himself (to the point of overindulgence), and yuck follows yick in this no-holds-barred assault on the senses. Although I prefer my horror straight, I'm also able to laugh when the opportunity presents itself, and Raimi kept me laughing throughout this one. EVIL DEAD II DEAD BY DAWN qualifies as an immensely ENTERTAINING film, but I'm not sure if I'd classify it in any way as a horror film (in title only, perhaps)...      "},{"Title":"Nothing more than simply entertaining","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead II is one of my favorite movies but not for the quality of the movie necessarily.  Surely not for the acting and storyline.  People that tear it to pieces don't realize what was put into it, what movies were out at the time, and really don't have an understanding for what goes into low-budget cinema.  People that are in love with Evil Dead II have an undying appreciation for what is in the movie.  If you're looking for Oscar quality acting, you won't find it here, but the directing is amazing, and it's hilarious.  There's a reason they used green blood (MPAA), you can see the set and strings if you look hard enough, and Bruce Campbell is one of the best overactors in the biz (next to Jeffery Combs).  If you haven't seen it, check it out, just because everyone should, just know what it is ahead of time.  It's in my opinion, one of the most ENTERTAINING movies of all time.  It never gets old.   "},{"Title":"Another great horror comedy film","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I do not know where to start with this movie. I mean there is Bruce Campbell as Ash, deadites, great makeup and special effects and a great plot. There is also great chainsaw action sequences and music. This movie goes into my gold movie box. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The funniest horror movie of all time","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What a funny movie! This might be the best horror sequel of all time, but I haven't seen Dawn of the Dead yet so I don't know. It equals the first Evil Dead in terms of inventive gore, but it's excellent and hilarious black humour make it surpass the first ED. The best scene is when the stuffed moose head on the wall starts threatening Ash. 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"Pleasant Valley","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  People are always groaning about Hollywood's tired practice of churning out weak sequels to popular movie to make a few bucks. Well, I contend that not all sequels suck- in fact, a few even improve upon the originals, like the classic Evil Dead 2 Dead by Dawn. Technically, I suppose Evil Dead 2 is more of a remake of The Evil Dead than a real sequel, as it starts out from a fresh beginning with one returning character, the amazing Ash (as played by the amazing Bruce Campbell). Ash ends up trapped in the woods by an unseen demonic force that turns his traveling companions into laughing, maniacal ghouls. For most of the movie Campbell pulls off a one man show, fighting the possessed house, his girlfriend's severed head, even his own hand in an amazing performance full of slapstick and character. Eventually more characters show up, including a love interest for Ash who sports some of the ugliest socks I've ever seen. This is an amazing, one of a kind movie. It is relentlessly clever, throwing one great idea after another on screen (the only disappointment is the final, climactic appearance of the demon, which isn't very scary). It's got way more personality than the first one, as well as better make-up and a great sense of humor. The Ash character appeared in another movie after this, Army of Darkness which is a totally different kind of movie than this  (a comedy/adventure set in medieval times), but still recommended.   "},{"Title":"A look through the eyes of a truly insane man","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is my theory on Evil Dead 2. I believe the whole, or most of the movie is told from an insane killer's perspective. Looking at life through the eyes of a nutball. A demented man thinks zombies are killing his friends. When in actuality he's doing it. When he finally figures out that he is responsible for at least one of those murders he says a book made him do it. He buries the bodies of his victims and continues on in his demented little world. He does thing and sees things only a truly truly insane person would. Would a sane man cut off his own hand? Would a sane man see bookshelves and clocks laughing at him. Would a sane man think that little versions of himself are out to kill him. Ash is obviously a paranoid delusional schizophrenic with suicidal tendencies. Sam Raimi slyly makes it look as though Ash believes all this is happening to him but in actuality he is probably a loner cabin dweller gone off the deep end. But it's really violent and really really really funny. #24 on my top 100. "},{"Title":"Awesome, though not as good as 1 and 3","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ITs great, funny, gory, goofy, entertaining. What more do u need in a movie?  "},{"Title":"ADD horror comedy","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ironically enough, I saw Army of Darkness before seeing this one. It's weird, but I don't actually like Evil Dead 2 and Army of Darkness quite as much as Evil Dead, and not nearly as much as most other people seem to do. I'm no stranger to camp cult classics, but Sam Raimi's particular brand of over-the-top pleasure always involves a sort of forcefulness, a kind of shouting, of the dialog and actions so that everything seems so frantic all of the time. Evil Dead still had this type of humor, but relaxed it and let it flow a bit... this movie pretty much shows off the scenes Raimi was interested in and which ones he just put in there for the story to connect. The beginning shoots by without a breath... the ending drags... some scenes or jokes are emphasized beyond their range, and other stuff is just shown and thrown away before the audience has time to really grasp it.However, Evil Dead 2 is much stronger than Army of Darkness, mostly from its physical comedy. Ash's wrestling with his own hand is some pretty genius stuff, and the scene where the entire house becomes animated, starting with a deer's bust, is pretty much one of the most trippy and bizarre scenes I've seen in cinema--the type of thing that would have scared the crap out of me if the silliness of the rest of the movie hadn't bracketed it in.I think the intention behind Evil Dead 2 and Army of Darkness was good, but I think Raimi could have stood to pace it down a bit and put less emphasis on being frenetic and hyperactive. If it wasn't for the fact that obviously these two movies took a lot of work (especially with the stop-motion animation and other special effects), I'd assume Raimi was having a prolonged bout of ADD during the filming of them.--PolarisDiB "}{"Title":"Swallow this!","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" OK, let's get the superlatives out of the way.Sam Raimi did an outstanding job keeping this movie moving along. There was never a dull second.Mark Shostrom, who did makeup for The X Files and Buffy, the Vampire Slayer, was incredible here.The special effects by Vern Hyde, Doug Beswick, and Tom Sullivan made this film. They were out of this world.Bruce Campbell was the man! I heard his name mentioned the other day, and I had to see who he was. He was so funny and well worth watching. He makes me want to find his other films, especially Evil Dead and Army of Darkness. This guy can act! "},{"Title":"One of the best sequels in horror film history.","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Released in 1981, THE EVIL DEAD was an enormous success, a gross but still very scary horror item, whose ultra low budget, no name actors, gritty look & feel, barely existent lighting, scary musical score, suspense & tension helped elevate it to one of the best horror films ever made. In 1987, Raimi decided to re-visit the cabin in the woods for more demonic mayhem thus EVIL DEAD II was conjured with a bigger budget for more & better special effects that Raimi ever could do on the shoe string budgeted original. After briefly (but rather poorly) recapping the first film, EVIL DEAD II picks up the moment after the first film ends & shows us what happened to the hero of the first film & things haven't gotten any better, still holed up in the cabin, Ash awaits the next demonic onslaught which arrives sooner than expected, led by his dead, possessed girlfriends severed head, he frequently turns into a deadite at times, the bridge is out, so he can't leave, there's another demon in the cellar, more deadites are popping up, thanks to that unseen evil spirit in the woods that is turning some travellers whom are visiting in that same cabin into deadites & his possessed severed hand is running amok in the cabin! Wildly inventive sequel once again is able to lift itself far & above most genre efforts & especially sequels, by being able to retain some good acting from (again) another unknown group of actors, the direction is awesome, & the film has many wild visuals & special effects that you will remember for many years to come. That said, the film is nowhere near as good when compared to the original. The film adds even more gore & violence than the first, but often times plays the violence for laughs rather than for shock & fright, bordering the violence alongside that of a THREE STOOGES comedy. The gore included here includes different coloured demon blood, however unlike the original, the kills are are less painful to look at, in fact the humans get killed off rather quickly or rather possessed & as a result despite heavy sprays of red blood, it isn't as excessive or as realistic as that seen in the first, etc. & The film also does what the first didn't do in all of it's serious mindedness & adds doses of comedy to the mix, most of which is derived by Ash, who's made into a wise cracking hero rather than a scared college student like in the original film. But sadly none of this is scary, despite a few jumps here & there, simply because EVIL DEAD II is far to silly to be scary & fails to answers questions like where was the remains of Ash's friends from Part 1? the floor looks incredibly dry. Wasn't the cellar door broken open in Part 1? How is it that the professors assistant can turn into a deadite when the evil force never attacked him? The film also much like the first seems to take from the plot of EQUINOX. The film opens up with plenty going on, so it starts at a quick pace & never lets up until the closing credits, with something, wild, weird & wacky going on in practically every frame of the picture. However by the 15 minute mark, one soon realizes just how imitative it is of the original film. EVIL DEAD II is not really a sequel, but more of a comedic take on the first, there's no signs of body parts, heavy puddles & stains of blood left on the floor from the first demonic carnage, which was very prominent by the time that film ended. It seems to try & re-write history right from the opening frame by having just Ash & his girlfriend Linda going up to the cabin without his sister & two friends & there are so many scenes repeated from the first that it soon becomes predictable, a possessed person locked in a cellar, a person is turned into a deadite & levitates off of the floor, a scene in the shed where Ash wonders weather or not he should cut up his possessed love interest, Ash seeing that the bridge is torn out, a girl alone in the forest is attacked by trees. It's almost like Raimi sat on his back porch one day & thought to himself, you know if I were to have made EVIL DEAD today what I would do? Then he comes up with a whole bunch of cool things that could have been done with the old scenes in the first film & said yeah & I could just call it a sequel! Again that's all EVIL DEAD 2 really is, a remake of the first done as a comedy with some horror elements thrown in & the film never does answer the question on why if these demons are so powerful they can't just posses anyone that steps anywhere near the property right from the get go or why if the unseen force that does that possessing, is so powerful it waits outside, instead of just storming the rotting cabin & possess them all at once, since the cabin is by no means any safe haven for the intended victims, given the fact that the spirit & the minions it makes out of it's victims have no problem gaining access to the inside. Well directed, acted, amazing special effects, plenty of laughs & some really over the top special effects props & gags helps keep one mildly entertained & never once loses it's footing in terms of it's zaniness. Highly recommend, you have never lived nor breathed until you have seen this movie! Followed by a sequel - ARMY OF DARKNESS***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"A profoundly disappointing sequel to one of my all time favourite horror movies.","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  'The Evil Dead' is one of my all time favourite horror movies. It's a classic example of what can be achieved on a very low budget if you have ideas and enthusiasm, and twenty years after it was released it holds up very well. The first movie was lot of fun without being deliberately FUNNY. Things aren't the same in 'Evil Dead 2', which is basically a remake trying to pass itself off as a sequel. The tone is very different this time around. The subtle black humour of the original has been replaced by blatant self-parody, and Three Stooges inspired slapstick. Many people absolutely love this approach and regard this as the best in the series. Well I'm sorry I'm not one of them. I think Bruce Campbell is cool too, but this movie is just an excuse for Ash to mug at the camera and throw out cheesy one liners. I wouldn't mind so much if the results were actually funny, but they're not, just silly. There's no suspense or unease in 'Evil Dead 2', something I really admired about the original, and to me, the supposedly more sophisticated special effects aren't half as effective. I don't hate this movie, I'm just profoundly disappointed by it. I can't see any reason to prolong this slamming. You either like this kind of splatter comedy or you don't. If you do it's probably essential viewing, but if you're like me and prefer horror more than comedy then you might be in for a tedious experience. My lack of enthusiasm for 'Evil Dead 2' doesn't spoil my enjoyment of 'The Evil Dead'. That movie is still a horror classic and I recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"Would Have Worked Better Without Humor","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead 2 wasn't a bad film. I just think it would have worked better without the humor.The first Evil Dead movie was a truly frightening film. There was no humor in sight. It was a film that made the hairs on the back of your neck stand up.Evil Dead 2 was a comedy. In my opinion comedy and horror don't mix that well. How can you expect to be scared by a film when you know that a laugh is just around the corner? The Evil Dead didn't take itself too seriously and it just got crazier as it went on. The final scene was just a bit too crazy for me.Evil Dead 2 can probably be enjoyed by comedy fans or those who have not watched the original. However, fans of the original who are expecting to be scared probably will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Not as good as I remembered it","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember thinking Evil Dead 2 was amazing back in the 80s when i saw it but re-watching it now it seems overshadowed by the later Army of Darkness, which is very similar in plot and intent but considerably more substantial, funny and clever, I think. If you have seen Army of Darkness, I think you may find Evil Dead 2 redundant. Both are basically satires of horror and not the least bit frightening! Bruce Campbell is an excellent physical comic actor, but he goes way beyond Evil Dead in Army of DarknessI am interested now in seeing the original Evil Dead which I understand is more of a straight horror movie. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate in Comedic Terror","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although Dead By Dawn is an amusing and often entertaining sequel to the classic 1992 horror film The Evil Dead, DBD pales into comparison when claiming it is too terrifying as one promotional poster did.There are quite a few problems I have with this film. One is that it is referred to as a sequel, which if you watch this film straight after you have watched ED, you will notice some major continuity errors, such as the disappearance of Scotty, Cheryl & Shelly from the storyline. In fact at the beginning of this film we even see Ash (Campbell) and Linda (doing a terrible job is Blixler, who has replaced the wonderful Betsy Baker) arriving at the Cabin alone, and now the run-down almost empty cabin we saw in the first film is a fully furnished and deluxe cabin, with a fully done out kitchen. I know I'm splitting hairs here, but the fact is if you're going to make a sequel to a film, at least try and make sure everything makes sense.. I mean it really couldn't have been that hard for Raimi to re-watch the first film and get some of the continuity right. Also, another thing is why Ash stopped being a Deadite in sunlight? That didn't make sense at all, since there is no reason why light would affect the force of the ED.The other problem I have with DBD is it's decent into mass commercialism. One of the great things about ED was that it was an independent film, and had such a freaky atmospheric feel to it. DBD has none of that, it's like mass marketed film made for all the eye candy horror-wannabes who wanted to see Ash return to fight the big bad evil. And instead of getting a great sequel to a great horror film, we have gotten a horrored up version of Ash doing an I-Love-Lucy smashing kitchen plates on his head, and going completely crazy. Now that I have said the negative, let me go on to say that as a stand-alone horror film, apart from ED. DBD is actually quite a good film. It mixes comedy, with horror(although once again the Deadites in this film, are more like Hollywood zombies than those seen in ED), and has some quite hilarious scenes such as Ash battling Knoby's now Deadite wife Henrietta (played brilliant by a young Ted Raimi), and the laughing deer & lamp in Knoby's study, which added such weirdness to the film. The ending which falls into the next film in the ED Trilogy, Army of Darkness, is also quite well done.All in all, don't watch DBD straight after ED, in fact look at DBD as a remake, rather than a sequel, because then you will enjoy it much more.  "},{"Title":"more entertaining than the first; a great party flick","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead 2 Dead by Dawn, distinguishes itself from the original in that this time the hero Ash (the unmistakable, often hysterically funny hero of the Evil Dead trilogy, Bruce Campbell) isn't the last one on the line in the kind of unique, nearly art-film (not to scare off people, I mean more like WAY low-budget) horror-filled treatise on the teenagers-down-to-one. This time, Ash is like the hero of a Saturday afternoon matinée special or updated drive-in flick that's been allowed by the censors to show whatever's inside the creator(s). Sam Raimi, the mad genius behind this trilogy and films like A Simple Plan, The Gift, and the recent Spiderman 1 & 2, doesn't keep his material high and dry for too long. In fact, not much is too low-brow in the horror book. He pulls almost every trick out of this book, so the speak, to get the audience into a shocked, but (with the proper sense of humor) amused mood at the lengths the 'curse' will take Ash and the other visitors. And from a film-making standpoint (this is aside from the fact that the story's a clever send-off of tongue-in-cheek, ultra-violent Italian horror films), it's all bravura thanks to the great make-up and special effects. Two of the fx crew, Greg Nicotero and Robert Kurtzman, made this as their official, outstanding proving grounds before heading off to start KNB effects, which has worked on array of action and horror films. And always there's a cruel, if totally and timely un-realistic turn waiting for Ash and the others, as Raimi and co-writer Spiegel maintain the zombies and such. The highlights include the little hand that could (provided by Nicotero), a mother laid to rest in a fruit cellar, and a flock of trees awaiting in the forest outside the cabin (which, for me, was more frightening and disturbing when done in the first film).Aside from the onslaught of ridiculousness, and rebellion against being embraced by any mainstream audience, it's something of an acquired taste. Though it's gained a hefty cult following, and rightfully so, you show this to any random audience of today and the effect may be the same as when it first came out - some will love it, and some may almost puke or walk out. But it's the kind of film, like the first as well as the wonderful Army of Darkness, that displays Raimi's inspired talents with a lens, and it grows on you. Not to mention, it makes a fine old party movie with friends; it's the work of a real comedic talent, not just of a sensational stylist. "},{"Title":"Like watching a horror movie do standup comedy.","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw an interview with Raimi about Spiderman 2 where he said he's always learning how much is too much, that he's never sure when he's gone too far.He didn't have to tell me twice. I already watched more than ten seconds of The Quick and the Dead. A crazy steadicam followed by a crazy zoom, steadicam, zoom, dolly, pan, thrust! And all this within three seconds of celluloid. There's no other way to put it this isn't clever, its ridiculous! Its so too much it hurts your eyes!Same here, if not quite as bad. Raimi has a bigger budget this time, so he decides to throw away all the credibility of the original. Like the worst sequels, he takes it that because there was a first movie, then absolutely no buildup is necessary in this one we can have zombies within the first ten minutes, people cutting up their girlfriends and hardly seeming surprised, etc. There's just no lead-in! Maybe at a drive-in, but even there your audience aren't laughing with you, they're laughing at you.Clearly Raimi and I have different ideas of what makes entertainment this, to me, is just too ridiculous. Its like watching a horror movie do standup comedy. Its just constant riffing, a collection of sketches, not a cohesive movie. If that's your thing, check this out. For me5/10. "},{"Title":"Evil Dead II (7/10)","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Considered by many, Evil Dead II is the most fan and critically received film in Raimi's Evil Dead trilogy. From my point of view, the sequel's big mistake was not adjusting the script to follow Part 1 with more fluidity. I get the fact that the movie rights weren't given to Raimi and the first half of Part II was a more simplified recap but there was seriously nothing wrong with the first Evil Dead, it was fantastic and no need rehash it. Picking up where the first film left off would have been a better way to go about it. Aside from that, the film exponentially gets better as it progresses. Raimi does a great job making the film more chilling with better makeup artistry and a well written script. It takes a certain taste to enjoy the Evil Dead movies, so take a chance and its likely you'll find yourself being a part of the huge cult following of Sam Raimi, Bruce Campbell and the Evil Dead. "},{"Title":"part 2 is scarier then part 1","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This a very scary movie. Don't get me wrong the original Evil dead is very scary. But this one is scarier. I can think of scarier movies The Evil dead III the army of darkness is scarier. But still this is a very scary movie. All the Evil dead movie are great horror movies. This movie has a great story line. It also had great acting. It also has great special effects. All the Evil dead movie are must sees. This is one of the scariest movies made before 1992. If you like scary movie then you need to see this movie. I need more line. And I am running out of thing to say. I have seen a lot of horror movies. I need this is one the best ones. "}{"Title":"The best of a very uneven series . . .","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There is a smile attached to viewers who have the understanding of what 'Evil Dead 2 Dead by Dawn' is all about just beneath the surface. It takes on the guise of a gory, overwrought vomitorium but anyone familiar with midnight movies knows that it doesn't strive to be like it's contemporaries, it strives to fun in a bizarre way.A group of people have found their way to a small cabin in the woods. Their they discover the book of the dead, THE book of the dead and reading a passage invoke an evil spirit which seems to take over everything in the house. It resides in the basement, in the walls, in the doors and in the trees outside and in sometimes in the limbs of the characters. Director Sam Raimi edits the film with a wild jerky breakneck style just enough so that the film is chaotic but still makes sense.What strikes me most is how much fun Raimi seems to be having coming up with all kinds strangely hilarious new ideas. At one point the creature zips through the woods toward the cabin at a relentless speed, tearing through the brush, then suddenly gets lost and stops. Another point The hero's hand becomes possessed and he has to hack it off. This only makes things worse because now the hand is running loose inside the house trying to kill him.I have an affection for movies like this. Horror is a genre that recycles itself over and over and over. It is refreshing when someone does something new. Horror comedies by their very nature breed bad taste which 'Evil Dead 2 Dead by Dawn' is but its not dumb. The movie is handled with a lot of hyper-kinetic energy and a lot of style. Its smarter than the 'Return of the Living Dead' but no less gory. Like Mel Brooks, Raimi strives to rise below vulgarity.There is gore galore here. The movie is an orgy of guts, eyeballs, severed limbs and blood, blood, blood. If you know your horror films then this is the movie for you, if you don't this probably isn't the best place to start. "},{"Title":"Evil Dead II - I don't get it?","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Earlier I said I was going to rewatch Evil Dead II as I felt that my first sitting of the movie a few years ago might have left me with the wrong opinion of the movie because I might not have understood it. Confession; my first sitting of this movie I wasn't well informed about Sam Raimi. About 4 years have passed since I watched this for the first time and I've expanded my horror movie knowledge greatly and I know and some what appreciate Sam Saimi's over the top gorefest, grossfest, dark comedy feeling to his movies. I saw the first Evil Dead movie the night before watching this movie for the first time and I didn't really understand why they went from a truly terrifying movie onto something more comical which I think ruined this movie for me.I sat and watched Evil Dead II today and I'll be honest, now with a full understanding of the movie I'd say it was just okay. I think that the scene with the giant tree was pretty cool though, that part kind of saved the movie for me, it was very well done. But I don't know, I still even to this day don't feel I understand why this movie has nearly 8/10 on IMDb. Do I think its better than the first Evil Dead movie? No. Do I think its better than any of the first movies from Freddy, Jason, Chucky, or Leatherface movies? Hell no. So why the F**K is this movie so highly rated on IMDb??? Still, after 4 years and a second sitting through the movie I still just don't get why this movie is so great. Maybe it's one of those movies you need to watch as a child? Maybe its got that nostalgia effect on people... I don't think I'll ever know. One thing is for sure is that I do not think this movie is great at all. "},{"Title":"A Great Follow Up To The First Film","Date":"10 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead 2 is a follow up to the first film, but at times feels like a slight retelling due to the recap of the first film not being exactly how it happened originally (due to them not being able to obtain the rights to use footage from the first film). The horror is still there, but this time with a good amount of humor infused too. I feel that the humor did work and makes the film a lot of fun, even though personally I wasn't falling out of my seat laughing. Bruce Campbell's performance is much cheesier in this one, but it makes you love his character. I actually think I enjoyed this film more than the first. While the first is a great horror movie, this one is just so much fun. "},{"Title":"Evil Dead II","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sam Raimi already gave us one of the most iconic horror films ever devised by man so what does he do next? he gives us the sequel which is even more iconic than the previous film!. 'Gimme some sugar baby'...oh wait that's the third most iconic horror film ever.So up to a few years ago I was a little confused by this sequel. The plot appears to show 'Ash' venturing back up to a remote cabin with another girlfriend, was this the original cabin or a completely new one? I asked myself. As things progress (very quickly) Ash discovers yet another recorder which he plays and inadvertently sets the dark demonic forces free again. It was at this point I was thinking why on earth Ash would do that? didn't he learn from his first cabin experience? and when you think about it why the hell would he go back to a remote cabin?! dude seriously!.Twas then I found out that this sequel is actually a reboot of the first film, yet Raimi called it Evil Dead 2 as though its a continuation of the first. The plot is exactly the same as the first film because its a remake basically, a remake with better effects, more action and less build up...essentially more game time. Ash is even wearing the same outfit he had on in the first film!. So yes that is a bit confusing if you're not in the know but somehow it doesn't matter, the film is so damn fun you let it slide. Myself I think he should of avoided the 2 in the title and tried to make it follow the first but hey.As I said there's no messing around in this film, no sooner has Ash arrived at the cabin he's released the demons and all hell is breaking loose. This is good as we know the basic outline from the first film, everybody simply wanted to see more of Ash kicking undead ass. And that is exactly what we get with much sweeter looking effects.The effects are much the same type of thing as in the first but due to success and extra mula they are simply better. Of course by today's standards they aren't that good, a bit basic, any fresh faced kids are gonna laugh at most of it truth be told. But again its the old adage that with little money and tech you've gotta work to make your film look good. You've gotta be inventive and once again Raimi and co excel with their visuals. A nice blend of classic makeup, mask work, models, stop motion, bluescreen, miniatures, puppets etc...the full gamut of special effects to bring every creature alive in the best possible way.Personally I loved the sequence where 'Linda's' corpse rises from the grave and then dances around in the swirling bleak mist as Ash watches in horror from the cabin. The whole scene is using classic stop motion and even though it of course looks a bit hokey the atmosphere is just so flippin eerie. It could almost be a Tim Burton moment. There is so much to enjoy here, chock full of tasty visual kookiness, the severed hand that scrambles around, the excellent possessed makeup jobs on the survivors and Campbell especially and then there's the huge demon head/face thing at the end. Corny as hell but so much fun.Its also no secret that this sequel was taken down the horror comedy route. The first film was suppose to be an all out horror but this started down that surreal goofy route which has now become so legendary. Not for the most part though, most of the film is still very dark, some of the demonic sequences are clearly more slapstick but its still evil looking. Its only when the last female survivor crafts Ash's chainsaw onto his bloody stump along with his shoulder mounted shotgun do we finally cross over fully into the comic book/graphic novel genre. Its at this moment that Ash becomes a superhero of sorts and enters into the world of merchandise.Does this mood swing cause any problems? no, no it doesn't, in fact it just makes the film even more awesome and gives it a whole new scope. We go from classic horror gore with Ash being the victim in all manner of slapstick tomfoolery, to action man gore and violence with the start of ice cool witty quips and full on hero posing.It is strange how this franchise developed no doubt about that, plus the oddity of rebooting/remaking his first film virtually scene by scene and calling it a sequel. Like the first its not really scary but this time it was never meant to be scary, its a wild ride bordering on fantasy that happens to have a lot of blood and goo. Its one of those perfect 'sequels' where everything is just right, it all works...even the bits that kinda don't work, work. There are moments of great horror and moments that are almost childish in nature, you could even say its a satire of certain grotty horrors. End of the day Campbell can simply make these things work.No excuses here, its a balls to the wall, hyper demonic blood n ooze frenzy with typically gritty low budget ferocity and absurd creations. A completely cheesy turbo charged B-movie of diabolically hellish proportions, you wanted it you got it...and its groovy baby.10/10 "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Horror Films And Sequels Of All Time. A Classic Horror/Comedy.","Date":"15 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead IIDead By Dawn is one of the best Horror films and Sequels ever made that brilliantly mixes Horror,Comedy,great direction,an excellent performance from Bruce Campbell and great special effects. Those are the reasons Evil Dead II is one of my favorite Horror films,one of my favorite sequels and one of my favorite movies of all time and why Evil Dead II is a true Horror classic.Taking place right after the events in the first Evil Dead,our hero Ash(Bruce Campbell) is still at the cabin in the woods still trying to fight off the flesh possessing ghouls. Now with a group of strangers also in the cabin,Ash and the group must stay in the cabin and trying to fight and survive The Evil Dead or the demons will swallow their souls.Evil Dead IIDead By Dawn is such an amazing and brilliant Horror film because while it still has the scary feel of the first film,ED II takes on a different direction by adding Comedy into the mix and gives viewers one of the most insane,crazy and over the top Horror films of all time. Mixing Horror and Comedy together is never easy,but director Sam Raimi manages to pull it off so flawlessly. Raimi fills up the film with funny and imaginative slapstick and mixing it with over the top gore,making us laugh and squirm at the same time. Raimi is obviously a huge fan of The Three Stooges(even calling the stunt men fake Shemps)and Raimi applies that same slapstick Comedy and hilarious suffering with this film,especially with the character Ash. The character Ash goes through such maniacal and hilarious torture from either the demons or himself that you'll wonder if he'll make it out alive or lose his mind and that's one of the great things about the film. Horror and Comedy are two sides of the same coin and Raimi knows this because Raimi balances out both Horror and Comedy by taking the most horrifying situations and making them funny and also taking the funny situations and making them horrible and it's done in a smart way. EDII is one of the few films that can wonderfully and greatly mixes hilarious Comedy and over the top gore and the only films that can match it are other Horror Comedy classics such as The Return Of The Living Dead,An American Werewolf In London,Re-Animator and Dead Alive just to name a few. EDII and those other great Horror films are apart of the great Horror sub genre called Splatstick(a mixture and combination of Comedy and gore). Even though there is a lot hilarious Comedy,Raimi still knows that EDII is at heart a Horror film and Raimi gives viewers a lot scary,intense and suspenseful moments,using the demon POV shots with great effect and crazy insane energy using loud sound effects and dark atmosphere and Raimi lets his imagination run wild. This movie is like the first Evil Dead on a bad acid trip and you're coming along for a crazy ride. The movie's violence and gory scenes,while toned down from the first film(most of the blood and gore is red,green and blue)is still great and intense and matches the violence of the first film. The main character Ash is a lot different from the first film,where in the first one he was scared and heroic but in this film he's tough and heroic and willing to face the demons head-on and spitting out great one-liners,even though he still shows fear and terror. Ash is one of my all-time favorite movie characters cause of this film. The ending is great cliffhanger ending and is a good set-up for the follow-up Army Of Darkness and will have viewers laughing. There's been debate over the years about whether or not EDII is a sequel or a remake of the first film. While a few scenes are a remake of the first film,the whole film is a sequel and has it's own creativity and originality like the first film and is a classic like the first one.The cast does a good job. Bruce Campbel gives a brilliant,hilarious performance as Ash,saying great one-liners,being tough,funny,taking out the demons with an iron fist. This performance made Ash a classic character of the Horror genre and made Bruce Campbell a B-movie icon,a Horror icon and a Genre movie icon. An excellent performance. Sarah Berry does a good job as Annie. Dan Hicks and Kassie Wesley give funny performances as rednecks Jake and Bobby Joe. Theodore Raimi(Sam's Brother)is funny and freaky as Possessed Henrietta. Richard Domeier does a good job as Ed,Annie's boyfriend. Denise Bixler(Linda),John Peakes(Professor Raymond Knowby)and Lou Hancock(Henrietta Knowby)give good performances as well.The direction by Sam Raimi is excellent,with Raimi bringing manic,crazy energy to the film with great angles,close-ups and the POV shots of the demons and Raimi also does well in the scary and funny scenes. Great direction,Raimi.The music score by Joseph Doluca is impressive and memorable and fits in with the insane,crazy energy of the film. Great score.The special effects by K.N.B FX group are excellent,well-done,gory and at times very realistic and work for the film.In final word,if you love Horror films,Cult films,Sam Raimi or Bruce Campbell,I suggest you see Evil Dead IIDead By Dawn,a Horror classic that will stand the test of time and stay with you forever. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"My favorite of the trilogy","Date":"2 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead 2 is the best in the series for me as it has the best combined elements of the original as well as Army Of Darkness. The pace is quicker , the overall quality of the pictures is better as the budget is bigger and Bruce Campbell has matured as an actor and had more experience acting between Evil Dead 1 and 2 . There are more elaborate f/x and visually the film looks better across the board. There also is the introduction of splatstick comedy but stays on target with the horror by maintaining an unsettling , brooding atmosphere . Lots of splatter and gore and a great blend of horror and comedy . I love all 3 Evil Dead films , but Dead By Dawn is my personal fave. As well as one of my favorite tracks from the 1st Deicide album. "},{"Title":"One of the best 80's horror films.","Date":"18 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is the most crazy and over the top film I have ever seen, and I love it even more with each viewing. The setting and atmosphere are incredible, that cabin is one of the most memorable buildings in horror, in my opinion. The effects are great, the amount of blood is so ridiculous it makes me laugh. Ash is still one of the best characters in any horror franchise. My favourite line in the film is groovy, who doesn't love that part. His hand becoming possessed, and him having to cut it off is probably my favourite scene. The actors and actress's do their job just fine. I remember seeing this film when I was young, and always looking forward to the next time I could see it again. It's more comedic and not as gory as the first film.This is a truly classic horror film, to bad more can't be as enjoyable as this. "},{"Title":"Bloody Good Time","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead II is a gory horror movie for people who don't like gory horror movies. That's not entirely true, as some splatter-film aficionados love it, too, though others protest the Three Stooges-style comedy that predominates after the ten-minute mark. For me, it's a marvel of story-telling economy, suspense, and sustained momentum that manages to be really funny, funny enough that you don't know whether to laugh or scream when director Sam Raimi uncorks his next surprise. Which is a large part of the fun.Amorous Ash (Bruce Campbell) takes his girlfriend to a cabin deep in the woods. Unfortunately, the cabin was occupied previously by a professor studying the Necronomicon, a book of ancient and dangerous lore. Soon all sorts of terrors are forcing their way into Ash's world, chanting Things that were shall be again! and turning the cabin into a blood soaked shambles. Ash works single-handed, first figuratively, then literally, to stop the ghoulish invasion.Blending comedy and horror was old hat when Boris Karloff was introduced to Elsa Lanchester in Bride Of Frankenstein. But the two genres were never commingled so directly until Evil Dead 2. Nor, before ED2, did you get much comedy in gore sequences. Evil Dead II would seem an unlikely place to introduce this concept, as it is the ostensible sequel to a movie that was grimly serious about much of the same situation.Is Evil Dead II a true sequel? Technically, yes, though tonally it plays very different. The key to that is Campbell, who reprises Ash from the prior film but plays him here with an array of silly faces and mouth-agape stunts that would have impressed Buster Keaton. His firm jaw and big teeth are played for magnificently kooky effect whenever there's an opportunity for blood splattering, grinning insanely as he takes a chainsaw to his lover's head or his own wrist.That's right...who's laughing now!Well, you are, most of the time. The violence is often shocking, but never in an ugly way, things always progressing in cartoon-like fashion. Raimi keeps the camera in motion for episodes of thrilling humor, like one sequence early on when the lens chases Ash through every room of the cabin, with doors whipping and crashing so fast you never see the joins necessary to make it play on screen. Evil Dead II was made on the cheap, it even looks cheap at times, but it never plays cheap. The film does have weaknesses. There are substandard performances by the supporting cast or a woolly ending that leaves things up in the air (for a sequel that would wind up being a mild disappointment). None of that diminishes the energy rush one gets watching a film that is as unrelentingly clever as Evil Dead II, so clever it actually gets funnier, if not scarier, with multiple viewings. It's a wonderfully twisted example of the magic of cinema. "},{"Title":"I'll swallow your soul! Swallow this!","Date":"21 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sam Raimi and company meld horror and humour in this one-of-a-kind, lively sequel to the original experience in gruelling terror. They know very well that sometimes when things are simply insane, all you can do is laugh. They begin by recapping the first movie, although have to tell the story differently, not being able to obtain the rights to use archive footage. Then they launch into one of the most uproarious assaults on the senses that genre fans will ever see. Written by Raimi and fellow filmmaker Scott Spiegel, it has a delightfully over the top nature yet stops short of winking at the audience (the actors play everything very straight, as well they should). Basically, this is as fun as the genre can get. When poor, poor Ash (Bruce Campbell, now a co-producer as well) is nearly drowned in blood, or what looks to be ink, or whatever, it's impossible not to chortle. And Raimi continues to pay tribute to slapstick comedy with the films' most memorable sequence, in which Ash is victimized by his own possessed hand. One has to hand it to Campbell; this guy is one hell of a good sport, putting up with a lot as Raimi & co. set up to abuse him as much as possible. He's flying through trees, landing in puddles, being tortured physically and mentally, yet somehow he gets through it all. Here he's also starting to show signs of the character he would become in Army of Darkness. The new cast members acquit themselves well, and some of them get roughed up pretty badly, too Sarah Berry is Annie, daughter of the professor who started the whole mess in the first place, Dan Hicks is scruffy rube Jake, Kassie Wesley DePaiva his girl Bobby Joe, and Sam's younger brother Ted is a riot as the possessed version of Annie's dear old mom. Indicative of the nature of the film is when an eyeball pops out of a witches' head and flies right into Bobby Joe's mouth, not to mention the moment when objects in the cabin, including a lamp, laugh their asses off. Elements such as grasping trees and the Force p.o.v. cam return, and the special effects are pretty damn amusing, especially the Rotten Apple Head we see towards the end of the film. As in the first Evil Dead, we do get some valleys in between the various peaks, but things do build nicely towards an energetic finale. The ending, paving the way for Army of Darkness, is pretty ingenious and features a cameo by none other than Sam himself. That hilarious poster promises a great time for the audience, and delivers on that promise. A comedy-horror classic. Nine out of 10. "},{"Title":"Swallow This.","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Belated Day 11 Of My 31 Days Of Horror 2.After the huge success of The Evil Dead in 1981, Sam Rami wanted to create a reboot of the first film. In result Evil Dead 2 was as well received as The Evil Dead.The film follows Ash played by Bruce Campbell his girlfriend Linda played by Denise Bixler Annie played by Sarah Berry Jake played by Dan Hicks and Bobby Joe played by Kassie Wesly Depavia as they spend the night in the haunted cabin in the woods.This film I cannot really say much about because it is just basically the same as the first but the special effects are done better and the film is a lot funnier. If you love the first then see the second.Rated R For Strong Comic Horror Violence And Gore, Scary Images, Brief Nudity And Some Language.1hr 21min/81min.5 uses of the F-word.****/**** "}{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"19 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead 2 Dead By Dawn9 out of 10 demons agree it's more convenient to kill people in a tent than people in a cabin.Unfortunately, the couple in this horror-comedy has no sacrificial campers on their lawn.Ash (Bruce Campbell) and his girlfriend (Denise Bixler) decide to stay at a cabin in the woods.After settling in, Ash uncovers a recording from the previous lodger that reads from an ancient tome Necronomicon Ex-Mortis.Playing the passages aloud awakens an evil entity in the cabin, which then possesses Ash's girlfriend.Meanwhile, the daughter (Sarah Berry) of the man on the tape shows up with her research assistant, her hillbilly guides and missing pages from the book.More a remake than a sequel, director Sam Raimi works the kinks out of his own original by infusing humour and introducing filmdom's most revered anti-hero.Incidentally, the easiest way to de-terrify a cabin in the woods is clear-cutting. (Green Light)vidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Good 80's Horror!","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bruce Campbell, Denise Bixler and Sarah Berry star in Sam Raimi's 1987 horror sequel. This is more of a retelling with Ash Williams (Campbell) and his girlfriend, Linda (Bixler) heading to a cabin in the woods for the weekend. Ash finds a tape recorder and an ancient book, the Necronomicon Ex-Mortis aka Book of the Dead. Ash listens to the tape translating the book and Linda gets possessed by demonic forces. Ash fights Linda and dismembers her because it's the only solution. Soon, we meet woman, Annie (Berry) who is trying to find her father's cabin where Ash is currently staying. She seeks help from a group of people for directions and they head to the cabin. They eventually meet Ash thinking he's crazy, but realize he's not. Ash also gets possessed for a short time, but snaps out of it helping them. Their only other help is a couple missing pages from the book to rid the evil forces. Bruce is great as usual and the film is a highlight of K.N.B. make-up artists, Robert Kurtzman, Greg Nicotero & Howard Berger with the help from special effects artist, Mark Shostrom. Raimi also uses slapstick humor in it and the next film inspired by his love of The Three Stooges and his brother, Ted is also featured as Possessed Henrietta. If you enjoy good 80's horror, I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Evil Dead 2","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead 2 Dead Before Dawn, is he sequel B-rated horror movie to Evil Dead. It is somewhat humorous the way the possessed people are portrayed. The thriller leaves off right where he first ended. It does recap in the first 7 minutes what happened before, but done a little bit differently due to legal reasons. The same guy, Ash, is stuck in the cabin after the spirits take over. while he tries to survive, four more strangers come along in search of the book of the dead, which when read causes the evil spirits to be released. As Ash tries to help defeat the demons, he is forced to cut off his own hand after it is possessed. The film makes you laugh and cringe at the same time. The make up for the possessed people is great for the time that it was made. I enjoy these types of movies. The film ends with Ash being sucked into some time warp and being thrown into some medieval time when the demons first took over. Thus leaving us to see the third and final movie, Army of Darkness. "},{"Title":"Infectiously Energetic, Outrageously Gory","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What points this loses in coherence and structure it immediately makes right back with energy, ingenuity and downright entertainment value. Little more than a one man show, Evil Dead 2 is where Bruce Campbell really made his name, and deservedly so. Whether he's shrieking like a little girl at the sight of a poorly-animated headless marionette, cackling deviously as he nails down his own evil right hand or playing it cool as the gritty, badass soldier-man with a chainsaw appendage, Campbell boldly plants his flag right in the center of every scene. I can't begin to imagine the kind of fun he and director Sam Raimi must have had cooking up one outlandish, unbelievable situation after the other, then playing it up on-screen to this degree. It's a film you'll never quite nail down - is it meant to be serious or slapstick - and that's precisely why it works so well. A load of fun that escalates faster than you can blink. "},{"Title":"Ash is back for more hilarious terror!","Date":"23 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" We just cut up our girlfriend with a chainsaw. Does that sound 'fine'?Did you like The Evil Dead? Then my friend, you are in luck! Evil Dead 2 is a bigger, better sequel in every way.After a quick re-cap/revision of the events of the first movie, Evil Dead 2 is off and running, and it never slows down. The movie picks up immediately after the original ended, with Ash shaken, alone, and still under attack from the terror unleashed by the Book of the Dead. Evil Dead 2 is more over-the-top (if that's even possible) than the first Evil Dead, and it's more hilarious, as a result. The fake blood flows by the gallon and the Deadites are more gruesome. This is a movie that's just fun, fun, fun to watch. There's a bit of a trade-off, as there's less genuine horror, but as far as pure entertainment goes, there is no real contest about which movie is better. If you liked the first, you should love the second. If you loved the original, well, get ready to meet your new soul-mate. "},{"Title":"Evil Is Alive...For The Second Time","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'Evil Dead 2' is a horror movie? Of course not. It's a horror comedy that is full of laugh out loud slapstick gore. The comedic sequences are hysterical thanks to the inventive writing and suitably over-the-top portrayal. And, there's plenty of gore, violence and jump moments for those who are up for a thrill. The cast and crew obviously had a blast during the making (which is also evident in the 'Making of Evil Dead II' feature). This has reflects well on screen as the actors brilliantly ham it up. Bruce Campbell shows quite a knack for physical comedy. Many have complained about the low-budget unpolished look but that's the point. 'Evil Dead II' parodies these B-grade exploitation horror movies that were popular in the pre-80s. Later Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez would follow Raimi's footsteps and entertain the viewer with movies like 'Planet Terror'. Special effects have also been criticized but I really enjoyed it. 'Evil Dead II' wouldn't have been as effective if it had a glossier look with sophisticated CGI.Raimi and his team amusingly celebrate the horror genre and invite the audience to be a part of it. 'Evil Dead II' will have viewers at the edge of their seat, laughing out loud. "},{"Title":"Better than original? I don't think so.","Date":"18 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sorry to say, guys, but I find the rating of this movie extremely misleading, it's common in IMDb, but still - this one is in the same series and if you know anything about movies you'll agree what this one is nowhere near as good as the first evil dead was. If I would have to scale and Evil dead 1 would be 10, I would give this one 6 and here's the reasons why1. Storyline and character development. It is sort of recycled, sort of changed, I understand they wanted to quickly recap the past movie events, but why change them? Can't see the logic behind it. Going further into this subject this movies storyline by itself just feels extremely cheap and uncreative, like there wasn't any though put into it, new characters don't do very well and just judging by effort it's put into their development it's more than clear they are there just to be killed off. Storyline wasn't originals strongest part either, but you could actually relate and you actually cared about what's happening to all the characters. The ending was sort-off a cliffhanger and really stupid one, judging by spec effect in it, it was probably put together on the last hour of shooting. 2. Acting. Yeah,Bruce Campbell is awesome and we see him on the screen most of the time, but that doesn't mean others just can do whatever they want and it would look OK. To say the least they suck. To say the most... Well, if you have seen the movie you probably know what I mean. When you can't tell if they're trying to sell them-selves serious or like a comedic relief, then we have a problem. 3. Psychology. This one is the most important to me. First, lets look at Evil dead 1 - yeah, it had some cheesy moments, but the main theme of it was absolute, pure and uncontrollable chaos. It started from the first encounter and as the movie progressed the tension just kept growing and growing, and growing, you felt yourself chained to your seat, with your heart pumping of excitement and anticipation - it was absolute uncontrollable insanity full speed ahead and it was AWESOME. Now lets look at the sequel. While it still keeps the comedic factor of itself, the horror part is sucked out of the entire movie. It isn't haunting and uncontrollable anymore, it has very clear phase which it keeps following in every step it takes and all the seriousness is killed by cheesy storyline and bad character development. It's still awesome in some way, but not nearly as AWESOME as the first one.So that's my two cents about it. I don't know, maybe most of the people who voted this movie better than original just didn't have enough balls to take and appreciate what original was giving them. Sequel was much more commercial, more mainstream I guess, focusing on hilariousness and not the tension and overall atmosphere and while it still IS a decent movie it doesn't even come close to capturing spirit of masterpiece the original movie was, you may say it's a matter of opinion and taste and in such cases I would usually agree, but not in this one, guys. Sorry, if you think this one is better than original then... think again... and again, and again, and again if needed. "},{"Title":"Ash Returns... With Gore, Guts and Morbid Fun","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sam Raimi's low-budget masterpiece The Evil Dead of 1981 was an absolutely astonishing film in all regards, and without any doubt one of the most terrifying, creepiest, most suspenseful and simply greatest Horror films ever brought to screen. The second entry to Raimi's wonderful Evil Dead franchise, Evil Dead II of 1987 is not so much a sequel, but rather a remake of the first film, this time with a higher budget, more complex special effects, and a strong focus on Comedy elements. Many people actually seem to prefer the sequel over the original, as it got a higher rating here on IMDb. While this sequel is doubtlessly a great film of its own right, I will personally always prefer the 1981 original, a personal all-time favorite of mine which is simply unrivaled in its creepiness and its status as an absolute Horror/Gore milestone. The sequel once again takes Ash (Bruce Campbell) and his girlfriend on a trip deep into the woods, where the residents of a small cabin are one by one possessed by evil forces after playing a mysterious tape... The plot is basically the same as that of the original, only that, this time, the film is a very morbid black Horror Comedy rather than a terrifying Horror film like the first one. The original Evil Dead was basically the epitome of Horror, and while it also had some humorous moments, the humor was only present in small doses, and it never lessened the film's constant terrifying suspense. The sequel still has its creepy moments, of course, but in this film, the Comedy elements are predominant. The film is, once again, extremely gory, but even the gore is funny and goes more into the direction of Gore-comedies than of the terrifying original. While Evil Dead II may not be quite as scary as its predecessor (it's still suspenseful though), its humor should appeal to the tastes of the fans of the original - in short it's the most morbid kind of black humor imaginable, just delightfully demented from the beginning. The film also introduces a bunch of new characters, including a stupid redneck named Jake. The original had turned Bruce Campbell into one of the most popular Horror/B-Movie stars ever, and he is once again great when he reprises the role of his life, Ash, in this sequel. The film's higher budget allows more complex special effects, great makeup and a spectacular cinematography. Yet, as said above, I will always prefer the original, which stands out as of the greatest Horror films ever and the ideal proof that a relatively low budget can result in an absolutely amazing film. Even so, Evil Dead II is a great film, and an absolute must-see for all Horror fans and lovers of morbid humor. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"groovy","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After the underground success the original Evil Dead had, 6 years later Hollywood decided to make a sequel. By this point Bruce Campbell was in his mid to late 20's so playing the college kid was a little far-fetched so they altered the plot a bit, basically rendering the original movie as useless. Seriously, if you watch the whole series one after the other, its like the first movie never happened.The story is Ash and his girlfriend go on a romantic getaway in a secluded cabin among the woods somewhere in Michigan, sound familiar? Ash then finds a tape of some doctor who used the house for research on a mysterious evil book known as the Necronomicon. Professor Knowby somehow translated the book and with the help of a huge 1980's tape recorder begins reciting passages from it. The passages he recites resurrect the deadites (the demons of the Necronomicon) and then WHAM all hell breaks loose, literally. Ash is forced to kill his possessed girlfriend, cut off his own hand and fight a tree...yes you read that right. Meanwhile while all this is going on, Professor Knowby's daughter and her boyfriend make their way to the cabin to find ol Knowby himself and run into a redneck couple along the way. All things come together where the handless Ash must join up with the crew to stop the Evil Dead once and for all.I won't give away the rest because its too good to give it away so you'll just have to watch it yourself. Again the special effects were the star of the show but this time its kicked up a notch thanks to it being a better funded film than the first one. What made Evil Dead 2 a little better than the original was the original one was 100 % serious while the sequel was more of a horror/comedy with a few scenes that make you laugh including a Hulk Hogan style hulk-up before the final fight and of course the transformation. In the first movie Ash was this wussy guy caught in the middle of something strange but in this movie he transforms into a chainsaw welding, shotgun carrying superhero. He somehow manages to hook a chainsaw to where he cut off his hand (nevermind the fact he didn't bleed to death nor suffer gangrene) and carry around an old sawed-off shotgun......groovy.Discount anything you've seen in the first movie if you want to enjoy the sequel, otherwise you'll be scratching your head wondering what's going on. Otherwise kick back with popcorn and enjoy the show. The highlight of the movie is the laughing scene where every inanimate object in the room begins to laugh and then Ash joins in the fun, priceless comedy.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Best Horror Movie Ever","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Oh my God I have never seen This kind of a horror/scary movies before .I was quite disappointed with a movie like The Exorcist .But this movie did justice by giving the audience hard hitting chills and thrills.As far as acting is concerned Bruce Cambell at his best .He was looking better than Evil Dead 1 .I am giving 10 out of 10 not because of it's scary but also for it's location as well . Sam Raimi proves again that he is the best horror making producer.All in all sequel is better than previous one .Highly Recommended. "}{"Title":"Dead By Dawn","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" *The Evil SPOILERS 2* Ash (Bruce Campbell) and his girlfriend Linda (Denise Bixler) go for a weekend in a dingy cabin in the Michigan woods, hoping for a good time, but it seems that Fate has other things in store for them, when they unwittingly awaken the Evil Forces luring nearby, that possess Linda and try to do the same with Ash...In the meanwhile, a young woman, her boyfriend and two hicks (one of which - a girl - is going to A) get raped by vines and B) choke to death on an eyeball, while her boyfriend is going to leak some massive blood) have arrived in the cabin too, and as it turns out the whole blame of the situation stands on the parents of the young woman, herself, and her boyfriend, because it's them who looked for, found and tried to translate the Necromicon (yes, THAT book) in the first place...Bloodier and also funnier than the first one, 'Evil Dead 2' manages to be as good as the original, but in a different way.Some scenes (like the eyeball choking and the blood fountain) are some gory slapstick! And Bruce Campbell makes his Ash into a horror icon.Evil Dead 2 9/10. "},{"Title":"While its not as successful as the first installment, Evil Dead II is still a lot of fun and one of the best combinations of horror and humor","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead II is not nearly as good as the original in my opinion. Despite the more professional look and better pacing, I prefer the original for its lack of slapstick. The first worked so well because it was such an unrelenting and grueling experience and was the finest horror film since The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. It didn't take prisoners, and while its a bit dated it still has the power to terrify the audience. Not to mention it had some great if primitive stop motion effects. I really wish Sam Raimi would make another all out horror film again as thats what he does best.That being said, Evil Dead II is still quite enjoyable on its own merits. I usually hate films that attempt to combine horror with comedy (such as the reprehensible Scream series), as they're often neither scary nor funny. While Evil Dead II is never scary, its often hilarious. Imagine an off the wall combination of Friday the 13th with the Three Stooges, and you're coming close. The sight gags are often surreal and inspired, the sequence with the hand being the finest. Also, the film is very atmospheric and still maintains a sense of unnerving creepiness, which was completely jettisoned for Army of Darkness. I'm not a fan of Army of Darkness, as it had too much slapstick and seemed to be made to appeal to a wider audience. This one has plenty of gore to still appeal to fans of the original. The gore is so over-the-top its difficult to find it even remotely offensive.Special mention must go to Bruce Campbell. While he was a meek and unwilling hero in the first film, he is a completely over-the-top bad ass in this one! Its a very finely tuned parody performance of action stars. While this is the role that lead him to being typecast, it also made him a cult legend. Its a shame he didn't become a bigger star. While its not as successful as the first installment, Evil Dead II is still a lot of fun and one of the best combinations of horror and humor. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gory, bloody, gut-wrenching and hysterically funny at the same time. A true masterwork. I loved The Evil Dead because it was the first film that really terrified me (The Exorcist came close, but I was eating pizza at the time, so the impact was slightly diminished). But Evil Dead II takes everything to another level. Don't go to an isolated cabin in the middle of a malevolent forest - you know it's going to turn out bad. BUT - if you choose to ignore everything sensible (i.e. don't go there in the first place), be prepared to confront the Devil in all his forms. And take a change of clothes - you are guaranteed to be covered in blood. And it will be the blood of someone you love. And then you'll have to dismember her. With a chainsaw. Superb. "},{"Title":"Evil dead 2? SOUNDS GREAT!!","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well, since i only watched the movie last night, i can get straight to the point. This movie is fantastic! The first Evil dead was scary with lots of violence and gore. Evil Dead 2 has less gore, less violence and is funny! Sam Raimi was very smart to think about putting comedy in this great sequel. The good thing is that the comedy is not over exaggerated (Unlike like Evil Dead 3 Army of Darkness) so it keeps its horror genre over all. I would be lying if i said this movie was perfect, but it was pretty damn good! i was disappointed with the remake of Evil Dead 1. The entire first movie was crammed in fifteen minutes, eliminating all of the characters except Ash and Linda. Then it skips straight to the part where ash lops off Linda's head with a shovel when she is possessed. It made me think that all ash had done in the first movie was gone and it seemed that he had no experience with the deadits anymore. In about 15 minutes into the movie, it goes on from where Evil Dead left off. Ash gets hit with the unseen evil force and gets thrown against a tree. When he recovers, it is night time again and the deadits have returned. My personal favourite part is when he battles his own possessed hand. Evil dead 2 is the most perfect sequel for the most perfect movie. Sure, I thought Sam Raimi went a little too far when Ash starts dancing with the laughing lamp but, hey! It was funny! The ending is hilarious too.I recommend this movie to all horror and Evil Dead fans! The great thing about this one is that you don't have to watch Evil Dead to get Evil Dead 2.GREAT Sequel! "},{"Title":"A review... sort of!","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" How can anyone not like this film? It starts with our hero Ash once again forced to defend himself against an army of monsters, evil tree's and laughing stags! The film itself, based on raimi's love for both horror and the three stooges, manages to both scare and amuse throughout. I've always been a bit weary of too much humour in a horror film, especially after seeing how well this one was put together! But raimi stays true to the horror genre, touching on subjects that most directors wouldn't have the balls too.Where as most movies today rely heavily on CGI to create the 'evil' bad guys... (just think Jeepers Creepers... which I might add had the most promising start of any horror film in years... only to be let down by a massive wing'ed twiglet.... what a waste!)... but not raimi... he sticks with his foam costumes and puppets.. and still manages to create a truly 'evil' film! And then there's our hero Ash (Bruce Campbell my personal hero, just read his books... you'll never struggle to 'pick up' chicks again!)who takes on the role of Ash in possible one of the most physically demanding roles of all time (raimi even points out that he enjoyed every moment of bruce's physical torture!). I think Bruce is lucky because he gets so many cool lines... he just can't fail to look and sound like the all out action hero he is. Lose your hand, replace it with a chainsaw and simply state 'Groovy' thus turning instantly into a B movie legend!! I realise anyone reading this will probably think 'oh god, another evil dead dweeb' and you'd be right. I guess this isn't really a review and probably wouldn't be helpful to most but as someone who is in the movie industry himself (just writing my second feature!) I cant help but admire what Raimi has created.Sorry for blathering on everyone!!... oh.... WATCH THIS MOVIE! Kris. "},{"Title":"One word.......Perfect","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I first saw Sam Raimi's Evil Dead I knew I had just witnessed the greatest horror movie ever!!!! When I heard of Evil Dead II I thought, there is no way that movie will be as good as the first one. I was wrong. Evil Dead II is my favorite of the trilogy. Instead of making it an other horror movie, Sam Raimi decided to turn the ultimate horror experience into a horror comedy, and it worked. Bruce Campbell returns as the bumbling hero Ashley J. Williams. Following the death and possession of his beloved Linda, Ash is faced with trouble after the deadites posses his hand. This is one of horror movies most memorable moments. After the loss of his hand Ash has to deal with Professor Nobi's daughter, who has returned to the cabin and believes Ash has murdered her parents. The deadites start to take out the professor's daughter's friends one by one. Ash finally decides to fight back, dawning his boomstick and bearing a chainsaw for a hand, and with one word becomes the icon that we all know and love. All in all Evil Dead II is non stop fun and is a timeless classic that surely not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Hail to the King, baby...","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sequel/remake of the classic Evil Dead, this time focusing more on the humorous aspects of slicing and dicing people.Evil Dead 2 is obviously not meant to be taken seriously. It's a horror film, but not as much so as the original. What we have here is a bunch of guys having fun with effects and and a camera. It's all very tongue in cheek, and fortunately very entertaining.You don't care about continuity problems, goofs, or dodgy effects. There's an amateurish charm over the film that works just fine. It's nice to see that you can have a film with many faults without someone going back after-wards trying to cover up their mistakes and make it look better (Yes George Lucas, I'm talking to you.) The central thrust of this film is of course Bruce Campbell, who oozes of charisma as he picks up his chainsaw, ready to take on the undead. The rest of the cast are obviously just cannon fodder, but who cares? Evil Dead 2 is also interesting for its surreal tone. At times, it feels more like an art film than cheap horror. There are flaws, after all it really is a cheap horror flick, but the sheer enthusiasm and warped comedy that's gone in to this film makes up for much of it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Terrifying, Gory, and Hilarious all at the same time!","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sam Raimi is a genius! I didn't think it was possible for a movie to be this scary, this gory, and this funny all at once! He is the only man that could pull it off. I guarantee it. Sam Raimi does a perfect job at continuing where the first film left off. Other then the little flashback that we get, the film continues RIGHT where the first film left off. Exactly where it left off. Ash is still at the Cabin Of Terror, and he still has not found a way to destroy The Evil Dead. At the same time, this woman and her boyfriend are on they're way to the cabin because they think they will find her mother and father there. When they get to the road, they see that it is blocked off, so they have some people show them the way. Little do they know, that they are all on they're way to a death trap. Now, Ash, and the four new people that have just arrived, must find a way to survive THE EVIL DEAD.A Must See For All Fans Of The Original! "},{"Title":"Loses its freshness in story but not effects","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead II Dead by Dawn (1987) Bruce Campbell, Sarah Berry, Dan Hicks, Kassie Wesley, Theodore Raimi, Denise Bixler, D Sam Raimi. Highly innovative, gleefully gory visual remake, more than sequel, has Ash (Campbell) in the same woodsy cabin beset with evil demons, including his severed possessed hand, after the Book of the Dead is opened again. This time around, a burlesque sense of humor is brought into the madcap schlock and chock-full special effects of this uneven horror-comedy, thanks to a loss of crispness in its story. Followed by ARMY OF DARKNESS. Running Time 85 minutes and rated R for extreme gore, violence, and language. ** ½     "},{"Title":"The only film I've ever seen where a guy does a line dance routine with a table lamp-","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, that's an exaggeration, but the laughing room sequence had me howling! It was so immensely stupid, and so funny!This is one of my favorite movies. I saw Army of Darkness on a friend's recommendation, and I went out a day later and picked up the other two films in this little troika. The actors were all very good and the special effects were great, too. I'd recommend- no, not this film, but all three! The comedic elements in this film bridged the gap between the murderous horror of the first film and the gut-busting laugh riot of the third.See them all! "}{"Title":"Classic","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just watched this one again late last night and I STILL can't get over how great it is.  The Evil Dead 2 never loses its charm and Ash's one-liners just keep getting better with age.  This happens to be my favorite trilogy of all time and it's nearly impossible for me to pick a favorite.  Each one is great in its own right because they're all different.  The first Evil Dead was all horror, this one was more or less a remake that added comedy to the mix, and the third was pretty much straight comedy.  I'm sure that many fans were a little upset by the abundance of humor in Army of Darkness, but I love it nonetheless.  Hopefully Sam Raimi and Bruce Campbell will reunite, if not for another Evil Dead flick, then something else.  They work great together.   "},{"Title":"Not as strong as the first one","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERS!!!!!!!Don't get me wrong evil dead 2 is one of my favorite movies, but it didn't have what the first one did. At the end of the first evil dead ash gets attacked at the end by the faceless evil. But when I saw evil dead 2 it is like the first one never even happened. But besides that it is really a great film with alot of blood and comedy like the first one had. Bruce Campbell delivers another strong performance as the demon killing Ash. I give evil dead 2 a 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Night of the Living Dead meets the 3 Stooges","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" And somehow Raimi and Campbell make it work. Yeah, the plot is stupid, yeah there's excessive gore for the sole purpose of achieving an R rating, and yes, Ash is the biggest idiot alive. If you have a problem with that, proceed to the Exorcist or the Omen in the video store. If your tongue can find your cheek, Evil Dead II is one of the biggest blasts this side of the world of dark humor by two of the sickest guys in Hollywood (gotta love Sam Raimi and Bruce Campbell for it.)What's ironic is I find myself loving Evil Dead II for the very same reasons why I absolutely hate films like Friday the 13th, the Nightmare on Elm Street sequels, and even TCM (don't even get me started on the new wave of horror.) And Evil Dead succeeds in finding a way to make a comedy film in a horror setting; this specific blend of genres is very very rare (Dead Alive being the only other I can think of outside of the Evil Dead family.)Compliments to Sam Raimi for blending this slap-stick humor effectively into this deadite plagued cliché horror world, and also for endlessly and mercilessly punishing Bruce Campbell from credits to credits. Compliments to Campbell and Ted Raimi for taking Sam's crap!The characters in this film, while generally idiotic, somehow wins the audiences affection . . . very strange for me considering typically I'd rather see stupid characters get hacked up. The difference is Bruce Campbell's character entertains. Yeah, he does stupid things . . . but he's funny as hell doing it. That and the god-awful cheesy one liners don't hurt either (Army of Darkness--Hale to the King Baby!).The other characters are more or less throw aways, they're cliché, and they're ridiculous. They're played to a far extreme too, but with the whole atmosphere of this film . . . it fits. They're fun to watch. It entertains because *the characters fit the film.* I hate Friday the 13th, and Friday the 13ths characters are no more/less intelligent than these guys, but Evil Dead's characters don't annoy me . . . because Evil Dead doesn't try to be a scary slasher. Evil Dead has a horror setting, but it's a comedy at heart.Evil Dead knows what kind of film it is, and it embraces it completely. Friday the 13th has the wrong kind of characters to be a 'scary slasher', and it has the wrong style and atmosphere to be a comedy. Evil Dead II nails it, and somehow through all its idiotic (however extremely fun) situations and characters, somehow it remains more sophisticated than most serious horror films hope to be. "},{"Title":"not as good as the frist one!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was good but I liked the first one better. This in my opinion wasnt as scary as the first one. The special effects wasnt as good as the original. The possessed hand thing was cool though. But over all this wasnt as bad as Army of Darkness. i recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good horror movie! "},{"Title":"one helluva rollercoaster ride","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Without a doubt, this is the wildest, bloodiest, goriest, craziest, funniest, most bizarre damn movie I have *ever* seen in my life. Before you can even get comfortable in your seat, the film is already kicking into high gear and refusing to let up, with one wild sequence after another. It's best described as an 80-minute bloody Three Stooges skit, as there's just as much blood as their is slapstick humor. The sequence in which Ash battles his own hand is just plain crazy. I don't how Bruce Campbell managed to keep a straight face during this sequence (or during the rest of the film), but it must have been difficult. Throughout the whole film, even during the gore parts, you can't help but crack a grin at how bizarre it all is. If you're looking for one wild rollercoaster ride of a movie, and don't mind lots of blood and gore, EVIL DEAD II is a film to check out. It may not be a piece of cinematic magic, but it sure is a piece of bizarre fun. My personal favorite of the series. "},{"Title":"You'll never quite read Hemingway's 'A Farewell To Arms' the same way again","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hmm, what adjectives shall I use next? Disturbing? Unsettling? Hilarious? Horrendous? Stupefying? Abject? Tragic? Accessible? Well, this one will force its way into your living room once you start it up, so 'accessible' would be a sore understatement. Neither watch this with your fiancée nor if you're petit-bourgeois, as you learned from the tagline 'Kiss your nerves goodbye'Hilarious horror can't be better than this, except 'Chinese Ghost Story' and 'Army Of Darkness'. One of the most original films ever made (yes I am considering it is a sequel) it's a genre on its own maybe. If you didn't like The Evil Dead, you will still like Evil Dead 2! It isn't even necessary to have seen 'The Evil Dead' first. The story isn't fantastic, but the pace and the editing are so incredibly fast you will not know where your 84 minutes went. Forget about 'Poltergeist' and 'The people under the stairs'.Sam Raimi really lets himself go and unleashes Bruce Campbell in an unprecedented way. Or should I say unleashes the Evil Dead on Bruce in an unprecedented way? See for yourself. Cinematographer Peter Deming is also a crucial mind behind the eviscerating success of this masterpiece the lighting and composition are inventive and convincing, but above all extremely dynamic. I can't imagine my life without 'Evil Dead 2' anymore. Yeah, that's right who's laughing now? Rrrhaaaahhh lovely!10 points out of 10 -) "},{"Title":"A one-man-show for Bruce Campbell","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Together with some friends I watched Evil Dead II in our regular video night last weekend and we all decided, that this film is more a remake than a sequel there are many parallels in the story according to the first part, but this flick was more devoted to main actor and Raimi´s friend Bruce Campbell, whose performance is main component of the film. The scene when he´s fighting against his right hand, and later shooting on it as it´s running away, is slapstick in the style of cartoons like Tom & Jerry; but sometimes Evil Dead II is also an homage on the creatures and the special F/X made by Ray Harryhausen (the headless body of Ash´s girlfriend for example... If you wanna see a real tribute on Jason and the Argonauts watch Army of Darkness!!!). The flying camerawork is as excellent as in the first part, and when the whole hut (including the books, the lamp and the antlers) starts laughing about our would-be hero this film becomes a rapid drive through the ghost train. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Scary,funny and freaky.I cannot picture anyone else but Bruce Campbell in this film.He's the man!","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead 2Dead by Dawn,the sequel to the 1982 cult classic,The Evil Dead,is just as ferocious,fun and frightening as the original.The Blair Witch Project had nothing the first two Evil Dead films had.Sure,The Blair Witch Project was really scary,but The Evil Deadfilms really sent a static down my spine.I have to applaude Bruce Campbell.He has proven that he's the next Sigourney Weaver.Never mess with a man with a chainsaw attached to his arm.Bruce Campbell gets funnier and funnier in each Evil Dead film and I find it amusing watching Evil Dead 2Dead by Dawn each time I watch it.It would be cool if they made Evil Dead 4 .But I'll understand if they don't.The character of Ash needs a rest from battling those nasty demons.Then again,his job isn't probably finished.So maybe in the future,we might see good ol'Ash(Bruce Campbell)kicking demonic butt.Evil Dead 2Dead by Dawn is 90 minutes of pure fun that's gaurenteed to make anyone have one hell of a great time. "},{"Title":"slightly improved","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This one towers over part one, but only by a little, because of the sense of humor they decided to put into it. Campbell, who obviously hasn't learned anything about venturing into the woods from his first adventure, does so again here, with the same result. This time he only takes his girlfriend, with others popping up later, one of them the daughter of the professor who's audio speech released the demons last time. Some, of course, become possessed and havoc insues in and out of the cabin. Even Cambell's Ash is taken over for a brief periods of time, the first occurence coming early on in an amazingly shot sequence. We see the evil force racing through the woods, crashing past trees and doors until it finally comes upon Campbell. Unlike the first movie, which ended with this shot as it cut to black just as it arrives at Campbell, it's continued here as he's hurtled into the air at warp speed past a number of trees before plunging into a huge puddle. There are other moments from the first film that are re-done but the main change is the comic tone. There is, again, a lot of blood, but mixed in are some hilarious possessions. The funniest being a hideous woman in a fruit cellar who looks like she has the hots for Campbell. Or living room items that begin laughing in unsion. And even when there is a moment of violence, it's done so comically, like a popped eyeball flying into a girls mouth, or the infamous moment when Campbell takes a chainsaw to his possessed hand! The cast this time around is as adequate as the last, with Campbell providing an even better performance. One downside is that we are again left with an inconclusive ending, but it's not enough to bring down this better than the first movie follow up.  "},{"Title":"Superior to the first","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The original Evil Dead is okay. It's got great gore effects, decent acting, and some entertaining moments, but for the rest of the time it's a bit slow and uninspired with it's story telling. This sequel, however, is the opposite.!!!SOME SPOILERS!!!Ash(From part 1)takes his girlfriend to a cabin in the forest where they accidentilly wake up the evil spirits that haunt the land. The spirits take over just about everything(Including Ash's hand).Good story, acting, and humor. ***1/2 out of *****. "}{"Title":"Evil Dead 2 - GROOVY!!","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ED2 is not, repeat NOT, to be taken seriously. Sure its a horror film that tries (and to some extent succeeds) in scaring the audience, but at the same time it lampoons the horror & gore with slapstick comedy.I suppose it must have been a tricky job for director Raimi deciding on the right mix between comedy & horror because normally both genres are complete opposites.He didn't get the mix right first time round with ED1, but then again he didn't have the budget either; but with ED2 everything is just right.Bruce Campbell reprises his original ED1 role as Ash, taking his girlfriend to a very remote country retreat (I sometimes wonder what kind of girlfriend, or anyone for that matter, would fancy spending a few days in a cottage in the deepest forest & highest  mountain retreat in the US, but never mind.)Anyway, Ash find the Book of the Dead and a tape recorder. He plays it back and we're smothered in all sorts of incantations & sinister spells that have somehow raised the spirits of the dead within the forest. And from that point on the action begins in earnest as Ash battles the demons, zombies, ghosts & other horrible creations (no lawyers unfortunately!)The violence & gore are plentiful and yet tolerable. We don't shriek away like we would do if it was a pretty young thing from Scream or Halloween; instead its just a straight battle against the good guys & girls against the bad.But it's the clever slapstick that really makes this film so richly entertaining. The wandering Hand, is truly a classic piece of cinema, and I loved the way it gave the Finger to Ash in total defiance but then got its own comeuppance in a mouse trap!Then there's the chainsaw (Ash's new appendage for the lost hand); and from that point on we know the movie has moved away from the real sinister beginning to something a bit more convivial & tasteless.The camerawork is really good, especially the 1st person scenes with the camera playing the Forest Demon chasing after Ash in his own home.Raimi too deserves praise for making a better, rounded film treating the audience with a little more respect & intelligence than he did with the first (there's no tree rape scene here thank goodness!)But top marks must go to Campbell, who plays Ash with a passion & kinetic vigour that you don't often see these days. The best thing is that he did nearly all of his own stunts - especially when he has to throw himself around the room smashing plates in his face etc.It's a shame that he hasn't really broken into the Major studio circuit and will probably be always labelled as Ash, the cool man with the handy chainsaw & a mission with Hell.GROOVY!!!***/***** "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is simply the coolest comedy ever. We are talking sequel/remake/parody on the first movie that actually is a scary movie that works as a horrormovie. Now, saying that the original THE EVIL DEAD was a comedy is a little bit wild, but it had a good mood and it didn't take itself so serious and neither did the audience. EVIL DEAD II is, to be honest, a pure comedy. Sure it has got tons of gore and blood but exactly how scary is it when poor Ash hunts his own nemesis, his own hand, around in the house with a shotgun?Not in the least. Well all we need now is a but... And yes, BUT the movie has got too many jokes mixed up with too much violence.  And if you are going to mix it up with action, adventure and fantasy and then make the entire movie drowned in ink, it's always dark or even black, and oddness it gets a bit worse.6/10 "},{"Title":"great follow up","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i'm a big horror fan but i never watched the evil dead trilogy cause i'm into slasher films and zombies, but after i saw evil dead it became a favorite, and everyone told me that the sequel was better then the first, so i finally got around to seeing it. i feel the original is a bit better, but evil dead 2 is very close. i could not stop laughing through out the movie. the first was horror/comedy but this one is comedy/horror. there are so many great scenes to this movie, like when ash's hand turns on him and starts beating him up, then he cuts his hand off and he tries to kill it and the hand gives him the middle finger, or when ash falls down and everything in the room begins to laugh at him, and when i say everything i mean that like books lamps chairs, sounds silly yes, but its not the kind of movie you take serious. Sam Raime did a great job as the director once again, he has to the in the top 3 directors in horror. and Bruce Campbell as ash you cant do better then him, he rules. this is a must see for any horror fan. i give evil dead 2 8/10 "},{"Title":"The best sequel to a horror film, EVER!!","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this movie is basically a semi-spoof and sendup of the first film. Sam Raimi was wanting to do the script that eventually became Army of Darkness but most of the financing fell through so they decided just to remake the first film as a horror-comedy. this movie is my favorite of the evil dead trilogy mainly because it develops the Ash character as an almost comic book character with TONS of attitude. (the creators of Duke Nuke'em have said that Ash was a huge influence on the Duke Nuke'em character.) though they went on to develop his character even more in Army of Darkness, this movie works better due to the fact that he has no idea what's going on and is at a loss sometimes.this movie has it's fair share of gore, but compared to the first film, it's almost restrained at times. the fact that this movie was slapped with an X when it originally was released  (the X was surrendered and it was released unrated) is surprising since it's not meanspirited in any way.the movie is paced like a rollercoaster and loses just a tiny bit of momentum towards the end, but the film is so energetic that you won't notice it. Observant viewers will also notice a very strong Three Stooges vibe throughout the movie as well.i love this movie and it is one of my favorite horror films of all time as well as a great example of how horror comedies should be approached.GROOVY!!!!rating9 "},{"Title":"Best sequel ever.","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The beginning is a little confusing. The first movie left our hero alone in the woods and this movie begins with our hero coming to the cabin with his girlfriend... Huh? Very simple The first scene in the movie is a simple rewrite of the first movie, but instead of five young people it's only a couple. That's all. You'll see that at the end of the first scene it catches up to the ending of the first movie.This movie is the absolute definition of cool! A great combination of horror, humor and pure insanity. Another good thing about this movie is the structure It's like a supermarket full with all kinds of thrills and scares. Non stop fun! "},{"Title":"What a movie!","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead II is much better than the first movie, I really didn't like the first Evil Dead movie much. Evil Dead II is one of the best horror movies that I've seen.This movie is a must-see, if you are an big horror fan. This film was pretty weird too.***1/2 "},{"Title":"a bit much!","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this film could have been amazing, but was spoilt by its gratuitous gore, which spoils the whole film. but the ending is mind-blowing,and doesn't just leave the door open for a sequel (medieval dead) it leaves the porch light on, and leaves a welcome mat down! plum. "},{"Title":"An improvement over the original Evil Dead","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ash (Bruce Campbell), the survivor of the Evil Dead returns to the same cabin with his girlfriend Linda.  He finds the Necronomicon (oh, yes - that book) again.  Linda gets possessed.  Ash kills her twice -- with an axe and chainsaw.  Ash nearly gets possesssed so he hacks his hand off at the wrist. I could tell you more but I don't want to ruin it for you.  I find Evild Dead to be better than the original because it has a sense of style and humor.  I laughed at this movie more than the original, but laughed even more at Army of Darkness.  There's still some gore, but not as much as the original.  My evaluation **1/2 out of ****.  "},{"Title":"LOL!!!!!","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie rocks!!!!!! THIS IS THE BEST HORROR MOVIE OF ALL TIME. Forget all those teen horror movies of the 90's like Scream 2 and I still know what you did last summer. GO WATCH THIS MOVIE. This film is da bomb. I don't care if this film didn't have a plot. All I care about how is funny the movie is.RatedA+ "},{"Title":"One word, Groovy!","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Dead 2 is by far one of the goofiest, goriest, and outlandishly imaginative films that has come along in a great while.  Bruce Campbell is the world's most abused actor and here we see him get it all.  He loses his hand, he loses his soul, (but gets it back) and he nearly loses his marbles. He gets beat up by his dead girlfriend, a hick, a dead and decaying woman, and his own hand.  Sam Raimi's love for cartoons is evident in the sound effects and the camera work.  Raimi manages to scare you and make you laugh at the same time.  The best part of the movie is when Ash gets his rig ready to go fight the evil.  The music builds, Ash acts macho and the camera dollies up to his face for some great phrase, and what comes out is the one word that sums it up  Groovy!    "}{"Title":"The Most Weird Sequel Ever Made In Film History","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" this is it guys this is the part where all that groovy catch phrase started by actor Bruce Campbell the evil dead came out in 1981 this is a sequel to it but it misses the mark and does not have the spark of the first film.evil dead 2 or dead by dawn 1987 is a half remake & half sequel it is one of the most weird sequel ever made in any franchise ever out there and also in film history at least i think so things don't make much sense here as the director Sam Raimi lost the rights to his original film or so whatever the controversy was this film should not have been made even army of darkness is better any then this.its got a lot of blood,gore but most things look Cartoonish & over the top the movie fails to take itself seriously it relies heavily on comedy then actual theme i mean eye balls can fly like superman wow.just what was the studio thinking and i don't blame Sam Raimi for this he is a master director he did his best he wrote the script himself but it would be a lot better if it followed the path of original & included some serious tone i felt Sam was restricted by the production company to keep it in a Pg rating hey i am just speculating it i saw this i felt maybe this is why the project feels awkward.i lost interest in the franchise after this as it was too goofy to handle but evil dead 3 army of darkness 1992 is better then this along with latest version of Evil Dead 2013 of Jane Levy.Overall Evil Dead 21987 feels like a parody of its own original so if you are expecting some scary stuff please don't just check this one out only if you like Sam Raimi my rating is 3/10. "},{"Title":"So bad it's almost good.  Almost.","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So bad it's almost good. Almost.I'm generally not a fan of zombie movies. They're generally quite unoriginal, predictable and one-dimensional. The central plots hardly vary, the actions scenes could just be cut-and-pasted from one movie to the next. Evil Dead II isn't an exception in those regards. What's worse, its special effects and production values are incredibly bad obvious dolls as zombies, toy bridge and car for the early bridge scene, special effects which hardly look real for a moment.Add in some pretty bad acting and you should have an horrendously bad movie. However, it almost works.The amateurish nature of the production gives the movie a lightness and unintentional humour that keep you entertained. Plus there are some intentional funny moments. The movie could just as well be labeled a comedy as a zombie movie.Unfortunately, the humour doesn't quite negate the pitiful other aspects of the movie. The last few scenes involve the usual zombie vs human and supernatural crap and the movie ends in chaotic fashion.Good for a few laughs though. "},{"Title":"Arguably Invented The Genre&#x85;Still The One To Beat","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An Unrestrained Sam Raimi Directs this Sequel as if He has lost His Marbles. This is on purpose of course, because the Self-Reflective and Genre Satire is nothing Less than an Original Take that has become a Staple in the Horror/Comedy. It may have Invented the Genre, at least in its Current Form.Not Scary by any Stretch it is a Live-Action Cartoon with Stooges Slapstick and Tex Avery Inspired Stop-Motion Wackeyness. It is one of those that goes Over the Top in almost every Scene and is Obviously Proud of it, because as this Mayem Progresses it seems to up the Stakes as soon as it lays out the Bet.Fondly Embraced and is a Movie that is Watchable and Enjoyed Today, was a Big Surprise Hit, both Commercially and Critically, because Simply, there was nothing like it Before. It is Relentlessly Creative and Absurd, Funny, and Grotesque. There is so much Energy in this Bizarre Movie that the Fun the Filmmakers had making it is ever Present in Every Scene. "},{"Title":"If you thought the original was outrageous, you haven't seen anything yet","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" How do you top a film that is loved by so many? This is a feat that a lot of sequels have attempted and failed at. When the first was a slam dunk then the makers of part II have a real challenge on their hands. But once in a while the sequel is made by the same people. They say that lightning doesn't strike twice, but if they did it so well the first time then they deserve a chance. 'The Evil Dead' was more of a hit with audiences than critics and the first of two sequels was obviously made for the former. Most sequels coming after such a strong film pale by comparison, but this is one case where the filmmakers outdid themselves.Pros Good performances all around. Another fabulous directing job by Raimi, who introduces a few new tricks. Fast paced. Made with tongue planted firmly in cheek. Amazing special and make-up effects. Many unforgettable scenes. Great spooky, fog-filled atmosphere. Full of imagination. Unpredictable.Cons Again very little plot. Not very scary.Final thoughts I love subtlety in Horror as much as the next guy, but there is nothing wrong with casting caution to the wind and going over-the-top now and again. What the makers of this film have created is a non-stop thrill ride that is filled with plenty of grue and craziness. By this point Raimi had had more experience and a larger budget, and he and his crew used it wisely. Some films we loved back in the day don't hold up decades later, but 'Evil Dead II' is still a hell of a lot of fun.My rating 4.5/5 "},{"Title":"Evil Dead II Dead by Dawn (1987)","Date":"6 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sam Raimi's 1981 masterpiece, The Evil Dead, is a seminal film in the horror genre. It was extreme for its' day, pervasively atmospheric, unpredictable, wild and original, inventive, sharp, scary... It's the kind of film that you know was going to breed a sequel at one time or another. As every successful film in the genre seemed to have a sequel to it by the mid-80's, and Sam Raimi had too much talent and ingenuity to let sit idle. So, the old team decided to reunite a second time making a feature. Well... while many fans will try and convince you that this film was magic, to me it felt more like microwaved leftovers from the first. There are many reasons I'm sure that this film was so disappointing. One I'm told, was the result of controversy the original stirred over audiences being shocked by the scene in which a female character is sexually violated by a tree. It remains a sole flaw in the original, it went too far for pretty much no reason at all. It personally never disturbed me, but that's because it looked so silly and wasn't even recognized by the music score (unlike similar scenes in something like, The Last House on the Left).Another reason is that some people had a problem with the graphic mutilations and gore in the original. But one of the things that made that film so great was that it mixed terror with large quantities of gore. And it was good-looking gore, too. Even where some of the makeup designs of the zombies was primitive, they're still a lot scarier than what we get here. For this sequel, it appears Sam and company thought they could generate the same level of terror by trimming down gore and doubling on the wacky, speeding camera-work, and admittedly very freaky editing. This I think backfires. Now, the editing is the only thing that generates any scares and the camera-work is the only impressive thing about the movie. Although this sequel hired more skilled special effects technicians, the zombies look terrible. The best thing here in fact, is how creepy they make objects in the cabin look. The film's best scene features the inanimate objects altogether erupt in a spontaneous bout of laughter. Which brings an unbelievably creepy deer head on the wall to life. In the original, the zombies were the scariest thing (other than the creepy woods, but that's before you saw any zombies) and they knew it. Here, they don't seem to know how scary that deer head is. Why couldn't that have attacked someone?Next, I've heard Bruce Campbell go on about how upset audiences were that the film begins with a short re-do of the original's plot. They had plans to just edit-in clips from the original but couldn't get the rights to them because New Line was being stubborn (and I always got the idea that they were really generous with horror filmmakers). So they shot a new prologue, which retells the original story as though it were only Ash and his girlfriend Linda who went up to the cabin, instead of them and three friends. I could accept that, if Raimi hadn't decided to play up the character of Ash. This sequel is more a personality showcase for the crazy guy Bruce Campbell was cultivating than a terrifying movie, like the first film was. There's a lot more emphasis on his facial expressions, physical comedy routines, and one-liners than in the original. In fact, what one-liners did he even have in the original? This is another big problem. In the original, he wasn't a hero. He was just another victim, one who managed to survive the longest. It's not the fact that it's different that's a problem. It's that it isn't nearly as good. Like the third film, Army of Darkness, Dead by Dawn exists more for Campbell to show off than to really scare people.People have already said this functions more like a remake than a sequel. But, considering it as a remake- why remake it? You should never mess with perfection. This film is too different from the original. For example, part-way through the film, they add four characters out of nowhere. Seemingly just to have more potential victims to slaughter (not that I'd call anything to happens to the victims in this movie slaughtering). And if three of them aren't the most annoying characters in any horror film I've ever seen before- I'll go out, buy a hat, and then eat it! Now, I would say especially the backwoods, redneck hicks; the ignorant, overall-ed, black-toothed, most likely inbred, banjo-baby Jake and his bratty, whorey, too-pretty-for-him girlfriend Bobby-Joe, but there is actually someone three times more annoying. Annie the archeologist's daughter (she might be one too, I don't know). The movie does make us like Bruce Campbell (what's the point in calling him Ash anymore? He's really just playing Bruce Campbell), so it's a waste of time to do this whole sub-plot of her walking into her father's cabin, her father being missing, and her assuming Bruce killed him, so she goes psycho and wants vigilante-styled vengeance.The movie does have a few creepy or cool moments. Particularly- anything involving the deer head, the intro narration about the 'Book of the Dead' with some very cool animation, and a short sequence where Bruce talks about the woods and what he thinks is going on out there. Oh, and there's a little thing about a glowing spirit that warns them about something- I liked that quite a bit. And the sequence where Bruce goes into the basement to find Henrietta. It's scary for about a minute. The silliness of the movie really does kill it. And you know something? 1986's House was silly enough to take care of my silly horror fix for almost the rest of the decade. House also feels a lot more original than this does. "},{"Title":"Slicker and tighter remake of the first Evil Dead","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bruce Campbell returns as the manic Ash and fights the things in the cellar all over again. This time, however, he's brought some weapons, a maniac's laugh, and lots of colorful insults. Funded by Dino De Laurentis after the original's surprise success on video (it fared OK at the cinema), it has a marginally larger budget and some clever and bloody set pieces. Slicker and tighter than the first Evil Dead, it is virtually a remake. Though it is still nudity-averse, it is more entertaining than the original and dispenses with that that film's cheesy character work. Campbell establishes Ash as a silver screen anti-hero and carries the entire movie on his able shoulders. After all these years still a classic. "},{"Title":"The Best of The Trilogy","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Evil Dead 2.After a nice debut movie, we get a sequel. Movie sequels tend to not be as good as the first. Not here. This is far better than the first installment. Far better.The setup is Ash returns to the place of the first with a new squeeze. Why he returns, I don't know. The movie starts quickly too. Before you know it, the action and violence moves quickly.Similar to the first movie, we only have a cast of five people. Two babes, Ash, and some dudes. Ash, who starts off as a coward will get more balls-out and will stand up to the Evil that confronts him.The violence is just as gruesome as the first. Even more blood here and gets obscene. The Evil Dead here is even more maniacal than the first. The acting is better and more focused. Unlike the first movie, the acting is not novice. And Ash utters the famous catch phrase here Groovy. You will also notice that this is the prequel to the Army of Darkness.The directing is even more insane than the first. Sam Raimi is nuts with the camera. The casting was well done. And the makeup is even more grotesque and sinister. They outdone themselves here. Well done.This movie is also has well executed humor too. Nothing beats the sight of a headless body with a chainsaw trying to kill you!The Last Word Excellent. This is definitely the best of the Evil Dead trilogy. This flick has humor, horror, and suspense. I was very impressed with this. Want decent gore and some humor? Want a timeless classic? Watch this. Evil Dead 2 is nearly perfect. Awesome horror. "},{"Title":"one of the best and most entertaining horror movies in history","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead 2 Dead By Dawn is a cult classic horror-comedy about which you just cannot forget while picking up your favorite horror movies. Director Sam Raimi evidently is in luck to sequels because Spiderman 2 is also superior to the 1st part. What is the biggest virtue of Evil Dead 2 is undoubtedly its originality in attitude towards seemingly worn out story. Evil finds its way to real world thanks to mysterious book called Necronomicon. Brave Ash (great Bruce Campbell) whose girl has changed into zombie is forced to fight and overcome evil powers. Raimi has really no interest in developing some kind of complicated story here, his film is just a wonderful, daring exercise in horror combined with comedy. It seems that director's inventiveness has no limits and viewers has no option but to cheer and laugh their head out while Ash's attempts to oppose evil. Ash with his chainsaw and sewn rifle is undoubtedly an icon of horror movies. His nonchalant behavior mixed with shrewdness works superbly no matter what bizarre challenges he has to face. The flick contains a wide range of ingenious special effects and first-grade gore scenes in no way disrupting the simple, but convincing plot. Besides, the camera work is often unconventional and many intriguing tricks occur. To sum up, Evil Dead 2 is one of the best and most entertaining horror films in history. Highly recommended if you haven't seen it yet. "},{"Title":"An excellent midnight movie","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When Ash sits down and the chair falls apart. Damn, there was such situation in my own life once (before the class). The way he confidentially sits his ass down holding the shotgun in his hand and then - rattle-bang! - he's on the floor.The absence of immaculate computer special effects makes it only better. The leading actor can teach a lot of first-class actors how to perform with heart on screen. Who is laughing off top 250 now?! This movie doesn't need any Oscars. It is just in the hearts of millions who saw it and evaluated its creativeness.Especially interesting is Ash's ability to solve a nearly impossible question without hesitation. When his hand is being possessed, he doesn't think, he doesn't cry his eyes out - he just saws it off. A real man. A real hero. And a real nut. Without muscles he can kick a zombie's butt just with the help of his incredible stamina.All the rest has been mentioned, and mentioned so many times.One of the best epic movies - 8 out of 10. Thank you for attention. "},{"Title":"A groovy cult classic!","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Before anyone even attempts to watch any of the Evil Dead films, they need to understand that there is zero continuity in the series. Absolutely none. What happens in one film is totally different in the other. Apparently this was done in Evil Dead II because the filmmakers could not obtain footage from the original film to put into the sequel, so they decided to redo it altogether &#x96; completely different from the first film (I assume they just did this for kicks in the third, even with the big footage excised from this film).After a brief interlude about the Book of the Dead (or Necronomicon Ex-Mortis as it's called in the film), the film opens with Ash (Bruce Campbell) taking his girlfriend Linda up to an isolated cabin in the woods for a little R & R. He finds a tape recorder and the Book of the Dead on a desk in the cabin; he plays the tape. Turns out, it's a recording from the previous owner of the cabin, and by subsequently playing the tape, Ash wakes up the evil spirits within the forest &#x96; the Evil Dead.This is a bad thing, as it literally takes Linda, leaving Ash frightened and saddened at the same time. He goes into the woods to look for her, but eventually only finds a possessed being in her body coming to attack him. He decapitates her, buries her in the ground, and goes back to weep within the cabin. Some how, all of this takes place within the first ten minutes of the film.What follows is probably one of the single most bizarre films anyone will ever see fog runs rampant; blood of every color flies everywhere; a man loses his hand to demonic possession and then further attaches a chainsaw to replace the stump; tree branches attack and further abduct a woman&#x85; and that's just the start. To explain anymore of the film would completely take away and ruin the remaining 74 minutes of the film.This is the movie that made Bruce Campbell a cult B-movie God. His acting is off the wall, never the least bit serious. This is the cult actor in his prime, before he became known for bit parts in cheesy movies and a successful novel writer. He gets beaten up throughout the film as well, leaving a lot to say about how far actors have to go for their directors.Speaking of directors, can anybody believe the man who went on to create the hugely profitable Spider-Man series started off with movies like this? Sam Raimi created his entire legacy with this film, and the rest of the series; one can easily see how much it has influenced his later work. Remember that scene in Spider-Man 2 where Doctor Octopus attacks all of the surgeons and doctors operating on him after his accident? With the crazy camera angles and totally random chainsaw? The scene is straight out of Evil Dead II. And the influence extends to all other horror films as well. Peter Jackson, Oscar winning director of The Lord of the Rings series, credits Evil Dead II as one of his early influences, as do many other directors.The influence and the legacy of this totally silly, but undeniably, cult film can be felt all over the film industry &#x96; and it continues to influence to this very day. A definite film to see.8/10.(Portions of this review originally appeared on http//www.dvdfanatic.com). "}{"Title":"Groovy!","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The sequel to the gory, atmospheric horror flick The Evil Dead is really more of a (black) slapstick comedy... something there was a hint of in the first. Here, it's pushed all the way through... it's cartoony and provided you're into the humor, fun. I found it more cool than fun, honestly; never been into laughing at pain, no matter whose it is. But there's no doubt about it; this film is cool. It's also very much a 'guy' film... get 'the gang' together, call up all your guy friends and get a copy of this film, preferably an uncut one. You'll love it. So did I, no doubt about that. The better part of the film is basically a remake of the first... new characters and new plot points, but the progression and such is the same. The situations are the same, but the ways in which we get to them are different from the first film. It's a fine idea, and it works great, too, because the outcomes of the situations are different, as well... meaning, you see a scene and go Oh, right, I remember this from the first... oh yeah, now he... what the ...!? The plot is interesting, new and old parts alike. It's not Shakespeare, but it keeps your interest. The acting is the same fairly low standard as that of the first. The characters are equally ill-developed(though this time, I *could* tell them apart... they were easier to tell from each other, however, so maybe I wasn't the only one who couldn't tell those in the first apart?). The editing is excellent, just as the case was with the first. The special effects have improved... harder to figure out than those of the first, and that says quite a lot. The budget is higher(ten-fold, according to this very site), and it's most definitely noticeable. The emphasis throughout all of the film is mostly on humor and 'coolness' factor, very little on scares and horror. There's about the same amount of gore, at least as far as I could tell. The film is worth watching for just about any guy... regardless of maturity, really. There are things here that will make every guy watching it go way cool!. One scene in particular had said effect on me... around the one hour mark, involving a chainsaw and a shotgun... anyone who has seen the film already know what I'm talking about, and I won't say anymore so as to not spoil it for anyone who hasn't. See it for yourself; you won't regret it. I recommend this film to any fan of Sam Raimi, gore, the first The Evil Dead, slapstick and/or Bruce Campbell. Of course, all guys should check it out. The film has such a thick 'guy' vibe, it should almost be mandatory for guys to watch it. Anyway, if you fit into one or more of the aforementioned groups, get a hold of this flick and watch it. Chances are high you'll love every second of it. 10/10 "},{"Title":"More of a Remake than a Sequel but Still delivers the goods.","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An couple by name of Ash (Bruce Campbell) and Linda (Denise Bixler) has decide to stay in the cabin for the weekend. When Ash plays an old tape recorder has the power to awakening the dead. Since the Evil is there to haunt them. Ash has to fight them to survive from the Evil Dead with the help of four people (Sarah Berry, Dan Hicks, Kassie Wesley and Richard Domeier), who came to the cabin unexpectedly.Directed by Sam Raimi (Spider Man 1 & 2, Crimewave, Darkman) made an excellent sequel to the original. But the film does feel more like a remake at times. The film has enough dark humor, action, gore and style that it will keep you watching.DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer (Also in Pan & Scan) with an good digitally remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD's best extra is the running commentary track is by the co-writer/directorRaimi, actorCampbell, co-writerScott Speigel and Make-Up Effects ArtistGreg Nicotero. DVD also has 30 minutes featurette, theatrical trailer, game trailer, photo galleries and Bios from Sam Raimi & Bruce Campbell. This DVD is Digitally Remastered in THX Picture Quality and Sound. The film's overtly slapstick may turn off some horror fans (Raimi's tribute to The Three Stooges in the film). But it's unique and a one of a kind film. Sam Raimi's brother-Ted Raimi plays the Demon Hernietta. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"No where near as good as the great original The Evil Dead.","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't get why this film is so popular on IMDb, It is no where near as scary and enjoyable as the original film The Evil Dead, which truly is genre defining. The film starts off quite well and I thought when the moose's head (which is on display in the cabin) starts laughing was quite amusing, but from there, the rest of the film was just Bruce Campbell screaming and shouting in a cabin. But they save the worst for the end when, believe it or not, a giant tree breaks into the cabin and teleports him back in time to some ancient city, where he shoots a Dino-bird thing, then he is celebrated by a load of knights. Come on what the hell was wrong with Sam Raimi when he decided to go along with that! 5/10 a very disappointing film. "},{"Title":"No time to yawn...dead by dawn.","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Is it a sequel or a re-make? Director Sam Raimi has his lone survivor from EVIL DEAD(1981)Ash Williams(Bruce Campbell)back in the woods again at battle with demonic spirits. This time Ash himself becomes a part-time zombie. Visitors arrive only to be sustenance for the horrid demons summoned by chants from The Book of the Dead.Campbell is purposely having fun enough to come across campy. The most entertaining part of this film is when Ash is alone and fighting off his possessed hand. Alright, maybe this is deliberate comedy. Some pretty cool special effects...cheap they may be. Blood again splatters, spews and squirts. Hell, horror couldn't be more fun. Notice that many of the props also appeared in EVIL DEAD. Also appearing with the square-jawed Campbell are Sarah Berry, Kassie DePaiva, Dan Hicks, Denise Bixler and Ted Raimi. "},{"Title":"For what it is worth, it works...","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In a nutshell, Evil Dead 2 is what happens when you take the original Evil Dead, chop it into parts, put the parts in a bag, and shake. The film recaps the ending of the original by bringing Ash back to the mountain cabin with a new girlfriend, who is shortly chopped up with a chainsaw before the spirits of the dead come calling after Ash. As Ash struggles to fight off the dead, a new group of unlucky adventurers, one of which is related to the archaeologist on the tape, come calling. Little Miss Archaeologist just happens to be carrying a series of new pages from the book that detail more recitations, and a prophecy about a warrior destined to destroy the evil spirits.If you were just after a description of the plot, you can stop reading now, because that was pretty much it. At a mere eighty-five minutes, nobody is going to confuse Evil Dead 2 with the epic machinations of horror maestros such as Stephen King, who once described the original Evil Dead as one of the funniest and most original films he had ever seen. And therein lies one of the franchise's essential problems. Like the child raised in a violent environment who just wants to be loved, the Evil Dead sequels progressively attempt more and more to endear themselves to a teen or family audience. This is not so obvious in Evil Dead 2, thanks to a smattering of fairly mild gore, but the third effort just dumped all pretense and might as well have called itself Teenage Mutant Ninja Ash. Heaven help us fans of real horror if the fourth Evil Dead actually sees completion.Getting back to Evil Dead 2, what makes it work is a sense of cruelty carried over from the previous film. Hands are severed, heads are knocked off, corpses dance around, and the forest comes to life once more, though not as notoriously as previously was the case. In fact, a lot of what goes on in Evil Dead 2 reads like a cleaned-up version of what happened in The Evil Dead. Which makes the short running time all the more frustrating, giving the new story little, if any, chance to develop. Not that Sam Raimi has ever been big on story, or anything that requires more than a pair of brain cells.What rescues Evil Dead 2 from being just another inferior clone is some truly creative gore. While the setup, as previously described, is unoriginal, the execution is fairly spectacular. While the idea of eyeballs popping out of heads and flying into mouths might not seem particularly original, this is the film where such creative nuances of gore entered the public consciousness. There is nothing here to compare to the red shower that occurred at the end of the original Evil Dead, but some points are won for variation. Unfortunately, restricting Ash to only using a chainsaw reduces the scope for variation to some degree. I realise that the chainsaw is supposedly a Raimi trademark, but it does get a little boring when reused too many times.All in all, I gave Evil Dead 2 a seven out of ten. It is a competent retread of the original, but little more. This puts it well ahead of the third entry in the series, which basically dissolves into an LCD version of the original. In the end, the series should have ended here. The film certainly ended on the right note of irony. "},{"Title":"STILL FUN !!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ash is back, fighting demons and confronting evil powers!!!! The special effects in this one are much more elaborate and it has a little more humor than the first one. Pretty darn cool.Rated R for Gore, Monster violence, and profanity. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Pretty much a remake of the original finds Ash returning back to the cabin in the woods, opening the Book of the Dead again, and falling prey to demons again. Fast paced flick with gruesome special effects and a better sense of humor also has the expected maniac direction and highly original camera angels. However, it lacks the freshness of the original and plays up more to the humor then the scares (a bad thing in this case).Unrated; Extreme Graphic Violence & Profanity. "},{"Title":"this movie was a little too goofy for me","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  the humor in this movie doesn't work that much for me. it's not nearly as good as the people on here say. it's not as good as the first one. the second depends on humor more than scares like in the first one. but the thing is the humor isn't that funny in evil dead II. in fact it's almost never funny. but there are a few interesting things in evil dead II that make it semi-ok.i give it ** out of **** "},{"Title":"The rare sequel that's an improvement on the original","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As much as I love The Evil Dead, I still must admit that it's a pretty crude and rough around the edges film. Granted, it's the ragged quality of the original which gives the movie its raw power. That said, I just have to say that the sequel qualifies as a genuine improvement; it's a much more assured and polished piece of go-for-broke crazy film-making with better acting, stronger production values, more impressive special effects, and a wickedly hilarious sense of jet black gallows humor. Bruce Campbell encores as Ash, who once again finds himself trapped in a remote woodland cabin that's besieged by ferocious evil demonic forces. Director/co-writer Sam Raimi never lets the whiplash-inducing frantic pace falter for a minute, offering a nonstop roller coaster ride of beautifully bent, batty and berserk cinematic mayhem that gleefully assaults the viewer's senses from start to finish. Peter Deming's fluid, darting, hyperactive cinematography ensures that this picture is a complete dazzling visual treat throughout. Joseph Lo Duca's spooky'n'spirited score likewise hits the spot. Moreover, Raimi really pours on the outrageously excessive graphic gore (blood literally flies everywhere in several scenes). Gruesome gonzo highlights Ash being attacking by a headless body wielding a chainsaw, Ash's possessed hand breaking dishes over his head, and an eyeball flying into a screaming woman's mouth. Campbell delivers a wonderfully amusing and animated performance as the intrepid Ash; he receives excellent support from Sarah Berry as feisty anthropologist Annie Knowby, Dan Hicks as scruffy redneck Jake, Kassie Wesley as sassy hillbilly gal Bobbie Joe, and Ted Raimi as the hideously grotesque possessed Henrietta. Great ending, too. All in all, this baby sizes up as a total groovy blast. "},{"Title":"To Have and Hand Not","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead 2 Dead by Dawn is a splashier, dare I say, more sophisticated re-make/sequel of the original Evil Dead. It is not a true sequel as it revisits basically much of what happened in the original but only changing things around. Things are changed around enough; however, to clearly make this a different film and not a true remake. At any rate, this aspect of the film was interesting to me. Now, confessedly I was not a huge fan of the original Evil Dead. I didn't think it was a bad movie nor a real good one either. I do understand why so many people love it, but I admitted then - and now - that this type of material is just not my cinematic cup of tea. Bruce Campbell(again playing Ash) and his girlfriend wend their way over the river and through the woods to some cabin in the remotest part of nowhere - where only weeks before an Archaeologist(something like that) and his wife were staying decoding the book of the dead(Necrominicon(?)). I did like the obvious homage to Lovecraft. Anyway, Campbell arrives, plays a tape revealing the words that wake the evil dead, and his girlfriend quickly dies, only to come back and lose her head, be chainsawed, and dance(through a type of clay-mation) naked in the woods with her headless torso and head in hand. All of this happens in the first ten minutes or so into the film. From there, Campbell begins his one man comedy/horror show. He is about as big a slice of ham you will find. Obviously, more people come - and die - and there is a neat ending to the film which opens for another sequel(Army of Darkness). Campbell breathes some life into this movie creating a frenetically eerie, over-the-top performance of Ash, a man having lost his hand by cutting it off himself still having a sense of humour and seeming to fear nothing(including in his performance). Director Sam Raimi shows us why he became a big league director. He has talent. He still is using a small budget in comparison to what an A-list film would take. You can't tell watching this. Raimi gets the most out of everything(and even more with Campbell). He also creates some innovative camera shots - uses a lot of the same shots from the first Evil Dead - and paces his film with a high energy that will make you jump a lot. That all notwithstanding, I like a little more meat to my story. I like a bit more logic - not just fun. That is why again I will say that Evil Dead 2 is not a bad film, not a great one, but just not my kind of film. I am ecstatic that so many people enjoy mindless violence in rural areas with chainsaws, cleavers, etc...but it's just not me. For me, I just didn't find Evil Dead 2...all that Groovy! I did prefer it though to the original. This one is a bit more fun and doesn't have nearly as much screaming. The best part - hands down - was when Campbell, after having taken his hand off, places a bucket over it to restrain it and then puts a bunch of books on top. The top book was Hemingway's A Farewell to Arms. Now that was clever! "}{"Title":"Evil Dead Xerox.","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead 2 Dead By Dawn (1987) Dir Sam Raimi / Cast Bruce Campbell, Sarah Berry, Dan Hicks, Kassie DePaiva, Richard Domeier Xeroxed sequel to Evil Dead about the time limit of one's very life. It is like a more comical version of the first film. The opening is rushed with one car scene of Bruce Campbell and his girlfriend, then they're at the cabin where a recorder of the book of the dead is presented. His girlfriend is possessed immediately and decapitated with a shovel. He buries her but witnesses her dancing headless corpse emerge then he is battling severed hands, laughing with a wall mounted deer head, and attaching a chainsaw to his severed limb. This all again ends with another cliff hanger. Director Sam Raimi has fun but continuity is a major factor when green goo is splattered about and then everything is clean. There is also a seemingly endless number of doors in this tiny cabin. Campbell is hilarious in his constant agony as he battles various monsters that emerge from under the floor door. The supporting roles are mainly flat although Sarah Berry has a little depth as someone eventually placed in the Campbell position dealing with his possessed demonic other. The others consist of a researcher boyfriend with no personality, Mr. White Trash and his white trash girlfriend. While the film is creative and visually innovative the screenplay is unfortunately a mirror image of the original. Score 5 / 10 "},{"Title":"As much a reboot as it is a sequel","Date":"28 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After enjoying a cult success with the original straight horror film The Evil Dead Sam Raimi and Bruce Campbell return with a bigger budget and a lot of laughs for this much loved sequel.The film starts by altering the story from the original. Rather than travelling to the cabin with friends, Ash takes his girlfriend to the cabin alone and then has to shoot her and bury her after they read the Book of the Dead. Bruce Campbell is then left to run riot in the cabin with a possessed hand, laughing inanimate objects and more physical comedy. He is eventually joined by Annie, whose father discovered the Book of the Dead, and some yokels who helped her get there.Ash cuts his hand off and replaces it with a chainsaw, people get possessed, including Ash, who is able to shake it off, and then Annie's dead father tells her she can use the Book of the Dead to defeat the zombies. As she dies she is able to suck all the evil into a whirling vortex, and Ash as well. He arrives in medieval England to set up the sequel.This is a pretty good comedy horror, made at a time when most horror films were comedic in tone. Bruce Campbell is terrific, if quite over the top, and everyone does what the director asks them to do. The effects are hokey in parts, but overall are good and a big step up from the original.Evil Dead II is an effective continuation of the original film which notches up both the gore and the fun. An exceptionally entertaining and infinitely watchable sequel that deserves its reputation. "},{"Title":"Visceral impact is what Evil Dead 2 is all about-- and it delivers.","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Maximum visceral impact is what Evil Dead 2 is all about-- and it delivers. The brilliance of Evil Dead 2 is found in its psychotic blend of over-the-top gore, and it's fantastic sense of humor. Not a sequel so much as an elaborate do-over, Evil Dead 2 amps up the ghastly laughs to generally thrilling results. As in the first film, director Sam Raimi lets out all the stops and plays on almost every cinematic trick in the book. Although the movie is obviously indebted to any number of sources, the film has an infectious energy all of its own. After a high-speed recap and continuation of first film's ending, Ash (Bruce Campbell) ventures out to that same lonely cabin for a romantic weekend with his girlfriend (Denise Bixler). There he discovers the same tape recorder again. When the voice reads a translation of the Book of the Dead, a vicious evil force awakens in the woods, and rushes into the house, and all hell breaks loose once more. Despite Evil Dead 2 being more of a rehash than a sequel, it's the tone of the two movies that are significantly different. While the original is more of a conventional horror movie, the sequel ventures into full-blown surrealism. While both movies contain moments of humor, Evil Dead 2 raises the comedic stakes. Campbell's performance shifts to match the needs of the humorous script, and Ash is now all swagger, spitting out one-liners and taking on the forces of darkness with style. The overall intensity and old-school effects give the film a lovable quality that high-tech movies just can't provide nowadays. An acknowledgement to Mark Shostrom's prosthetic makeup and the camera work of Peter Deming and Eugene Shlugleit. Vivid, utterly unique, and quickly paced, ''Evil Dead 2'' is one of the goofiest, goriest movies this side of the grave. "},{"Title":"An option for any Sunday evening","Date":"2 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Nice. And not more. A tall about tensions between brothers and the happy end. Few drops of political correctness and Bruce Campbell in usual actor score .An option for any Sunday evening. With interesting results. A comedy. Not impressive but without bad taste.Difficult social problems in soft skin. And the measure in all. Game with stereotypes in a sage manner. And a good cast. It is not my favorite but the idea is not very bad. And the courage to give some light to a gay story is proof of good intentions. But... Always a single nuance may define a strange reality. And this movie, likable, sake, without great ambitions is generous stereotypes. May be more ? "},{"Title":"Lynham Lives On...","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead is not as good as Evil Dead 2. Although ED2 doesn't have a woman being raped by a tree, what it does have is the ultimate fun factor, played to perfection by Gareth Lynham look-a-like, Bruce Campbell.One scene in the film provides the entire plot for nineties movie Idle Hands, so we all know who to blame for that pathetic film.Considering filming took place in a gym, and basics were the order of the day, everything looks good. Make-up and costume are fine. The special effects and puppetry are creepy and convincing too.Overall, this is a gruesome film. Don't watch it if you are easily offended. If you like cheap, nasty horror flicks, then this little gem should more than suffice. Hey, it's better than Spider-Man 3, and Sam Raimi had slightly more money for that one than he did for this one... "},{"Title":"Rare, bloody and funny","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Evil Dead trilogy is an interesting trip to a mythical world. However, Evil Dead 2 is the most imaginative of this trilogy.The story is almost the same bloody thing of their predecessor.But the story change a little... and this change make a rare combination of genres. This is what makes it so amusing.We had our hero Ash. Now he must discover the way to put the death people in their respective place. Without knowing that errant hands, rolling heads and hoist carnivorous will make him the impossible life.This movie is a show of horror, fantasy and laughs. In spite of being silly, it is recommended if you want to spend a good while and a cold night of eyes that fly.*sorry, if there bad spelling "},{"Title":"Middle part of the trilogy, lose some horror, add some humour","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The movie starts with a stripped down version of the first Evil Dead. The first movie ended with a thing coming very fast at Bruce Campbell and he screaming. After 5 minutes or so of getting to that part, the evil force or whatever it is carries him a few meters and transforms him into a monster. But then the sun arrives to turn him back.What follows next is basically the first movie, but with a lot more humour and a completely different ending. This movie was actually the last I've seen from the Evil Dead trilogy and it makes the smooth transition from the pure horror flick that was the first movie to the funny third part.I think watching all three movies one after the other gives one insight not only into the makings and evolution of Evil Dead, but also of the entire horror/fantasy/monster genre from 1981 to 1993. "},{"Title":"A classic, of course","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the greatest horror comedies ever made, the place where graphic horror and slapstick comedy intersects. Bruce Campbell gives one of the greatest performances ever in a horror movie, and when you stop to consider much of the film is just him in a one-man show the breadth of his achievement is even greater. Several bits seem to borrow heavily from Three Stooges style shtick, most notably the whole bit with the possessed hand. I've read a couple of reviews where people try to look at this as though it had horrific qualities; I think that's completely wrong. I would seriously wonder about anybody who was scared by this movie &#150; and that's clearly not the intent, anyway.Movie has some marvelous uses of camera work and some absolutely classic set pieces. (Groovy, indeed.) Raimi makes a virtue of the limitations of his budget most of the effects are charming stop-motion stuff. The sort-of-sardonic tone throughout here has pervaded popular culture more generally, which is not always a plus but that's not the movie's fault. Highly, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"sequel/remake to Evil Dead","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A remake/sequel (who cares) of Evil Dead. More of the same. This time more slapstick and played for laughs. Still very gory and gruesome, more so than the first. The plot is the same as the original. Four stupid teenagers spend the weekend in an isolated cabin in the woods. They find the Necromicon - an ancient book of the dead - and unleash the demons from the forest. This movie is a total mix of gore, horror, comedy and camp and it succeeds due to the genius of Raimi. Though it's ultra-low budget the FX are great. If you liked Evil Dead see this one, then onto Army of Darkness. The gags paying homage to the Three Stooges are hysterical. It was preceded by Evil Dead and followed by Army of Darkness. "},{"Title":"Classic Raimi","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Taking place right after Evil Dead.Ash is alone in the cabin from hell,and the deadites just won't stay dead.Ash is now aided by the daughter of Professor Knowby who knows the history of the Necronomicon.The deadites just can't stop torturing Ash,movie goers know this is the entry where Ash lopps off his possessed hand at the wrist.Evil Dead II takes a different approach than one,it mixes horror and comedy beautifully.Unlike Army of Darkness though the humor is darker.The gore is still plentiful,Evil Dead II earns it's R rating.Army of Darkness could have been a PG-13.I'm sorry Bruce but Ash is truly your greatest creation.2 has a much larger budget than 1 allowing better make-up and special effects.Ash himself becomes an impressive looking deadite.Evil Dead II goes more into the action genre as well.Ash sports a chainsaw where his right hand once was allowing some cool stuff to happen.The film has a great supporting cast to back Bruce up.Dan Hicks plays the arrogant hillbilly Jake.Sarah Berry as Sarah is my personal favorite love interest for Ash.Sam Raimi was a great director,he created fun oddball movies.They were zany and different.Spider-Man is so cliché it gets boring at times.Sam a word of advice try something different for Spidey or make Evil Dead IV... "}{"Title":"Absolutely horrible and lacking all redeeming qualities.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  No one can seriously look at this film and consider it anything other than a crock.  Poor acting, poor direction, poor script and cheap camera tricks do not add up to a masterpiece.  I pity anyone who likes this film as they do not know anything about film.  Completely devoid of fear and humor, the childish attempts at humor should fail to entertain even the most simple-minded folk.   Whereas some films are so bad that they become enjoyable, this film grates on my mind knowing that something this bad exists and is still lauded.  Sam Raimi should apologize for creating this genre, and Bruce Campbell should be black-listed.  Spraying multi-colored liquids does not induce fear, and that is not a cinematic vision.  A true waste of film, and 80 minutes.0 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"hum..... could have been better... way better","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  well what can i say. last week i rented THE EVIL DEAD and it instantly became one of my fav movies. but this one had a little bit of gore commpared to the first one. it was funnyier than the first one but that was sorta the down fall, in my opinion. any way i gave it a ***** out of **********Rated R for graphic horror violence, partial nudity of a zombie, some strong languege "},{"Title":"Outdated, Cheap, Not Scary Anymore","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In some 1988, when I watched this movie as a teenage boy, I was scared a hell out of me. I loved Bruce Campbell's funny acting and his heroic actions. Now, in 2014, I watched Evil Dead II again - wow. A bunch of laughs and deep yawns. Cheap, naive, outdated, pathetic movie. Too much blood and too many plasticine ghouls are not scary at all. naive FXs add to general misery and make the whole affair a real comedy stick. Campbell is OK, and he is very funny, even when using his chainsaw. But the whole movie is a just a cheap video as if to some 80's song a la Thriller. Monsters? Funny and unconvincing. Horrors? Nope, none of that. Suspense? Hardly ever. Fear? No, smiles all around. Some films do not stand the test of time, this is a typical example. I know, the 3 rd part was a pure comedy/parody. They even think of a 4th part. Nope, too much of this stuff. The films belongs to its time. It was a real smash sensation then, it ain't anymore now. Just a bit f a shame, in fact. "},{"Title":"Possibly the Best in the Genre","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After making the mistake of going to a cabin in the woods in Evil Dead, Ash Williams returns to the same cabin in the woods for Evil Dead II (although there is dispute whether this should be considered a sequel or a remake). When the evil dead are awakened by the incantations from the Necronomicon, only Ash has the sheer audacity to try and stop them from taking over the world. This film does not have the best special effects ever, relying heavily on stop-motion animation and odd camera angles. The acting is more than a little campy. The plot is thin, particularly since it is a rehash of the first film. The action is a little bit silly. And for a horror film, it has virtually no swearing or nudity and much of the blood is not even red.But still, a great many people consider this the greatest horror film of all time (with all due respect to Jaws) and I consider it easily in the top ten of horror films (Internet Movie Database ranks it 45th). Even Roger Ebert, notorious anti-horror, gives it three out of four stars. And here is why.This film shows what can be achieved with little money and a big imagination. Backwards filming, stop-motion animation, puppetry. Modern directors would rather use computers than rely on trick shots, but this film shows that costumes and Jell-O can go a long way. I am so sick of scary movies that try to scare me with some futuristic cartoon. Why not give me blood, gore and have fun while doing it? Could any film have been more fun than this? The plot a man and his girlfriend stay in a cabin and unleash the spirits of evil which can only be stopped with a careful reading of an ancient book. The same exact plot as Evil Dead, this is basically a remake with a bigger budget with an injection of slapstick comedy and the removal of a crucial rape scene. (I understand why the rape scene was removed, but this was the most memorable part of the first film and it is strange they would neuter their bigger film.)Sometimes the camera shots go too far. Sam Raimi likes some strange angles (see Intruder) and he likes to use the zoom button on some weird objects a few too many times (though this gag is taken even further in Army of Darkness). The first twenty minutes has by far the most strange camera shots you will see in almost any film, and more than in the rest of the movie combined. People new to the film might find this overbearing. Heck, even I do not completely get it.What works here is that we have all the Raimi regulars, who offer that perfect chemistry. Sam Raimi and Bruce Campbell, who are rarely far apart, offer some of the finest films in the past few decades. But do not forget co-writer Scott Spiegel, who also wrote Intruder and is a long-time Raimi associate (and played a great wandering minstrel for 2001 Maniacs). Ted Raimi, Sam's brother, is a must for any good Raimi film (although his solo work, like Skinner, is sometimes lacking).And do not ever count out Danny Hicks, the redneck trouble-maker in this film (Jake). He has been with them for Intruder, Maniac Cop, 2001 Maniacs, Darkman and the upcoming My Name is Bruce. Hicks is probably the most unsung of the troupe, and hardly deserves that backseat reputation. Hicks met Raimi on this film and has been with him ever since, and I can speak from personal experience when I say he goes out of his way to promote love for the horror genre.When it comes down to brass tacks, this group works because the point here is to have fun... and because that is what horror is to me, fun. Fun with chainsaws. And if horror is fun, this film is one of the best horror films the world has to offer. How that ends up getting a guy the Spider-Man franchise is beyond me. But as the tagline says Kiss Your Nerves Goodbye, and also your worries, too, if you need a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Dead in the Woods.","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Plain and stupid low-budget horror fare that is so short on ideas that it basically rehashes its terrible predecessor early on. When the new story actually starts (about 20 minutes in) we get to see four more dumb people that join B-movie ham Bruce Campbell out in that spooky cabin in the middle of nowhere. Co-writer/director Sam Raimi once again showed his early career shortcomings with ho-hum ideas that are more nauseating than interesting. This film goes for black comedy in an unconventional way and this takes what little suspense there was completely out of the series. Considering the success of The Evil Dead (a total waste of film in my opinion), one would think that the slightly bigger budget would have been used on important things like actors and screenwriters, but instead they burned the money on more sickening and visually inferior makeup effects. Trash. Turkey (0 stars out of 5).  "},{"Title":"A bit disappointing sequel","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead II opens with compressing the first half-hour of the original into five minutes, and then goes it's own ways. Despite it's title and appearance this is a remake, not a sequel. It was a bit disappointing to me because I, naively, had waited for another horror movie, and instead I get a clumsy, and confusing slapstick comedy, which doesn't seem to make much sense. It isn't all bad, though, Bruce Campbell is funny as the main character Ash, and he does his best to make the visual jokes as funny as possible. Unfortunately, most of the funny parts are unintended, and therefore a bit clumsy. But for those who liked the first Evil Dead, and payed close attention to it there's a lot more in store. Funny references and inside jokes towards the first Evil Dead are plenty and most of them are pretty good. SPOILER For example, when Ash hits a monster with an axe, you only see the shadows of the blood and gore, which was shown so graphically in the original. This kind of reflects upon the whole movie, not as gory, not as scary, but done with slightly more taste and style than it's predecessor, allthough that isn't very much. If someone who didn't see the original saw this he/she probably would hate it, but those who have will probably notice the same (and more so) tongue-in-cheek attitude of Evil Dead I, and the numerous inside jokes. Recommendable for the fans of the original, others beware.  "},{"Title":"I have mixed feelings, but I still found it fairly entertaining","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie kind of lost me from the get-go, since I was wondering why the hell Ash would go back to this cabin, after all that happened in the first Evil Dead.  Now I'm reading that this was actually supposed to be a remake of the first ED.  Why a director would want to remake his own movie, I don't know, but I'm sure all the Evil Dead enthusiasts out there could come up with some logical reasoning behind the creation of this sequel, so I won't get too much into it.  The scenes in the opening go by like flashes of lightning, and sometimes the effects are too overwhelming to digest.  Raimi obviously had a bigger budget, so it seemed like he wanted to take full advantage of this bigger budget, but at times he just gets way over the top.  But I became more engaged in the film when the additional characters came into play.  Like the first ED I wish it could've had a little more plot, but also like the first ED I sensed Sam's joy in making the film.  Like a teenager making a student film, he jumps at any chance to create visuals that'll make the audience go Wow.  And there are some truly original visual sequences, which combine his knack for visuals and slapstick comedy.  The scene where Bruce beats up on himself is classic.  I also loved it when Bruce, armed with his chainsaw, uttered the line Groovy.  And if you're looking to buy the DVD, it has a great commentary track that's definitely worth checking out!  All in all, I still won't regard this as a good film, but it has its moments and serves as pretty good entertainment.  But I still wish Raimi could've tempered himself a little bit with the f/x sequences. My score  5 (out of 10)    "},{"Title":"One of the best Sequels out there","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This has to be one of the best sequels to a horror film. It not only had some scares, but some great laughs. I couldn't believe the fan base when I looked online to see what the Evil Dead pages looked like, these movies have brought so many fans together and brought a whole new look to horror movies. Evil Dead 2 brings comedy and horror together and makes it work on so many levels.Now, it does start of differently and has a different story, I heard because Sam couldn't reserve the rights to the original story. But we still have Ash, he is fighting to survive while trying to get out of the woods, but he is encountered by the previous cabin owner's daughter, her boyfriend, and two hick's who helped them get to the cabin. Together they face the Evil dead once again and try to bury them once and for all. But that's a problem when they are getting possessed and facing one heck of a beast in the basement. Not to mention, Ash has been sucked back into the past, leading us into Army of Darkness.10/10 "},{"Title":"Too similar to the first one.","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Just for the record, this is not a remake, but a sequel. Sam Raimi could not get the rights to re-use scenes from Evil Dead so he re-shot some of them to explain what is going on and how Ash and Linda got to the cabin. But there still is a major sense of deja vu.Ash barricades himself into the cabin after the events in the first film and finds himself going crazy. The furniture starts laughing at him, his reflection talks to him and an evil force is determined to take him over. It manages to possess his hand and so he cuts it off. It starts scuttling around the floor on its own and randomly attacking him. Strangers show up in the hope of finding the Professor, who was staying there, and lock Ash in the cellar. They assume he is responsible for the bloody carnage.People die, people turn into monsters - same old same-old. It's hard to imagine why this is such a cult favorite when it is obviously a badly made movie. Or perhaps Raimi just works the best he can with a low budget (although many times higher than the original) and the shoddy production values are a result of that.He goes over the same ground he did before, except with more resources for gore and mayhem. Very little of this makes sense and none of it is scary. There are a couple of good moments, like when Ash's hand beats him up and when he is chased through the house by the unseen evil force. Campbell is a terrific physical actor and he is a delight to watch, but I doubt whether he understood what on earth he was doing, or why.Having a low budget does not excuse a bad storyline and although this looks more professional than Evil Dead, it still looks like a student film. The best part is the cliff-hanger ending that leads to Army Of Darkness. "},{"Title":"Evil Dead Part Redux","Date":"4 April 2013","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hulk was remade, or, ah-hem, rebooted with The Incredible Hulk. While neither worked, the second film was a slight improvement over the previous. They felt the need to remake the first one, because, well, it was pretty shitty. So, why did they feel they needed to remake the original The Evil Dead?Perhaps, I should recommend people watch Evil Dead II (which, by the way is NOT a sequel, but a remake, as stated) before they make it to part one. This is because I just re-watched the first one last night, part II tonight, and will watch #3 Army of Darkness tomorrow night. All in preparation of the second remake Evil Dead (2013.)And watching it in order makes me feel lousy for giving the first one only 3½/5 stars. This disaster, alone, should throw an extra star onto the first chapter. Much like what Jurassic Park III did to either of the first two installments of that series.I have heard that Sam Raimi wanted to remake his first cult hit because in 1987, six-years later, he was allotted a budget he didn't have in the first one. Humph! This part II seemed to have half the budget of the first one, more claymation than Wallace & Gromit and worst of all, replaced ALL scares with slapstick humor. Yes. Not one scene, not one frame, was either scary or eerie or even gross. And Brucey, boy, man&#x85;of course you're embracing the, by this movie's release, B-Movie status, but come on. Even you are better than this garbage.Oh, and don't get me started on the numerous inconsistencies. Doors break, and are replaced, only to break again. Night seems to last for 15 minutes, the day even less, and then just when you get used to a short calendar day, it fluctuates back and forth between day and night within seconds. This is all the while, sunlight hurts the demons&#x85;sometimes. And one of the greatest tricks, is the cabin goes from one story to two and back to one within the next shot. Maybe that's so the writers can throw themselves off the balcony before the movie was done.The plot was not found, but I can tell you what I observed the first six minutes is about 80% of the first movie, so, basically, a fast forwarded recap of innocents going to cabin &#x96; A, B having demonic words read and finally demons coming alive to possess and taunt. Then, just when you get somewhat used to Bruce Campbell &#x96; sorta &#x96; reprising his role as Ash, or previously, Ashley, running around higher than a Cheech & Chong guest at one of their midday parties, they attempt to throw in the replacements for Ashley's friends from the first movie, only dumber. Hell breaks loose, but at least they may have outs this time to stop the demons surrounding the transforming cabin in the woods.One incredible feat I will credit Evil Dead II for is that, incredibly, it's one minute shorter than number one and feels indubitably four times as long. And we're talking only 84 total minutes!Since, as mentioned, this is now a comedy, not horror. When the single and minutely humorous thing doesn't even make sense &#x96; Ashley holds down his severed hand with a copy of A Farewell to Arms when it's, uh, again, the hand Ashley had to say goodbye to &#x96; you got problems. No horror, no suspense, and certainly no comedy in a movie that's made for all three.Now, I did like the very ending &#x96; meaning the final 30-40 seconds, but I had already checked out by that point. For now, since I haven't watched the 2013 remake yet or the third film in order to review, I would just stick with number one. It's a lot better (now) than when I review it last night. "}{"Title":"Definitely not as good as the first one.","Date":"15 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I must say that I liked the first Evil Dead. It was original, fun to watch and had some really inventive parts in it. The second part of the franchise was just a cheap sequel/remake of the first one which just couldn't beat is predecessor in any way. A lot of the second movie looked like it was ripped out of the first movie and refurbished. Some of the scenes were almost exactly the same and made me feel like I was looking at the first one again.There is hardly any story to be found in this one. 'The book of the dead is found again and by listening to the tape recorder, the Evil is released on earth and tries to murder everyone brutally.' Where have we heard that one before right? All of the actors are very bad and I was really annoyed about how naive they were. The movie was predictable in many ways and even tough a lot of horrors have naive main characters this one was just ridiculous. They were running all over the place and there was no plan whatsoever. There was some hysterical shouting overall, but little emotion was showed by any of the main characters. There are only a few things I can praise this movie for At first there are the great props, costumes and make-up. They look really great and make the movie watchable. People who have watched the first Evil Dead will know what i'm talking about. Second there is great camera work in this one, comparable to the first movie. It's very recognizable and gives an aery touch to the movie. If you've seen the first Evil Dead and are looking for a lot of the same then i suppose you should check this one out. Other then that i'd recommend you to stay away from it. I can see how people who liked the first one will like this one as well, but for me it just didn't bring anything new to the table. Overall, i was really disappointed by Evil Dead II and am definitely not thinking about seeing the third installment. "},{"Title":"Really good!","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Writer-director Sam Raimi's extremely stylized, blood-soaked follow-up to his creepy Evil Dead isn't really a sequel; rather, it's a remake on a better budget. It also isn't really a horror film (though there are plenty of decapitations, zombies, supernatural demons, and gore) as much as it is a hilarious, sophisticated slapstick send-up of the terror genre. Raimi takes every horror convention that exists and exaggerates it with mind-blowing special effects, crossed with mocking Three Stooges humor. The plot alone is a genre cliché right out of any number of horror films. Several teens (including our hero, Ash, played by Bruce Campbell in a manic tour-De-force of physical comedy) visit a broken-down cottage in the woods--miles from civilization--find a copy of the Book of the Dead, and unleash supernatural powers that gut every character in sight. All, that is, except Ash, who takes this very personally and spends much of the of the film getting his head smashed while battling the unseen forces. Raimi uses this bare-bones story as a stage to showcase dazzling special effects and eye-popping visuals, including some of the most spectacular point-of-view Steadicam work ever (done by Peter Deming). Although it went unnoticed in the theaters, the film has since become an influential cult-video favorite, paving the way for over-the-top comic gross-out films like Peter Jackson's Dead Alive. "},{"Title":"Much the same as the first","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's nearly as good as the original, and it has the same problems as well. It's just as fantastically directed, has better effects, and Bruce Campbell truly personifies Ash in this one, but the supporting cast is weak at best, the story is lame, and the pacing is even more strange. The beginning of the flick, with just Ash alone in the cabin doing his best horror slapstick, is so excellent that you just want it to span the entire film, but, unfortunately, it does not. Another silly story and some more stupid characters are in store, instead. From that point on, it just feels like a remake of the original, making it rather boring and somewhat of a chore to sit through. The scene where Ash 'becomes' Ash is brilliant though. "},{"Title":"Evil Drab","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After being thoroughly pleased with the original Evil Dead I had high hopes of enjoying the apparent superior sequel. Well so much for those hopes. What was encountered was an insulting and badly made rehash. The first insult is that we are supposed to forget the events from the first film as our protagonist Ash proceeds to make the same mistakes he had prior. The sequel is a misnomer, this is a remake. One that forgoes the character development, suspense and cleverness of the first for a film that gets more idiotic with each passing minute. Further insults to the viewer ensue with multiple plot-holes, moronic one-liners and attempts at slapstick humour that fall flat, dead flat. Camera tricks that were used well in the first film are now beaten like a dead horse, scenes recreated without any of the suspense, horror or scare factor from the original Dead.I am convinced that the makers of this film went in with a vague idea of what they wanted to create in lieu of a script and plot. Bruce Cambell hamming it up for much of the movie felt like ad lib, the dependence on he and his bad one-liners alone a terrible mistake and it's like at some point they realised this Hey, let's just film Bruce goofing off for a few hours, add some zombies and a sh*t-ton of fake blood and we have a movie!. Oh sh*t, we're gonna need a few more mindless kids to kill off so let's just throw in some characters that really don't make any sense or shouldn't realistically be there but what the hell, this is a dumb zombie flick that makes no sense and they're gonna die anyways!And the final insult being no real pay-off in the end. What we are left with is the equivalent to a To Be Continued from a multi-part weekly TV show. But instead of hanging on to the edge of our seats waiting for the next instalment, leaves us dissatisfied with no want to see the conclusion. This is one prequel rather left forgotten. "},{"Title":"I guess you could have some fun . . .","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead 2, to be blunt, lacks anything and everything that made the original good. That is not to say that it's bad, because it's not, but compared to the original this just looks like a pathetic attempt to rewrite what was already done. If I hadn't seen the first one&#151;and it really doesn't matter if you have or not because there is no plot&#151;I would have liked this a lot more, but because I have, this looks, as I said, pathetic.I don't think Sam Raimi realized that the original was the perfect comedy because it didn't try to be a comedy. His obvious attempt to make this a comedy made it less funny than the original. He lost the element of surprise, which is disappointing. Instead, this movie plays out like a mix between Ghostbusters, The Evil Dead, and an episode of Tom and Jerry. It no longer stands on its own two feet, which is another reason it isn't nearly as good as the first.Another major flaw is the lack of gore. What happened? I'm a gore-hound. I've seen the goriest movies ever made, and camera cut-off scenes make me mad. The original was easily one of the goriest movies of the 80's, and it could even hold up to some of the top-gore movies of the 2000s. But then Evil Dead 2 comes along and the only on-screen gore is a bloodless decapitation. After that, EVERY gore scene, every limb severing, everything is off-camera. Sure, you see a bit of blood every now and then as an aftereffect, but why couldn't they show decapitations and limb severing on camera anymore? Once again, the lack of gore is so obvious it had me screaming at the screen in rage. What happened? What was Sam Raimi thinking? With all that said, I'm not going to deny there were some purely awesome scenes in the beginning and some&#151;but very few&#151;in the middle and end. Dead by dawn, chainsaw for and arm, the laughing house&#151;it was great to see how all those clichés originated. Apparently this film is more groundbreaking than I had known.But then again, this seems so safe compared to the original. So clean. Everything that made The Evil Dead laughably disturbing is noticeably gone (like the tree rape). As I said, the violence is noticeably gone. All the cheese-creepy visuals, like the amount of zombie-demon-things on screen laughing, are gone. What's left is pretty much a safe attempt at black comedy, minus the black. And that's disappointing.As much as I trash it, I still think it's worthy of being watched, though not a worthy sequel. Just grab your girlfriend or your 12-year-old son or a group of best friends and try to have the best time you can. But if you can't have that fun because you realize this movie isn't even deserving of licking The Evil Dead's bloody boots, I can't blame you.5/10 "},{"Title":"Worst film I've ever seen.","Date":"27 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film really is terrible. I really liked the first 'evil dead' and was so excited to watch this sequel, (if you can even call it a sequel), but I was left extremely disappointed. The first film was scary, filled with suspense and plenty of gore. The ending of the first one definitely left the possibility open for a sequel and I couldn't wait. However, Evil Dead II really does not follow on from the first film whatsoever. I won't write any spoilers, but if you watch both films you'll see what I mean about the beginning of Evil Dead II being very confusing given what happened at the end of Evil Dead. The genre is listed as 'comedy, horror'. This is my main gripe with this movie. It is caught between both genres and achieves neither. Firstly, I don't understand why Sam Raimi decided to make this film a 'comedy'. The first film was a genuinely good horror film. Sure, the gore was a little over the top at times and I can see why some would have found it a little amusing, but to actively try to make Evil Dead II funny was a huge mistake in my opinion. There is nothing funny about it and there is nothing scary about it. It's just really cheap looking gore and stupidity. I have to admit I only watched the first 45 minutes because I found it so unbelievably bad. Who knows, maybe it redeems itself entirely in the last half an hour but I highly doubt it. This film has amazing reviews as well... maybe I'm missing something or it's gained a cult following due to its strange attempt at comedy; or maybe its simply because it's an old film and the good reviews are the result of Nostalgia. Either way, I simply don't get it and would not recommend this film to anyone. "},{"Title":"Very Disappointed","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am a true fan of horror movies.I had seen the first Evil Dead and thought it was a true horror classic. Judging by this sites reviews, I had expected just as good if not better than the original. After watching this movie I was extremely disappointed. The film is even close to being a horror classic. The humor in the movie seemed to take the horror out of it for me. In the end this movie got a little carried away with the special effects(not very good) also the ending is incredibly over done. I had to laugh while I was watching this movie and almost turned it off right in the middle. I don't know people think this is a classic horror movie. I could show this to a five year old and they would laugh at it. "},{"Title":"Very similar to the original, but still great entertainment.","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The opening of Evil Dead II consists of mostly a montage of shots of the Necrinomicon 'the Book of the Dead' and a spoken narration that goes, legend has it it was written by the dark one, Necrinomicon Ex Mortis roughly translated Book of the Dead. The book served as a passageway to the evil worlds beyond, it was written long ago when the seas ran red with blood. It was this blood that was used to ink the book. In the year 1300 A.D. the book disappeared. Ashley 'Ash' Williams (Bruce Campbell) along with his girlfriend Linda (Denise Bixler) are traveling by car deep into some woods to a remote mountain cabin. After some brief romantic shenanigans Ash finds a tape player. He decides to have a listen, the tape recording was made by the cabins owner Professor Raymond Knowby (John Peaks). He talks of traveling to a an ancient castle and discovering the Book of the Dead. Professor Knowby continues and explains that the Book of the Dead spoke about passageways to another world and contains demon resurrection incantations. Ash continues to listen, Professor Knowby begins to translate aloud the incantations which awake the evil spirits within the woods. All of a sudden Ash hears the sound of breaking glass and when he investigates he finds Linda has disappeared. Ash goes outside and starts to look for her, she turns up and is possessed. She attacks Ash but he chops her head off with a shovel. Ash buries Linda and quickly finds out he is trapped as the bridge he used to get to the cabin has been destroyed. He heads back to the cabin where he must try and survive to the morning and the safety of the sunlight. Meanwhile Annie Knowby (Sarah Berry) Professor Knowby's daughter and Ed Getley (Richard Domeier) have landed at a nearby airport with the missing pages from the Book of the Dead and decide to head straight for the cabin. They soon find out that the bridge has been destroyed but hire Jake (Dan Hicks) and Bobby Joe (Kassie DePaiva as Kassie Wesley) to show them to the cabin via a trail through the woods. Once there they find the cabin in a bad state, blood on the floors, a blood stained chainsaw, no sign of Annie's parents and Ash covered in blood holding a shotgun. They lock him in the fruit cellar. As the night draws on it becomes apparent that Ash isn't alone in the cellar and as the group start to be reduced in number by the evil spirits the survivors start to realize that the woods contain evil that wants to kill them all, Dead by Dawn! They must try to find a way to defeat the evil and try and save themselves. Co-written and again directed by Sam Raimi with a much improved budget, who like the original has a small cameo at the end as a medieval soldier. This is another great film, again full of cool camera tricks and angles and memorable sequences, it's no surprise Raimi has gone onto great success in Hollywood with Spider-Man (2002) and it's sequel Spider-Man 2 (2004). The script by Raimi and Scott Spiegel moves like a rocket, just the way it should but I couldn't help thinking it was a little too similar to the original, in fact I'd sooner call this a remake rather than a direct sequel. Lots of great scenes and cool one liners in this, like when Ash puts Linda's decapitated head into a vice and tightens it up, as Linda's head laughs and taunts Ash he points at it and says your going down! just before Linda's headless body bursts into the work shed and attacks Ash with a chainsaw. Or when Ash is looking at himself in a mirror after he had just killed Linda and says fine his reflection suddenly jumps out, grabs him and says I don't think so, we just cut up our girlfriend with a chainsaw, does that sound fine?!, the shot ends with Ash's reflection strangling the real Ash but the camera zooms out to reveal Ash's own hands around his throat. A sequence where the possessed Linda is dancing as her body spins around independently of her decapitated head, which remains in the same position looking towards Ash throughout the spin. A funny sequence where Ash's own possessed hand beats himself up, smashing plates and bottles over his head and punching himself in the stomach! Ash goes onto cut his hand off with a chainsaw and puts a bucket over his still alive possessed hand and puts some books on it, one of which is Ernest Hemingway's A Farewell to Arms! A really nice touch of black humor. Or the getting tooled up scene in the work shed where Ash fixes the chainsaw to his wrist and saws the barrel of his shotgun off after which the camera zooms in on his face and he quips groovy!. A short dialogue scene where Ash thinks he heard a noise in a bedroom and wanting to take a look he says we'll all go in together to which Jake answers hell no! Your the curious one. Or the shots of a stag's head over the fireplace that comes alive, turns to Ash and starts to laugh at him, and a rocking chair in the corner of the room that starts to creepily rock on it's own. Again Raimi goes overboard with the 'dead cam' point-of-view shots, and continuous unbroken shots where the evil spirits follow Ash around the cabin breaking doors down and the like, I could probably carry on but hopefully you get the idea. Acting is much improved over the original and Campbell is still great as Ash. The effects are also much better this time around, according to the booklet supplied with my DVD no less than three FX groups were brought together to make Evil Dead II work. Having said that rather disappointingly there isn't much on screen gore. When anything graphic is supposed to be happening it's usually off screen or rather tame, Ash's hand amputation is off screen, when Ash kills Linda it's in shadow, when he kills 'Evil Ed' with an axe it's mostly off screen, Bobby Joe's death isn't seen and Jake death is just a ridiculous amount of spurting blood from cellar that looks like red water. Some of the effects look dodgy particularly the stop motion animation and living severed hand sequences. The ending in which the evil is turned into a physical being I thought was a bit over ambitious and a turned out a little flat. Overall another great film, I was just a bit disappointed by the restrained gore and violence when compared to the original, by comparison in the original when Ash decapitates Linda with a shovel and her headless body falls on him, a large amount of blood from the wound squirts out all over his face. In the sequel when Ash decapitates Linda there is not a single drop of blood spilt and when Ash dismembers 'Evil Ed' when his blood splashes over the walls it's green and looks more like washing up liquid. However, I highly recommend it to horror fans and is still one hell of an entertaining horror film that's great fun at the same time. Watch it, as soon as you can. "},{"Title":"Sucks!","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film has only a couple good moments when overall it is a complete bore. The original sucks just as bad as this one. It lacks a story and has a whole bunch of plot holes. I don't care to see the 3rd one after seeing the first two which completely blew their chances of being scary. I liked how they tried to make this movie funny but the opening really sucks and doesn't make any logical sense. It's completely boring at this point. Stay away from this horrible sequel because it really sucks just as bad as the first one. The first one didn't make any sense just like this one and I'd like to have those hours of my life back! If you like either of this films I'd think you were either a horrible horror film fan or a drug addict who likes seeing this kind of stuff. Overall it's a 1 out of 10 for them trying to at least add humor to it. "},{"Title":"Not for Baby Boomers!","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Baby Boomer alert! This horror flick is not for us -- it's for X-generation viewers and younger. Why? Because it is NOT in the least scary.If this is actually a SPOOF of horror films, I relent and give it three stars for my generation of viewers. But I don't think it IS a spoof. I think that they meant for this to be a shocker. The younger crowd should really just ignore this review because you probably have a very different basis for gauging this film.Here's what the film is about it's a cabin-in-the-woods remake/ripoff of the old B&W original of Night of the Living Dead with an additional caveat... the producers tossed in every possible type of monster, moving pieces of monsters, evil spirits, demons, Texas Chainsaw Massacre Guys, and so on. The action is akin to that found in the second half of From Dusk 'till Dawn, (a film that I liked a lot!) The sound track is little more than a generic sound effects recording played in reverse, at various speeds, manipulated with digital delay. I think I might also have heard a variation of backwards Revolution No. 9 in there at one point. All in all, not terrifically innovative.The story A guy and his gal travel to this evil cabin and, as the legitimate residents aren't there, they help themselves to the place. She gets taken over right away by the evil spirits from the so-called Book of the Dead (he should NOT have played back that tape recording!!!) and the guy ALMOST falls to the same fate but he continues to drive the critters out of his system.Sometimes he outruns them in his big 4-door GM automobile, sometimes he outruns them on foot, and finally, the sun at dawn nixes them for the day. But the bridge is out and he cannot escape this rotten spot on the planet.The daughter of the legal residents and her husband come along a bit later and attempt to visit her parents at the cabin but, again, the bridge to get there has been utterly destroyed by some of the creatures (only God knows which one DUNNIT!); however, a half-witted, local Hillbilly-type and his chickie agree to take them in via the secret back route for a few bucks. All travelers to the evil cabin soon regret THAT unfortunate trip! The reason that the movie makes little sense to older horror fans is because there's no for-certain safe spot from these multiple monsters (the cabin is somewhat safe, sometimes !?!), nor is there a standard means of killing them. Sometimes, the following are effective to nullify monsters double-barreled shotgun, sunlight, chainsaw, knife, bludgeon, etc. Sometimes, none of this works for crap.We finally learn (from the semi-good spirit of the original male resident) that our heroes have to read a certain passage from that dang Book of the Dead to rid themselves of all the monster-demon chaos, so I was at least glad to hear that there was finally one clear way to end this misery.So, the group battles on and on with no apparent plot on which any of them can ride. And is it a SPOILER to say that the main guy is suddenly sucked into a Time Tunnel near the end of the flick which lands him in the middle of a pack of Medieval knights who are being attacked by a Pterodactylish Demon-headed Gargoyle??? The Exorcist is scary. Hitchcock's Psycho is scary. Halloween is scary. This film is as scary as Exorcist, The Heretic, (Exorcist II) with Richard Burton.... but there is some decent head-mashing-type humor dribbled here and there. The film is also well-made, strictly in terms of picture quality and for its letterbox format.A final comment.... this film appears to be the prequel to Bruce Campbell vs. Army of Darkness. "}{"Title":"Classic? Maybe not","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm going to preface this by saying that I haven't seen Evil Dead 1 or Army Of Darkness, so I'm taking this movie at face value. I can't compare or contrast it to either its predecessor or its sequel.I watched this movie when I was in the mood for something scary...not hokey. I also watched it with someone who had seen it before and felt the need to warn me before anything happened. But even disregarding these factors, I didn't enjoy this movie. The one-liners for which this movie is so often praised were not only predictable, but they weren't funny. If I had to use one word to describe Evil Dead 2 it would be Boring.There were a few bright spots, however. Bruce Campbell is undeniably charming as Ash. The other actors were forgettable, but Bruce is a legend for a reason. Also the 'monsters' were well done and satisfied the need for a bit of gore in this flick.Overall, I rated it a 4. Maybe if I saw Evil Dead 1 it would improve the experience....then again maybe not. "},{"Title":"Poor follow up","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After watching Evil Dead and loving it I was really looking forward to Evil Dead 2, unfortunately I found this film to be a complete waste of time. Where the first film was based on shocks the director tried to make this one into a black comedy and for me it didn't work, I didn't find it either funny or scary....just weird. "},{"Title":"A horrible lack of ideas and originality","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One friend of mine, who was normally likes movies that I like, absolutely wanted to show me this movie and said that it would be a funny and very gore horror movie that wouldn't not take itself serious at all. My friend had presented me Shaun of the dead and I liked the mixture of horror and comedy in this movie. I also like Scary movie and Final destination, horror movies that go into a funny and ridiculous direction. I even saw movies from the legendary Ed Wood such as Bride of the monster or Plan 9 from outer space and I thought that they were trashy, but very charming and atmospheric somehow. I think that I can consider myself as an open-minded person that finds this genre of horror comedy at least interesting.I am really sorry to say this, but this movie is just complete rubbish. I know that this movie wants to joke about serious horror movies but after the first two or three sketches and the first ten minutes of surprising absurdity of this film, the whole thing is just not funny any more and you are waiting that there is some development, something original, something crazy to come, but that isn't the case. The childish jokes are repeated within the eighty minutes of the movie and become really annoying. The acting is particularly bad, the substance of ideas is running low, the dialogs are more than awful, there is nothing shocking or surprising, there are many mistakes in the movie and I could continue this list eternally. I know that those were the intentions of the director, but it is too much of everything and just not funny or entertaining anymore after ten minutes. All the movies that I have mentioned in my introduction are more original and funnier than this piece of garbage. I really tried to laugh, to put myself on a very low and childish level and took some beers during the film in the hope that it would help, but it didn't. It just helped me to almost fall asleep during this so-called cult movie but as I wanted to watch this completely and until the very end, I continued to torture myself. The only other horror movie that I know that is as awful as this one is Rob Zombie's House of thousand corpses.Even if some people find this cult movie funny and entertaining with its charming trash, I think that this stuff doesn't deserve such a high rating at all, when the other films that I mentioned are mostly rated about at least two points below this movie. "},{"Title":"Another waste of time movie.....","Date":"6 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So as you might have seen my review on the first Evil Dead movie, I have wasted yet my time on the sequel. Why the hell would they make another one of this?! It is just so stupid and embarrassing to look at!It's the same story, demons trying to kill the humans from the cabin they are staying in and suddenly, the characters get killed off one by one. Seriously the storyline like the first movie, is the worst description of a horror movie! I wish the Evil Dead movies didn't exist because, some people I know really liked the films so you kinda have to put with them in saying how great it is. It's not actually!I did however, liked Army of Darkness! It is way funnier, sexier and brilliant than this! Check out my review on that too! "},{"Title":"Join us.........again.....","Date":"20 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ash takes his girlfriend Linda to a secluded cabin in the woods where he plays back a professor's tape recorded recitation of passages from the Book of the Dead. The spell calls up an evil force from the woods which turns Linda into a monstrous Deadite, and threatens to do the same to Ash. When the professor's daughter and her entourage show up at the cabin, the night turns into a non-stop battle. With chainsaw and shotgun on one side, demon horde and flying eyeball on the other...So it carries on straight from the last shot of the first movie, and carries one from there, but really, its more of a remake, which is good in parts, and seriously overrated in others.Campbell defines himself as a cultural icon in this movie, he's an amazingly physical actor, and has brilliant comic timing. The rest of the cast suffer though because of Campbell, and really just stay in the background, until they turn into deadlines.It's got plenty of splatter, and effects are good, but do yourself a favour, and don't watch it too soon after the original, because you will get a sore sense of déjà Vu.Fun, but a little lazy, and seriously overrated. "},{"Title":"More a remake than a sequel; disappointing","Date":"17 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Rather than picking up where the last one ended, Evil Dead 2 takes elements from the first movie and creates a new story that doesn't quite jibe with the old one. So it's more of a remake of the first than a sequel. But at the same time, it doesn't really stand up on its own and I can't help but think that someone who watched it without having seen the first would be lost; a lot of the references and inside jokes would go over his head.I found this movie pointless and don't understand why they bothered making it (other than the obvious financial motive, and to lay a foundation for the third movie of the series). As a remake, it didn't better or even equal the first or add anything original. It seemed like more of an excuse to mess around with special effects than anything, as there wasn't much in the way of story or character development. You could say it was ahead of its time, since like most current horror movies, it comes off like a long MTV video, with lots of gore and special effects, fast (too fast, IMO), jump cut editing, with the story taking a back seat.Bruce Campbell didn't bother me in the first one, but in this he was awful. His acting was self-conscious and he was trying too hard. I felt like I was watching a performance by a clown who thinks he's being funny but isn't.The comedic elements were less subtle than in the first. While I laughed at a couple of scenes (like the one with the meat cleaver), ultimately I was neither frightened by this movie nor amused by its attempts at slapstick. Bruce Campbell is no Buster Keaton or Jim Carrey, and Evil Dead 2 fails both as a comedy and a horror flick.The last 30 minutes were an improvement over the first hour, but only because by then it had turned into a prelude for the action-adventure-oriented third movie, with Campbell being a bit more credible as an action hero. (On a side note Who came up with the rule that time travel always has to be depicted in movies as a tunnel or vortex?) The puzzling thing is that if they had chopped off the first 7 minutes of this movie, it easily could've been made into a real sequel rather than a remake and it would've been much better.Die-hard fans of the other Evil Deads or of Bruce Campbell might like this but I can't recommend it to anyone else. I sat drumming my fingers through most of it, wondering why they were wasting my time rehashing this material. This was one of those rare movies where I was tempted to fast-forward through parts. AFAIC, it wouldn't have made any difference if the producers had gone from the first Evil Dead straight to Army of Darkness and skipped this one. "},{"Title":"A silly splat-stick horror classic&#x97;but not the film I wish it was.","Date":"19 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Back in 1987, when I emerged blinking into the daylight having just witnessed the long awaited sequel to Sam Raimi's The Evil Dead, I was too embarrassed to publicly admit the tinge of disappointment that I was feeling. With fans and critics alike hailing the film a masterpiece, I didn't feel comfortable expressing my less than glowing opinions. Now, 22 years later, having just revisited the film, I feel ready to come clean I don't LOVE Evil Dead II.There. I've said it. I feel better now.It's not that I hate the film either&#x97;on many levels it's very entertaining and Raimi's direction is certainly kinetic, ensuring that boredom is never an option&#x97;but it just isn't what I expected or wanted from the sequel to one of the greatest horror films of all time.Gone is the all-out visceral horror of the original; Evil Dead II's violence is less graphic and very cartoonish, with extremely watery blood and one deadite even bleeding green. Instead, Raimi gives us slapstick comedy, Three Stooges style, with star Bruce Campbell performing a series of silly comedic set-pieces that require him to smash plates on his head, perform pratfalls, and pick a fight with his own hand. Very amusing, I'm sure... but scary?? No siree!Raimi starts his film begins by virtually retelling the entire first movie in the first ten minutes and then proceeds to throw in a few more characters to kill off Bobbie Joe and Jake, a couple of expendable hicks, heroine Annie Knowby played by Sarah Berry (who has the most irritating scream in the history of horror), and her pal Ed Getley (Richard Domeier). Meanwhile, Ash (Campbell) gets do his physical comedy thing whilst spouting a few quotable bits of dialogue for the fans to repeat ad nauseum.As the film progresses, there are a few effective jump scares as the dead unexpectedly pop into frame, one particular scene in the fruit cellar manages to raise the tension (at least until the monster appears and the comedy starts again), and a memorable finalé leaves the film on a high note, but in my opinion, Evil Dead II sorely needs more horror and less cheese.I give Evil Dead II 7/10, which isn't that bad I suppose, but I wish it was a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'll keep this short and sweet....if you are a TRUE horror fan, don't waste your time nor money on this sequel.  The first Evil Dead is a classic, this sequel was, well, like watching Married with Children.  Horror mixed with humor does not work.  I mean, the wasted time in this flick on the possessed hand that he cant escape from?  Too much.  Definitely not a horror movie. "},{"Title":"bad movie...","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I found this movie was quite lame, I reviewed the movie about 3 times, and i found more than 20 mistakes, it was a funny movie, but i don't really consider it as a horror movie. All I have to say is...whoever made this movie should be ashamed of their horrible work. "},{"Title":"I liked it more than the first one, a lot more","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first Evil Dead was a stupid 70's horror movie.  If anyone else tries to tell you otherwise, don't believe them.  I'm not saying that I didn't like the movie, I like it a little.  I just thought it was a cleche 70's horror movie. It had original scenes, but the plot was stupid and unoriginal, and the dialog was just as cheesy as the 2nd movie.Now that I've said that, I'll talk about the second movie.  The movies have a lot in common, many of the same scenes from the first movie are remade in this film.  The big difference is that this movie is just as stupid, but it doesn't take itself seriously.  It's a comedy.  It's sort of a spoof of the first movie.  The first movie was serious, and tried to scare you, but this movie tries to make you laugh.  When you're watching this movie, try and keep a Pulp Fiction frame of mind dark comedy with gory, unpleasant images.I'm not saying this movie is a hall of famer.  Not at all.  The plot is far too stupid and the dialog is far to awful to win any awards of any kind. Evil Dead 2 just as stupid as the first movie.  Only this movie has the balls to admit it, and LAUGH IN YOUR FACE!My only major problem with the movie is that they try to summarize (redue) Evil Dead One in the first few minutes.  And it sucks.  I wasn't too wild about the first movie, but this redue is awful.  It should have been cut out all together.  Also, the stop-motion-animation is real crappy, like the first movie6 out of 10PS You can't beat a guy with a chainsaw attached to his arm.  That just kicks ass! GROOVEY!!!!! Okay, time for me to calm down... "}{"Title":"Sequel to Evil Dead opts for laughs - slapstick gore as its has been labelled. Give me the original any time!","Date":"29 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As a trilogy, Sam Raimi's Evil Dead series doesn't really weigh up. The first film is an ultra low-budget &#x96; but quite suspensefully made &#x96; gore film, containing many genuinely unnerving moments thanks to its clever camera work and editing. The second and third films in the series change the tone and style completely, aiming instead for a cartoonishly over-the-top comedy feel &#x96; 'slapstick gore' as it has been described in some circles, reminiscent of a Three Stooges movie except that it's full of dismemberment and other such bloody delights. If you're after a serious, genuinely scary style of film, then Part One is the one to watch. If you're after something spectacularly bloody yet simultaneously humorous, then numbers 2 and 3 fit the bill. For me, the original Evil Dead is a quintessential master-class in low budget horror-making&#x85; skillful, tight, often very frightening. This sequel doesn't really work, showing too much affinity for its madcap gore and monsters. Evil Dead II has a much larger cult following than its predecessor but, at risk of upsetting this army of loyal fans, I'm going to stick my neck out and admit I really don't like it.Survivor of the original film Ash (Bruce Campbell) is unable to escape from the woodland cabin where he so recently endured the mother of all bad nights. Trapped for yet another evening, he prepares himself to endure more freakish horrors as the light begins to fade. He is joined by four outsiders &#x96; Annie (Sarah Berry), whose parents originally unleashed the demons in the cabin whilst researching the Book of the Dead; Ed (Richard Domeier), a professor who is also Annie's research partner and boyfriend; Jake (Dan Hicks), a white-trash handyman; and Bobby Joe (Kassie DePaiva), Jake's air-headed trailer-trash girlfriend. The five inhabitants of the cabin are left to endure various spooky events, bloodthirsty demon attacks, bodily possessions/invasions, and so on and so forth, before they finally figure out a way to send the demons back from whence they came.Raimi's bigger budget proves a curse rather than a blessing here. He doesn't need to build up to the shock moments slowly and carefully this time around. If he requires an elaborate monster to pop up suddenly, then that is just what happens&#x85; if he needs gallons of blood and bile to gush forth rather than a mere trickle, then gallons is what he gets. The unfortunate thing is that the original worked so well because Raimi had figured out that often less can be more &#x96; his slow and skillful build-ups created real intensity. That philosophy is completely dismissed here, as Raimi opts to throw a non-stop barrage of gross and gooey carnage at the viewer right from the start. There's still a degree of inventiveness on show, especially in the scene where Ash has to sever his own hand after it becomes possessed. The sight of his uncontrollable 'demon hand' smashing plates over his head and trying to gouge at his own face, not to mention dragging his unconscious body across the floor, is rather funny. Sadly, in other parts of the film much of the humour over-shoots the mark, coming across as 'frantic' and 'hysterical' rather than genuinely funny. The acting is pretty terrible all-round. Campbell has a goofy self-confidence which enables him to nearly get away with it but the others simply look inept, their hopelessly amateurish efforts serving only to damage the film further. Evil Dead II will undoubtedly appeal to some, with its penchant for bad taste comedy and breakneck slapstick carnage. However, if its outlandish sense of humour is not to your taste, you may find this a very long 84 minutes indeed. "},{"Title":"Better than the first but still plain bad!","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Better than the first but a few funny scenes doesn't make something as stupid as this one good. To top it all the film opens with a fake recap of the last film, where only Ash and his girlfriend is in the cabin, this is just utterly confusing and idiotic. There was no need to recap this at all. Apparently Raimi lost the rights to the first film and had to reinvent what happened.We them get some of the worst acting I have ever seen from Bruce Campbell, which includes screams worthy of being in troll 2 and a few stupid one liners. We are also introduced to some other bad actors who play the children of the scientist who started it all and to top it all throw in a super cliché red neck couple.Luckily this one gets even dumber than the first which in a way makes it so bad that it's borerline entertaining and at times somewhat funny. I get that it's just a goofy comedy with lots of gore but I would place this on the level of Date Movie. How people can like this film leaves me confused. However the fact that it gave me a few smiles and the fact that it wasn't too boring compels me to give it a generous rating. 3/10. "},{"Title":"Turned me off the series.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Having heard so much of the Evid Dead Trilogy, and liking Cambell I decided to watch the trilogy.  I had seen parts of Army of Darkness, but wasn't sure what I thought.After watching the first movie I was enthralled.  With very minimal effects and budget they made a great horror movie.  Best of all, the good guys all die!The second... well, even Bruce once said that they went the wrong direction with it and it didn't work.  Instead of a horror, we're given a slapstick comedy.  Scenes seems to happen because they wanted to, and it's UNfunny.What a waste.  My wife was interested in seeing this movie becaused she was suprised how good the first was, but she left after 10 minutes, and I finished it.  After it was done I had NO intention of watching the third movie because from the little I saw it was done in the same style.If you like the first one, that bears nothing on the second.  They are compeletly different styles of movies.I can't really make a recomondation because some like it, some don't.  You won't know until you try.  But, if you like Army of Darkness, you'll like Evil Dead II, and visa versa. "},{"Title":"Evil Dead II","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first film is considered a funny and over the top gory video nasty, and I remember watching this sequel once before, a second time was a good idea, from director Sam Raimi (Spider-Man). Basically the film opens just like the first film, only it's just Ashley 'Ash' J. Williams (Bruce Campbell) and girlfriend Linda (Denise Bixler) going to a cabin in the woods, the tape recorder with the Professor reciting the words from the Book of the Dead is read, along with some flashbacks of Professor Raymond Knowby (John Peaks), and the Evil Dead is unleashed. Linda turns into a zombie like monster intent on torturing and killing Ash, before he decapitates her with a spade, and he buries her body in the soil, and the last bit sees something coming towards him. Imagine now the film is continuing, except the Book of the Dead isn't burned, Ash briefly turns into a monster himself, and is back inside the cabin defending himself from the evil forces. Meanwhile the Professor's daughter Annie (Sarah Berry) and her research partner Ed (Richard Domeier) are returning to the cabin with some copies of the book's pages to get the rest. Ash is slowly going insane with the evil forces trying to get in, take over his body and trying to kill, he even cuts his own right hand off when it becomes possessed, and it crawls away. When Annie and Ed arrive, along with guides Jake (Danny Hicks) and Bobby Joe (Kassie Wesley DePaiva), they soon realise the danger they are in, and just as before, one by one are taken over by the evil forces to become zombie like murderous monsters. After Ash has attached a chainsaw to his severed right arm, Annie and he read the words from the book to get rid of the Evil Dead once and for all. In the end, while Ash's possessed hand stabs Annie to death, a large portal starts sucking all the evil in, but it also takes Ash with it, and he is praised as a hero when he guns down a winged creature in the medieval world he has entered. Also starring Ted Raimi as Possessed Henrietta and Lou Hancock as Henrietta Knowby. I was really disappointed that the story didn't just continue from the previous film, it is just a complete rehash of events, and not even much of a proper sequel. When it does get to the original material it is still both horrible and funny at the same time, so while not all great, a not too bad follow up horror comedy. Okay! "},{"Title":"absolute garbage!!","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" evil dead 2 is possibly the worst movie ever made.bad acting,a plot that made no sense and had more holes in it than swiss cheese.supposedly a sequel to the first one,it starts off as if the first one didn't exist.the whole movie is one incoherent mess.it was billed as being a scary movie, but my friend and i merely laughed at the absurdity of it all.granted,in most horror movies, characters do stupid things, but in this movie they do things that completely defy logic and reason.i could sort of be forgiving if these actions furthered the movie in some way, but since there is nothing resembling a plot,all they do is make things even more coherent and stupid.the effects were abysmal,even laughable.it looked like they spent five dollars on the whole movie.the first one was good,even scary at times,but the same cannot be said of this bomb.only rivaled in awfulness by the gate.pure and utter garbage.avoid,avoid,avoid "},{"Title":"disappointed","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  probably one of the worst horror movies I've ever sat through.  The original wasn't the best either, but it was so much better than this campy rehash. No suspense, no rewards, just boring gore and not so witty one liners. The beginning where the first movie is ignored while bringing Ash back to the same situation as the first film was insultingly stupid.  I rated it a one because there was no lower option on your scale "},{"Title":"Really Bad, way different than first","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" so funny, so ridiculous. TERRIBLE it makes no sense whatsoever how ash returned to the cabin after his horrifying prior experience. so stupid. the book was back after it was thrown in the fire. this makes no sense. none of anything in the story does. the ending is the most laughable thing you'll ever watch. i hope the director who now directed spider man 1-3 knows it is not to be taken seriously. not scary, not really any gore, terrible acting i should spare you with the miserable plot but it should be stated ash takes his girlfriend to the cabin and i don't know how he returned from the ending of part 1 and terrifying things occur while book of the dead researchers come to investigate while horrific things occur. themes and images are strongly suggested to not be viewed by young kids go rent the first one it is OK and way better. it is actually somewhat scary. only watch it for a laugh-Evil Dead 2.Rated NC-17 for Graphic Horror Violence and Gore, and for Explicit/Intense Zombie Images. "},{"Title":"What a horrible horrible movie","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  **SPOILERS**I enjoy Sam Raim's work on Xena, and am also a small fan fo Bruce Campbell, so I thought I would rent this film to see why everyone liked it so much. I don't care for horror movies that much, but had heard this was a cult classic.  What a mistake.  This was one of the worst movies I've ever seen. I wanted to turn it off after 10 mins but figured I'd sit through it and eventually I'd get it and start to enjoy it.  I didn't see any comedy in this film.  If there was any, it was well hidden.  There were a couple of funny scenes and some lame one-liners by Ash that came off as humorous, but nothing that made me crack a smile.The sound work in this film is quite possibly the worst I've ever heard. I watdched it on video and you couldn't make out what people were saying half the times when other things were going on. One of the Deadites in the film is quote obviously using stock sound work of a bunch of chimpanzees.  Maybe Raimi does this as a joke, but it seems more like he wanted it to be scary, since it is covered fairly well.The majority of the film didn't make sense (what is up with his wife's locket, what is that thing that keeps coming at the cabin, why does his hand get posessed, what did he kill when he shot a hole in the wall and blood poured out, how do you kill the deadites, what makes someone a deadite, etc etc etc).  SPOILER At one point, Ash turns into a deadite, and then a few minutes later he turns back.  WTF?!  What makes him turn into one, that he got bit?  Is that how it works?  And why does he turn back to normal?  Why does Jake turn into a Deadite when no one even touched him?  If the deadites want these people dead, why don't they turn all of them into deadites? This movie made NO SENSE. It was FILLED with plot holes, and for the first time in my 25 years of watching films, I saw one that had NO CLIMAX.  There was nothing at the end of the film to cheer for or even be upset about.  It's like they ran out of film and just said okay, we'll pick up where we left off with the sequel.  It's amazing that Raimi can make such good work now, and back then it appears like he made EDII without ever having seen a film before.I wanted desperately to like this movie, but the horrible visual and audio quality of it, combined with even worse acting (not Campbell's best) and no story made it impossible.  I didn't find anything humorous about it, and must have missed every single joke that everyone else seemed to get. Watch at your own risk.However, I will be renting Army of Darkness to see if Raimi can improve upon the story any with a higher budget and more experienced actors (I still have faith in Campbell). "},{"Title":"Evil Dud II","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Why, oh, why was this movie even made? As if the first Evil Dead movie wasn't bad enough, which it was, they (the filmmakers) decided to make a sequel. Actually, it's not even really fair to call it a sequel. It's more of a remake of the first than a sequel.I've heard this film described as a horror comedy...although I think if you find any humor in this movie, I'm willing to bet you must be under the age of ten. It's truly an insult to the intelligence of any person with half a brain, and a total waste of life to watch.I just can't believe this film has the following it does. It's quite remarkable, in my opinion. I think Sam Raimi should have stuck to making his Super 8 shorts in his backyard instead of directing Hollywood features. The guy is a hack, sorry folks, it's true.I wouldn't even recommend watching it on television for free, it'd still be a waste of your time. "},{"Title":"Samey Raimi","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" More of the same from Sam Raimi and company, with Bruce Campbell and his girlfriend heading up to that rickety cabin and unleashing more demons who possess dispensable supporting characters. This time the rampant splatter isn't that much fun; the constant barrage of blood, gore, goo, shouting and screaming quickly becomes tiresome, and only gets more annoying as this barmy racket rampages through its 84 minutes. There's a welcome vein of black humour (like the girlfriend's head in a vice), but it's really Campbell who makes it worth watching he gives it all he's got as possibly the most abused character in cinema. At one point the poor guy sits down for a rest and his chair falls to pieces! Better than the first movie, then - but not exactly good. "}{"Title":"Good Film","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Evil Dead 2 (1987) *** (out of 4) Ash (Bruce Campbell) takes his girlfriend out to a cabin in the woods where they read the Book of the Dead, which unleashes evil forces and soon Ash must battle more demons. I'm not a die-hard fan of this series but you always have to give credit where it's due and there's no question that this is one of the hardest working B movies in the history of cinema. I've always looked at this sequel as more of a remake of the first film. Where the first film went for terror this film certainly goes for campy laughs. I must be honest and say that I really don't find this film funny but for some reason it still works for me. I think it works because Raimi and Campbell are so busy at trying new things that you can't help but sit back and be entertained by what's going on. The opening thirty-minutes are very good with the fast paced action and the Three Stooges inspired humor. The special effects are the highlight of the film as they show you what can be done with a very low budget. The chainsaw arm has become part of horror history and rightfully so as it's a great little joke that goes a long way. The gory effects are also highly entertaining no matter if the blood is colored red, green or black. I'm not a big fan of Campbell either but there's no doubt he rules this film with his maniac style performance. The supporting cast are all rather bland but that really doesn't hurt the film too badly. Again, I didn't care for a lot of the humor in the film but this is still one of the most creative films ever made and with that it mind there's no doubt that this is recommended to fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"I don't believe what it was I think I saw.","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After seeing Evil Dead 1 on DVD.  I thought KICK butt. So, I went out and bought the limited collectors tin of EVIL DEAD 2. I have since put it up for auction on ebay.   This movie is bad (and I mean in the awful way). It is far from scary, unlike the 1st. Sam Raimi made it a gore fest and forgot how to make a movie. It tries to spoof, it is far from funny. In fact it is far from everything but bad, and boy does this movie nail that. Now I know why Bruce Campbell wants to be referred to as Bruce don't call me Ash Campbell.  *1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"To the point...","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Never having seen Evil Dead 2 (but viewed Evil Dead plenty of times) I was expecting something different.  But this was absolute crap.  I'm sorry. I know the movie was  done tongue-in-cheek, at least I hope it was.  If it wasn't, then this was even worse than I thought.  I really have no other opinion of this movie, other than ...well...it was crap to the highest degree. "},{"Title":"Proud to go against the grain","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's not every day that I'm able to go totally against the popular majority. I'm all for cheezy B-movies, but this pushes the limits.  I laughed the whole way through, not because of the horrible special effects or the wondrous acting, but because I couldn't believe I was spending 3 bucks to watch it.  At one point I actually saw the cup the blood was thrown out of. Cheap is one thing, but this is ridiculous! "},{"Title":"Scheiße","Date":"5 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Peter Jackson directed the blood-splattering comedy-horror Braindead in 1992, which was about the deadly consequences of a Sumatran monkey's bite. I remember how repulsive yet amusing the lunch sequence with the mother was. The zombie priest fondling with the nun was hilarious, and so was the Priest's fight with the no-gooders. It was slapstick, gory and hysterical. It had actors who tried to sound convincing even in the most absurd circumstances, and the writing was crisp and farcical and a plot was at least visible.About 6 years prior to this movie, Sam Raimi came up with the sequel of his 1981 hit Evil Dead. I couldn't find Evil Dead so easily, but got this from my inefficient CD home-delivery service-guy. The runtime was 76 minutes, cutting about 8 minutes from the original cut, but retaining majority of the horror scenes. Also it has an UR (unrated) rating on it, and is prohibited for children. There's a sneering skeleton with on one side of the CD cover and the picture of Bruce Campbell being choked by a blood-soaked hand on the other. EVIL DEAD 2 title is printed in red, and the entire look is campy. On the back, there are three other people with him, all looking unnerved. Below that is a generous summary of the movie which tells that a number of guys are possessed and asks the question with one imaginary raised eyebrow, ' Will Ash be Dead by dawn??'The first scene takes us into a car, with Ash (Bruce) and his girlfriend Linda driving to a remote and dilapidated cabin, as they invade a professor's home to dance and make love; Bruce Campbell tells this in an uncomfortable, overacted manner. Then he discovers a Book of the Dead, and a professor's audio message on the Dictaphone, saying that a spell in the book would release dark, unimaginable forces. When the professor's voice utters the mantras in the book, an execrable force is unleashed which possesses Linda and turns her into a psycho-monster. Ash fights her off and her character is abruptly cut off. Ash now has to fight the remaining ghosts, as he runs, ducks, hides, laughs and battles all the spirits. The moment the morning rays fall on the earth, everything is back to normal. The only difference is that the way to the cabin has been eaten up for the misfortunes who enter it. When Ash realizes this, he howls NOOOOO! like a wolf.His entire body is bruised and lacerated, and he gets perhaps the most serious case of alien hand syndrome as his hand thrashes him with plates and plays hide and seek with him once he does away with it. Then there's the demented reindeer head that laughs maniacally with Ash following it, along with all the other items that go mad. And critics term this 'iconic'. The professor's daughter Annie arrives with stone-man with an awkward smile and the two go the the cabin along with a straggly man and his arrogant girlfriend who take their bags. The four too get possessed, and brutally tortured by the creatures, which includes the witch of the professor's wife in the basement.This happens for about half an hour, and characters keep dying, oozing green liquid as they're stabbed. There's some loud, vociferous and obnoxious screeching by the ladies, not to forget continuous and ear-splitting. The professor's daughter companion gets killed quickly, which is the best part of the movie since is acting is embarrassing. The end is predictable- big monster goes for all or nothing, as Annie (Sarah) recites some strange words to get rid of the spirits. This leads to Ash being taken to the past, where the soldiers try to kill him but are interrupted by the most fake-looking pterodactyl ever seen, and Ash shoots it with his gun. The soldiers spare him and now worship him as a leader, as Ash screams No! No! No! No! No! No!76 minutes for this drab to be called a masterpiece and Rob Zombie's gore-fest Devil's Rejects getting 53% on RT is a travesty. Okay, the film was made in the late 80s, but to have uninspired humor, cheap references, abysmal acting, lazy gore, poor voice synchronization and a dim-witted plot and then become a 'cult classic' is something I cannot understand. At least something should be good or different- the plot could've had more weight, but even that is wafer-thin. The movie takes us right into action which is a different technique but then there's just no pause. And the little pauses are filled by horrendous, mechanical, lazy, pretentious and amateurish performances. And I hear some critics going 'Oh, the movie succeeds because of Bruce'. Seriously guys, what does he do that's so special from the performances by the actors of some cheap Hollywood movie nowadays?? The jump scenes are so poorly done, without creating any anticipation, excitement or fear. And what's SO funny about the film- the 'swallow this' joke? Okay, Ha Ha.... I can't laugh more than this. Better movies were made before this - Rosemary's Baby, Carrie, Exorcist and better movies are still being made, yet a movie like Evil Dead tops all lists. One word, travesty. And I still don't get the UR rating for this- did the censor board get brain dead watching Evil Dead 2?My rating 1/10 "},{"Title":"It's not the original","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Why can't this movie be half as good as the first? I may be alone here, and that's fine, but this movie makes any low-budget B horror movie look professionally done.  For as good as the original was, this movie is as bad? I can understand if you missed the original, this may be entertaining... no, I can't understand.  This movie tries to be funny and scary, but succeeds at being neither.  Watch, rent, and buy the first one, but leave this one alone.  This movie is the definition of a set-up movie.  How can the director get from Evil Dead to Army of Darkness?  Make a pathetic excuse of a movie to attempt to bridge the two.  This movie could never live up to the first one, but I can't believe it was THIS bad.  "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  sub-intellectual and repetitively boring. Awful!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Let me admit from the start that I'm not a horror film guy. OK, I saw the original Friday the 13th, I liked The Shining and Halloween III, Carrie, etc. and have a certain aesthetic appreciation. I just don't like to be scared half to death. I have enough stress and nightmares from my normal life, thank you very much.But a friend told me to try out Evil Dead II as sort of a spoof, and sure enough, it wasn't very scary. But it sure was baaaaaaaad.Evil Dead II is a parody of horror films, but comes out juvenile and lacking in every area, even worse than Spaceballs. A parody needs to have a real plot and interesting characters, rather than just imitate in random sequences the films it's trying to parody.Evil Dead II is a sequence of incredibly over-the-top gore and blood, and I found it to be as mindless and uninteresting as Dumb and Dumber, but worse. There wasn't a clever pun or a clever twist that subtly pokes fun at the horror film industry in the entire movie.To add to it all, the low budget effects, acting, everything. I like plenty of cult films Buckaroo Banzai, Last Action Hero, Monthy Python and the Holy Grail, The Blue Brothers, because I realize that bad can become good, if it's campy and kind of fun and doesn't take itself too seriously. But this movie misses the mark in every way possible.Who should see this film-- nobody, see Scary Movie insteadI'll give Evil Dead II a stunningly braindead 1 out of 10, an honor I reserve for very few films. "},{"Title":"I hated it","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First let me say that I am a huge horror fan. And I LOVED Evil Dead 1. I just thought this remake/sequel was pathetically lame. It was less serious, a lot more childish, and just a lot worse. In my opinion, don't waste your time with this, see the original and be happy. "},{"Title":"Warning! this is crap","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After all the positive response this has I expected it to kick ass. Instead I wasted 1 hour and 20 min of my life. All this bull crap about this movie being funny is just not true. It didn't even make me smile. I would find it more entertaining to be shot in the foot than to see this movie again.Reasons why it sucks 1. No plot what so ever.2. Not funny at all.3. Lame and predictable.4. Corny monsters.Don't let the rating or the decent trailer tempt you to watch this movie. 1/10 is a too high grade for this pile of crap. "},{"Title":"Aweful","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERS When I first read about the Evil Dead series on IMDb, I was wanting to seethan big-hit blockbusters like XXX, and Austin Powers. The first one I saw was Evil Dead 2, and I remember renting it because I wanted to be scared so bad I couldn't sleep. Didn't happen. Instead I got the most bizarre film I have ever seen, and probably ever will see. Okay, the outlne Tough-guy Ash goes to a cabin with his girlfriend Linda, and Ash finds a tape-recorder. He plays it, and the translations on the tape unleash some evil spirit, which possesses his girlfriend. Ash ends up cutting her head off with a shovel. A SHOVEL! Anyway, other people come to the cabin, and they all start getting killed. The acting was just brutal, I mean horrible. The only decent acting came from Bruce Campbell, though he didn't do a lot of talking until the other people arrived. So his part wasn't too difficult. The blood was largely exaggerated; blood spews from someone when they get killed, which doesn't realy happen in the real world (I don't know about the wide-world of film-crap.). Okay, now, on a good part, I laughed. But the reason I HATE this movie, is because I wasn't looking for a laugh, I was looking for a scare. So if you like your horror movies... Stay away from this one, PLEASE! * "}{"Title":"The most pathetic movie ever!","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If I could give lower grade than 1, I would gladly do it. This is the most pathetic movie I ever seen. I watched it in 80's and even then was no good, but now when I am much older... That movie doesn't make any sense. Like I said The most pathetic movie ever. But that's just my opinion. "},{"Title":"Sam Raimi oh why oh why?!?","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I skipped a few lessons with my friends and we decided to rent a movie. We DEFINATELY wanted some ultra gory horror splatter flick so we picked Sam Raimi's Evil Dead 2 which I remembered having quite good rating at IMDB.We were prepared for some extremely gory blood orgy, but instead of that we got 85 minutes of boredom. I like b class splatters like Bad Taste, Braindead and Tales from the Crypt series, but this pile of junk doesn't qualify.Bad Taste was done with shoestring budget too, but it's full of self irony and WAY better special effects. Evil Dead 2 had its moments (an eye flying to that chick's mouth - priceless), but one or two good moments don't save a film.The whole time the film isn't quite *there*. It almost makes u laugh, but u are left disappointed in the end.3/10 (Seriously, if u like splatters, go and rent Bad Taste or Braindead instead of tormenting urself with this s**t.) "},{"Title":"I cannot believe this!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is terrible. It breaks the rules of zombie movies. For a start, zombie bites person, person turns into zombie. Its the whole body that turns into a zombie not just a tiny body part! Another rule that is broken once a man is a zombie he can't turn back into a human. But in Evil Dead 2 he can! Its unlikely you would go back into the same house were you're friends and girlfriend died. Would anyone be that stupid? No. Was there anything as fake as possessed Henrietta's monster in the basement? No and the only thing thats close to being that fake is the monster at the end of Children of the Corn III. Did Evil Dead really need a sequel? If it did it needed one better than this. 0 outta 10. "},{"Title":"LET'S GO!!","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Man, this is the best Horror/Comedy I've ever seen!! I'm talking about chainsaws, Flying eye balls and gore! This is much better and funnier than EVIL DEAD 1!!If you like EVIL DEAD 1, then you must buy this!! 10/10 "}]