[{"Title":"Realistic and truly scary.","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Title The Believers (1987) Director John Schlesinger Cast Martin Sheen, Jimmy Smitts, Robert Loggia Review I've always been intrigued by movies about Voodo, Santeria and Witchcraft. I could go on and on about how part of my early childhood was spent in that religion and what not. But I'm not going to. Its something I like to leave safely tucked away in my past. Anyhows, this film, The Believers, depicts a couple of Santeria/Voodoo rituals that felt very, very genuine. I always keep a keen eye open to see just how truthful films can get...to see if the filmmakers did their homework right or not. Well, in the case of The Believers Id say they did their homework alright and got a straight freaking A man.The Believers is about a police psychologist called Cal Jamison (Martin Sheen). He is trying to cope with his wives recent death and trying to continue on with a normal life. When he suddenly realizes that his son has been targeted by practitioners of Brujeria or witchcraft. They need his son to perform one of their rituals. Of course he opposes and goes on a terrifying journey to try and stop them.What I found chilling about this film is its faithfulness to the whole Santeria thing. Having a background in this I could tell what was real and what was Hollywood Hocus Pocus bullshit, and let me tell you 90% of this film was highly accurate as to some of the rituals.Heres the thing about this type of movie. It can very easily turn into an unrealistic film that simply exploits the religion and uses its mythology to scare people who know nothing about it. But in the case of The Believers, they made a very good effort to demonstrate that Santeria is just another religion. Its people who believe in different things that the rest of the world don't believe in. And it doesn't have to be evil simply because its different.Of course, like everything, there's a dark side to the whole thing and in this movie its called Brujeria or Witchcraft. As it is explained in the film, its a form of Voodoo that is used for evil purposes and that its rituals involve amongst other things the sacrifice of children. The people in the film at first think that the ones committing the murders are people who belong to Santeria...when in fact they don't. So I liked the fact that the movie didn't stoop to the low point of exploiting the beliefs of people who practice Santeria.The movie is frightening, because it feels real. These religions and the people who believe in them are out there. They exist. And the ignorance about their beliefs instantly translates to fear amongst people who know nothing about it. Of course the movie does take advantage of peoples ignorance about it and uses it to make people think one thing...when in fact its another. But I have say, the movie will prove to be quite frightening. It has some genuinely tense moments in there.Jimmy Smitts, an unknown at the time, steals the show as Tom Lopez. A local who is frightened that they will get him. They know who he is and You don't know what they can do! Those sequences with Smitts going loco are excellent and will heighten any bit of fear that was already crawling up through the back of your spine. Also there's an evil Priest character played by Malik Bowens that is 100% concentrated evil. A memorable scene involves his eyes changing color and starting to dance as he is possessed by a spirit. So you can rest assured that we get some good solid performances in this flick.In conclusion I'll say that this movie is scary in the same way that The Exorcist was scary. In the same way that Angel Heart and Serpent and the Rainbow were scary. Its all tied up to something that exists in real life. Of course the film, as is the case in almost all of these films dealing with Voodoo or Santeria, ventures into fantasy territory. But Ill say this, The Believers is the one that feels the most genuine out of all the movies dealing with this subject matter. So its worth a look see. Only if you want to be really scared of course.Rating 5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A bit disjointed, but overall a good film","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" After his wife dies, police psychiatrist Cal Jamison (Martin Sheen) moves with his son, Chris (Harley Cross), from Minnesota to New York City. There, he quickly becomes embroiled in a bizarre string of occult-related murders of children and apparent suicides of adults.If you enjoyed The Serpent And The Rainbow (1988), Angel Heart (1987) and Rosemary's Baby (1968), there's a good chance you'll enjoy The Believers as well, as it bears quite a few similarities (although it's certainly not a rip-off). In my view, it's not quite as good as those other three films, which are all 10s in my book, but it is well worth watching.The principle flaw, which probably arises from trying to condense a novel--in this case Nicholas Conde's book, The Religion--into a screenplay, is that The Believers quickly brushes over some developments so that it's occasionally difficult to follow, especially towards the beginning. We can sense that there's much more to the story but that there just isn't time to show all of it to us.However, a characteristic of the subgenre of occult/voodoo horror films is a prominent surrealism and dream-like narrative flow, so what might be more of a flaw in another kind of film can be more of an asset here. The Believers also benefits from a great cast--Sheen is a delight to watch (and listen to) as a psychiatrist who can fly off the handle in rage at the drop of a hat, and Jimmy Smits is wonderfully insane every time we see him.The Believers is also worth checking out for its cinematography and set design. The set for the climax is a visual treat and integral to the plot. And the tag scene after the climax is remarkable for its visual change--beautiful, wide-open spaces and bright colors. It's just too bad that the sequel set up by director John Schlesinger never came to fruition. "},{"Title":"Building Belief","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Back when this hit theaters, I missed it for some reason - I think the ad campaign left me rather nonplussed. In any case, I gave it a miss, only to take the chance on it some years later on video. And I have to say I was impressed! This is NOT a movie for the impatient viewer. Opening with family tragedy, it then takes necessary time to introduce its characters, really introduce them and give the audience time to get to know them and care about them. During the character study portion, there are only rare implications that something sinister is in the offing.Other reviews have stated that the movie is slow, that it drags, that it's padded out with perhaps unnecessary exposition, but I must disagree - to believe THE BELIEVERS, one must believe a bit oneself. A film that drops the viewer into a breakneck chase from the outset has its place and its advantages in storytelling, but almost invariably such movies are about the chase, rather than the people. THE BELIEVERS is about the people, which separates it from the typical batch of supernatural thrillers. Here we get the whole story, rather than a sort of synopsis, wherein we get only the high points, those scenes which contain the most action or gore or both. TOTAL RECALL is an excellent example of this type of film, done well; one need only look at any of the horror/slasher franchise films to have an idea of this type of film done at a dead run, for money and the most shock value. They can be fun, but I'm not sure they qualify as art.What makes THE BELIEVERS so disturbing is that, at its best, it *builds belief* in the audience. This might seem redundant, since, going in, we demonstrate a willingness to believe that is initially missing from the main charter(s); but in this case, we no longer have the emotional distance to simply watch and say, Oh, I saw that coming, or Blah - never in a million years. By the time Helen Shaver goes through her ordeal with that unsightly blemish, nothing about it seems far-fetched at all! Performances are, generally, successful. Young Harley Cross is excellent as young Chris, and the rest of the cast is populated with familiar faces or faces that were destined to become very familiar indeed, such as Jimmy Smits. My sole complaint comes from certain scenes with Martin Sheen - emotionally, he goes from conversation to screaming in an instant, and it just doesn't seem appropriate to the scene, especially when one considers that he's playing a psychiatrist - a professional group who are specifically trained in keeping their cool in the heat of a situation. Some of the dialog, too, occasionally comes out sounding like they shot the rehearsal.THE BELIEVERS is not without flaw - nevertheless, enough good remains that it rewards the patient viewer with a rich storytelling experience! "},{"Title":"Frightening","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Widowed police psychiatrist (Martin Sheen) and his young son (Harley Cross) move to NYC and get involved with a cult that believes in human sacrifices--small children especially.Exceptionally well-made, deadly serious horror film is not for everybody.  It's way too long, has some very disturbing scenes (quick closeups of a dead child's mutilated body; animal sacrifice) and it's serious tone can wear one down.  Still, it's a complex, one of a kind horror film.  Name all the major studio films that deal with cults, voodoo and children sacrifices--there aren't any!  It's surprising this even got made.Sheen is very good as the father, Cross is exceptional as his son.  Also Robert Loggia turns in strong support as a police chief.  The only bad acting is by Helen Shaver as a landlady who Sheen falls for (for some reason).  Also there's a pretty needless ending.All in all though, a good horror film, but remember--it's STRONG stuff! "},{"Title":"Wichtcraft","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" The Believers, a 1987 film, directed by John Schlessinger, an unlikely candidate, offers an action packed movie that involves the rites of santeria and African witchcraft in the middle of Manhattan. The film, which is based on a novel by Nicholas Conde, which we never read, was adapted by Mark Frost, who shows an incredible affinity for the material that might seem foreign to most of the viewers. The action never lets up; the movie is one of the scariest movies in recent memory.Much has been said about the plot and what is at the center of the story. What Mr. Schlessinger got was an amazing film that takes us into unknown territory into an evil world that is hard to imagine in such an urban setting. Cal Jamison, after suffering the terrible loss of his wife, takes Chris, his young son, into Manhattan, where the young boy is the target of an occult force that wants to harm him from unknown reasons that aren't well understood until the last sequences of the movie. We watch, horrified, how these evil practices contribute to unnerve the skeptical Cal, who must come to terms with it when it becomes clear that he and the young boy are more involved in what the higher ups of the cult want from them.Martin Sheen's work in the movie as Cal Jamison, is one of the best things he did in his distinguished career. His Cal is totally credible as we know how he will react when Chris is in danger. Helen Shaver is fine as Jessica, the woman that steals Cal's heart. Young Harley Cross is perfectly sweet as Chris. Veteran actors Robert Loggia, Richard Mazur, Jimmy Smits, Elizabeth Wilson, Lee Richardson, and Harris Yulin are seen in the film.We would recommend to watch this film with company. It's not for the faint hearted. "},{"Title":"Good horror film","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Scary, good thriller about a dangerous faction of Santeria, a Latin-American based religion which believes in animal sacrifice, which here is offerring children as sacrifices in New York.  Martin Sheen is very good as a police psychologist who moves to New York with his son after his wife's bizarre death, and must deal with the very strange doings occuring around him. The fine cast includes a younger Jimmy Smits, Robert Loggia, Helen Shaver, and Harley Cross. Director John Schlesinger provides good shocks, and good the movie has a fine late 80's New York feel, even though most of it was filmed in Toronto! "},{"Title":"Cool, underrated occult flick","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Martin Sheen is in top form in this one and I don't know why it isn't considered one of the better horror movies.  I was a kid when I saw this so it had a better effect on me then but I recently saw it on cable and really dug it.  Also recommended is the classic Serpent and the Rainbow. "},{"Title":"saw this in 1987, still memorable...","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Covering the subject of cults, religion, Santeria or other beliefs is always intriguing and educational. The acting especially by Martin Sheen as N.Y. psychiatrist Cal, is very good.Cal loses his wife in a tragic accident, and returns to New York City where he is a psychiatric consultant for N.Y.P.D. There are some excellent scenes with Jimmy Smits, as an affected officer who goes mad, and Robert Loggia, as a veteran cop who is also affected by the Believers, and their group.Harris Yulin is menacing and fits the bill as leader of an 80's group, ostensibly just a charity group, until Sheen uncovers something much worse.The end is rather abrupt and predictable, but the acting is first-rate (especially for Sheen) and this is worth a viewing. The theme alone has many possibilities, the ignorance and unawareness of how many different religions actually exist, and are in practice all over the world. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Some nice moments , but overall a disappointing movie","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" A good director John Schlesinger (Midnight cowboy , Marathon man) plus good actor Martin Sheen (Apocalypse now) plus interesting subject - voo doo. This is one promising combination , isn't it ? Unfortunately the ending result is rather bad.Martin Sheen gives a good performance. The movie does give you a some knowledge about voo doo. There are some nice thrilling scenes (the beginning , the ending , the scene with the snakes and the scene with the bees). Those are the good things in this movie.The movie isn't unfortunately scary . It isn't horrifying enough just to insert images of bloody headless chicken corpses and African tribes performing silly dance rituals. The movie can't decide if it wants to have supernatural elements in it or to be a thriller. The believers is also too long and have too many sub plots. There is also too much soap opera in a movie that should be scary and dark. There is no tension or atmosphere and aside from Sheen the acting isn't anything special. The dialogues are forgettable and the screenplay is rather bad convoluted.Alan Parker's Harry Angel is far superior to The Believers. It's dark , scary , has good performances and interesting story. The Believers is not a complete waste of time , however it is overlong, slightly pretentious with a flat detective story. There are some good elements here , however it is a disappointment. I give it 4/10. "},{"Title":"Then I saw his eyes, now I'm a Believer!","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" What happens when an acclaimed A-listed director like John Schlesinger (Midnight Cowboy, Marathon Man) and an acclaimed A-listed actor like Martin Sheen (Apocalypse Now, Badlands) decide together to cash in on the contemporary popular trend of making a religiously themed horror movie? Sadly &#x96; but predictably &#x96; this results in a pretentious, dreadfully overlong and ridiculous piece of melodramatic soap-opera schlock! Back in the era of pioneering cinema, there were a handful of titles &#x96; I walked with a Zombie and White Zombie to name just two &#x96; that put forward the theme of voodoo as something uniquely macabre and nightmarish, but ever since the 1980's, many directors mistakenly assume that it is horrifying enough just to insert images of bloody headless chicken corpses and African tribes performing silly dance rituals. Schlesinger makes the exact same mistake and, atop of that, also adds far too many family drama sub plots and redundant detective elements. The opening sequences are supposed to be tragic and heart-wrenching but (and maybe it's just me?) I found them quite imbecilic and banal. Police psychiatrist Cal Jamison loses his wife in a far-fetched kitchen accident &#x96; malfunctioning coffee machines and spilled milk do not go well together &#x96; and moves to the center of New York with his 7-year-old son. What follows is an irritating series of clichéd situations, since daddy falls in love with the new landlady but obviously doesn't want to neglect his traumatized little boy. Meanwhile, his job also drags him into a spider web of intrigues regarding the Santerío-religion. This strange religion worships African spirits in the shape of Christian Gods (or something like it, I don't know) and has quite a few of influential disciples in NY. The lives of innocent young boys are sacrificed in favor of obnoxious rich adults and, because he sticks his nose too much in the voodoo business, Jamison's own son is suddenly in danger as well. Unlike Alan Parker in the superior Angel Heart, John Schlesinger didn't have the balls to show any controversial themes or shocking images. However, if you happen to fancy tedious and confusing dialogs, dull sentimental interludes, a complete lack of atmosphere or tension and weak performances from usually reliable actors (besides Sheen also Robert Loggia, Harris Yulin and Jimmy Smits), then you absolutely must see The Believers. I'm required to admit there are two memorable highlights as well, though. There's one marvelous, but misfit, scene with eerie little spiders crawling out of a woman's jaw and also the casting of Malick Bowens as the sinister voodoo priest. His evil stare was the only thing preventing me to stop watching this garbage before it was actually finished. "}{"Title":"Unbelievably dumb, far-fetched","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Wow is this movie dumb! You will hate the superstitious Latin characters they have running around yelling and carrying on in over the top Latin accents. Sheen is a concerned father and police detective investigation some child murders in NYC. These murders are linked to a voodoo/santoria type religion that seems to be 'believed' by an unbelievably big underground community in New York City! A scary black guy with albino contacts lurks around scaring the bejesus out of the increasingly frightened latins who can only speak broken English, shriek and writhe in increasing desperation for Sheen/someone/anyone to listen to them and their need for pro-tect-C-own. There are bizarre suicides, deaths, mind control trances (at just a glance), animal sacrifices, oh, and other European American believers who wear suits and ride around in limousines who are apparently in charge of this 'religion'. I also left out a kidnapping, curses, electrocutions, and Sheen's character's rebellious, uncontrollable little kid who is constantly in danger and behaves not unlike he's suddenly had a bad reaction to angel dust! "},{"Title":"Believe what I've told you","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" By it's shock start, involving horrific misfortune, in which Martin Sheen's wife is electrocuted due to a faulty appliance, in which the little son, Chris (Cross) horribly witnesses it, it has you thinking, could this be linked to the rest of what about is to ensue. Or is it, just a family tragedy. I'm not really into supernatural thriller horrors, with religious themes, though I did love Angel Heart, and I didn't mind The Seventh Sign too much, and I did love The First Power. The Believers though, I did take a liking too, though initially, I wouldn't go out of my way to see in it's showing. Of course child murder isn't something to be taken lightly, but when it's child sacrifice, it's much worse. It's disturbing, and nasty and The Believers oozes out a lot of creepy and in some cases, some truly disturbing and bloody moments. You can see, a lot has been poured into it, to make it so, including a lot of witchcraft/voodoo paraphernalia. In other words, an enthusiastic effort. Cal Jameson, (Sheen) a psychiatrist, and son, (Cross) make a new knife in a new city. It doesn't take long for Sheen to find a new love either, (hot Helen Shaver) who provides the final twist frame moment, in this pic, that never makes you lose interest. Sheen gets called in after a child sacrifice murder, where an irrational crazed suspect, and cop (L.A Laws's Jimmy Smits) is taken in. Days later, another worse child murder, involving ritual sacrifice surfaces. What's disappointing I guess, in what is an otherwise good supernatural thriller/horror with religious themes, is the story behind this particular practice/sacrifice known as Santeria (hope I've spelt that right) is that it doesn't delve enough into it, as it should, which is a quite a shame, but the flipside of that coin, that less is more approach, what have you, makes it more intriguing amidst some murky plot points. The movie succeeds in it's attempt to creep and disturb, mostly throughout, where Sheen too with his role, gives a less is more realistic performance that pays off to an extent, where Cross, just a gifted young actor, as his son, Chris, displays so many different and genuine emotions, it's like he really isn't acting. He's a natural. Helen Shaver lends fine support, while Sheen's initial wife in it's starting, does briefly. The black guy with the eye whites who creep out security baggage handlers, will remain a haunting memory, should you watch this thriller a couple of times. The third act is really good, intensifying when Chris, becomes the new one up for sacrifice, with the help of trusted/possessed parties, an old trick in these sort of films, this one, I recommend to you. "},{"Title":"turns into a good creepy horror","Date":"11 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Cal Jamison (Martin Sheen) loses his wife in an accidental electrocution. He moves with his son Chris to NYC as a psychiatrist for the police department. Jessica Halliday (Helen Shaver) is their landlady. His lawyer Marty Wertheimer (Richard Masur) wants to sue the coffeemaker company. Lt. McTaggert (Robert Loggia) investigates a child murder with disturbed undercover cop Tom Lopez (Jimmy Smits) at the scene. Lopez is convinced that some unknown group will kill him and tries to shoot himself. Cal is called in to investigate the voodoo murder. Palo (Malick Bowens) is the ever present voodoo evil. Cal's housekeeper tries to protect the family with her good voodoo.The use of religion is going to anger some people and color some reviews. I guess almost any movie can cause offense if taken that way. It starts off as a crime thriller. It seems to go slowly but methodically. Then it turns more towards horror and it's quite effective. There are some good voodoo horrors. The two hours running time is a little long but it's got some good creepy scares. "},{"Title":"Fundamentalism at it's scariest","Date":"30 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Religions and Hollywood don't always make a great match. Some films play loosely with facts, instead being more about style than substance. However, there have been times where this has been successful. Classics like 'The Exorcist' were made by people who did their homework and the result was magic. In the 1980s, one of many trends in the horror genre was cult practices in modern society. Based on Nicholas Conde's novel 'The Religion,' this offering dealing with the practice of Santeria is, in my humble opinion, one of the most underrated of or time.Pros Top notch performances from all involved. Excellent and often eerie score. Suspenseful direction. Taut writing. Nice cinematography. Handsome production design. Flows at a good pace. Some great twists. Frightening imagery.Cons Some predictability.Final thoughts A mild success at the Box Office in '87, 'The Believers' wasn't a favorite of critics and has since been largely forgotten. It may not be as masterful as say 'Rosemary's Baby,' but it's a far cry from being schlock also. It's got what so many genre flicks of recent times lack heart, suspense, depth, characters we give a crap about and more. It takes it's time and gets under the skin. Do yourself a favor if you haven't seen this and rectify that now.My rating 5/5 "},{"Title":"Psychiatrist Martin Sheen investigates voodoo ritual murders that threaten his own son","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" The Believers is a murder mystery thriller integrated with a pervasive voodoo horror scenario. Solid casting and smooth acting combined with fine cinematography and staging carry this movie along, making it reasonably compelling and competent. The greatest weakness lies in a story that has some implausible elements (coincidences), is at times contrived, and doesn't have enough twists to it.Martin Sheen is a police psychiatrist who gets called onto a case that involves the sacrificial slayings of several young boys. He himself has a young son (Harley Cross). He has lost his wife but maintains cordial relations with her parents. Sheen gets called in because a cop (Jimmie Smits) is severely disturbed over voodoo threats to his life that he perceives. Sheen sets out to find out what's going on, and that's where the mystery sets in as he uncovers the mysterious doings of Harris Yulin and his voodoo man (Malick Bowens). Richard Masur is a convenient lawyer friend of Sheen.Months pass and Sheen develops a romantic interest in Helen Shaver, who like Sheen and his son, become voodoo targets. Sheen's maid (Carmen Ruiz) provides some counter-voodoo mojo, but not enough.Being made in 1987, there are some shocking scenes that would never have been shown in movies of old. That changed certainly by the time of Alien (1979). "},{"Title":"Genuinely unnerving and frightening","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" THE BELIEVERS is one of the scariest and most intelligent supernatural horror films ever made. Its shocking premise- an African-based witchcraft/voodoo cult operating within the confines of Manhattan's upper class high society and trading in ritual child murder, delivers a blend of suspense and terror that compels the viewer to believe the unbelievable. This is a rich, handsome production which boasts an excellent cast of actors, beautiful on-location photography in New York City, a fine script, and pre-CGI special effects that will leave you a nervous wreck when you see them. After the untimely death of his wife by electrocution caused by a defective coffee maker, Minneapolis psychologist Cal Jamison(MARTIN SHEEN) moves to New York City with his young son Chris(HARLEY CROSS). Hired by the New York City Police Department as a crisis counselor with the Psychological Services Division, Cal soon finds himself drawn into the dark underside of the city and the horrors it can hold when he's called in to try and help a police detective who appears to have suffered a complete psychotic breakdown. As Detective Tom Lopez, actor JIMMY SMITS, pre-NYPD Blue, gives a standout performance so real and believable that you will feel what he is feeling. His fear and terror leap right off the screen at the viewer. And he has very good reason to be afraid. Stumbling onto the site of one of the ritual child sacrifices, he is knocked out and, when he recovers, discovers that his police shield is missing. Like the stage actor in ROSEMARY'S BABY, whose act of loaning out his necktie suddenly results in his going blind, the taking of Lopez's badge seals his fate. He knows the cult is going to kill him- he just doesn't know how. And when he realizes in his torment and agony what they've done to him, the viewer will be reaching for the tranquilizer bottle. Except for a couple of quick shots showing the eviscerated child victims, there is very little gore in this movie. Instead, it derives its emotional power from a framework that builds character development and suspense little by little until you accept what you're seeing as real. You will accept that an evil shaman priest from the Sudan, in this instance, can harm others if he comes into contact with an item belonging to them- be it a detective's gold shield, an NYPD business card, or a powder puff. And what's even worse- that no power in Heaven or on Earth can stop it. That's what makes this movie really frightening- the victims of the cult's wrath and supernatural power are at the mercy of people who have none. "},{"Title":"religions have a lot of bad sects","Date":"2 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" John Schlesinger was best known for movies like Darling, Midnight Cowboy, Sunday Bloody Sunday, The Day of the Locust and Marathon Man. But now he directs something totally different.To understand what happens in The Believers, it helps to have foreknowledge of Santería, a syncretic religion practiced widely in the Caribbean. It is based in the Yoruba culture (in present-day Nigeria), but includes influences from Roman Catholicism and the indigenous American cultures. The movie depicts a satanic offshoot of Santería mixed with brujería (Spanish for witchcraft), that is sacrificing children in New York, and is now targeting the son of Martin Sheen's character.If you expect a slasher movie, this is nothing of the sort. There is some violence, but no guts getting torn out or anything -- only one scene can truly get called shocking (you'll know it when you see it) -- and there's limited sex/nudity. I'd say that the movie's strength is its depiction of how Sheen's character slowly but surely learns about a culture with which he was previously unfamiliar. The movie does make clear that the religious cult is not Santería, but a different group. After all, every religion is bound to have its wackos.Does the movie have any downsides? Well, Robert Loggia's cop came across as a little silly, but I'd call that the only true downside. Otherwise, this is a good one. Also starring Helen Shaver, Richard Masur, Jimmy Smits and Harris Yulin (who I at first mistook for Richard Jenkins, aka Nate Sr. on Six Feet Under). "},{"Title":"A great classic? Don't believe it!","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Voodoo is quite an interesting topic, and as such there are many movies on the topic, many of which are very good; which means that all the movies based on voodoo generally have a lot to live up to. The Believers benefits from a good cast, a reputable director and an obviously sizable budget - but unfortunately, it doesn't amount to a sum of it's parts, mostly due to the fact that a lot of it plays out rather slowly and is quite boring - which is fairly surprising considering that director John Schlesinger was the man behind classic thrillers such as Marathon Man. The film is based on a book by Nicholas Conde and focuses on a widowed father named Cal Jamison who takes his son to live in Manhattan. Cal gets a job with the New York Police Department as a psychiatrist for troubled police officers. It's on his first call out, to help save a suicidal police officer that he comes into contact with a strange cult that has skinned a child alive. From there, the film focuses on a series of strange and eerie events that all seem to focus on the people around the lead character...The main problem with this movie is undoubtedly the length of it - the director obviously assumed that there was enough material to fill the nearly two hour running time, but unfortunately that isn't the case and the result is a film with a lot of dull moments. The lead role is taken by Martin Sheen who does a good job of fleshing out his character and getting the audience behind him. This, however, is not matched by the plot - which doesn't ever do enough to get the audience fully behind it, which is a shame as there are plenty of good ideas going on in it. The film can easily be compared to the likes of Angel Heart and Rosemary's Baby - but clearly it is not even nearly on the same level as the aforementioned classics. To its credit, the film does not flinch too much when it comes to showing blood and gore - skinned kids and spiders crawling out of a woman's cheek are among the highlights. Overall, The Believers is not a complete dead loss by any means; but it's not a great film either and I wouldn't recommend anyone goes out of their way to see it. "},{"Title":"Very Creepy Horror Film, However The Finale Was Quite Disappointing!","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is a very creepy Horror film, with amazing performances, however the finale was quite disappointing!. It will get under your skin throughout, and some of the stuff will make you flinch, plus the ending while does not make much sense, is pretty wicked!. Martin Sheen is simply Amazing here,and most of the characters were great, plus Malick Bowens will scare the crap out of you!. The Opening is very creepy, and the film has tons of shocking moments and scares, plus some of the violence is not pretty. I was confused a little bit at times, and the finale could have been a lot better, however i still liked it very much, and it helped that the film had such a talented actor in the lead in Martin Sheen!. This is a very creepy Horror film, with amazing performances, and i highly recommend it!. The Direction is very good!. John Schlesinger does a very good job here, with excellent camera work, great angles, great lighting, and keeping the film tense and scary throughout!. There is some disgusting violence here. We get some very disgusting/disturbing animal gore(Hated it),lots of blood,gory corpses,dead children(harsh),gory stabbings,slit throat(ATF),gory impaling, and more. The Acting is amazing!. Martin Sheen is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, a caring father, was extremely convincing, had very good chemistry with Helen Shaver, and was just amazing overall, i was rooting for him all the way! (Martin Sheen Rules!). Harley Cross annoyed me here,as the kid however at least he was somewhat bearable, and managed to convince me a couple times. Helen Shaver is pretty good as Sheen's girlfriend i kinda liked her. Robert Loggia can play this role in his sleep, and is awesome here once again. Elizabeth Wilson does what she has to do well. Harris Yulin over acted to the extreme here and didn't convince me one bit. Lee Richardson is also good with what he had to do. Malick Bowens is EXTREMELY creepy here, those eyes of his his walk, it just gave me the creeps. Jimmy Smits did good here i liked him. Richard Masur is good with what he had to do. Janet-Laine Green is good in her scene. Overall i highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A delightful surprise.","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I read the box. I saw the previews. I was unimpressed. But in viewing this production, I must say I was delightfully surprised. Martin Sheen delivers an honest and genuine performance as a recently-widowed father who must battle the forces of evil to keep a grip on his son.This was a very close depiction of Santeria, a South American belief system similar to voodoo, and the darker aspects of its flip-side. It also is a very realistic representation concerning the bigotry found between religious groups, but that is SO not what the movie is about.Caught in a web of deceit and ritualistic murder, Cal (Sheen) must puzzle his way through this intricate maze of dark riddles to save his son from the clutches of an ancient evil.If it sounds dramatic by that description, then just wait until you see the movie. It is edgy, suspenseful, and bears some downright scary moments. This is good cinema. I personally think this is one of the best of its sub-genre, second only (and not by much) to Rosemary's Baby, but superior to the Servants of Twilight adaptation (though not superior to the book by Dean R. Koontz).It rates an 8.2/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"Blood Cult","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Moving to New York City with his nine year old son Chris,Darley Cross, after his wife Lisa, Janet Laine Green, died in a tragic electrical accident psychiatrist Cal Jamison, Martin Sheen, got a job in the New York Police Department as a special therapist for cop's who have deep emotional problem's, that in many cases could lead to suicide. Called to a deserted theater to talk a cop out of killing himself Cal get's his first taste of what was to happen to him his son Chris and to almost everyone else he knows by the time the movie The Believers is over. Officer Tom Lopez, Jimmy Smits, has become suicidal after finding this young boy skinned alive and murdered, on an altar at the theater, as well as having his police badge being stolen by those who committed this ghastly crime. Lopez is terrified that he'll be the next victim with his badge, like a voodoo doll, having a hex put on it by the boys killers. Taken away to a psychiatric ward for observation Lopez later escapes and in a last act of desperation calls Cal for help but commits Harri Kari before Cal and the police can come to his rescue. Martin together with NYPD Let. McTarggert, Robert Loggia, go to this drug rehabilitation center where Lopez worked as a youth counselor on his off time. Meeting with the center's director Oscar Sezine, Raul Davila, it becomes obvious that Lopez and Sezine, both practitioners of Santeria, were being used as dupes for what the center was only a front for the practice of Brujeria,Spanish for witchcraft. Those oculists running the center were secretly using the youths there in their blood and murder rituals.The A.C.H.E Drug Rehibilitation Center was founded by this rich weirdo Robert Calder, Harris Yulin, together with his spiritual adviser the even weirder Polo, Malick Bowens, an African Shaman Priest. Getting the pesky Lopez out of the way, by having him kill himself, these blood-worshipers were now ready to commit a series of murders of young boys to usurer in the Summer Solstice, June 21, which is a major holiday in their, Brujeria, religion. Polo taking Let. McTaggert's NYPD business card, that he gave Sezine, and putting a hex on it causes him to go off the deep end and later blow his brains out. Cal's girlfriend Jessica, Helen Shaver, later at a party, and fund raiser for the A.C.H.E Center,in Calder's honor has her powder puff spiked, by Polo, where she develops a large blistering infection on her face that almost kills her. Cal's maid Carman(Carla Pinza), also a Santeriaist, feels that this Brujeria cult is after his son Chris and tries to protect him, with a number of Santeria rituals. Cal misunderstood what Carman is doing fires her thus leaving Chris, and himself, to face these dangerous and blood thirsty blood-worshipers maniacs all by themselves.Cal is then tricked into leaving Chris with his long time friends the Maslows Dennis & Kate, Lee Richardson & Elizabeth Wilson, at their summer home in the country not realizing that their members of this blood cult who in fact sacrificed their own son some 40 years ago to it and now want him to do the same with Chris! Disturbing and creepy movie that gets a bit off course at the very end with what looks like an alternative ending, in 1987 before they became popular on video and DVD movies,that suggests that a sequel to The Belivers is soon to follow, it didn't. "},{"Title":"voodoo doo-doo","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  In all fairness, I went into seeing The Believers with a glimmer of hope. A fervent horror fan, I looked forward to seeing a rare intellectual thriller. All the pieces were in place - a good cast (led by a usually stellar Martin Sheen), a renowned director (John Schlesinger) & the story of a police psychologist trying to pick up the pieces after his wife's premature & accidental death who gets involved, along with his son, in some occultish freakishness.So where did The Believers go wrong?  About halfway through, when Sheen's lonely Dad inexplicably & unbelievably takes up with the loopy landlady across the street (Helen Shaver).  Not only is this an unwanted distraction to the plot, but the relationship moves WAY too quickly to be taken seriously in a 2-hour horror movie.There are some scary moments, one coming within the first 5 minutes of the film, but the film loses its momentum as the discovery of what all this voodoo madness is all about unfolds.  Like The Serpent & The Rainbow, logic & reason effortlessly give way to dark idols & poisoned dart silliness. The film's ominous conclusion tries too hard & becomes almost laughable.Sheen is solid, but spends more than half the movie screaming at, to or for his son (another never-to-be-seen-again child actor who is 10 times more annoying than cute, making you wish that the bad guys eat him up before Martin starts filming Wall Street).  Shaver sleepwalks through her thankless role, tho she's involved in one of the film's creepiest moments.  A good supporting cast, including Robert Loggia, Richard Masur & a young Jimmy Smits are wasted.Ultimately, The Believers is ambitious, but this voodoo doo-doo doesn't give you much to believe.  5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good watch","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I was expecting some horror to be sure, I just was not expecting a full blown horror movie with some supernatural stuff thrown in to boot. I was more expecting a serious thriller dealing with cults or something. The movie seems to have a plot device similar to a Dean Koontz book I have heard about in that a cult is out to get the child of a man whose wife dies in a rather unpleasant way right at the beginning of the movie. The cult is sort of on the voodoo side of things and the movie has them doing things in their power to not only to sacrifice the guy's son, but to get him to do it. Add a bit more to it and you have yourself a really good horror movie. There still is a bit to much thriller and drama in it to be a really good horror movie though and I have never been wild about Martin Sheen. I actually always enjoyed watching his son's movies more. So in the end you get a movie that seems to not quite know what it really wants to be, but it had enough horror elements in it for me to overall enjoy. "},{"Title":"Interesting horror flick","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" John Schlesinger's weird occult horror is an interesting curio for fright buffs. Martin Sheen plays a recently widowed police psychologist who moves to New York with his 7-year-old son and finds himself endangered by an ancient underground religious cult that practices the ritual sacrifice of children.I found The Believers to be a genuinely scary and disturbing supernatural horror. Okay, the plot contains some silly mumbo-jumbo and mystical red herrings, and critics complained about the xenophobic attitude towards the religion Santeria. But it has gore, suspense, good production values, stylish Robby Muller cinematography, plenty of jolting shocks, nightmarish visuals and, above all else, a really strong atmosphere of evil. There is a powerful, convincing sense of malice from beginning to end, which is what always gets me in a horror film. It reminded me variously of Rosemary's Baby (diabolical goings-on in upscale NYC), The Serpent and the Rainbow and even Schlesinger's earlier NY thriller Marathon Man.Scariest parts the opening electrocution scene, the spiders coming out of the woman's cheek, anything involving that white-eyed Haitian voodoo priest. No classic, but worth a look. "},{"Title":"Convoluted Voodoo Yarn.","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Martin Sheen plays police psychologist Cal Jamison, who moves to New York with his young son after the sudden accidental death of his wife(vividly shown early on!) He soon is called into a case involving voodoo cult rituals involving the death of chickens, but soon discovers that they want to escalate things with sacrificing children, which will include his own son... Helen Shaver plays his potential love interest, who also becomes a target by the cult.Mediocre thriller has a sensational opening, but soon becomes overly convoluted and unbelievable, though the actors are fine, and director John Schlesinger does create some effective atmosphere, the problems are too many to overcome. "},{"Title":"A great guilty pleasure","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" The Believers is a somewhat middle-of-the-road affair with a couple good ideas.**SPOILERS**Years after his wife's death, psychologist Cal Jamison, (Martin Sheen) moves with his son Chris, (Harley Cross) into a new apartment in New York City. Trying to piece his life back together, Lt. Sean McTaggert, (Robert Loggia) one of his patients soon start revealing facts about a case of theirs where a ritualistic crime spree is ravaging through the city. As the killings become more and more vicious, his job becomes more difficult and his problems with his son as the case begins to try his nerves. Helping to solve the case with him, neighbor Jessica Halliday, (Helen Shaver) together realize that his son is the target of a vicious cult's intentions of offering children in ritual sacrifice to a primitive God. Realizing that they are also potential targets for their efforts of protection, they race against time to stop the ritual before it's completed.The Good News There wasn't a whole lot to this one. When it manages to incorporate the supernatural elements with all rituals brought in, then it really begins to become interesting. The main one, where the heroes are gathered for a protection ceremony. This is quite chilling for it's realistic feeling and for its way of never once appearing as a set-up. The later ones are also quite entertaining in their own right. There's also the early one found in the park, where only the after-effects of the ceremony, which looks incredibly brutal and actually quite creepy-looking had it been officially offered on camera, actually manages to make the skin crawl. The film picks up considerably in the last half, where it contains a little more action and features the climactic confrontation. Taking place in a large, multi-level warehouse of twisting steel and metal that looks quite frightening and looks suitable for holding a large-scale struggle. The actual events in the struggle are quite exciting, with a chilling ritual and comes to a spectacular ending. The ensuing chase is exciting, and the conclusion to it all culminates in some suspenseful moments. The set-up, which is a long and quite innovative chase through an apartment complex into a neighboring boathouse is quite fun, with the main participant being in a drugged state at the time. There's some quite nice deaths in here as well, with one being dropped onto a series of metal gratings that impale all over the body, a slit throat, a stomach slashing, some big gunshot wounds and the real impressive one where a magician's fireball blows up in a victim's face, burning most of it uncontrollably. These here are it's best features.The Bad News While it didn't have a whole lot of great features, it did have some wrong sides as well. The biggest one is the film's really hop-scotch plot. This spends a ton of time early on forging a family relationship that severely drags the film out. These are just pointless interludes that show the family relationship as being quite dysfunctional mean quite little to the fact that there's much more to that. It's quite an adventure to get through them all, as they all eventually end with the same results, and they don't change any perceptions of anything at all of how the plot's going to change. These just take up time for could've been some great stories had the time been given there instead of spending it with the family's crises. The only other thing that might not work with it is the fact that this one features a little extreme nature for something that doesn't appear to be. The fact that this one contains a really extreme subject matter with the plot about child sacrifice. This might not appeal to a lot as being something worthwhile, and this can be something to get around while viewing. Otherwise, these are it's problems.The Final Verdict While not exactly terrible, this one wasn't that great either, with a particular storyline being quite tough to get through. If that's possible, then this one isn't that bad of a viewing if not expecting greatness, but if that one might be somewhat off-putting, then seek caution with this one.Rated R Graphic Language, children in danger, after-effects of animal ritual violence, Violence and Brief Nudity "},{"Title":"Half good, half bad","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Despite featuring a wonderful cast and talented director, the black magic tinged THE BELIEVERS never lives up to its potential. It contains an intriguing premise that is eventually squashed by the killer of many a film &#150; the cliché.Based on the novel The Religion by Nicholas Conde, THE BELIEVERS presents the growing battle brewing in the back alleys and basements of NYC between Santeria (good magic) and Brujeria (witchcraft). While the good guys are only using their magic to protect, the bad guys are using it to ritually murder children. Okay, I'm with you. The mystery starts to unravel and it is engaging. But once we find out that the bad guys are affluent, predominately white yuppies, I call foul. Truly this cliché is as worn by this point in the late 80s as the other voodoo mumbo jumbo presented in the film.That is too bad because THE BELIEVERS does feature several effective and disturbing scenes. Gruesome on screen images include snakes found post-mortem in Jimmy Smits' intestines and a boil on Shaver's face bursting forth tiny spiders. There are even some memorable sets such as the haunting empty theater turned ceremony chamber where Smits' psychotic cop character is introduced or the abandoned construction site in the film's climax (despite this candle lit structure being formula for the genre itself). As stand alone scenes and set pieces, they are quite effective. But placed in context with the rest of the plodding feature, they seem strangely out of place. This is doubly shameful given the Schlesinger's previous work. After all, he is responsible for one of cinema's best cringe inducing moments (the tooth drilling torture scene in MARATHON MAN).In terms of acting, everyone is fine. Sheen, resembling an old Emilio Estevez, gets to scream a lot in the first hour or so. He is a bit more subdued in the end (after all, the cult drugs him) and he delivers the film's final k.o. with great subtlety. The film's best performances come from the Jimmy Smits and Robert Loggia as two cops snared by the occult shenanigans. Also good is Harley Cross as Sheen's preyed upon son. Cross stacked up the genre credits before he was even 15 with this, his role as the young Martin Brundle in THE FLY II (1989) and the lead in the still unreleased THE BOY WHO CRIED BITCH (1991).Hollywood was flooded with occult flicks in the late 80s, second only to the underwater film craze. Titles such as THE BELIEVERS, ANGEL HEART, THE SEVENTH SIGN, THE WITCHES OF EASTWICK and THE SERPENT AND THE RAINBOW all hit cinemas with a year of each other. As it stands, THE BELIEVERS is one of the lesser entries in this list. Believe it or not. "},{"Title":"Not half bad, really","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is a rather slick, big-budget horror picture that is kind of low on the horror, but nice if you want some suspense lite of an evening. Good story progression, boss visuals, nice special effects, good production values. There was a certain lack of dramatic tension that brought the whole thing down. The story would have been more convincing if Martin Sheen had acted, you know, a little bereaved in the wake of his wife's death. Ditto his son. Now, about that kid. This is one of the most egregious examples of the Odious Child role ever -- so much so that I really suspect him of having been the most threatening person in the story. He was a more convincingly evil character than Malik Bowen's Santeria priest -- oh, sure, the priest's eyes change color when he's feeling the Spirit, but everywhere the kid goes with his tribal fetish doll, someone dies horribly. COINCIDENCE? "},{"Title":"Effective occult thriller.","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Co-producer / director John Schlesinger of Midnight Cowboy fame is at the helm of this interesting film that takes a look into the religion of Santeria. Martin Sheen plays Cal Jamison, a police psychiatrist who moves with his young son Chris (Harley Cross) from Minnesota to New York after a horrible accident involving his wife. Soon they find that the terror isn't over as they get mixed up with various members of a cult that believes in the sacrifice of children. As in any film of this kind, it does get fascinating to see characters partake in rituals and utilize assorted items. The story is based on a novel by Nicholas Conde, condensed here by Mark Frost of 'Twin Peaks' fame, and it's fairly meaty stuff that runs close to two hours. It gets appropriately surreal and while it may not always make absolute sense, that isn't such a bad thing in a film of this kind. The cast is above average and quite convincing. Supporting Sheen are the lovely, under-rated Helen Shaver, and old pros such as Robert Loggia, Lee Richardson, Elizabeth Wilson, Harris Yulin, and Richard Masur. Jimmy Smits has a great, memorable, small but pivotal part as a detective who's part of the puzzle; he's found flying off the handle after being discovered at a murder scene. Also appearing are the excellent Raul Davila and the striking Malick Bowens; co-star Carla Pinza, who plays Carmen the housekeeper, was also the films' cultural adviser. Despite a deliberate pace, this story just draws the viewer right in with its weird atmosphere, attention to detail, and its sense of doom and gloom; after a while, one has to wonder if there is anyone that Cal can trust. The special effects are generally good, especially when insects emerge from a sore on a persons' face. The music by J. Peter Robinson is likewise good. The finale is well executed on impressive sets by Simon Holland and the cinematography is the work of the great Robby Muller. The characters are compelling; it's refreshing that our hero is not a perfect one. For one thing, he's prone to nasty outbursts. Worth a look overall; the finale would seem to be setting up a sequel but no sequel ever got made. For another look at Santeria, check out the 1972 film The Possession of Joel Delaney. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"You come to me.....","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" After the death of his wife, police psychiatrist Cal Jamison moves to New York.There he has to help in the investigation of the murder of two youths, who seem to have been immolated during a cult ritual.Jamison believes it's been Voodoo and, ignoring the warnings of his housekeeper, enters the scenery and soon gets under their influence.They try to get him to sacrifice his own son....A very worthy and sometimes very unsettling thriller, that has to be seen to really appreciate the subject matter. Sheen excels as the doubting doctor, who has to contend with the loss of his wife, and bringing up his son alone.The film is quite long and can be slow at times, but this just adds to the tension, as Schlesinger has crafted a very unsettling beginning scene, which sets the tone for the rest of the film.The first act concentrates on Sheen and his coping mechanisms, but when Palo enters the US, the film goes for a more macabre turn.Pal is a convincing creation, but a lot of the time, he stands around looking like a lonely Terminator, which sorts of crushes his sinister side.As always with film like this, there is a little twist that throws the audience, and while it is explained well and the rationale justified, the final act is a little too obscure, but still very well made.I would have rated this higher, the narrative and all the performances are great, and it is very tense throughout, but the final scene, which to be fair, looks like it was thrown in for a final 'they could be still around' scene, is out of place in this, and kind of spoils the rest of the film.Do yourself a favour, and if you see this, turn it off when you see Sheen stroking the dog, you will appreciate it a lot more. "}{"Title":"A supremely creepy and unsettling 80's occult horror winner","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Police psychiatrist Cal Jamison (an excellent and sympathetic performance by Martin Sheen) and his son Chris (a remarkably fine and mature portrayal by Harley Cross) move to New York City after Cal's wife gets killed in a freak kitchen accident. Cal assists in the investigation of a series of brutal child murders and uncovers a sinister age-old religious cult that practices ritualistic child sacrifices. Naturally, both Cal and Chris find themselves in considerable jeopardy from said cult. Director John Schlesinger, working from a bold, smart and gripping script by Mark Frost, relates the absorbing story at a steady pace, expertly maintains a potently eerie and upsetting tone which becomes more increasingly scary and unnerving as the narrative unfolds towards its chilling conclusion, creates real credibility by grounding the premise in a thoroughly plausible everyday world, makes inspired and effective use of the gritty Big Apple locations, and even delivers stinging spot-on commentary on the darker aspects of religious faith and the ruthless measures some folks will go to in order to ensure wealth and success (the cult members are business people who sacrificed their own kids to obtain tremendous fiscal gain and prosperity). The bang-up acting from the uniformly sterling cast rates as another substantial asset, with especially stand-out work from Helen Shaver as Cal's feisty landlady Jessica Halliday, the always great Robert Loggia as hard-nosed homicide detective Lieutenant Sean McTaggert, Richard Masur as Cal's jolly lawyer buddy Marty Wertheimer, a marvelously twitchy Jimmy Smits as edgy, paranoid undercover cop Tom Lopez, Harris Yulin as prominent self-made business tycoon Robert Calder, and Malick Bowens as frightening powerful high priest Palo. Moreover, this movie scores bonus points for tackling the disturbing subject of child sacrifice in an uncompromisingly grim and straightforward way; the brief shots of mutilated murdered children's' bodies in particular are truly shocking. Robert Muller's slick cinematography gives the picture an attractive glossy look. J. Peter Robinson's spooky'n'shivery score also does the spine-tingling trick. A superior fright film. "},{"Title":"Puts a lot of recent horror/suspense thrillers to shame!","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" MARTIN SHEEN stars as a psychiatrist who recently lost his wife in a horrible accident & whom relocates his son & he to a new house several months later, however he is soon caught up in a series of weird child sacrifices & gradually discovers that some worshipers (Called Santeria) who believe in the sacrifice of children & animals, is behind it all & whom have their sights set on his own son as their next victim! THE BELIEVERS was a really creepy, but very entertaining, thrill ride in the horror suspense genre. The actors were great, as was the direction & the film keeps moving & always gives us something interesting to watch while delivering some great suspense sequences & a neat twist ending! Although the subject matter may be a little disturbing don't let that stop you from seeing this gem of a movie! Highly Recommended! **** stars "},{"Title":"Under-Rated Vodoo Horror","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I read the complaints from some of the reviews for this film on this web site and they are absolutely and completely ignorant. I'm sure these are the same people that gave Independence Day nine stars. Do any of these critics know how difficult it is to write screenplays let alone adapt a novel into one. This film is a wonderfully done artistic creation that relies on true acting, wonderful cinematography, excellent direction, and great screen writing. This is a quality voodoo horror film for intelligent viewers that need more than pointless deaths and nudity. Wonderfully done creation. "},{"Title":"I did it. We'll be safe now.","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" And another child was saved... a most extraordinary child... who's taught us so much. Other the years he's become like a son to us. Not having seen The Serpent And The Rainbow (1988), Angel Heart (1987) or Rosemary's Baby (1968), I have nothing to compare this film to. It is supposedly in the same vein.I have to agree with those who find the first half very slow. Except for a brief glimpse of Helen Shaver's breast and her ample booty, there was nothing of interest.It did get better in the second half, especially with Shaver. It all comes to a bloody end, as Martin Sheen moves to save his son, played well by Harley Cross.This was Jimmy Smits' third film, and he gave a great performance as a Santeria victim. "},{"Title":"a film that did not go deep enough","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  At a time when organized religion looked normal this film was released in one version GABRIEL DAMON played the son or was in the movie also in a alternate set of trailers. The trailers and several other cuts of scenes featured alternate versions. THE BELIEVERS is a good film, yet one cut is so shockingly good I wish it was out on tape or in a revival theatre. I saw this film in a theatre and on video and was pleased, yet there is more that could have been done in my opinion.  "},{"Title":"Good, well done thriller.","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  A police therapist is called upon when a whole bunch of children are killed off in a ritual style and it looks like his son is next. Tense, scary, well acted and directed and featuring plenty of style. Based on the book The Occult.Well deserved 8/10 "},{"Title":"too long of a buildup to nothing","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" i guess this movie is a bit eerie at times.it's basically about people who practice an obscure religion,with bizarre beliefs.but i've seen at least one movie quite similar to it,possibly more.so not only is there not much originality,but nothing new is done with the material.plus i pretty much figured things out from the get go.the whole movie is basically one slow build.but to what,i'm not sure.i mean there is a bit of excitement in the last 25 minutes or so.but the ending is very predictable.generally i found this movie too boring to watch right through.i had to stop it several times,and then try to continue.actually i completely stopped it at one point,until this morning,when i finally finished it.some people will like this movie,and some will not.i fall into the category of not,for the most part.the acting was good though,so that's always a bonus.even so,i give The Believers a 4/10 "},{"Title":"A gross out fest. Nothing more. (spoilers)","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I think the filmmakers knew they were dealing with an almost non-existent plot, at least not one strong enough to fill the 114 minutes it was supposed to and, to improvise, paid far too much attention to special effects, trying to make more of a gore fest instead of really trying to develop an interesting story. Granted, in horror movies, special effects can really make the movie quite visually spectacular and altogether aid in entertainment, but when you're short on story, you're just short on story, plain and simple.Following something like 'Rosemary's Baby' (which this film clearly resembles in the final scenes when Martin Sheen is trying to save his boy from a cult of weirdos in a warehouse), this is the story of a group of people in a voodoo cult, and particularly, they're after one man's son for their next ritual. (If you don't happen to understand what the heck is going on through most of the movie, don't worry, they pretty much save any real explanation--and hints thereof--till the finale scene in those just-in-case-we-didn't-explain-it-well closing dialogs). Martin Sheen, therefore, has to figure out why all these people are dying and what exactly it has to do with him and his son. Of course, they turned a relatively smart guy into a blithering idiot, since he doesn't seem to make the connection fast enough that the people he knew and that he comes in contact with are dying, usually horribly violent deaths. That is, until the end, when it is almost too late to do anything.Again, the filmmakers spend far too much time trying to gross the viewers out with extremely graphic death scenes. Not but three minutes into the film, Sheen's wife (Janet-Lane Greene) is electrocuted for a good minute to a horribly grim death. If you can stand that, you can probably stand the rest of the attempted gross out sequences in the remainder of the film. You'll have to, since there is not much else going on. All of these characters appear to struggle with one another, but none of them have any real sense of what is going on (save the later voodoo jargon that may bore you to death), so you don't get much to go on either. That is really a shame, too, considering the potential of such a tremendous cast which also includes Richard Masur, Robert Loggia, Jimmy Smits (in a good part), and young Harley Cross doing a fine job as Martin Sheen's son (but that is not surprising, if you have seen 'Cohen and Tate').It's a like it or leave it kind of movie. For fans of Harley Cross, I say try it. For those interested in the story, I'd say you're better off with 'Rosemary's Baby.' "},{"Title":"I watched this one not really expecting a horror movie.","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I was expecting some horror to be sure, I just was not expecting a full blown horror movie with some supernatural stuff thrown in to boot. I was more expecting a serious thriller dealing with cults or something. The movie seems to have a plot device similar to a Dean Koontz book I have heard about in that a cult is out to get the child of a man whose wife dies in a rather unpleasant way right at the beginning of the movie. The cult is sort of on the voodoo side of things and the movie has them doing things in their power to not only to sacrifice the guy's son, but to get him to do it. Add a bit more to it and you have yourself a really good horror movie. There still is a bit to much thriller and drama in it to be a really good horror movie though and I have never been wild about Martin Sheen. I actually always enjoyed watching his son's movies more. So in the end you get a movie that seems to not quite know what it really wants to be, but it had enough horror elements in it for me to overall enjoy. "},{"Title":"you won't 'believe' how lame...","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The beginning and ending shots of this film are two of the creepiest I've ever seen.  Unfortunately everything in the middle is worthless and dull.  After a shocking (no pun) opening scene of sheer horror and tragedy, the script grinds to a halt and goes into its sleepy plot.  Things kick off with Sheen and his son moving to New York where he works as a cop-shrink.  Bodies of children begin to pop up and the prime people involved somehow or another gravitate to Sheen.  Of course at one point his kid will get involved, but the ride there is so dragged out somewhat confusing at times that your interest is lost.  What carries it is Sheen's performance.  In one of his few chances to play a lead (the year this came out he had a signifigantly smaller part in the huge Wall Street) he really has a terrific presence and voice that draws you to the character.  The downside is that they stick him in such dumb situations that you really see him get wasted.  Take the scene where he's spanking away on his brat son who thought it would be fun to pull a tempertantrum which included darting across rush hour traffic.  The kid deserves the wailing, but Sheen five minutes later is apologizing saying he'll never do it again.  Too weak.  Plus a few minutes before that the flick vears into Family Movie of The Week territory where the punk kid acts up toward his potential step-mother.  And don't get me started on the scene involving the maid being fired.  Talk about shut up already!.  The film is partially redeemed by a truly eerie score and that final shot that, though it doesn't make much sense, suggests that Sheen's ride is not over.  They also throw in a couple shock scenes to keep you awake, like Shaver's runaway zit (good to see that she wasn't cast just to take her clothes off).  Mostly this will bore, so maybe check out those first five minutes then fast forward to the final ten, heh heh. "}{"Title":"mediocre and racist too","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is yet another movie that portrays African-influenced religions as evil.  Since Hollywood never depicts Voodoo, Yoruba or Santeria in any other light, it's hard not to see this as racist.Even if that doesn't bother you, this film is generally disappointing.It's not all bad.  I like Martin Sheen, and he's fun to watch here as a police psychiatrist and a dad who becomes embroiled in the machinations of a cult in New York City.However, the love story seems artificial, and there are a number of gaps in the logic of the story.  The movie strives for realism but degenerates as the plot unravels.  When the mystery of the cult is ultimately revealed, it just doesn't seem believable. "}]