[{"Title":"Nostalgia rules okay?","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my favourite films. I've watched it many times and what's more my grand-daughters enjoy it too, and they don't even know the two stars like I do.It's funny, with a good pacey script. It has something to make you think about - getting older, not fitting in and being a geriatric rebel. It's got action, a bank robbery , a fist fight with some great dialogue. It's got comedy (see Kirk trying on hot clothes taking advice from a CCTV shop assistant) and also it has some touching scenes of Burt in the old people's home, where he's forced to live.The supporting cast has class - Eli Wallach, Dana Carvey, Charles Durning and Alexis Smith. And to top it all there's a terrific train chase finale. Besides which Burt and Kirk were made for this film. It brought back a lot of good memories for me and I can thoroughly recommend it. Enjoy, as they say.... "},{"Title":"The End of the Line, Harry and Archie","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The 1980s was a period of transition as many great film legends died. Cary Grant, Bette Davis, Lawrence Olivier, Fred Astaire, Jimmy Cagney were just a few of those who left the scene. But there were attempts (before the end) to bring some of the great figures together. Bette Davis and Jimmy Steward made there only film together. Henry Fonda and Katherine Hepburn did ON GOLDEN POND. Cagney appeared with pal Pat O'Brien, as well as Donald O'Connor, in RAGTIME. Davis appeared with Lillian Gish, Anne Southern, and Vincent Price in THE WHALES OF AUGUST. And Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas appeared in this film.In the Oscar ceremonies of 1985, Lancaster and Douglas had come in together to deliver an award, and everyone noted how healthy both men still were. It was over two decades since they appeared in a film as co-stars (SEVEN DAYS IN MAY), and some of the news items in the wake of their appearance suggested it was too bad there was no property that they could develop together. Shortly afterward this comedy was produced.It had a great build-up, and I was fortunate to see it in a movie house. But it did not have a massive audience box-office, and was gone within six weeks. It was too bad, because it was a funny film, and would turn out to be the best comedy buddy film of the films that they did together.Harry and Archie (Lancaster and Douglas) pulled off one of the smoothest and most impressive railway train robberies in American history back in 1947. They almost got away with it, except for the persistence of a police officer (played by Charles Durning) who broke the case and managed to bring them to jail. They have served nearly forty years in jail, and when released they are in for time shocks. After all, they were used to the world of 1946/47. While both are physically fit, both can't get out of their mental views from their youth.On top of that, they have to deal with Durning, whose police career - after it's brilliant start - petered out leaving him embittered, and desperate to prove himself to the young pups who count the days until his enforced retirement. They have to deal with parole officer Dana Carvey, who has all the typical problems of a nice, naive parole officer. They have to deal with hostility around them from all peoples - mostly the young, but the middle aged are not much better. They resemble Reggie Kray, one time kingpin of London's largest criminal empire, who in his later years when interviewed pointed out to reporters that (while he did not dismiss his own use of violence against opponents in other gangs) he did dislike the lack of respect he observed towards older citizens. He and his brother Ronnie never stood for that kind of thing. Neither do Harry and Archie here. When threatened as easy, elderly targets by a gang of punks, they beat up the punks quite effectively.To add to their woes is the most ridiculous, but scrupulous, hit-man in modern cinema Leon B. Little (Eli Wallach - who almost walks off with the picture). Hired on a contract against the boys back in their heyday, their being in prison prevented the ever ready Little from completing their executions. Even the death of the idiot who hired him means nothing - he was paid already, and he has a code of honor with his clients. That in the end, the battle of youth and old age unites Lancaster, Douglas, Wallach, and even Durning should not surprise anyone. All four manage to demonstrate that it is street smarts and brains, not youthful idealism (paging Carvey) that will win out in the end. The film has some nice moments, such as Douglas almost going in for dirty dancing with a young chippy, and Lancaster protesting the slop he has to eat in an old age home, and memorably showing his teeth to advantage for a purpose (for a change). It was a good conclusion to the long road of movies these two cinema giants made together - and a funny one too. "},{"Title":"Tough act to follow, though weak plot","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wasn't disappointed when in 1986, Burt Lancaster announced on BBC's Wogan show that his new movie was going to star himself and his long time friend and frequent co-star Kirk Douglas. Since their first pairing in the brilliant noir thriller 'I Walk Alone' (1947), Lancaster and Douglas had made several appearances together. Who can forget Lancaster's tough talking Wyatt Earp and Douglas's equally tough yet terminally ill Doc Holliday in 'Gunfight at the OK Corral'? So now it was the mid 80's, the age of the pepsi generation, I wondered how these two consistent stars would adapt to staring together again for the first time since the 60's. The answer is brilliant.Harry Doyle (Lancaster), and Archie Long (Douglas) are released from prison after a 30 years sentence after being caught dead bang robbing a train. Eager to make a clean sweep, the two senior citizens, are looking forward to starting their new legitimate lives. However, all is not as they had hoped on the outside, and Harry and Archie have problems coming to terms with the way the world has changed. Director Kanew gives us a new genre here. Instead of the 'fish out of water' scenario, we have the 'two fishes that have been put back in the water after a severely long time' genre. However, Kanew also gives the audience the inevitable Clichés that go with it, and is always ready to fall back on a youth versus experience incident just about everytime the movie gets enjoyable. After being humiliated, patronised, and generally treated like dirt for the better part of a week, The two ageing gangsters decide that a life of crime has to be better then honest work, and predictably they revert to their previous careers as train robbers.The film is enjoyable there's no escaping it, but there are more holes in the plot than there are in a grannies cardigan, and is also SOoooo predictable in fact the films outcome is more predictable than the outcome of a fight betwix elephant and duck. First of all to get 30 years simply for robbing a train, seems a bit excessive for the viewer to even find it believable. Co-incidentally the day the get out of prison is 1 week before the train they were caught robbing is making it's farewell run.This aside the film IS enjoyable, and Lancaster and Douglas play their parts wonderfully and you enjoy the film more for their presence. Other cast members also rate highly, Eli Wallach is by far the funniest character, and his wonderful performance in some ways steals the film from it's intended stars. and the devine Alexis Smith makes a small cameo as Lancaster's ex lover. Charles Durning is unfortunately once again typecast as the over-weight lazy flatfoot (ala Dog Day Afternoon/The Sting) and although his performances are always good, you get tired pretty quickly of his tough talking patronising character. and finally there is (Pre Wayne's World) Dana Carvey as the Youthful Idealistic Parole Officer, but it's a shame that Carvey is restricted to playing pretty much a straight character, especially considering he is probably one of the funniest men working in Hollywood today.Tough Guys should have been better, but I feel Kanew spent most of the budget on getting the perfect Sterling cast, rather than to hire a good script writer. Worth watching for the final appearance on-screen of this top notch duo. Since Lancaster's Death in 1994, I've warmed to this movie more knowing it could never happen again. It's just a shame it wasn't better as it could have been much better.  "},{"Title":"The Terrible Tempered Twins Ride Again","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas were inexorably linked not just by their co-starring films together, but by the fact that Hedda Hopper in one of her books did a chapter on both of them. She entitled the chapter, The Terrible Tempered Twins and she bemoaned the fact that these two instead of being good little captives of the studio system that kept her in business, had the audacity to chart their own careers. Go into the production end and take total responsibility for the work they did.It would never have worked had not Lancaster and Douglas not been good judges of the roles they were best suited for. Some stars never wanted that kind of responsibility or felt they were poor judges. William Holden said point blank after one picture where he was the producer, the responsibility was too much for him. Robert Taylor was widely quoted that he stayed with MGM as long as he did because he felt they knew best how to present him and what were good film properties.But Burt and Kirk knew their minds and made their own careers work. Fortunately before both of them in the Nineties were felled by illness and Lancaster left us, they gave us one more co-starring part. This one's a comedy though, something different for them. As Harry Doyle and Archie Long two elderly crooks released after a thirty year stretch for robbing the West Coast Flyer train, they find roles perfectly suited to their age and personality.Lancaster's old and he knows it, but he still wants to be treated with some dignity. Douglas hasn't quite figured it out yet, but in time he gets the fact that time's caught up with him. They just can't adjust to changing times so they try all kinds of things to fit in. And then they decide on one spectacular coda to their lives and careers in the wonderful world of crime.The two men are in great form and they get some able support from Alexis Smith, Charles Durning and Dana Carvey in the supporting cast. But special comment must be made for Eli Wallach's seeing eye hit-man. Good thing his part is not as long as the stars because he steals every scene he's in. "},{"Title":"Tough Guys","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Watched it again on late night TV. Still funny after all these years. You could still see the occasional flashes of the old Kirk D, chilling look etc and Burt still has the movement of an athlete even at age 73, and his trade mark mirthless laugh but it was Eli Wallach who stole the film, absolutely brilliant. I think his character was stolen by the writers of a BBC TV comedy called Last of the Summer Wine which has a very short sighted character called Eli. So many scenes were so good that it makes it difficult to pick the best but I think the scene outside the old folks home is excellent when Leon B. Little picks himself up using the Zimmer frame, cruel but funny.The ending was a bit of an anticlimax (same comment applies to The Blues Brothers. "},{"Title":"Good fun, shows they really don't make them like they used to","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tough Guys re-unites after a near 30 year gap the screen pairing of Kirk Douglas and Burt Lancaster and as such it's a wonderful piece of nostalgia. The premise suits the stars very well Archie Long and Harry Doyle after 30 years in prison for a train robbery are released into society and find things aren't want the used to be back in the old neighbourhood. The duo are soon mixed up with a short sighted hit-man (a scene stealing Eli Wallach), a hero worshipping parole officer (Dana Cavey), an old time cop convinced they'll rob again (Charles Durning) and some seriously 80's style thugs. Add to this just dealing with Archies day job and Harry's new life in a retirement home and their is a recipe for comedy and some surprisingly touching moments as the pair come to terms with old age.The film is fun and well paced although there are some big plot holes and inconsistencies you can overlook these as its not a serious film. Douglas and Lancaster are clearly having a blast making the movie and seeing them on screen again one last time is great. I'd recommend this film for a feel good comedy or a bit of nostalgia for older movie fans. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Tough Guys","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Legends Douglas and Lancaster play two aging ex-train robbers who set out to prove they're not over the hill for one more heist. A fun film. It's nice to see two legends go head to head and have a few laughs...  "},{"Title":"Great fun from two legends!","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kirk Douglas. Burt Lancaster. 'Nuff said! As two train robbers, released from prison after a 30 year stretch, this dynamic duo try to adjust to life in the '80's and all the changes that have taken place. Douglas looks great for a man in his 60's and eventually attracts the eye of a young aerobics instructor. Their scenes together are both funny and sincere, as the differences between them eventually dictate the direction of their relationship. Kirk is also forced to work in menial jobs that involve him dealing with rude customers and a boss who doesn't like ex-cons. These scenes provide the film's best humor. Lancaster's role however is far less interested, as he is relegated to an old-folks home, wherein he becomes somewhat of a revolutionary. Realizing that they just don't fit in with society anymore, the two return to train robbing and the film moves downhill from this point. Eli Wallach contributes some funny scenes as a near-sighted hit-man who has waited 30 years to fulfill a contract to kill the duo. Despite the thin script, this is a very enjoyable film that may best be viewed with a senior citizen family member who can both identify with the characters and who remembers Lancaster and Douglas when they were A-List actors. I recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Motley crew, and odd couple, but Tough Guys.","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Two of my favorite icon bad boys, are 'on' for the last 'ride' of their lives. I'm sure that while this one won't bring any awards to these two gentlemen, it is one heck of a good time!! The theme song for the movie They Don't Make Them Like They Used To Performed by Kenny Rogers was Nominated for a Golden Globe, however. The aging train robbers, it's so old school that it's totally cool. They argue and challenge each other's decisions, they chase women, they make each other laugh and on-top of that those who appreciate these two fine actors laugh a lot more. I have to say as well, that I enjoyed Dana Carvey (Richie)in this, more than anything else I have ever seen him in. With the other classic actor crowd, you have a who's 'who' of talent that spanned decades before this movie was ever made. As a matter of fact when some of these people were in their hay day, the golden age of Hollywood, the director, Jeff Kanew was just a cute little baby then. But I must say, that this director did a terrific job with these professional old schoolers and I'm glad it was him. These 'Tough guys' got it all along with a few bad guys and one old near-sighted hit-man, (played by Eli Wallach) that has had a contract on these two for over thirty years and he is itching to collect on it. Cause he never 'welches' on a contract. Even when the one who paid for the hit-contract, is dead...for three decades now.With an array of classic songs and some current in the mid-eighties rock and alternative stuff, the mix of style and generations colliding together make the communications and miss-understandings hilarious! The street punk-tough guys never knew what hit them, when these two 'classic' operators got-out-the-joint!! New ghetto, old rules. And if it weren't rough enough that these two 'grampa's' (the gang member referred to Archie and Harry as) knocked these guys confidence down and gave them a little pain to remember them by, leave and then the hit-man who's hot on their trail suddenly shows up and asks the gang members where the two old guys went? The members of the gang remember the 'two' tough guys and think, this one guy is looking for both of them!! They panic! Break and run! After they scattered into their holes, the old hit-man seeing their radio blaring on the fence, shouts Hey! You forgot your jukebox!! Then Blasts 'it' (The Boombox-Ghetto Blaster) to bits, with a double barrel Winchester shotgun. Pieces everywhere and then silence, the hit-man squints looking through his 'goggles' and complains about noise pollution. But hey! Don't let the goggles fool ya, he's a 'Sharp shooter! That scene is a modern day comedy, 'classic' that I loved from the moment the movie previews were showing the 'coming attractions'. This one really hits the satisfaction zone. I gave it an excellent rating because it is. The thing that offended me was Kirk (or Archie) 'dropped trow' showing his 'bum' when he was on top of the train making his get away, although it was funny and some of the women said, that was 'cute'. But that is just something I don't want to see. The two where sharp dressed men though!Seemingly I don't know too many of their generation that fully appreciate them in this 'role' because I believe that some think that they are lowering themselves by being common criminals. Or maybe it's all the cursing, but I say to those of the golden-age of Hollywood generation, they are not but common criminals, they are extraordinary-train robbers, looking for a final Heist. Charles Durning is a good ambitious detective on their trail, who comes of age to an 'understanding' in the final pursuit. They all (director and actors)'were right on the money' to coin an 'oldism' in putting together a well-aged action adventure hero/villain movie. I especially rolled in laughter at the end, when they crossed the Mexican Border. The 'Federallie's' Captain says We got you now. And then immediately Archie starts to 'School' him and his band, in the rules of the game. Then, right afterward, the Federally asks Play by rules, what rules?And Archie looks at Harry and then BoOm!! right in the jewels.--Uggh! Gentlemen, you made a fan and a believer out of a younger generation guy. cheers! "},{"Title":"Two screen icons in their last good role","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Of course Kirk Douglas did quite a few more films after this but he didn't do em with this kind of fun in mind.Two former train robbers get parole after 30 years. Now they have to decide what to do when they get out. They're 65 and 72 years old and don't have a lot of skills. On top of that they don't fit in the 80's way of life. Their parole officer tells them they cant see each other for 3 years as per condition of their parole. They both have a heckuva time adjusting to this new existence and finally decide to go back to their old way of life.This is one of those 80's gems that I never forgot. Two great actors in their last good film doing what they do best... Acting tough and being guys....Tough Guys. Burt Lancaster is the straight man and Kirk Douglas has all the good lines. Keep a watch out for Eli Wallach...he steals almost the entire film with the small role he has. Yes you will see a very young Dana Carvey pre SNL.Grab this 80's flick and have a laugh cause I'll bet it won't be too hard to do. "}{"Title":"80's classic","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tough Guys is the 7th and final film legendary actors Kirk Douglas and Burt Lancaster made together . They play Harry Doyle ( Lancaster ) and Archie Long ( Douglas ) , the last American train robbers who just finished a 30 year prison sentence. A lot has changed since the 1950's as they attempt to adjust to civilian life in 1980's Los Angeles.Tough Guys as a film holds up real well due to the great chemistry of Lancaster and Douglas .Eli Wallach nearly steals the show as an aging hit-man who 's waited 30 years to kill Doyle and Long .Charles Durning and Dana Carvie are great as well in this fast paced ,nostalgic action comedy . Also check out an early performance from The Red Hot Chili Peppers before they blew up and were still part of the LA punk scene. Tough Guys is still funny and is easily one of the most overlooked comedies to come out in the late 80's . Definitely needs a US DVD release as my VHS tape won't last forever.Tough Guys is a great comedy classic that should satisfy fans of the 80's. "},{"Title":"Two Classics at it again!","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thought this movie was very funny and who can forget ** Spoiler ALERT ** Kirk Douglass in spandex! It was great to see the two actors at it again and work so well together. Yes the plot may be a bit cheesy, but who cares! You watching this to see these two great actors work together in perhaps their last movie together and enjoy their chemistry and the situations they get into. It was one of the best movies I have seen with them in it and it was so good to see them together again and work so well together. I have watched it many times and wish I could get it on DVD now as I would love to see it again many more times.A must see for old fans and new! "},{"Title":"Not their best teaming, but Lancaster and Douglas work well together","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a rather light comedy, not an exceptional film, but entertaining enough.  While Kirk Douglas and Burt Lancaster turn in engaging performances, the movie is stolen by Eli Wallach, whose character is nothing if not persistent!  There are some very funny bits here.  If you're looking for something light, funny and enjoyable, this one works.  Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Lightweight vehicle for two ever-likable old pros. Nothing to get excited about, but nothing to dislike either.","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The teaming of stars Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas is really the only reason to watch this thin comedy caper. United on screen for the sixth time (and, let it be noted, their first movie work together since Seven Days in May in 1964), Lancaster and Douglas breeze through this nonsensical fluff with tongues firmly in cheek. You will never see Tough Guys on anybody's top-100 list, but it is a likable time filler that doesn't particularly tax the patience.Train robbers Archie Long (Douglas) and Harry Doyle (Lancaster) are released from jail after serving thirty years for their misdemeanours. They find themselves under the eye of a young parole officer called Richie Evans (Dana Carvey) who is an enthusiastic expert on their previous crimes. His job is to integrate them back into society but it is no easy task as much has changed during their time inside. Harry tries to settle into a quiet life in a retirement home, where he becomes enamoured with an old lady friend named Belle (Alexis Smith). Archie, meanwhile, takes up a job in an ice cream parlour and tries in his spare time to adapt to a party playboy lifestyle, even getting himself a sexy young mistress in the shape of Skye Foster (Darlanne Fluegel). Neither man seems truly happy playing up to a cultural ideal that doesn't really fit their personality&#133;. and slowly but surely their minds start turning to crime, just like old times. They even find themselves hunted by a short-sighted contract killer named Leon B. Little (Eli Wallach), still desperate to bump them off to fulfil a contract he was entrusted with more than thirty years previously. Eventually, Archie and Harry decide to complete the train robbery for which they were captured all those years ago. That's crazy declares the train driver as his train is hijacked, no-one robs trains any more. But rob it they do, just for the sheer thrill of it, hurtling full steam for the Mexican border with old law adversary Deke Yablonski (Charles Durning) hot on their trail.Tough Guys never amounts to anything more than harmless fun. Most of the jokes relate to the cultural alienation that greets Archie and Harry after so long cut off from the real world. They are bewildered and a little disappointed to find their old neighbourhood populated by punks with attitude; new technology, new fashion; louder music; permissive attitudes. Worst of all, their former gang members have grown old and tired, mere shells of their previous selves. The story itself doesn't hang together believably, but this barely matters - even the director and stars don't seem particularly bothered about the finer points of narrative and character logic. It's all just meant as a little nostalgic fun. And, while Tough Guys is never better nor worse than average, it remains an undemanding-to-watch slice of fun for those in the mood for something light and easy. "},{"Title":"Odd To See Classic Stars  In Sleazy Script","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It was nice to see aging superstars Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas together as a pair of old train robbers back on the streets after 30 years in jail. However, the story is a little hard to take with any credibility and - call me old-fashioned - I didn't care to see and hear a couple of classic film stars involved in modern-day sleaze.As someone who has seen thousands of classic films, it just seems odd to see two famous actors in a film like this with the profanity and sex, although I had already seen Lancaster in Atlantic City (1980). Still, seeing a hot 25-year-old falling for Douglas and the two having sex all night, was a little strange to witness. The major part of the credibility gap, however, was how unreal they made all the other characters in the film. All these two guys confront, after getting out of jail, are horrible people, unrealistically horrible, one after the other. Everyone is incredibly rude, obnoxious and just plain nasty to our two old friends. It's overdone so much it's ridiculous. The world can be a bad place, but, come on - it's not THAT bad!The story was that people were so rotten and that life was so miserable that the two fellas were forced to go back into bank robbing. Ahhh, what an inspiring story!! "},{"Title":"The Legends Make it a Must See","Date":"2 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tough Guys (1986) *** (out of 4) At times hilarious comedy about train robbers (Burt Lancaster, Kirk Douglas) who get released from prison after doing a thirty-year stretch and find that they're all washed up on the outside. After getting kicked around and mistreated one time too many the duo decide to prove that they've still got what it takes so they plan on stealing another train. TOUGH GUYS isn't a masterpiece and it shouldn't be taken as some sort of important art film. The only reason this movie was made was to give friends and legends Lancaster and Douglas a shot at doing another picture together and fans of the legends are going to be extremely happy to see them together and turning in strong performances. Yes, the screenplay and story is silly at the very best but there's no denying that the two actors are at the top of their game and really make this a wonderfully entertaining picture. As you'd expect, there's a lot of silly jokes but thankfully the majority of them work. These type of jokes include the two men running into some street hoods, a wonderful scene where Douglas enters a gay bar not knowing it and there's an entire subplot about a crazed hit-man (Eli Wallach) trying to knock them off. What makes this film so special is seeing Lancaster and Douglas acting together again and it's as if they hadn't lost a step because the two have such wonderful chemistry together that they remind you why they're one of the screen's best duos. The two actors appear to be having the time of their lives working together and just look at their comic timing with each other. You can see it in early scenes where the two get into an argument about their habits in jail and you can see it during a terrific sequence where they are messing with the hoods. The film also offers a few nice dramatic moments including the scenes where the two start to realize that they're getting old and there's nothing they can do about it. The two actors are truly terrific together and they alone make the film worth viewing. The supporting cast is just as strong with Dana Carvey, Charles Durning and Alexis Smith doing fine work. Wallach is also extremely funny as the hit-man who has been waiting for thirty-years to knock the boys off. The final thirty-minutes or so starts to lose gas and it leads up to a highly unlikely ending but there's still no question that this film has some very funny moments and the two legends, in their last film together, make it a must see. "},{"Title":"Another odd couple","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There was an emphasis on making buddy movies in the 80's and Disney under the Touchstone banner was probably one of the biggest contributors to this genre in that decade. Not only did they make this film but also Stakeout and the very poor, even though it was a minor hit, Outrageous Fortune.Here we have Kirk Douglas and Burt Lancaster. Although, Kirk Douglas is given first credit, the emphasis is on Burt Lancaster's character, Harry Doyle. As a man who has been in prison for most of his adult life and is getting old, you could go a lot of directions with the character. Lancaster plays it beautifully and never once do you think that he is playing it for laughs as I'm sure many lesser talents would do. Kirk Douglas on the other hand is given less to play with. A man, who tries to keep up but ultimately is pretty much out of step. He gets a younger girlfriend but the storyline is a bit hackneyed and does not contain one single thing that couldn't be predicted.Meanwhile, Lancaster gets to have some fun with an old flame. Not to say that this story is anymore interesting to see than the Douglas romance but it is sweet.The thing to admire here is Douglas' and Lancaster's dealing with their antagonists which consists of basically everybody they meet, save for the two ladies and one caring probation officer (Dana Carvey in a rare unfunny performance). They seem to take the approach that so what if they have enemies and I can see why. Their foes are made to look pretty ridiculous and absolutely no threat. The great Charles Durning, plays a cop who wants to nail them one more time but not so much because he think they are bad but to prove something to himself. And then as a capper, we get Eli Wallach as a near blind and almost totally insane hit-man. Bravo. This has to be his most funny performance ever. Not for one moment can you take him serious as a hit-man but Douglas and Lancaster, gents as they are, do let him think so. "},{"Title":"Two ex-cons find they don't fit in the senior circuit","Date":"17 October 2015","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a very lightweight comedy with a lightweight script. But, silly premises are OK for comedy like this. The big value to the film is in the actors it brings together &#x96; several in their senior years. Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas were two great actors who entertained millions of moviegoers since the mid-1940s. Here they play two convicts being released from prison after 30 years.But times have changed and Harry Doyle (Lancaster) and Archie Long (Douglas) have more than a little difficulty adjusting. They don't quite fit in. Archie doesn't mind the society changes in the over- sexed gym manager he finds. Harry can't get used to the rudeness and lack of manners and respect he finds all around him. This is a move that should make people think about how our society has changed in some ways that are not for the better. The film has a nice dose of action with some very funny encounters. Charles Durning adds to the humor as the detective (Deke Yablonski) who originally caught the two thieves after they pulled off the last train robbery in U.S. history. A number of other actors lend to the fun of this film. But one stands out &#x96; Eli Wallach as Leon Little. None of us know until the very end of the film why this guy has been gunning for the two ex-cons since the day they were released from prison. They don't even know who he is, so that revelation and the film ending are a real hoot. This is a warm-hearted film with a lesson or two that modern folks might gain by. But, because it moves slowly it's not likely that many people of the Millennial generation would sit still for it. "},{"Title":"Great film, 2 Greats in one funny film","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tough Guys, for me, is a very intriguing film, you have two film greats together,  and despite their ages, which are beyond their heyday so to speak,, they are still upthere..Of special interest to me was the train the train used, it is not a fictional train but one owned and currently kept up by the City of Portland,Or. -in constant us..it is considered to be the most beautiful train in the world..forerunner to Amtraks Coast Starlight..Overall, the movie is well worth watching to watch two aging guys still pull it off, and if you are a train buff you'll shudder at some of the things that happen to the train too.. See it, Shame it is only VHS "},{"Title":"They Don't Make 'Em Like They Used To","Date":"17 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It is very rare that the movie's first line will sum the entire movie up, but Kenny Rogers song of They Don't Make 'em like they used to sums this one up.They really don't make movies like this anymore, although this was nearly 30 years ago to this date. I was fortunate to go to London and get this on DVD where it was available there back in 2007, around the same time I had discovered about region free DVD players and secret codes on Region 1 DVD players.I was told this film really wasn't the best, and well it really isn't Oscar worthy but they really don't seem to make films like this anymore. This film was made in 1986 but had more of an older feeling to it something you might see on PBS, but it still is very entertaining funny.The plot has Harry Doyle (Burt Lancaster) and Archie Long (Kirk Douglas) as two old guys finishing a 30 year prison sentence for robbing a train, and now have to face a new world. They have a very friendly but firm parole officer named Richie (played by Dana Carvey which I believe might be his very first major role), but like I said has to be firm because his boss Yablonski (played by Charles Durning) who originally busted the two is on his tail. And to make it more humorous his boss is on him telling him to take it easy and focus on his easy job of computer records. Plus there's this hero like guy who resents the two paroled Leon B. Little (Eli Wallach) who's trying to kill them.Of course being on parole is really like being on a leash, Archie Long is given a job whilst luckily Harry gets retirement checks but has to live in a very boring rest home. The two basically envy each other for that, the other wanting a job and the other wanting to sit back and relax. That's another common thing, even though these two are best friends they argue a lot with each other.Getting out into the real world that's now 30 years older than they remembered isn't easy, but they seem to be good at it, although not as good as they used to be or want to be. Harry has to deal with living a boring rest home with very sloppy boring food and following a very strict schedule.Archie's first job does not go well in an ice cream store, where this one kid tries to pull every 'the customer is right' antic in the book on him. Archie ends up throwing ice cream in his face. The second job does not go any better as on the second day 3 customers and his boss jump on him with demands at once; this leads to Archie giving them the demands in a peculiar fashion, but what really is funny is how the 3rd customer is laughing his head off until Archie approaches him, the customer a bit more sedated has a look of, 'I'm dead now, but it was worth it'Going to a clothing store is at a loss for Archie when he's told their colors are peach, avocado, mocha, cherry, and etc, which Archie replies, I don't want to eat the suit, I just want to wear it.Those are just a few funny scenes in this 1 hour 45 minute film. This is definitely a rare gem.The only thing I found annoying was the character Leon B. Little. He was annoying IMO, and basically seemed to curse every chance he got. While he was funny at times, he just seemed too uppity for his own good. But overall definitely a solid gem that I would strongly recommend seeing if you enjoy comedy flicks. "}{"Title":"Don't expect too much","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Two years after he brought us Revenge of the Nerds, director Jeff Kanew presented us with a film that could have been entitled Revenge of the Elderly Ex-cons, as two senior citizens who have just completed a thirty year jail sentence find themselves at odds with the society that they have been forced to re-enter.Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas are Harry Doyle and Archie Long, the last two Tough Guys to rob a train, way back in 1955. When the pair hear that the Gold Coast Flyer, the very train they attempted to do over three decades earlier, is making it's final run, the temptation to try again is very strong indeed.Basically geared as a comedy, Kanew's film fails to send its audience into hysterics as everything comes off second rate. Douglas and Lancaster appear to enjoy themselves, but neither is capable of any inspiration, in a show which displays similarities to Cocoon, with its theme of the oldies showing the young ones how its done.Fans of the two veteran actors may get the odd laugh from Tough Guys, but don't expect too much form this B-grade comedy.Sunday, June 26, 1994 - Video "}]