[{"Title":"Decent enough 'fun' flick","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The original Beverley Hills Cop is one of those films that remains a cult classic because of the fact that it's such a product of the time it was made. This quintessential eighties style is carried over to the sequel, made three years later, and although part two; like many sequels, never quite manages that same verve as the original film - it still offers a good time, and anyone that enjoyed the first instalment (and who didn't?) will probably have a good time with this sequel too. All the main players from the original film have been rounded up once again, with Eddie Murphy heading a capable ensemble cast, lots of wisecracks and some gratuitously over the top action sequences. The plot is, as you would expect, superfluous to the style of the film; and much of the movie is simply tailored around it; but anyway, it follows maverick copper Axel Foley and his two California police cronies as they are pulled into a case known as the 'alphabet murders', which involves a robbery, a tall blonde woman and a gun shop owner.I've got to say that Eddie Murphy's wisecracks were a lot funnier in the first film. While they were still over the top, they were at least sort of believable. Here, however, Murphy goes massively over the top, and it's hard to imagine how anyone that obnoxious doesn't end up with a cracked jaw. Anyway, Murphy obviously enjoys himself; and if you can get by the complete lack of logic, you probably will too. True to style, the action is completely over the top too; with several ridiculous sequences combining to make the movie the entertaining blockbuster that it is. The film lacks any kind of themes or substance, meaning that it will both not please serious film fans, and that this reviewer is running out of steam; but I will say that this movie does have a point to make, and that is simply entertaining it's audience. It may be completely silly, illogical fun; but some movies need to be there just to entertain, and this is one of those. I wouldn't recommend sticking this movie at the top of any must see lists, or going into with huge expectations; but it's a good time, that's for sure. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I finally saw this sequel and it was better than what many people say. Murphy has some very hilarious moments and Reinhold and Ashton were just as good.  Also, the action scene's were decent too, though the chase with the cement truck was'nt as good as the chase in the first with the transport truck.  I did notice that the film lacked the freshness of the first one but still it was fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Very good sequel","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills Cop II is the entertaining sequel to the 1984 smash hit. Of course, this sequel can't top the original, but it's still pretty good. Eddie Murphy returns as Axel Foley and returns to Beverly Hills to help avenge the attack of a friend. This movie isn't as fresh as the original movie, but I found myself laughing alot throughout. Plus, the action scenes are well done. Judge Reinhold, John Ashton, Ronny Cox, and Paul Reiser all reprise their roles from the first film along with Murphy. Beverly Hills Cop II is a movie that's loud and noisy at times, but it's funny and entertaining. And it's much better than the disappointing third movie in the series, Beverly Hills Cop III.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Deserves more credit","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie gets a lot of bad press and I have no idea why. For me, the BHC concept was in good hands with Tony Scott. From the very first shot, with the thick orange camera filter looking over the oilfields, accompanied by the classic sounds of Harold Faltermeyer, to the final scenes at the same fields, it is a thoroughly entertaining movie as Axel, Billy and Taggart team up to investigate the Aplhabet-murders. If you want, there is much to be said about the execution of the movie, or about the lack of a storyline, but surely, with a cast like Jurgen Prochnow (Adriano was not perfect), Brigitte Nielsen depicting the quintessential broadshoulderd eighties woman and the not-a-care-in-the-world humor of Eddy Murphy, who really needs a truly compelling story? There are lots of other movies way better equipped to fulfill that particular need. BHCII isn't one of them, nor does it pretend to be. Judge the movie for what it is, a classic popcorn action comedy, and then you'll see it is actually a fantastic ride. "},{"Title":"Same again","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop 2 is pretty much just the same as the original Beverly Hills Cop but without the freshness and originality of the 1st. Murphy is still a perfect Axel Foley and with some good supporting characters such as his foul mouthed chief of police and Detectives Rosewood and Taggart the movie does have it's moments but the rules of diminishing returns still apply.With a bit more originality in the script and a bit more daring this really could have been great. But for a sequel this isn't to bad just more of the same but not quite as good.6/10 - Not as good as the original but far superior to the tepid third instalment. "},{"Title":"Better than a lot of people say","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Sequel to the hugely successful 1984 movies, this film was most unfairly slated by critics. I believe in some ways it is better than the original and certainly far, far better than the third installment. The story is, despite what everyone says, very engaging and keeps you watching the whole time. Eddie Murphy starred in Coming to America shortly after this, and then his career took a nosedive, although he seems to be making a comeback. If he is given more roles like this, he'll do better.  "},{"Title":"Murphy's back one more time with his classic character and loads of action","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In this second film about notorious Detroit detective , the foul-mouth and tough Axel Foley (Edddie Murphy) again returns at Beverly Hills to resolve the responsible for the murder of his chief (Ronny Cox) who has been gunned down by a tall woman (Brigitte Nielsen). He decides to track down and clues lead to alphabet robberies that are masterminded by a weapons kingpin . As always , he's helped by a pair of sympathetics mates (Judge Reinhold and John Ashton) . They'll have to confront evil nasties (Jurgen Prochnow and Dean Stockwell) and hold numerous risks , odds and dangers . The picture is plenty of action , humor , suspense , tongue in cheek, shoot'em up and is developed in agility and movement and for that reason is amusing . The picture provides fast and furious amusement with spectacular scenes and unstopped-action. Relief comic is in charge of Eddie Murphy as his foul and fast-talking creates most big smiles and causing wreak havoc on the way . Besides his various jokes with the sidekicks steal enormous laughs . For that the picture is a ¨Buddy movie¨ though there's a trio protagonist . Eddie Murphy as streetsmart detective is top-notch, as Axel Foley is his greatest smash-hit and converted him in a top-international-star confirming his position with continued successes in the box office . Fish out water formula used in several films is well narrated and originates enough laughters to satisfy the viewer . The giant Briggite Nielsen -just married to Stallone- is attractive and cold . Friends' couple , Judge Reinhold and John Ashton , are nice and likable . Director Tony Scott stunningly scoring highest marks on action , as the film is correctly made . Motion picture will appeal to action-packed enthusiasts and Eddie Murphy fans. "},{"Title":"Good sequel","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy stars in Beverly Hills Cop II.I think the first one was a tad bit better than this, but not by much.I think this is a great sequel.Eddie Murphy is funny as usual and so is Judge Reinhold.It also stars Brigitte Nielson and there is even a small cameo from Chris Rock.The film has Axel Foley returning to solve another murder with the help of his two friends from the first film.I think Beverly Hills Cop II is a good sequel to a good action/comedy film and I recommend it if you enjoyed the first one.Rated R8/10 "},{"Title":"Weak, Murphy sure has a big smile, but weak ... and this was the 80s!","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The 80s seems to have specialised in this time of throw away entertainment. Sure it had its promising moments too; there was an Alien and the first Terminator in there, but this was the decade of the macho, gun-totting, mulleted male. The emphasise of style over content is here for all to see, with the excesses of the 80s for all to see (I'd like to say we have evolved since then but I am really not sure).Eddie Murphy returns to Beverly Hills again, all smiles and one liners to help the ungrateful local cops out with the 'alphabet robberies' (ooowwwww scary). Shoot-outs, pretty pathetic high speed chases, and illogical trips to a strip joint and the Playboy Mansion follow. On the way we see plenty of the semi-nudity that the 80s seem to specialise in (sorry 80s), and the sickeningly smug Foley (Murphy), the 'psycho' gun-enthusiast Billy (Reinhold), and the hapless Taggart (Ashton) bungle their way to solving the case and saving the day.Clichés seem to pop out at every turn. The idiotic and constantly angry chief of police, the wise-cracking cop who learned his trade 'on the street', the portrayal of a strong female character as 'that big bitch over there' and the solving of the case after finding a match book (surely that has been used in Scooby Doo before!). The ease with which Murphy's character is able to evade shipment out of the city and fool the local cops is infuriately stupid.Two lines summed up the unforgivable nature of this film for me. After enduring the latest verbal assault from the local police chief Foley, making light of race relations states supposedly humorously is it a black thing?. Later in the film after disposing of a key criminal who just happens to be a woman Taggart tuts Women. Come I know i must be taking this film just a bit too seriously, but there can't be anyone out there who finds awful and insulting one liners like this funny, can there? Ultimately between the distractions of the odd breast and an appearance by Hugh Hefner, an engaging storyline fails to emerge and the viewer is left with the infamous theme tune stuck in his/her head. "},{"Title":"Unnecessary Sequel Does Everything Wrong","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A terrible and unpleasant sequel to the surprise hit from 1984.Though it reassembles most of the cast from the original, including Eddie Murphy in the role that made him a big-screen movie star, all of the other elements that made the first one so enjoyable are gone. Director Tony Scott seems to be absolutely clueless about what made the first one so popular and fresh -- in other words, the comedy -- and instead focuses on aggressive violence and action.The song Shakedown was nominated for an Academy Award, but otherwise the film doesn't even boast as good a soundtrack as the original.Grade D "}{"Title":"Good action packed sequel","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills Cop II is a great follow up to the classic first film. While the film tones down some of the comedy , the action is upped to the max courtsey of director Tony Scott. Murphy contuines to have good chemistry with Reinhold and Ashton and Brigette Nelson is great the a villanness.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing Sequel","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I remember waiting in line on May 25, 1987 , opening day, when I was 14 years old eagerly anticipating this movie.Five minutes into the movie my heart sank. This movie was the ultimate glossy, high-powered empty comedy/action film. Even at age 14, I could tell this one stunk. Here were some of the reasons I felt this way.1. Eddie Murphy is bitter and angry throughout the movie. There is no joy in this performance. He's constantly yelling and screaming at everybody.Think back to the first movie when he pretended to be gay in order to get into the hotel buffet. He used his wit and intelligence to get himself through the gate. In BVC II he yells and insults everyone who dares to get in his way.2. When did Axl become fishing buddies with Ronny Cox? 3. The character Billy Rosewood becomes a gun nut for no real reason other than the writers thought it would be a funny direction to take the character.This movie could have generated a simple laugh by having Axl still driving around in his old blue Chevy Nova. But no, he's only shown driving a Ferrari and BMW(?)convertible. "},{"Title":"The Heat Is Off","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is widely acknowledged as being one of the worst sequels ever. It's the same movie all over again, but without the intelligence, humour and charm that made the first film such a winner.Eddie Murphy returns as fish-out-of-water cop Axel Foley and he's at his loudest and most annoying here, shouting at the top of his lungs and speaking so fast that it's difficult to understand what he's saying (Nutty Professor 2 had the same problem, with those two and Another 48 Hours Eddie seems to make a mess of sequels).Director Tony Scott was hired to direct the sequel. He was hot off Top Gun the year before, but he's not a comedy director. He gives Beverly Hills Cop II his usual glossy look, but he mistimes all of the humour and it shows.You can tell a movie franchise is in trouble when it starts killing off its main characters and that's what happens here when Ronny Cox is shot (Foley's foul-mouthed boss, Inspector Todd, would be killed off in the next movie).Brigitte Nielsen, for the 5 minutes she was on Hollywood's A-list, is in among the cast. She only got the part after Sylvester Stallone invited Eddie Murphy over for dinner (Sly apparently fell under the table laughing at Eddie's Rocky impression).The screenplay for Beverly Hills Cop was nominated for an Oscar and that just goes to show you how good the original movie was. This movie got no such recognition. Actor and director Mel Smith once saw this movie at a Royal Premiere in London and he said That is the biggest load of cr*p you will ever sit through in your life, I would have left, but you couldn't as there was royalty there. I couldn't agree more. You should only watch this film at gunpoint. Otherwise, don't waste 2 hours of your life that you won't get back. "},{"Title":"Sometimes I get really sad, and it's hard to go on","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Official Review Some guys wear trench-coats? They have machine guns? Something to do with a housing development? I don't know, this movie is hard to remember. I know for a fact I've seen this movie more than once, and relatively sober each time, but that's it. There is a shoot out at the end, but who knows why. I don't know why the bad guy is bad or what the bad guy does that's bad, also I don't know if there is more than one bad guy, like Brigitte Nielsen may or may not be a bad guy, y'know cause I don't remember clearly. In my defense I have an otherwise very good memory, and I don't want Beverly Hills Cop 2 to be indicative of my memory skills, it's not my fault, it's this piece of sh*t movie. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy, back when he was funny","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Version I saw UK DVD releaseActors 6/10Plot/script 6/10Photography/visual style 6/10Music/score 6/10Overall 6/10It's easy to forget these days, but there was a time when Eddie Murphy was widely acknowledged as one of the funniest men alive. Beverly Hills Cop II is around the zenith of his power, and also that of director Tony Scott.Scott was just coming off Top Gun which, like it or not, is one of the most commercially successful films of all time, and thus incredibly influential. With these films, he practically set the template for 80s Hollywood big, brash action scenes interspersed with big, brash... everything else.It suits Eddie Murphy perfectly, given that his stage persona is all about being the coolest, biggest personality in the room. Although it presents as a 'fish out of water' story, BHC2 is actually more like the tale of a virus entering a new population that has no immunity to it. Nobody can defend against the motor mouth of Axel, Murphy's character. I sometimes wished someone did in fact, just once, so that he could get out of the situation some other way, but he talked his way out of or into everything perfectly, without fail.It's an enjoyable romp, with a central trio whose friendship I believed in. Scott's fingerprint is visible in the thrilling car chase sequences and (literally) explosive shoot-outs. There's not much depth to it, but you can get that elsewhere, like in the work of Tony Scott's older brother Ridley. Tony (now sadly deceased) did stylish action thrillers, and he did them damn well. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy, back when he was funny","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Version I saw UK DVD releaseActors 6/10Plot/script 6/10Photography/visual style 6/10Music/score 6/10Overall 6/10It's easy to forget these days, but there was a time when Eddie Murphy was widely acknowledged as one of the funniest men alive. Beverly Hills Cop II is around the zenith of his power, and also that of director Tony Scott.Scott was just coming off Top Gun which, like it or not, is one of the most commercially successful films of all time, and thus incredibly influential. With these films, he practically set the template for 80s Hollywood big, brash action scenes interspersed with big, brash... everything else.It suits Eddie Murphy perfectly, given that his stage persona is all about being the coolest, biggest personality in the room. Although it presents as a 'fish out of water' story, BHC2 is actually more like the tale of a virus entering a new population that has no immunity to it. Nobody can defend against the motor mouth of Axel, Murphy's character. I sometimes wished someone did in fact, just once, so that he could get out of the situation some other way, but he talked his way out of or into everything perfectly, without fail.It's an enjoyable romp, with a central trio whose friendship I believed in. Scott's fingerprint is visible in the thrilling car chase sequences and (literally) explosive shoot-outs. There's not much depth to it, but you can get that elsewhere, like in the work of Tony Scott's older brother Ridley. Tony (now sadly deceased) did stylish action thrillers, and he did them damn well. "},{"Title":"Another sequel that ain't equal.","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Beverly Hills Cop franchise was in some ways like the Smokey and The Bandit series. They both had good original films, then each sequel was geometrically worse than the film it followed. Beverly Hills Cop II had potential. Eddie Murphy was at the height of his career. The important co-stars were mostly back. Simpson and Bruckheimer were on board as producers. Tony Scott was a hot new director... but somehow it just doesn't quite gel. Maybe Scott was a bad choice. Think of how easily the original Beverly Hills Cop movie flowed between action and comedy. Martin Brest understood how to do this. Midnight Run was another fine example. But Scott didn't get this genre right until later on with films like The Last Boy Scout and True Romance. Good screenwriters also helped those efforts. But Cop II?? Overall, its just too loud, fast and doesn't let either its stars or audience up for air. The villains are poorly cast and end up coming off as pretty generic. Murphy's reason for being out in L.A. is a bit more credible this time, but its poorly set up. Get this Murphy is watching TV back in Detroit, and on the local news he hears about his police lieutenant buddy (Cox) getting shot in L.A.. Pretty slow news day in the Motor City, I guess. Detroit certainly has enough of its own shootings to cover on the news. Cox was only wounded, too! Couldn't they just have had his daughter call Murphy and that would be enough?? Once Murphy gets out to California, he meets up with old pals Ashton and Reinhold. The group shares some funny moments between numerous car chases and shootouts. But too often it seems like everyone is in a big damned hurry. Most of Murphy's dialog sounds completely ad-libbed, and the timing always seems off. He almost seems to be shouting in every scene just to make his character heard over all the set pieces and commotion. The plot involving the alphabet bandit is little more than arbitrary. And Hugh Heffner comes off as being the jerk he is. Not a great picture. But better than part III. 5 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Comedy Failed Due To Forced Attempts To Provide Laughter","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The sequel to the Beverly Hills Cop franchise is quite flashy and the action scenes are overall very gripping with a plethora of rapid camera cuts. The atmosphere surrounding this movie is loud and very vocal. Sure the excitement of this movie is great for those who love watching movies that are run in the fast lane. Sadly, the movie loses a lot of credibility in terms of quality that's greatly absent in this picture. I think the movie overly attempts to top the success of its predecessor, but somehow ultimately fails. Unlike the first Beverly Hills Cop movie, the sequel lacks that comical charm and panache that made the first film a success. For greater portions of this movie, the comedy feels forced and the execution becomes both pedestrian and repetitive. The continual usage of the word Shut Up! is horribly emphasized. It starts to become too cruel and tiresome and the humour just doesn't seem to feel that funny at all. It's like the audience does not have the freedom to decide on what should be funny. They expect the audience to laugh at every situations that's displayed in front of them. Some scenes tend to be over-cooked to have anything logical. The script pathetically yearns for us to just laugh off every scene, but in reality the gags exhibited have absolutely no point to it. What's so funny about humming to the theme of The Dating Game? Also since when has misogyny have ever been funny? Way too many times the word bitch was badly utilized. Also is it all that necessary to use every descriptive synonym for certain parts of the human anatomy and to assume it is in any way shape or form hilarious? I mean the cruel intentions of this movie is bad enough I mean why add salt to the wounds? It's a very narrow- minded debacle that they assume that the more you inflict loud and verbal abuse towards everyone, then this movie is even deemed as funny? Well news flash for you, it's anything but funny, in fact it's both abusive and very juvenile. The story starts losing it sparks as it starts to become a bona-fide car chase and it's executed in a very ridiculous perspective. It's told in a very illogical premise and the crime capers scenario looks and feels redundant. And the most saddest part is that it takes itself way too seriously. I mean how are we supposed to take the crimes featured here seriously? With a name like the alphabet robberies it's like a took a refresher course from Kindergarten. "},{"Title":"I like it nearly as much as the first - so sue me.","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" After the original hit so big in 84 it was inevitable (and to a 14 year old like me) quite welcome that a sequel would be cobbled together. The surprising part of it all is that this film is almost as good as the first, and despite being panned mercilessly by many it remains one of my favourite guilty pleasures from the 80s. In fact I probably know this film better than the original.Axel Foley is once again drawn back to Beverly Hills from his cosy, dangerous rut in Detroit &#x96; much to his superior Detective Todd's chagrin. This time he is there to uncover just who is responsible for Lt Bogomil being gunned down there. (One photo of a fishing trip is enough to inform us that between the first and second film the Beverly Hills Police crew and Axel have become fast friends.) The mechanics of the sequel demand that it be more elaborate, so this time Axel, Taggert and Rosewood find themselves on the trail of the Alphabet criminals, so called for leaving clues in the form of letters and performing their crimes alphabetically &#x96; wonder how they would have gone if they made it to 'Q'? With the characters already introduced and by this stage well-defined, all that is left is to get into it. The sequel has a soundtrack that is almost as good as the original, action sequences that hurtle along almost as well, and better criminal big wigs in the form of Jurgen Prochnow and unfathomably tall and blond Bridget Neilson.It seems to me that the first two Beverly Hills Cop films were taken very seriously by the filmmakers, with no Martin Brest at the helm a savvy move was made to put Tony Scott behind the wheel, a man that can make reading the phone book more adrenalising and somehow exciting.The last 45 minutes of BHC2 is in fact almost one long unbroken action sequence, with chase scene after chase scene, most only broken up to pause while Axel breaks out another character voice to bluff his way into or out of trouble.The pacing of the sequel is probably better than the original, thanks again to the fact that Scott didn't need to bother us with character development, and the series of coincidences and fluke meetings that hold the plot together are forgivable given just how entertaining the rest of the film is.Final Rating &#x96; 8 / 10. OK it isn't all-time great and it relies on Murphy's charm to smooth over some dull spots, but this remains undeniably rewatchable and continues to amuse. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this Beverly Hills Cop the best.","Date":"8 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I know this goes against the grain, but I did enjoy this sequel to Beverly Hills Cop more than the original. I was not the biggest fan of the first film, it had its moments, but I did really enjoy this one. This one has Foley returning to Beverly Hills to help the friends he made from the first film solve a set of robberies and a cop getting shot. I do not know, but I enjoyed the story more and I also enjoyed the inclusion of Brigitte Nielsen as the bad guy for the piece. She was rather good for a short stretch, but faded quite fast like a lot of actresses. I enjoyed the chemistry between Murphy, Reinhold and Ashton my favorite scene where Axel (Murphy) and Taggart (Ashton) were discussing Billy (Reinhold) possibly having a problem as he had quite an assortment of weapons and gun paraphernalia. The action in this one is really good too and I like the humor a bit more here too. To me it is a better film, but that is me. Most people like the first one better I imagine, I just thought this one had a bit more substance to it than the first film. I think this one is a wild ride and the cast is comfortable with their roles. I am sure we can all agree that it is a better sequel than the third movie. "}{"Title":"He's Back!","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The return of slick cop, Axel Foley(Eddie Murphy) is in for another adventure in Beverly Hills. In the first movie, Axel goes in deep of finding his friend's killer. In part 2, Police Captain Bogamil(Ronny Cox) get shot, and his daughter Jan(Alice Adair) notifies Foley in Detroit. Knowing that his friend is in danger, he does the noble thing and heads off to Beverly Hills to find out more about the incident. First, he gets to get past a bureaucratic police chief(Allen Garfield) who is mostly all talk, and no action. Both Taggert and Rosewood(John Ashton & Judge Reinhold) work together to bring the criminals to justice. I like the music selections the movie made Shakedown by Bob Seger, Cross My Broken Heart by The Jets, I Want Your Sex by George Michael, etc. Everything in the movie turned out great. Using the Mack R-Series Mixer as a decoy vehicle really did the trick on thwarting a robbery. Brigette Nielsen really hit it off after Cobra, she was a very intimidating character in the movie. A little more exciting than the first, although I prefer Part one for the music score. Part 2 got more action. Rating 3.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Good action packed sequel","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills Cop II is a great follow up to the classic first film. While the film tones down some of the comedy , the action is upped to the max courtsey of director Tony Scott. Murphy contuines to have good chemistry with Reinhold and Ashton and Brigette Nelson is great the a villanness. "},{"Title":"It is okay, but it is disappointing","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop is a classic, but this one while not awful was a disappointment in comparison. The set pieces are spectacular, Eddie Murphy and Judge Reinhold are good together and individually, Jurgen Prochnov and Brigitte Nielson suitably ham it up, the film is assuredly directed and it moves briskly. However, what is missing is a good enough story and a decent script. The story is sadly quite predictable, and the script is also unfunny and lacking sorely in wit. The soundtrack isn't as memorable either and while flashy some of the production values make little impact. Overall, it is okay but in comparison to the wonderful original it is lacking. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"nothing memorable in this disappointing sequel","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ridiculous and forgettable sequel goes a long way on the talent of its star, but has little else to make it worth the viewing experience. Detroit cop Axel Foley makes his way back to Beverly Hills after his friend Captain Bogomil falls victim to a random shooting at the hands of a notorious 'alphabet killer.' With the help of devoted officers Taggart and Rosewood, Foley makes it his mission to track down the culprit despite the resistance of an incompetent, hotheaded police chief. Murphy has energy to spare, but this lukewarm action-comedy has an abundance of needless plot twists, dialogue that alternates between highly crude and downright silly, and precious few laughs. Fans of the lead actor may enjoy it, but the script is a total letdown. ** "},{"Title":"There's gotta be a better way","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Long ago, when Eddie Murphy was the biggest star in Hollywood, Beverly Hills Cop 2 was the most anticipated film of 1987. Movies like Trading Places and 48 Hours made Murphy famous. But Axel Foley made him a superstar. Impressed by Top Gun (even though it's a truly awful film), Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer brought Tony Scott on board to direct. What they forgot to do was polish the script.Foley returns to Beverly Hills to help solve 'The Alphabet Crimes' after his old pal Lt. Bogomil is gunned down in the street. With Taggart and Rosewood in tow (now actually doing police work instead of standing by) Axel uncovers a seriously convoluted conspiracy.The story should have taken a back seat to allow Murphy to work over the massive holes in the plot with his distracting wisecracks. I won't lie to you, there are some utterly horrible contrivances in BHC2 (Bogomil's daughter digging up dirt at the insurance company she just happens to work at is honestly the most obnoxious movie coincidence of all time), but you'll just have to suffer them.This might have been easy to overlook, but Tony Scott, still finding his feet as a director, and his editors turn a great deal of the film into an incomprehensible mess. Some of the continuity errors are just baffling (where did Rosewood get the coffee cup from at the night club crash scene?) and it makes the action quite hard to follow.However, Tony Scott's highly visual style of filmmaking is far more suiting to this kind of environment. The wealth and decadence of late 80s California is all over this movie, and it's the only aspect where it improves on the original. I doubt the latter day Scott would make the movie this way, but it's definitely the best looking of the trilogy. It's also the only one to be shot in the 2.351 aspect ratio (however it's Super35 instead of the superior anamorphic Panavision format). "},{"Title":"Better than its reputation","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop is my favorite comedy of all time, and its reputation as a classic of 1980s cinema is well earned. Its two sequels, however, are not held in as in high regard. The two follow-ups are often lumped together as lackluster efforts, which isn't fair since while Beverly Hills Cop II isn't a comedic masterpiece like the first one, it's the definitely the much stronger sequel. Having just watched the film for the first time in years, I found it to be a whole lot better than I remember. In fact, I'd say it's a quite an underrated sequel.The best decision made by director Tony Scott and the creative team behind Beverly Hills Cop II was to bring back almost all the actors from the first movie. Eddie Murphy, Judge Reinhold, John Ashton, Ronny Cox, Gilbert Hill, and Paul Reiser are just as great here as they were in the original. Unlike with most sequels, nobody on screen appears to be phoning in a performance for a paycheck. The main trio of Murphy, Reinhold, and Ashton are together for a good 80% of the film, and are absolutely perfect together. The three actors share amazing chemistry as a group, making every scene with them a blast to watch. The fact that their friendship feels real is what elevates Beverly Hills Cop II from ever feeling like just an unnecessary sequel. Beverly Hills Cop II has some of the same story beats as Beverly Hills Cop, but it never comes across as a lazy retread. The best parts of Beverly Hills Cop II are the noticeable differences from the first film. Rather than having to solve the murder of a friend, Axel must discover who shot Bogomil (Cox). Tony Scott gets a bit of suspense out of whether Bogomil will live or die, and there's a few surprisingly touching scenes between Axel and Bogomil's daughter. These scenes could have felt out of place in what is mostly a comedy, but they work quite well. What really separates Beverly Hills Cop II from the first one, as well as from most action movies in general, is that the main villain is a very intimidating woman, Karla Fry (Bridgitte Nielsen). There has been some criticism that the treatment of her character is misogynistic, though I've never seen much to support that argument. She may not be the most three-dimensional character every written, but the fact that we don't learn all that much about her makes her even more menacing. One of the best aspects to the story is that there is a hierarchy of villains. In addition to Karla, there's also the memorable Maxwell Dent (Jurgen Prochnow). The scene where Foley, Rosewood, and Taggart track down Max at the Playboy Mansion is the film's highlight, and one of the funniest scenes in any movie ever. Almost every single line in the scene is hilarious, Chris Rock gets a cool little cameo, and the scene somehow manages to be feel completely relevant to the plot. However, the Playboy Mansion scene also draws attention to the one major flaw of Beverly Hills Cop II that keeps it from being a truly great movie the noticeably rough editing. Martin Brest has been quoted as saying that Beverly Hills Cop was saved in the editing room, and that he was amazed at how well everything cut together. Beverly Hills Cop II should have been looked at more closely in the editing room, because it is far from seamless. Several scenes seem to end randomly without any much sense of transition or rhythm. In some instances, the editing is just downright awkward. The best example of this is in the Playboy Mansion scene. Once Foley, Rosewood, and Taggart have left the mansion and the narrative of the scene is effectively over, the camera lingers on a random party-goer dancing enthusiastically to some music. The guy's dance moves are mildly amusing, but there is no real reason for the shot to be in the movie, and it feels extremely disconnected from the rest of the scene. Beverly Hills Cop II is filled with moments in which scenes don't cut at a logical endpoint. There are three credited editors, no doubt the result of a rushed post-production schedule to get the movie out by a certain release date. None of the bad editing kills my overall enjoyment of the film, though it's impossible not to be distracted by its shoddiness at times.With the exception of the poor editing, it's clear there was actually effort and care put into Beverly Hills Cop II, something that can't be said for sequels made in today's era. Just like with the original Beverly Hills Cop, this sequel has tremendous replay value. Though it might not be as well put together as its predecessor, Beverly Hills Cop II still works way, way better than 95% of sequels to classic comedies. 8/10 "},{"Title":"My review of my all time favorite fun action flick Beverly Hills Cop II","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop II is definitely my all time favorite Action comedy flick. Beverly Hills Cop (1984) will always be the best and my all time favorite film that I love to death. That is why I just love the sequel much more and I have always enjoyed this film much better than the original film I did. Here Axel Foley,Billy Rosewood and John Taggart works as a team than they did in the first film. This time Axel Foley returns to Beverly Hills to help Taggart and Rosewood investigate Chief Bogomil's near-fatal shooting and the series of strange robberies alphabet crimes associated with it. Axel Foley comes back which he reunites with Detective Billy Rosewood and Detective Sergeant John Taggart.I love the Action sequences they are all great , humor , suspense , tongue in cheek, shoot'em up and is developed in agility and movement and for that reason is amusing. They are all great, there isn't any cgi in it. Whole cast did a great job. It is my all time favorite sequel to the first film. I seriously I love this film to death and I always have enjoyed so much. I still don't get it why all the hate for this film? The third film was really the worst in the series but I still like it and I will still watch it. Eddie Murphy did a great job as a Detroit detective Axel Foley, he did acted very well. Yes he was shouting one everyone I saw that, but there are things in the film that people didn't noticed. After his friend Captain Andrew Bogomil was shot he didn't hesitate to come to Beverly Hills and helping him out. He cared more about his friend than anyone else did. He hustle Maxwell Dent accountant Sidney Bernstein for $200 but, he later donated the money for Beverly Hills homeless people. He could spend the money but he donated. After he took Billy's vitamins and he bluff out the secretary in Beverly Hills Gun Club for money and he throw the vitamins away. he gave the money back to Billy for the vitamins he throw away! I thought that was very nice. Judge Reinhold as Detective Billy Rosewood did a wonderful job and a support in the main cast along side Axel Foley. He was crazy with guns which I love it. We see poster from Stallone's Cobra and Rambo First Blood Part II in Billy's apartment. I love how he was driving the car and caring so much guns with him. He had a turtle in his apartment awesome. John Ashton as Detective Sergeant John Taggart did a pretty good job as detective helping and solving a Alphabet crime he was awesome. Brigitte Nielsen as Karla Fry did a wonderful job as villainies and it was one of her best roles I have ever seen. Jürgen Prochnow as Maxwell Dent was fantastic villain much better than Steven Berkoff and Jonathan Banks in the first movie did. Dean Stockwell as Charles Chip Cain did a fantastic job as Dent henchman. Allen Garfield as Chief Harold Lutz was fantastic he was so load and funny I was keep laughing at his performance. The Last and at least the best small role that had was Ronny Cox I seriously I love him in this film. He doesn't do much but his still a good as Andrew Bogomil we finally found out that he has a daughter Jan and she is very beautiful. There are other faces in this film like are Hugh Hefner who plays himself, Chris Rock has a small cameo in it.Gilbert Hill as Inspector G. Douglas Todd and Paul Reiser as Detective Jeffrey Friedman also return from the first film and they also do have a few scenes in the film.In the original movie they were only in the beginning of the film than they were cut off from the rest of the film. I seriously think Tony Scott did a wonderful job filming this decent awesome Action Comedy flick. Beverly Hills Cop II is a 1987 action comedy film starring Eddie Murphy and directed by Tony Scott. It is the sequel to the 1984 film Beverly Hills Cop and the second installment in the Beverly Hills Cop series.Although it made less money than the original Beverly Hills Cop and received mixed reviews from critics, the film was still a box office success, making $153,665,036 domestically.I love this film to death!!! I love this film to death! it will always stay in my heart! I love the shooting, action, car chases, playboy girls everything in this film. I love Eddie Murphy! I also love the main theme for Axel Foley from Harold Faltermeyer and songs a Better Way - James Ingram,Shakedown - Bob Seger and Hold On by Corey Hart.10/10 Grade A+ Studio Paramount Pictures, Eddie Murphy Productions Starring Eddie Murphy, Judge Reinhold, Ronny Cox, Chris Rock, John Ashton, Hugh Hefner Director Tony Scott Producers Don Simpson, Jerry Bruckheimer Screenplay Larry Ferguson, Warren Skaaren Story Eddie Murphy, Robert D. Wachs Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 40 Mins. Budget $20 Million Box Office $299,965,036 "},{"Title":"A good movie, but not quite up to par with the original","Date":"19 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first Beverly Hills Cop was fresh, funny and very entertaining. But somehow Murphy seems to be doing a one-man show this time, and he doesn't seem to be playing the same character (including the other returning characters). Most of his dialogue here is simply comedy, and not the smart-alecky kind from when he first came to Beverly Hills. And we don't see enough of the villains this time, resulting in a movie with little suspense. Still, there's great action scenes, and a story that never lets up. Rather than being insulted by his colleagues again, the three cops (Murphy, Ashton, and Reinhold, in case you're wondering) are suddenly now a team. I would have preferred the relationship they had in the first movie. I know this is a sequel, but does that mean everything has to change? This one pales in comparison to the original.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Horribly sexist, rushed, and not necessary.","Date":"9 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" All the old token bits shoved in about tits and so on (it seems men must be a bit gay when a group of them sit around getting hard ons in a bar watching women stripping). Here we even have sexy blonde bimbos going with a guy just because he has a red sports car and giggling like Marilyn Monroe while giving him the sexy eye constantly.And random shots of girls dancing topless on poles(looking like they'd rather be elsewhere). Here Eddie even called one woman bitch while talking to other males about her (not the bitch that implies she was horrible, just bitch as in a name some men call the objects that are women (in the last movie they were chicks and other things). The pole stripper looked angry too like Eddie's character seems to be through this whole movie but men wouldn't notice since they were looking elsewhere (maybe Eddie didn't want to be there either which would explain his acting through this movie). And just for no reason we have the Playboy mansion involved.The rapid scene changes that cut out or abruptly ended dialog got boring too. There is one memorable scene where Eddie's character makes a bet that a cash exchange will be the next place robbed (after someone else told him about the place and they had a computer with the location on it - duh) and then he didn't even finish the sentence and it was cut to the next scene. Seems they just added bits where Eddie's character would be the one man hero of the piece guessing where crimes would happen next etc and then rushed to show us he was right. Or maybe they just edited bits because with all the tit conversations they went overtime and had to get rid of some parts.All the people shooting in this movie are so bad - the hit man who shoots at the ground as Axel runs away and the police who shoot out car lights. Axel couldn't hit a person in a car that wasn't moving but coincidentally hit all the targets at the shooting place and hit people when it suit the ridiculous plot.The first time Axel laughs the Axel laugh in the movie is like a setup also because there's staged silence and then the horrible laugh that anyone can fake. As if we were being rewarded for waiting by being given the token signature laugh by our hero. Other times when he laughed in the movie he would laugh normally and then go back to that laugh again as if someone else told him he swayed from the path of crazy fake laugh central. I think Eddie Murphy just phoned this one in and his wooden acting, inappropriate yelling, and inappropriate facial expressions for emotions show it. I guess he got paid either way and that is all that mattered. "},{"Title":"The heat is gone.","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Director Tony Scott takes on the sequel to Beverly Hills Cop and lends his signature frenetic style (and smoke-filled room lighting schemes) to the proceedings, which is now a violent action-comedy. It's kinda like the original movie, but without the heart, intelligence and sly humor. Eddie Murphy is back (as well as John Ashton and Judge Reinhold), this time drawn to Beverly Hills to solve a series of heists that might be connected to the shooting of Ronny Cox. The big bad guy, this time around, is the soft-spoken Jürgen Prochnow and his right-hand amazon, Brigitte Nielsen. Compared to the drug-smuggling operation of the last film, the alphabet notes, stolen guns and robberies scheme in this movie seems kinda ridiculous. And it doesn't help that Murphy is now almost strictly a loudmouth personality (one that shortly wears thin), taking the character we know and love to an irritating extreme. Beverly Hills Cop II is notable for its mid-eighties flash and sizzle, thanks in no small part to Scott's visual style. And aside from some odd editing choices here and there (abrupt scene transitions), it's actually a decent cop movie. Just not one to bear this name. 5/10 "}{"Title":"The Heat's Back On.. But Not Hot !","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A kind of fair time, but not a fair movie. It's moderately entertaining with nothing great to present along the way. First of all the comedy is whether weak (some of the lines were pathetic) or forced (actually Murphy's character doesn't need this whole explosives' scheme to go into the club !?). The plot seemed outwardly hot but wasn't that sensible always. There are sleazy details such as the matter of matchsticks handed by killer to another for nothing but being found later in the murder scene! I hated some of Axel Foley's features in here like giving him some of MacGyver's capacities. The dialog was extraordinarily boring according to the fact that we're in an action movie (directed by Tony Scott too !). Let alone the reiteration of the first movie's curriculum (the strip club scene, the end's speech for the unhelpful police chief.. ) without any original points for this sequel. Maybe Brigitte Nielsen's character was the only genuine touch in a role was conventionally being given to brawny men instead. The casting is mostly so provocative; whereas Dean Stockwell looked like a house husband more than at least a professional hit-man, John Ashton is a problem being with a strange charisma makes him not comic enough or attractively serious one in unserious situations, although Brigitte Nielsen was tough and distinct but actually Judge Reinhold was the most appealing this round with the character he had and the performance he delivered. True that Eddie Murphy was radiant and sprightly but without much to offer, wasted by a script made him move without a catch. Simply the persona of funny dirty Harry, that was brilliantly established in BHC three years before, transformed into idiot cartoon that wasn't forceful or droll (and yes, his rubbery laugh irritated me to the max especially when he repeats it dully more than once as a mark from the first movie !). I don't think that it got huge budget, the movie says that about itself. The action wasn't impressive at all; only a car chase got my attention. It's clear that (Tony Scott) wasn't having fun doing this, executing more than creating. As a whole nothing is new, hot or got a funny flavor form the 1980s, looking like any average B-movie however with big name and few artfully colorful images. Compared to Beverly Hills Cop I and III definitely it's the weakest installment. It's another Hollywood hamburger, that wasn't tasty or spicy this time. Damn.. Even Brigitte Nielsen wasn't sexy enough ! "},{"Title":"Sequels only seem to be good with Hobbits and James Bond","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Making a meaningless sequel just to make money strips away all that is decent about Hollywood, leaving just the fluff that makes up network TV. It's funny, I saw this when it was in the Theater and thought it to be pretty good.  Then again, I was 14 years old, and was happy just to be at the movies with my friends on a Friday night.Watching it again at age 31 left me feeling as insulted as most committee-thinking-borne efforts to breathe new life into dying franchises do.Don't get me wrong.  I don't think this was a TERRIBLE movie.  I don't even think this was the turning point when Eddie Murphy started to become unfunny.  His character was still generally intact even if it was no longer fresh.  Performance-wise, he was still mostly the same Eddie Murphy. It just wasn't his finest earlier work.  But he could hardly be blamed for the poor writing.  OH wait!  He wrote this movie.  Nevermind.What DID offend me, was the gross character misdevelopment of Rosewood. Making him suddenly obsessed with large ammunition almost to a Columbine Trench Coat Mafia level was ridiculous.  This to me is as distracting as what they've done with the cast of the show Friends in the past 5 years to keep everyone interested.  Rosewood's obsession with guns and subsequent stupidity is roughly akin to Joey from Friends' obsession with food and unbelievable stupidity.It is unfortunate that movies that should stand alone get re-hashed with different directors and writers behind the wheel, and what starts as an understated cool flick ends up as something totally overblown and reflecting very little of what made the original good.  (See also The Terminator franchise, Austin Powers, Alien, Raiders of the Lost Ark, etc.)Sadly, much of Hollywood believes that if you throw more money at a project and make more things blow up, it makes a better product.  Those things rarely if ever make a good movie.  In the case of Beverly Hills Cop 1, we loved it because Eddie was so naturally funny and comfortable to watch (so UNLIKE now,) and because it was a good Fish Out of Water story, (much like Austin Powers 1 vs. 2) and the supporting cast was believable and their good mannered rule abiding nature worked well against his rough Detroit ways. In BHC2, Rosewood is no longer a believable character, all the writing is formulaic sitcom garbage, and the Fish Out of Water is now a Salmon swimming back up stream to spawn (again.)The hands down stupidest scene that I watched last night that prompted me to seek reviews this morning was Rosewood, upon pulling out a rocket launcher from his trunk, joyously reads aloud the instructions on how to operate it during a massive gun battle, with Taggart yelling BILLY! all the while. Finally, he says with a smile, And push this button!!  (the obvious trigger of the weapon.) He then  pushes the button, deliberately firing the weapon without a second thought about which way the weapon is pointed, and through sheer dumb luck, (a la Jar Jar Binks,) blows up the truck full of bad guys that have eluded Foley and Taggart who have been paying full attention to them.  Suddenly Rosewood is a cross between Charleton Heston on Christmas morning and Homer Simpson.Bottom line  For a cool, funny Buddy Cop movie, they should have just stopped with number 1 like Running Scared with Billy Crystal and Gregory Hines, which is on of my all time faves for the general vibe and great chemistry of the lead actors.  For wrecking a perfectly good movie with a crappy sequel (or 2?) I give this movie -1 star. "},{"Title":"Bad Detective","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If the first 'Cop' film was incoherent and unstable, this one completely misunderstands the elements that made the original so charming.  It's not that the attitude is darker, it's that it's trying to be totally focused.  The characters get makeovers and the plot doesn't take any new turns.I can compare this to the 'Die Hard' movies because, as with those, the revolutionary parts made the originals unique whether fish-out-of-water or absurd acting.  The second installments suffer from too much glitz and hype, not enough material to work with.This coming from the director of 'Top Gun' & 'Crimson Tide', I'm not surprised.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "},{"Title":"Wickedly funny","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It never fails.  I remember seeing this film in the summer of 87.  I remember seeing it four times and twice I had to sit near the front of the theatre because it was packed.  The film went on the gross about $250 million dollars.  Audiences were laughing their guts out and returning for more.  So what happens to a film this funny that it only gets less than 6 on the IMDB?  Do people forget what it's like to laugh?  Do people forget how funny Axel Foley really is?  Has the boring and embarrassing third one destroyed all that was memorable about the first two?  Because Beverly Hills Cop II is nothing but a treat.  It is hilarious and as a movie itself it is pretty good too.  The characters have even had a chance to grow from the first film.  This is a really funny movie and if you haven't seen it in a while you should treat yourself and do so.Axel Foley goes back to Beverly Hills to investigate the shooting of his old buddy, captain Bogamel( Ronny Cox ).  Here he again teams up with his two pals Rosewood and Taggart.  But before he goes to Beverly Hills he has a good old fashioned ass chewing by inspector Todd.  Remember the famous scene?  Two thousand dollars for a suit, two hundred dollars for a tie, a requisition order for a Ferrari.   And then  I'm going deep deep deep, deep undercover.   We also have a small role for Paul Reiser as Jeffrey. So all the old characters do their thing at the beginning, but it's when we get to Beverly Hills that things get all messed up.  And one of the best surprises of this film is the character growth of Rosewood ( Judge Reinhold).  In the first one he was a shy, unassuming, wet behind the ears cop.  Now he seems as though he has watched too many Sylvester Stallone movies ( and this may be the case as we see a poster for Cobra and Rambo hanging in Billy's house ).  He now carries bigger weapons, talks with more confidence and wants to go on Foley's adventures.  His change provides the film with many of it's funnier moments.But of course what we expect out of Eddie Murphy in this role is a wise cracking, fast talking, spur of the moment character.  And that we get.  He does just as many little skits in BHC2 as the first and most of them are hilarious.  Especially funny is the one in the gun club when he supposedly brings in a bag of  plutonium nitrate highly explosive soundseaking projectlies.  The scene works because we really don't know what all that jargon is and neither does the lady behind the desk.  Murphy is the master of smart ass comedy.  He has an impeccable sense of comedic timing and he plays the crowd at the theater like a drum.  We are under his spell and we love it.  BHC2 is comedy at its finest and there is no reason for you not to enjoy this film unless you are just not a fan of Murphy.  There were few films in the 80's that Murphy failed in, this is not one of them.  True hilarity from beginning to end.    "},{"Title":"OK sequel","Date":"1 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Tony Scott's (RIP) sequel to Martin Brest's 1984 classic doesn't try to add anything new , but sticks to the formula that worked so well the first time. In many ways this movie feels like a carbon copy of the original. Watch those two movies one by one and you will see the similarities ( for example - Axel's arrival to Beverly Hills). Even some jokes are copies from the first movie (This isn't my locker - This isn't my office).Unfortunately the movie lacks the freshness of the original. There are some moments when the heroes are having more fun than I. The movie really thinks it's more cool than it really is. The writers of this movie are different than the people who wrote the original. They are obviously trying to imitate the style of the original. Unfortunately many of the jokes come as forced.Thankfully , this movie has some good elements in it. Otherwise it would be just as bad as the third. The movie looks good - it's Tony Scott movie after all. Eddie Murphy is quite possibly even better here than in 1984. He's got so much energy in him. One of the best surprises of this film is the character growth of Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhold). He provides most of the laughs. In the first one he was a shy cop.Here he acts like a guy who has seen too many Sylvester Stallone movies. He lives in a stress free apartment , has a lot of big guns and Stallone is his idol (There are movie posters to Rambo 2 and Cobra in his house). In the final of the movie Rosewood even dresses as Cobretti. It's a great inside joke considering that Stallone was original star for the Beverly Hills cop.There are so many great cameos - Gilbert Gottfried,Chris Rock , Hugh Heffner and many sexy Playboy Playmates. Brigitte Nielsen gives here best role here as the sidekick of the main villain.She's a bad actress , but she's OK here.Jurgen Prochnow and Dean Stockwell are also OK as the villains. John Aston is back as Taggert and gives a fine performance.The soundtrack is weaker than in the first movie. Still there are some great songs here  Bob Seger - Shakedown (nominated for Oscar) , James Ingram - Better way and The Pointer Sisters - Be there.Beverly Hills cop 2 is a fun popcorn action flick. You could certainly do worse than this one. Anyone who enjoyed the first one will probably enjoy this one too. There are some good jokes here too ( Are you driving with your eyes open ? Or you like using THE FORCE ? ). I give it 6/10. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Beverly Hills Cop 1 but still enjoyable","Date":"26 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy returns as the always lovable and quite humorous street smart cop from Detroit,Axel Foley along with Judge Reinhold and John Ashton who play Billy Rosewood and John Taggart respectively.This time,Axel has a tougher challenge ahead of him;to track down a group of international munition smugglers who were responsible for a friend of Axel's being injured.Without spoiling too much,the film was OK but not as good as the original in my view as there was just something missing from this film that was there in the original.The casting was also OK as it included the likes of Bridgette Nielsen and Academy Award nominee Dean Stockwell.It was directed by Tony Scott. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first, but I still was exhausted from laughter!","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Unfortunately, my video store that I rent at does not have the second Beverly Hills Cop or the third, so when I stopped by Best Buy and saw the sequel for $6.99, I thought it might be worth a buy. After watching this, I was very glad that I bought it. It was great to see our favorite Beverly Hills cop back in action! Eddie Murphy is just so great and hilarious, he can make Charles Manson laugh! Basically, Axel has heard of some horrible crimes going on in Beverly Hills once again, so he comes back to help out the force. With his two favorite cops, Billy and John, only this time, they're a little more gutsy. Now they are after the alphabet crimes, a group of thieves led by the 7 foot tall Bridget Neilson. But it's going to be hard with the chief of Beverly Hills always getting on the trio's butts.I loved Beverly Hills Cop 2, I hope I do find the third one, I know it doesn't have as good of a rating like the first or the second one, but still I love Eddie Murphy. Who could resist that great chuckle of his? Beverly Hills Cop 2 is filled with just as many laughs as the first one and I don't see how anyone could not laugh at least a few times.7/10 "},{"Title":"Abyssmal Tony scott film","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is truly one of the dumbest and most Lame films of the 80s...But then again,What did you expect from Tony Scott.He is simply a Director who specialises is Loud,over the top action films with Flashy visuals and No intelligence whatsoever.Unlike the First film...which was surprisingly original and very down to earth..This film is nothing more than flashy commercialism,made simply to gain a quick dollar.There are a couple of funny moments but the whole film falls flat on bad acting and plain stupidity.Now lets start with the films many mishaps...Firstly...How did Axel foley and Detective Bogomil come to be friends at the beginning...If I recall correctly there was certainly nothing to indicate that in the first film(in fact they couldnt stand each other),But in the film they are now close friends???...Please explainSecondly...What were the producers thinking when they cast both Jurgen prochnow and brigitte nielsen as the baddies...Could they have found two more dull and hopeless actors...I think notThirdly...High ranking police officers simply cant be fired on the spot(as in the end of the film).I could give a ton of reasons why,but the fact of the matter is,they simply cant. Even if they could,Its unlikely they would just shrugg their shoulders and accept it.Fourthly...Why in Tony Scott films, do tiny little handguns not only make this ridiculous Canon sound,but are able to blow vases to shredds amongst other things. Presumably this is a desperate attempt by the director to make the film more fun, But in this film its probably just so the audience will stay awake.Fifth...Whose Brilliant idea was it to give Gilbert gottfried a role in this. Geez he is loud,lame and downright stupid..and is gifted with killing any film he is in,(Example Problem child 1 and 2,Adventures of ford fairlane,many more),But then again, film was dead to start with anyway.Oh and Billy rosewoods Gun obsession is completely laughlessAll in all,A flashy loud poor film that im sure did great at the box office but should be burned.The only redeeming factor is the return of most the original cast members who now all probably feel robbedMy final word for director Tony Scott is...leave the directing to your Brother Ridley. He is the one with the talent...I give this....2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Formula fare.","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This fast-paced, action-packed sequel to the (overrated) 1984 hit is clearly nothing more than a commercial product. Eddie Murphy gets to showcase his talent on a few occasions (I have to go deep, deep, DEEP undercover), but you can often sense a certain amount of narcissism in his performance. And why did the filmmakers think that this type of entertainment is well-served by such an incomprehensible script?   (**) "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's pretty good. I thought Eddie Murphy as always made it great. Great jokes, plot, and action. 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"OK, nothing more","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The 1988 sequel to one of the most successful movies of all time finds Eddie Murphy reprising his role as Detroit police detective Axel Foley, and once again playing a fish out of water as he tries to solve a series of heists in Beverly Hills that may be connected to the attempted murder of his friend, a Beverly Hills police captain (Ronny Cox). Constructed in a much flashier and faster-paced visual style than the first film, the song still remains the same as Foley tries to keep his job in Detroit while solving crimes for the Beverly Hills cops. Murphy again makes the most of culture shock for comic effect, and the easy rapport between Murphy and Billy (Judge Reinhold), now a cheerfully over the top Rambo-esquire figure, is still the centerpiece of this series. While not the least bit original, director Tony Scott (Crimson Tide, Top Gun) puts his own stamp on this installment and keeps the action and the laughs coming "},{"Title":"The spark begins to die!","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Axel Foley is back in Detroit when he hears his old friend Bogomil has been shot during an investigation into the Alphabet robberies.  He returns to Beverly Hills to rejoin Taggart and Rosewood in the investigation.  Hooking himself up in a big mansion Axel lives well until the trio find themselve up against Maxwell Dent and Karla Fry who are planning a major arms deal with the profits from the robberies.Never one to turn down a sequel to a hit film (how many has he done now?) Murphy returns for part 2.  The first problem the film has is how to keep the material fresh.  One of the first things we discover is that the producers didn't manage to answer this question very well.  The plot again is nothing special &#150; it could be any cop thriller although the action scenes are a little bigger this time around.In terms of comedy, Murphy's shtick isn't as funny this time around as he merely wheels out the same sort of jokes all over again &#150; we even have the difficult Lieutant from part one replaced with, you guessed it, another difficult authoruty figure!  While Murphy tries hard he can't lift this the way he lifted the first one, however it still has some funny touches added.The best addition (and one of the few that works) is Rosewood's sudden obsession with big guns &#150; that works because it's new, but it's the only bit.  Ashton replays his performance as the annoyed Taggart.  The baddies are not as good as before &#150; Nielsen is pretty vapid if you ask me, and I don't think she's sexy in the least.  Prochnow is ok I guess but really can't match the `ham and eggs' haminess of Berkoff.  Stockwell is a nice addition and Reiser is always watchable.Overall it's still fun but really it's an inferior copy to the original (just like all Murphy's sequels).  Lacks spark, flair and freshness but is still a passable cop comedy. "},{"Title":"second verse same as the first","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly hills cop 2 is basically a rehash of the same old plot as the first... why mess with sucess right? well what you get is a lesser version of the first..the first was different new and an excellent movie with good acting..this is not.. while its not bad for a sequel..the plot..Murphy infiltrating arms smugglers and always being in the right place at the right time lends to its unbelievability but this is hollywood remember..it has good action in it but just not enough to recommend it..on a scale of 1 to 10 it gets a 5 "},{"Title":"An obnoxious sequel with no charm","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'Beverly Hills Cop II' is an utterly obnoxious movie that epitomises the worst aspects of flashy '80s action and serves only as a monument to Bruckheimer and Simpson's lack of interest in anything besides cars, guns, tits and swearing. Sandwiched between the enjoyable original and the weak third movie, not only is this sequel soulless, abrasive and boring, it's also entirely lacking in laughs. Eddie Murphy's Axel Foley comes off as a rude, selfish jerk this time round, and it's the fatal flaw of the movie that none of his cocky blather is remotely inventive. He just talks and talks and talks and talks and talks. Meanwhile the overly complicated plot relies on moronic coincidence to drag itself from one empty set piece to another, and the gaps in logic are filled with unmemorable pop songs, orange filters, Harold Faltermeyer's keyboard/electric guitar/bin lid/biscuit tin score, shoulder pads, bright red lipstick and big sunglasses. Trash. "},{"Title":"Scott shows how to make everything stylish but where is the substance","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was immensely disappointed when I saw this. After I had enjoyed most of the first Beverly Hills Cop movie I had high hopes for this one as well. To see Danish Brigitte Nielsen in a big budget movie was also some sort of weird attraction to me at the time and I thought that I could at least have some fun seeing some banter between her and Murphy, but the expectation was far more attractive than actually seeing it. They do share scenes but there are only lame suggestive remarks from Murphy and Nielsen's character is so devoid of humour that you have a nagging suspicion that she was only cast as some sort of deal with Stallone (Nielsen's hubby at the time), since he was to star in the first movie. There is a poster of his Cobra character, to further heighten the suspicion.The scenes mostly take place in smoke-filled rooms and you can hardly see any faces clearly. The main villain, played by Jürgen Prochnow, is such a anonymous character that you wonder why he even took the role. Was it because being in an Eddie Murphy film was so popular at the time that you just had to do it? The three Beverly Hills cops also reprise their roles here but the Lieutenant (now promoted to Captain) only has a couple of scenes and it is really totally unbelievable that Murphy's character and the Captain are discussing going on a fishing trip (could you even picture Murphy with a fishing rod?) So what we have is slam-bang action scenes with wisecracks that mostly fall flat and I almost forgot the totally annoying cameo by Gilbert Gottfried (one of Murphy's fellow SNL players) as an accountant named Sidney Bernstein. Take this as a warning Expect extreme agony through most of the running time and please do not wait to go to the bathroom if you are watching at the same time, it is not worth the wait. "},{"Title":"excellent sequel, with plenty of action, and funny jokes/improves by  murphy and his cast, to make this a  fun sequel!","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  this was an excellent sequel to the classic  1984 film. eddie is back, but, he is back where he was in the first movie,  this time is not  out for revenge for his criminal friend, but for her captain bogomil (ronny cox) of the beverly hills  ploice department, who is suspended from  ploice work, while working on a case known as the alphabet crimes. by a gang of international jewelry, money and weapon smugglers. led by  german actor Jurgen prochnow, and bridgitte nielsen, who is ruthless as the leader of the smuggling gang. axel  travels back to beverly hills, to hunt down his friends hitman, who shot him. also returning is john ashton as  sgt. taggert, and judge reinhold as  billy rosewood. teaming up to look for the criminals. but, what makes there mission impossible, is  the  abusive, new beverly hills chief played by veteran character actor allen garfield.  who thinks, the whole mission is uneccessary for  the heroes to go after. for this sequel,  i like it how  the director tony scott, brother of director ridley scott, switched  scene to scenes, between  the hilarious detroit scenes with  inspector todd (gil hill) and jeffrey (paul reiser) who had a scene in the first movie, to be showing off their hilarious talent in this movie. you also get to see more  of those guys, cause you only got to see them for a short time in the first. they have bigger funnier parts. jeffrey is asked by  axel to watch overe his ferrari while he  is gone. then, todd is funny. this film also features more very funny new jokes by murphy, and ashton and reinhold's characters seem to have a much better sense of humor in this movie, then the first. this movie was violent, furious like the first.little  more explosions, and gun fight scenes then the first too. it was very  funny to see so many improvisations by murphy. much more than the original.  the cameos in the film, by chris rock, gilbert gottfried were hilarious. this marked as  rocks first major movie. serge from the first was not in this sequel though. the scene in rosewood's house was hilarious. then, how they get his  name wrong, rosemound, roseweed.  harold faltermeyer comes back to do the musical score. and jerry bruckheimer for the producing. this film was wonderful! great sequel!!  this was the last  beverly hills cop film of the 80's following 1994's beverly hills cop 3. last movie for john ashton, ronny cox, paul reiser to be in this movie. cause they were not in the third. and for producer jerry bruckheimer, and composer harold faltermeyer. and, last one to  have most explosions, big bad mild language, sexual material and most of the supporting cast in the first, and this one who do not return in the 3 movie for over 7 years later. few  80's celebrities, in this film,  and laughs to be enjoyed for  quite while.  "},{"Title":"Bad Cop....","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A fall from greatness is a sad thing to witness, and none is sadder than the fall witnessed in Beverly Hills Cop II.Eddie Murphy is back as Axel Foley and you can have him.  He's back in Beverly Hills to find the truth behind the shooting of Capt. Bogomil (Ronny Cox).  This consists of him insulting and belittling nearly every single person who comes across his field of vision in a loud, shrill and usually un-funny way.  Even Dets. Taggart (Ashton) and Rosewood (Reinhold) don't get away unscathed, even as they work with Axel once more.Of course, the biggest joke in this movie is Eddie himself; he is so full of himself here and believes, even when he is being a jerk, he's in the right.  It's amazing in this single film alone, he takes bland pot shots at blue collar workers, receptionists, tall blonde women (Nielsen), German-accented bad guys (Prochnow), overbearing cops (Garfield, Hill, Reiser) weaselly little front men (Stockwell, looking suspiciously like his Dr. Yueh character from 1984's Dune), Gerald Ford and Hugh Hefner!  Things are made worse when you realize that NO ONE could ever get away with the things Murphy does here.  Only in his little world he has created for himself. Nobody does themselves any favors by appearing in this movie.  And the cameos by people with talent (Reiser, Chris Rock, Gilbert Gottfried) are so short that you expect Murphy felt himself being up-staged and cut them himself.  Hey, it could happen.  And there is SO much misogyny running through this flick that you expect Gloria Steinem could use this whole film as an indictment against Hollywood in general.  And WIN.What a waste.  The only good scene is the obviously improvised scene where Murphy introduces himself as Johnny Wishbone from the Island of St. Croix.  And that's about it. Not much for action fans here, either.Two stars.  One for the good will left over from the original and the fact that Sylvester Stallone, original choice for Axel Foley, didn't take this role.  Just imagine what HE would have done to Beverly Hills Cop II.Of course, you could always watch Cobra.... "},{"Title":"There's a new cop in town...again","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills Cop 2 continues the antics of that famous detective from Detroit.  This time Axel Foley deals with an evil woman and her accomplices who commit Alphabet Crimes.  Once again, Eddie Murphy gives yet another crazy performance.  He does those funny characters again.  The action and comedy doesn't disappoint.  This is yet another thrill ride.  ****stars. (Paramount) "},{"Title":"Tony Scott's Magic Makes It!!!","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Three years after the original Beverly Hills Cop came out and astonished audiences, this charismatic sequel followed with Eddie Murphy in top form. Indeed, this is the kind of sequel where members of the original cast find themselves in jeopardy. As it turns out, Captain Andrew Bogomil (Ronny Cox of Deliverance) gets gunned down a long-legged doll Karla Fry (Brigitte Nielsen of Red Sonja) and before you can snap your fingers, Detriot Detective Alexl Foley is off to Los Angeles to unravel the case of the 'Alphabet Crimes.' Naturally, Detective Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhoold) and Sergeant John Taggart (John Aston) are on the case, too, but their efforts are mitigated by a cluelessly incompetent Police Chief Harold Lutz (Allen Garfield of Nashville),who has more than enough encounters with Axel. The eerie villains are led the sinister Maxwell Dent (Jürgen Prochnow of Das Boot)and they have big plans that Axel foils. Meanwhile, in Detriot, Axel has his partner Detective Jeffrey Friedman (Paul Reiser) run interference for him with his departmental nemesis Inspector G. Douglas Todd (Gilbert Hill of Beverly Hills Cops) while he is off cavorting in Beverly Hills. Tony Scott helms the action with his usual polish and Beverly Hill Cops 2 looks pretty slick with its babes and its gunfights. "},{"Title":"Just as Fun as the Original","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've noticed these movies are starting to follow a simple routine a friend of Axel Foley's is attacked; Axel goes to Beverly Hills where he doesn't belong; Axel puts his job AND his life on the line as he searches for whoever's responsible; Axel gets into numerous spats with the Beverly Hills cops as he tries to prove to them that his suspects are indeed guilty; Axel is sent back home, but instead recruits someone (Taggert and Rosewood) into helping him prove his point; Axel turns out to be right, and bam, final showdown.While this formula has its limitations, there are many ways to pull it off, but only a few of them actually work. Luckily Tony Scott picked one of the ones that DO work.Here we have Axel drawn back to Beverly Hills after his friend Bogomil has been near-fatally shot by a group of 'alphabet thieves', who send the cops the first letter of the name of their next target. Fast- talking Axel eventually winds up in an arms smuggling operation with Rosewood and Taggert behind him every step of the way. Another threat to them is a cop--in fact, he's Chief Harold Lutz, an abusive moron who will look for the slightest excuse to fire someone. Axel is up to his usual antics, even going so far as to concoct a method of tricking the chief into thinking he's there on a 'multi-jurisdictional case'.While not as smart as the original, it's still a very entertaining movie that even provides a bit more development on Foley, Rosewood, and Taggert, with a few hilarious surprises from Rosewood.Tony Scott's sequel is more violent, grander in scale, and arguably funnier than the first. Even before his flashy, hyper-active camera style days with films like Domino and Man on Fire, you' know a Tony Scott movie when you saw it.Give it a watch. It's definitely a lot of fun, and only inferior to the first movie by a small margin. "}{"Title":"Axel Foley is back","Date":"20 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" There is a gang of robbers led by Karla Fry (Brigitte Nielsen) on the loose in Beverly Hills leaving notes. Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) went to the FBI for help in investigating the Alphabet crimes. Bogamil gets suspended while Rosewood and Taggart (John Ashton) gets downgraded to traffic by Chief Harold Lutz (Allen Garfield). Then Fry ambushes Bogamil and leaves him near death. Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) comes out to Beverly Hills to solve the Alphabet case and find who shot Bogamil. Taggart is reluctant but the guys help Foley to investigate. It leads to Karla Fry, Charles Cain (Dean Stockwell) and Maxwell Dent (Jürgen Prochnow).Axel Foley is back. That's all that's really needed to be said here. Eddie Murphy is loud and he's irreverent. The second one is more flashy and the Hollywood action is slicker but essentially it's the same movie. The flashier style is probably due to director Tony Scott. While some people may not like the weird Brigitte Nielsen, the first one had the weird Serge. It's a joke-a-minute action machine. Also I didn't realize that Chris Rock was in this one with a small role. It's nice to see. "},{"Title":"Both Axel Foley and Eddie Murphy deserve more than Beverly Hills Cop II can offer them","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If there were ever a sequel to almost, almost succeed entirely on the charisma and charm of its lead actor, it would be Beverly Hills Cop II, the sequel to the unexpected action-comedy surprise of 1984 that skyrocketed at the box office and made actor Eddie Murphy a high-profile name. It also helped kickstart the career of Martin Brest, a highly underrated director who went on to do films like Meet Joe Black and Midnight Run. The film helped the careers of several involved, and the main problem with the sequel is that it operates as if its predecessor never existed in the strangest possible way.Before elaborating on that, Murphy reprises his role as Detroit police detective Axel Foley, who teams up once again with Beverly Hills detectives Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) and John Taggart (John Ashton) to stop a gun-smuggling gang after the department's captain is shot and seriously wounded. Of course, when working with Axel, it's never a dull day, as Axel uses his wiseguy attitude, motormouth tendencies, and exaggerated emotions to further himself in the Beverly Hills life, which he learned in the last film, is much different than the kind of street operations that are conducted in Detroit.The issue at hand here is that Beverly Hills Cop II, despite undergoing a change in writers and a change in director, simply feels like it's trying to replicate success rather than trying something different with the formula. Even with the visual artist and the dazzling-effects manager of Tony Scott in the director's chair, providing Beverly Hills Cop II with a distinct look and hue in the visual department, the film never feels like it wants to take any chances or provide us with some daring, more elaborate instances that would make it standout rather than seem almost like a remake of its predecessor.The person to thank for not making this feature as glaringly obtrusive as it could've been is definitely Eddie Murphy, who simply doesn't change and doesn't need to. Murphy has such a zippy and energetic comedic flow and talent that his abilities translate beautifully to a sequel, as he winds up giving probably one of the strongest comedic performances in comedy history in the last two films. Murphy's hilarity is only heightened when Larry Ferguson (writer for The Hunt for Red October) and Warren Skaaren (writer for the original Batman and Beetlejuice) create a scene that he can steal without almost any effort, commanding the entire set with his trademarks and his energy. With those scenes, Murphy becomes an unmatchable force of comedic wit.It's a shame the film surrounding Murphy isn't as good as Murphy himself. Outside of its core performance and immersing visual style, Beverly Hills Cop II lays dormant as it is overtaken by a cookie-cutter, forgettable plot and a setup that feels too close to the original to succeed just as well as it did the first time around. Axel Foley is a memorable comic character and Murphy is an amazing comic spirit; both persons deserve more than Beverly Hills Cop II can offer them in a grander term.Starring Eddie Murphy, Judge Reinhold, John Ashton, and Ronny Cox. Directed by Tony Scott. "},{"Title":"A Terrific,Hilarious,Action-Packed Sequel. Eddie Murphy And Tony Scott At Their Best.","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop II is a terrific,hilarious,Action-packed sequel that is filled with great direction,an great performance from Eddie Murphy and a wonderful cast,wonderful laughs,thrilling Action and a memorable score and soundtrack. And while Beverly Hills Cop II isn't a good as the original,it's an entertaining and worthy follow up.Beverly Hills Cop II once again finds wisecracking Detroit Cop Axel Foley(Eddie Murphy)back in Beverly Hills when his friend Andrew Bogomil(Ronny Cox)has been gunned down by an Alphabet bandit,a person who's been stealing money and jewelry. Back in Beverly Hills,Axel teams up once again with his buddies Billy Rosewood(Judge Reinhold)and John Taggart(John Ashton)to solve the case with more laughs and Action.After the huge and popular Box Office success of the classic Beverly Hills Cop in 1984,it seemed inevitable that a sequel was going to be made and three years later came the release of Beverly Hills Cop II,a fun and entertaining sequel that got mixed reviews from critics at the time and has divided Beverly Hills Cop fans for years where some people like it and others don't but the sequel was such a huge Box Office hit for Eddie Murphy making 153 million dollars and was one of the biggest hits of 1987 and is a sequel that mixes great laughs with explosive Action giving viewers a fun time for 102 minutes. What I like about Beverly Hills Cop II is that the movie basically takes what worked in the first film and rolls with it here giving viewers a movie that maybe just like the original but also giving viewers a good time that never slows down. Like the first Beverly Hills Cop this movie has a nice balance of Comedy and Action. The Comedy and laughs in BHC2 are funny,hilarious and will have you roaring with laughter whether it's scenes with Axel Foley with his wisecracks and Hijinks or the great scenes with Axel,Rosewood and Taggart working together and while the Comedic scenes are not as funny or iconic as the original they are still memorable and done with the same fun tone of the first one. If there is one thing that is bigger in this film it's the amazing and thrilling Action scenes and the Action in BHC2 is loud and intense and done in a fiery and fast pace style that was a trademark of director Tony Scott. One of the main criticisms on BHC2 is that the film focused more on Action than Comedy and I can say yes and no to that. Yes because the style of BHC2 is more like an Action movie with gunfights,explosions and chase sequences that were like the other Action movies of the 1980s and no because in certain scenes there is a mixture of intense Action and laughs to make sure that the movie isn't too serious. Of all of the BHC films the second film is probably the most stylish and visually stunning film in the series and that is thanks to not only Tony Scott's direction but also Jeffrey L. Kimball's photography because the city of Beverly Hills and even in Detroit there use of the different colors whether it's orange or blue either in the daytime or at night. The look of BHC2 captures the late 1980s very well. The character Axel Foley is hilarious in this on once again because like in the original Axel uses his smarts,wisecracks and wits to get what he wants and making fools out of any stranger whether he's pretending to be somebody else or stealing a house(you'll see). While Axel is still a Detroit Cop and a fish out of water,when he's in Beverly Hills the town is his playground and he's having fun with laughs and a smile the only way Axel Foley does. The ending of Beverly Hills Cop is great,memorable and is filled with laughs and Action that will satisfy viewers and leave them with a smile. A fantastic ending.The cast is wonderful. Eddie Murphy is excellent and hilarious once again as Axel Foley,with Murphy being funny and charismatic. Judge Reinhold and John Ashton are terrific and funny once again as Billy Rosewood and John Taggart,Axel's friends and Beverly Hills Cops. Jurgen Prochnow is wonderful as villain Maxwell Dent,the man planning the Alphabet jobs. Ronny Cox is great once again as Andrew Bogomil,Billy and Taggart Captain. Bridget Nielsen is sexy and memorable as Karla,Dent's girlfriend. Allen Garfield is fantastic as Chief Lutz,a verbally abusive Police chief. Dean Stockwell is outstanding as Chip Cain,Maxwell's right hand man. Paul Reiser and Gill Hill are hilarious once again as Jeffrey Friedman and Inspector Todd,Detroit Cops. Robert Ridgely(Mayor Egan),Gilbert Gottfried(Sidney Bernstein),Tom Bower(Russ Fielding),Paul Guilfoyle(Nikos Thomopolis),Frank J. Pesce(Carlotta),Robert Pastorelli(Vinnie),Alice Adair(Jan Bogomil)and Brian O'Conner(Biddle)give good performances as well. Also,lookout for cameos by Hugh Hefner(Himself)and Chris Rock(Parking Vallet).The direction by Tony Scott is amazing and stylish,with Scott bringing a beautiful and stunning look to the film with good angles and camera movements. Great direction,Scott.The score by Harold Faltermeyer is outstanding and memorable once again and matches the film's tone. The soundtrack also includes songs by Bob Seger(Shakedown),George Michael(I Want Your Sex),James Ingram(Better Way),The Pointer Sisters(Be There),Keta Bell and Corey Hart(Hold On)and more. Terrific soundtrack.In final word,if you love Eddie Murphy,Tony Scott,Action-Comedies or the first Beverly Hills Cop,I highly suggest you see Beverly Hills Cop 2,a terrific and hilarious Action-packed sequel that is a worthy follow-up to the the original. Highly Recommended. 9.5/10. "},{"Title":"F*** Rambo.......","Date":"20 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The original was one of the biggest films of 1984, and Simpson and Bruckheimer had a massive hit the year before with Scott's Top Gun, so this was fool proof, and only an idiot wouldn't green light the sequel, so it's more of the same, but bigger in every sense, but it's lost a little bit of the first films soul.Ronny Cox only comes back for a cameo, so he gets shot at the beginning, and this prompts Foley to return to Beverly Hills. He re-teams with Taggart and Rosewood, who isn't as timid as he was in the first film, and has a penchant for weapons, because this would make his character funnier, right?Obviously there is a sub plot involving gun running, Jurgen Prochnow, Bridgitte Nielsen and alphabets, so it's down to Foley to wisecrack his way to solving the crimes.This film could have just been Murphy running along the beach, swearing every few minutes and laughing, and it still would have been a huge hit, because every once in a while, the planets align, and Hollywood could make a critic and crowd proof movie.This was in instance of that. Scott was huge, he made Cruise a star. Simpson and Bruckhiemer did the same, Murphy was the biggest thing in Hollywood, and the original was massive.Nothing could go wrong.It's not brilliant by any means, in fact, sometimes the film seems downright lazy, more or less copying set pieces from the original, like the final act and the set piece where Foley pretends to be someone else in order to gain access to somewhere.But its flashy, sometimes funny, and it's always sunny in Beverly Hills, and you cannot help but love the infectious laugh.You realise after an hour just how bland it is compared to the original, but you'll enjoy it never the less. "},{"Title":"Great Beverly Hills Cop sequel!","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first sequel to what I think is one of the best action comedies from Hollywood. Eddie Murphy returns as Detroit cop Axel Foley, who goes to Beverly Hills to investigate who gunned down Lt. Andrew Bogomil (Ronny Cox). He reunites with Detective Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) and Det. Sgt. John Taggert (John Ashton) to catch the perpetrator, and to nab those behind of string of robberies plaguing the city, while also dealing with the department's new, arrogant and obnoxious Chief Lutz (Allen Garfield).Like the first film, this sequel has a no-nonsense and compelling story with exciting action sequences that make this movie a definite must-see for action movie fans. In addition, humor is in abundance, especially when in scenes where Murphy, Reinhold and Ashton are together. I like the fact that their on-screen chemistry and them working together are emphasized more in this film.Murphy's quick wit and action, Reinhold's cool and observant demeanor and Ashton's serious and commanding character gave us another one of the best movie trios ever assembled. The villains were also noteworthy the sly, calm, yet cold Maxwell Dent (Jürgen Prochnow) and the tall, beautiful, Femme Fatale Karla Fry (Brigitte Nielsen) were entertaining to watch on screen.Aside from a few minor issues I had with the film like the lesser action and the overzealous party goers at the Playboy Mansion scene, this is an enjoyable movie and is one of my favorite movie sequels.Grade A "},{"Title":"Foley's methods of entering premises by trickery I find particularly interesting...","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One of the most interesting things I've noticed about both Beverley Hills Cop and Beverley Hills Cop 2 is the methods Foley uses to enter premises and engineer situations to his advantage. In the first movie, mostly these consist of bluff, for example the scene where he pretends to be an out-of-town reporter for Rolling Stone Magazine in order to rent a room at the Beverley Palms Hotel and later on his depiction of himself as Maitland's gay lover with an unfortunate affliction of herpes simplex 10. However, in the second movie, the comedy in many circumstances hangs on the presumption that there are actually a lot of stupid people in society. This is illustrated clearly in the scene where he poses as a Beverley Hills Building Inspector and convinces the foreman of a team of builders working on a house that the plans have changed and there shouldn't be any right angles on the building. This trick is replicated in a subsequent scene where he successfully convinces a receptionist at the Beverley Hills Gun Club that there actually is such things as explosive bullets that are sensitive to sound and can potentially go off at the slightest whisper. In essence, Foley performs a multitude of different sketches within each movie, adopting different characters as he goes along, each character having his own unique 'story' and/or 'bio'. There is the Rolling Stone reporter, the security official who bluffs his way into Maitland's warehouse, (BHC 1) the Metalux explosive research company courier who delivers the sound-sensitive ammunition, 'Johnny Wishbone' the psychic from the Isle of Saint Croix (BHC2), and so on. It is this ability to constantly change character that gives both movies such a unique and colourful slant. "},{"Title":"eddie judge and john","Date":"25 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" first off i thought that this was one of the better sequels that were made,, not just in the 80's but of all time, because today most sequels really suck bad. Eddie Murphy does his usual great job of slapstick comedy in this one,, Judge Reinhold is awesome and so is John Ashton. i like the storyline in this one,, this one seems more violent than the first which is good,, it's not as good as the first but hey most aren't these days.. there's lots of car chases shoot em up's and yes stallone's wife Bridjette Neilsen,, very nice,, i wish that they would have stopped after the second one because to me the third one was just total gargbage. granted this one doesn't have the originality of the first one but has equally as many laughs as the first one. "},{"Title":"Good Action-Comedy Sequel!","Date":"16 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy, Judge Reinhold, John Ashton, Jurgen Prochnow, Dean Stockwell, Brigitte Nielsen, Paul Reiser and Ronny Cox star in this 1987 action-comedy sequel. This takes place a couple years after the original and begins with a jewelery heist in Beverly Hills, California. We meet up with Detroit, Michican cop, Axel Foley (Murphy) who discovers his cop friend, Andy Bogomill (Cox) has been shot. He heads to Beverly Hills to help other cop friends, Billy Rosewood (Reinhold) and partner, John Taggart (Ashton) investigate. They learn he was trying to solve a series of robberies where the thieves leave alphabets and eventually track them to crooked businessman, Maxwell Dent (Prochnow). Nielsen (Rocky IV) plays Dent's girlfriend and associate, Karla, Stockwell (Quantum Leap) plays gun-dealer, Cain who also works for Dent and Reiser (Aliens) reprises his role as Axel's goofy cop co-worker, Jeffrey. I recommend this good sequel. "},{"Title":"A Little Better Than It Gets Credit For","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop II (1987)** 1/2 (out of 4)It's clear this sequel was made because the original was such a hit and it's another example of Hollywood doing something clever, making money and then just delivering a by-the-numbers film. This time out Alex Foley (Eddie Murphy) heads from Detroit to Beverly Hills to investigate the shooting of his friend. He talks Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) and Taggart (John Ashton) intro trying to bring down an operation dealing with robberies and guns. There's no doubt about the fact that BEVERLY HILLS COP II is a major letdown from the previous film and in many ways it's pretty much just a copy of it, with a few things changed around. With that said, as unoriginal as the film is and as weak as certain elements are, I still managed to have a decent time with the picture thanks in large part to the three leads who deliver fine and fun performances. Murphy, Reinhold and Ashton all fit back into their roles perfectly and even though the material doesn't help them, all three at least rise to the occasion and appear to be having fun together. The chemistry between the three is unmistakable and no matter what type of scene is going on it just seems like the three are really having a blast and enjoying working together. Jürgen Prochnow and Ronny Cox add nice support and Brigitte Nielsen makes for a couple good Murphy jokes about how big she is. Again, the story itself is rather weak and just thrown together and it's clear that they were just trying to copy what worked in the first film. This certainly doesn't work for the better as none of the reworked stuff here comes anywhere close to that in the original. We have Murphy's undercover stunt at the start, Murphy lying to the big shots in Beverly Hills and doing all sorts of things to get into places he shouldn't be. None of these scenes are as good as in the original but they still contain some charm. Tony Scott does a nice job with the action scenes and there's no doubt that he manages to keep the film moving at a good pace. "},{"Title":"Not As Much Fun As The First","Date":"2 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I loved Beverly Hills Cop and I personally think that it's one of Eddie Murphy's best films. It's funny, well-written, and exciting. After seeing the first one, I really couldn't wait to sit down and watch the sequel. I figured it wouldn't be as great as the first was, but I still thought it would be a fun sequel that would provide more entertainment for those who enjoyed the first movie. Now while Beverly Hills Cop II is far from terrible, it's unfortunately a run of the mill sequel that does absolutely nothing new and was obviously just made for money. The plot is almost exactly identical to the first one and this one really pulls no punches. Now I wouldn't have had such a problem with that if this film would've bothered to amp itself up some more. But, Beverly Hills Cop II is actually tamer than the first film and that takes some of the fun out of it. The two new characters were really unnecessary and the film would've been better off without them. But one of the biggest problems I had with the film is that it felt as if the script had a laugh of laughs to it. Still, BHC II is entertaining enough to recommend as a rental, just don't expect it to be anywhere as good as the first film. "}{"Title":"Superior sequel","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have to say that I found BEVERLY HILLS COP II an improvement over the first film in the series, as it's very much a different style of movie more catered towards my taste. This time around, the emphasis is less on the comedy and more on the action, which is little surprise given the presence of Tony Scott as director.Scott is, by far, the best thing about this movie. He creates one slick set-piece after another, whether it's a destructive vehicle chase or a climatic shoot-out, and overall his is a film which looks expensive and stylish. Really, this is a forerunner of all those Michael Bay epics clogging up cinema screens over the last decade.The script is worse than in the original, especially when it comes to the comedy. Although Murphy is better - more confident and assured - as Foley, his routines feel a little repetitive and tiresome especially when he fast-talks somebody in his way for the umpteenth time. Still, the supporting cast is strong and when everyone's having as much fun as they are here, it's difficult to complain too much. "},{"Title":"Beverly Hills Cop II","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first film was a fantastically fun film that made the leading actor a huge star, famous especially for his motormouth style, and so naturally the makers wanted to cash in with the success with a sequel not long later, from director Tony Scott (Top Gun, True Romance, Enemy of the State). Basically Detroit cop Det. Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) watches the news broadcast from Beverly Hills and is shocked to see that his friend Capt. Andrew Bogomil (Ronny Cox) was shot by a tall woman, and he rushes to go and see him in hospital. He is reunited with cop partners Det. William 'Billy' Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) and Det. Sgt. John Taggart (John Ashton) who may at times want to stick to the rules of the law, and who Police Chief Harold Lutz (Allen Garfield) is trying to fire, but they are also very keen to find the person who tried to kill Bogomil. Going on as they investigate the attempted murder are a series of specific robberies, being called the Alphabet Robberies, as the perpetrator leaves behind clues, an alphabet letter, in chronological order. The robberies seem to be masterminded by weapons kingpin Maxwell Dent (Jürgen Prochnow), and Axel and his two chums have a key suspect for who tried to kill Bogomil, especially in the criminal's tall blonde girlfriend, and gun expert, Karla Fry (Brigitte Nielsen). Axel follows all the clues that are leading to both the robberies and the murder attempt, using all forms of manipulation and conning to get past those that get in his way, and his motormouth antics do come in handy in the situations he gets into, and of course in the end the case is solved. Also starring Dean Stockwell as Charles 'Chip' Cain, Paul Reiser as Det. Jeffrey Friedman, Gilbert R. Hill as Insp. Douglas Todd, Paul Guilfoyle as Nikos Thomopolis and Robert Ridgely as Mayor Ted Egan. Murphy does still create some good giggles with his fast trash talking behaviour to get his own way, and supporting cast members Reinhold and Ashton again are great characters to join in the fun, the only cast member you can complain about is Nielsen putting on another silly foreign villain accent. There were some alright chase sequences, and one or two reasonable psychical and dialogue based jokes, it isn't as good as the first film of course, it is a not too terrible action comedy sequel. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for Shakedown (also nominated the Golden Globe), and it won the Razzie for Worst Original Song for George Michael's I Want Your Sex. Okay! "},{"Title":"Fairly Entertaining!","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop is an entertaining movie especially for action junkies or Eddie Murphy fans. I think this is somewhat of a letdown from the first movie because I believe Eddie Murphy's charm on the audience wore off the second time around. I thought he did really well though.Axel Foley returns to Beverly Hills and reteams with Taggert and Rosewood after a near fatal shooting to solve the so-called Alphabet crimes that has the wonderful California city in disarray.I already gave my opinions of Eddie Murphy above. If you're a fan of his, you'll like this. If not, well you won't. I thought the chemistry between Taggert and Rosewood is still there. It seems like how Rosewood is trying to impersonate an action star like Stallone or Eastwood.Tony Scott, the director of the awesome Top Gun came through here. He adds a great balanced mixture of action and comedy. There is also another rave soundtrack of great 80's tunes to listen to.Overall, this is a great action movie but not as good as the first. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Tony Scott was to the eighties what Michael Bay was to the nineties","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'Beverly Hills Cop II', while not as good as the first one, is still a great deal of fun. Eddie Murphy is wonderfully on form as the irreverent Detective Axel Foley, and he is joined again by Detective William 'Billy' Rosewood (Judge Reinhold), Detective Sergeant John Taggart (John Ashton), and Captain/Chief Andrew Bogomil (Ronny Cox).When Captain Bogomil is shot and left for dead, it proves to be the second in a series of 'alphabet crimes' which are sweeping Beverly Hills. Foley investigates, with his buddies Rosewood and Taggart backing him up, and soon they are mixing it up with statuesque femme fatale Karla Fry (Brigitte Nielsen) and her partner-in-crime Maxwell Dent (Jurgen Prochnow).While possessing an unfortunate dose of sexism, this sequel is thoroughly entertaining. The mixture of action and comedy is just right, and there is a fabulous car chase involving a... cement mixer! This really makes a change from Ferraris and Lamborghinis (Foley leaves his Ferrari - 'necessary' to his undercover work - back in Detroit, in the care of Detective Jeffrey Friedman (Paul Reiser), which turns out to be a very bad move indeed), and recalls 'The Italian Job' (1969), in which minis were used in an elaborate, show-stopping car chase rather than much faster performance vehicles.She has her share of detractors but I like Brigitte Nielsen and would love to see her make a comeback. She has that ice cold beauty and her stature alone makes her an impressive presence on screen. And I guess, like the very similar Michael Bay, you either love or loathe director Tony Scott. He really paved the way back in the eighties with his flashy visual style, born of his background in commercials. 'Beverly Hills Cop II' is a good example of this; it looks fantastic! While there is no theme song to rival Glenn Frey's electrifying 'The Heat is On' from the previous film, 'Shakedown', performed by Bob Seger, is pretty cool and sets the tone during the opening credits sequence. And look fast for a fledgling Chris Rock as a valet at the Playboy Mansion who is less than thrilled at Foley's arriving at a swank soiree in a cement mixer! "},{"Title":"action comedy","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 10 years ago i watched these films and had a different feel about them. That's because 10 years ago the 80' were still close enough for us to feel them with the nostalgia that we place upon it today. By now this is vintage. And from the soundtrack, to the clothes, to the visual construction of the film, this is so 80' as, say, Top Gun. All those notions of style, now outdated, were strong here. Those silhouettes placed against orange sunsets, that was so typical. Style is one of the major notions explored here. I think it works, so much that we can still relate at a distance to it today, even if it no longer works with our contemporary ways to build style.The other strong idea here is a mix between action and comedy which i think had never been tried before the first one of this series. But even that one was more of a comedy than an action film. This really makes the mix. And it works because we had Eddie Murphy in a peak, exploring his gimmick and exploring notions of race (is this a black thing?). And it works because it built a formula that was to be successfully used later (this same year we had Lethal Weapon). That's the merit of the these beverly hills cops. All the rest is ordinary time spending devices. But this notion is enough for us to appreciate it.My opinion 3/5 http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Without a doubt, the best!","Date":"7 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is without a doubt the best of the Beverly Hill Cop trilogy. The first one was an utter classic, there's no taking away from that but the hiring of director Tony Scott was an utter masterstroke. The film took the solid groundwork and style of the first film and turbo charged it into a slick, sexy action/thriller. The film is even better now because it is an excellent chunk of 80's flash, with fast cars, big guns, hazy sun lighting through blind covered windows by day and neon scattered jungles at night.The film has much more to it than the first, the story is extremely well fleshed out and it doesn't get boring at all. The script, while no Oscar winner has lots of flash material to keep you interested (and laughing) and although the Axel Foley scams tend to repeat a lot, they're entertaining and with the expensive cars, great chase scenes, uber violent gunfights against a golden Californian sky you just can't go wrong.The film looks and sounds great, but it matches in terms of action and with these three elements in place you just can't fault it! "},{"Title":"The heat is just about still on.","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Wise-cracking Detroit cop Axel Foley returns to Beverly Hills after learning his friend Captain Bogomil has been shot. Teaming up again with his cop buddies, Rosewood & Taggart, Foley tries to track down the alphabet bandit responsible for Bogomil's shooting.Riding in on the crest of a wave success of the first film, Beverly Hills Cop 2 bites off more than it can chew. Gone is director Martin Brest and into the chair comes fresh from Top Gun Tony Scott. There's no Daniel Petrie Jr in the writing office, instead there's something like 6 others involved, including Murphy, who with his star firmly on the rise is involved perhaps just a little too much.The Foley fish out of water scenario has just about enough life in it to keep it zippy, thanks in the main to Murphy and his interplay with the enjoyable Ashton and Reinhold as Taggart & Rosewood respectively. And Scott has a wail of a time with the action set-pieces; the director fully embracing the belief that a sequel should have more wham bang for the buck. Where this sequel fails miserably is with its one note, sign posted villains. The multitude of writers admirably attempt to put a dark gun running theme in the story, but Messrs Dean Stockwell, Jurgen Prochnow and Brigitte Nielsen are in turn poorly written, pointless and dull.But hey! This is the Murphy show, there's fun to be had as he uses his cocky bluffer skills to great effect. Be it a Carribbean psychic, a building inspector or Hugh Heffner's pool cleaner, Murphy once again proves what a comic talent he really was. An ill advised further sequel would follow 7 years later, proof positive that you can only milk a once winning formula so much. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Axel Foley gets the Tony Scott/Jerry Bruckheimer/Don Simpson treatment&#x85;","Date":"15 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" At the time of its release Beverly Hills Cop was the highest grossing comedy of all time, so it works out perfectly that its first sequel would be directed and produced by the juggernaut Hollywood crowd-pleasers Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer (and directed by none less than Tony Scott). The formula is exactly the same (and man I really mean exactly), although it follows all of the usual rules of an action sequel, which state that it must have a much bigger budget (Axel still does his police work by his own rules, only this time he uses precinct money to drive around in a Ferrari), more deaths, faster and funnier jokes (it clearly shoots for this one, anyway&#x85;), and at least one more 6-foot platinum blonde. Let's take a little trip, shall we? Beverly Hills Cop 2 was released in May of 1987, and so came just after things like Top Gun, Police Academy 3, The Color of Money, To Live and Die in L.A. (which was sort of an anti-buddy cop movie with a mean streak that is clearly reflected in Cop 2), Eddie Murphy's own The Golden Child, and the original Lethal Weapon, which was released just a few months earlier and may have been sharing theaters with it. Needless to say, there was no shortage of police movies and whatnot, and no time is wasted in attempting to stand out from the crowd.The movie starts with a violent robbery pulled off in broad daylight by a highly organized group of criminals headed by the statuesque Bridgette Nielsen, who plays the curiously named Karla Fry. She's involved with a ruthless organized crime syndicate that is running firearms to Central America, and when police chief Bogomil is gunned down, Foley decides he's going to head on back to southern California to solve the case himself again. Everyone is friends now after the events of the first movie. Taggart and Rosewood are no longer spying on Axel but have all become good friends, as they have with Bogomil, who sided with them against the Commissioner or Chief or Mayor or whatever at the end of the last movie. Unfortunately, the new police chief is a total jerkoff and has been firing everyone in sight and replacing them with all of his own people, so once again Taggart and Rosewood and Foley are forced to go against direct orders in order to do what needs to be done.The movie has been almost unanimously slammed by critics, and I would certainly hesitate to say that it's as bad as all that. In more recent years I have not always been the biggest fans of people like Jerry Bruckeimer (the mega-producer who we have to thank for such highly polished cheesefests as Armageddon and Gone in 60 Seconds and Pearl Harbor, not that he hasn't had his better movies), but if you are just looking for a fun popcorn action flick, you could certainly do worse than this one.If nothing else, it was great fun picking out the hilarious 80s pop culture references, some of which were light-hearted jabs at the competition, such as the posters for First Blood Part II and Rambo in Rosewood's stress-free apartment, and maybe my favorite, Bridgette Nielsen's (Stallone's wife at the time) earrings, which were these bizarre little metallic arrows that made her look like a Klingon. It's true that some of the jokes and situations are a little too unoriginal, even only in the first sequel, such as Foley's remarkable ability to come up with crazy stories on the spot (although the best one is where he pretends to be a gay prostitute to get into a ritzy club and harass the bad guy) and his loud-mouthed streams profanity. But again, not necessarily something that I would criticize the movie for just for being there. It gets a little cheesy at times though, like when he gets into the bad guys' office by pretending to be a delivery boy delivering highly unstable plutonium capsules in - get this - a brown paper bag, but overall it stays in the same vein as the original and may even be better in a lot of ways. "},{"Title":"Very fast, very funny Murphy fare","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Tony Scott has packed this inevitable sequel (to the '84 smash hit comedy) with plenty of action to keep the hoards of Eddie Murphy fans happy. E.M. returns as Axel Foley, the loud mouthed, fast talking Detroit cop who finds himself going back to Beverly Hills to assist his old buddies in a puzzling theft investigation.Whilst the comedy of the first is again used, there's not as much of it, however the pace of the film more than makes up for this. It's another very fast, very funny adventure worth your while if you enjoy Murphy's humour.Judge Reinhold, John Ashton and Ronny Cox all return.Friday, July 9, 1993 - T.V. "},{"Title":"Axels Back","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy's come back to film that had made him to inflict more great action and comedy up on us!Axel Foley is back and more dangerous than ever in his mischievous ways. The film plots around the fact of new criminal's in Beverly hills and that after every crime they do they leave an envelope marked with a letter of the alphabet leaving the Beverly Hills Police department with giving them the name of The Alphabet Crimes the criminals start there crime by robbing a jewellery shop and leaving an envelope marked with A then secondly they shoot Capt. Andrew Bogomil (Ronny Cox) for getting way too close to finding the Alphabet criminals and in turn they leave a envelope marked with B. Jan Bogomil (Alice Adair) who is a new character added to the film as Andrew Bogomil's daughter, she phones Axel in Detroit about her father being shot and obviously Axel rushes straight to Beverly Hills to team up with once again Det. William Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) and Det. Sgt. John Taggart (John AShton)to bring us great action and comedy in following the foot steps of Andrew Bogomil to find the criminals who had shot Andrew. The criminals include Maxwell Dent (Jurgen Prochnow), Karla Fry (Brigitte Nielson) and finally Charles Chip Cain (Dean Stockwell). This film also introduces for the first time comedy genius Chris Rock.This film is a master piece and is a must buy DVD "}{"Title":"Well, at least they gave it a go","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is an okay sequel to a classic 1980s action flick, Beverly Hills Cop. It's not bad and is most certainly watchable. But it could have been much better too. Again, Eddie Murphy is back as Detroit Detective Axel Foley who goes to Beverly Hills to solve the alphabet murders, again teamed up with Beverly Hills Detectives Billy Rosewood and John Taggart. Although the team-up is again funny, it has that been there done that feel and it doesn't help that this time around, the story is a bit darker and weaker. That makes for movie fluff which works only because of the aforementioned 3 costars. We'll have to wait for Part III to recapture more of that original magic. 6 out of 10 this time around. "},{"Title":"Beverly Hills cop good one now that is on dvd","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  axel foley (eddie murphy) is back in the hit sequel, beverly hills cop 2. many times sequels to original blockbuster films are sucky. there even more sucky when the sequel is done by a different director (tony scott) than the original film (martin brest) , but in this case that's not the case. beverly hills cop 2 is amazingly good, it's funny, has a good script, has action and suspense.the story in this film is that axel's buddy, and friend former chie andrew bogomil (ronny cox) has been shot and left for dead by a crazy lunatic arms dealer named karly fry (brilliant done by brigitte nielsen).axel , back in detroit, heads to beverly hills to see his friend and to aid his fellow friends billy rosewood (judge reinhold) and john taggart (john ashton) in getting justice for his friend.however, a new police chief harold lutz (allen garfield) a small man with lots of power, plans to derail their investigation while at the same kissing the butt of the mayor (robert ridgely) to further his career and reputation.like i said, beverly hills cop 2 has alot of action. there are gun fights, car chases and everything found in a good action flick.however, i also liked the fact that all the characters were back in the film and that all of them were as close as ever. billy rosewood, the nice and anal friend of taggart, has become a wannabee rambo type guy collecting guns and weapons leading to taggart telling him that we need to talk. lol however, billy and taggart in the last film do become helpful in helping axel, along with giving us a couple of good laughs.axel (eddie murphy) is again at his comical best, doing everything legal and illegal to find out whose behind his friend's shooting and bringing them down hard. all in all, beverly hills cop 2 is a great sequel to the original. many of the cool music tunes are back along with a couple of new ones, plus the film manages to recreate the hysterical laughs from the first film and adds alot of action.Furthere Note There are actually two games made of Beverly Hills Cop. One for the PC and one for the Commodore 64.Check em out and check out the movie. Rent or buy it today.There is also a Special Edition Dvd of Beverly Hills Cop II whichincludes deleted scenes, directors commentary by Tony Scott , a brief but good featurette on the making of the film with interviews with the whole cast. "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This Movie Beverly Hills Cop 2 is a very funny and action packed movie. Not as good as the origanal though but very entertaining. This was a big hit at the box office. But then all of a sudden they made NO3 which is the worst one out of the series.  "},{"Title":"The heat's Back On....","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" ....But what they don't tell you is that it isn't as good as the original!Now while this movie is entertaining it nowhere has the magic of the original. Regardless it's still a fun popcorn movie. Which co-starred Sly Stallone's wife at the time. Who actually was HOT!!!!3(***)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"Not nearly as good as the first, but still decent","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  ** 1/2Starring Eddie Murphy, Judge Reinhold, and John Ashton.When Axel Foley hears that one of his friends has been shot, he goes back to Beverly Hills.  Their he reunites with all the familiar faces of the last film and learn that the attempted murder all ties together with a string of robberies.  It's up to Axel and the rest to help find the culprit.It doesn't exactly have the same amount of good laughs, nor does it have the good plot.  It's a funny movie, but it could've been better. "},{"Title":"Witty, entertaining, but doesn't have the original's standards","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although higher financed, by noticing the more bigger co-ordinated action set pieces throughout the film, the script doesn't live up to the original's slickiness and comedic entertainment. With a ''lovely'' stripclub scene, and a superb action ending, this 1987 sequel is worth the viewing.  "},{"Title":"Eddie Does It Again","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  For some reason people have said that this sequel was disappointing but I say this sequel was a bit better than the first one but not by much. A terrific cast in this second installment though. How can you not like Bridgette Nielson and those long legs. Also Murphy gives us some good laughs like always and delivers the goods as he always has for us in the 80's. The chemistry between Murphy, John Ashton and Judge Reinhold is so good. Reinhold delivers and does it well with Murphy while driving the cement truck to the Playboy Mansion. Watch for a cameo of Chris Rock parking cars at the Playboy Mansion. Chris Rock's first movie gig. The entire cast in this installment is great and works well all together. One of the best scenes is when Axel Foley visits the Gun Club to find some info out, he delivers a smooth line to Nielson that sticks in my mind as a riot. Also the Playboy Mansion scene is one of the funniest as well. So take a look and buy the DVD Box Set, comes out soon or is already out depending on when you are reading this. One of Eddie Murphy's best movies by far. "},{"Title":"Not as Good as the First But Still a Fresh Sequel,","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop 2 is a fantastic movie with a very good storyline and a really funny cast and characters.It certainly isn't as good as the first Beverly Hills Cop but its still a very enjoyable and fresh sequel.My biggest problem is that the effort with a good storyline wasn't as impressive this time around,what't there is enjoyable,but a lot of the movie is Axel Foley messing around and doing unprofessional or illegal things,but all the stuff he was doing was just too funny to bother me that much,but they still could have made more effort with a storyline.Like the first,the music is fantastic and the cast are as great as ever.Its certainly not as good as the first Beverly Hills Cop,but Beverly Hills Cop 2 has enough comedy and action to keep the fans entertained.Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) must return to the Beverly Hills police force to help his old friends investigate the shooting of their chief. "},{"Title":"Inevitable Sequel.","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy, Judge Reinhold, and John Ashton return for this sequel to the surprise box-office smash, which finds Axel Foley returning to Beverly Hills to investigate a series of high-tech robberies, involving a beautiful woman(Brigitte Nielsen) and her gang. The expected wise-cracks and explosions follow.Film is hated by some critics, but is really a minor step down from the first. Axel is portrayed the same way here as in the first, only a little more so. Again, Foley succeeds because everyone else is so dumb, and the plot, while slick, is also convoluted, but hardly the point of the film, being just a showcase for Murphy's wise-guy persona, which once again wears thin. "},{"Title":"Possibly Better Than the First!","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) returns to Beverly Hills to help Taggart (John Ashton) and Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) investigate Chief Bogamil's near-fatal shooting and the series of alphabet crimes associated with it.So, how do you top the greatest action comedy of all time? You bring in director Tony Scott (Top Gun) to spruce up the action, car chases and explosions. You also improve Judge Reinhold's character. In the first film, he was more or less just background. Here, he has a personality and is even more eccentric than Foley himself! I did like the nods to Sylvester Stallone. Casting his wife, putting his posters up all over... it was like a consolation prize for backing out of the first film. "}{"Title":"Awesome sequel","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop was a runaway hit despite being panned by the same established critics that gave Speed 2 and Anaconda 2 thumbs up. The second installment has Axel Foley trying to solve a case involving a criminal who goes by the name The Alphabet Killer(played by Jurgen Prochnow) after LT. Bogomil is shot by the Alphabet Killer's hench woman Sally, played by Brigitte Nielson. Later on Axel stumbles on a plot involving oil and a lot of guns. Beverly Hills Cop II is just as funny as the first one but is more visually pleasing. Whether it is the streets of Beverly Hills or an oil field out of town, the picture is sharp. Eddie Murphy and Judge Reinhold's character, Billy, provide most of the laughs. John Ashton's Taggert is okay on this one. Brigitte Nielson probably played her best role in here as The Alphabet Killer's partner in crime. The action scenes are pretty good but what made Beverly Hills Cop II interesting the most was the suspense. I mean Axel gets so involved in a case that he almost cost, Billy, Taggert and himself a job and he still succeeds. What a cop! Plus under the direction of Tony Scott this movie was bound to be a thrill. You cant do wrong with this sequel to Beverly Hills Cop, pay no mind to the snooty critics who panned it and stay away from Beverly Hills Cop III. "},{"Title":"Even better than the original!","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Though I'm sure many disagree, I enjoyed the sequel even better than the original Beverly Hills Cop.  Both are good movies, but this one has more laughs, in my opinion.  Eddie Murphy goes into more of his hilarious improvisations and since Tony Scott is in the director's chair this time around, the action scenes are more elaborate.  Taggart and Rosewood loosened up in the end of the original, so their characters are much more fun to watch.  I love Taggart's line at the end of the climactic shoot-out.  I still can't say John Ashton and Judge Reinhold match up to Laurel and Hardy, like Martin Brest (director of the original) said, but they do make a great team.  And as much as I loved the music in the first movie, the music in this soundtrack is even better!  The song during the opening title sequence, Shakedown, is perfect as it really got me pumped up for what was about to come.  Like the original, this movie also has a strip club sequence and as an added bonus, shots of scantily clad Playboy bunnies.  So how can I complain?  Well...other than the fact that Bronson Pinchot (who stole the show in the first and third movies as the hilarious Serge) doesn't make an appearance.  I still stand by my word in saying this is the best in the Cop series!  This is yet another reminder that Eddie Murphy used to make funny movies.  What happened to you, Eddie?  We want you back! My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Slightly below par, but still watchable","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  (Includes Spoilers)One evening I sat down and turned the TV on, this movie was just starting so I decided to watch, having nothing else to do. I have never seen the original Beverly Hills Cop but I felt with Eddie Murphy back in 1987 this movie couldn't go too far wrong.I must admit I almost switched off halfway through, but the fact that I didn't must mean something, even though I wasn't too involved in events on screen I wasn't counting down the minutes till it ended either. This is passable as light entertainment, from the Don Simpson / Jerry Bruckheimer stable which produced the likes of Top Gun, Pirates of the Caribbean, Con Air, The Rock, Enemy of the State, Crimson Tide, and Days of Thunder. The latter three were all directed by Tony Scott, just like this, but you have to feel this must be classed as one of his lesser achievements.I think the movie relies somewhat on characters and themes introduced in the original, which is perhaps why I didn't engage in this as much as I could have. This is a buddy movie for Murphy and Judge Reinhold, with most of the jokes being directed at Reinhold's partner John Ashton or the stupid chief (and Gerry Ford). The villains of the piece, who include Bridgette Neilsen in their number, are seemingly there for the sake of it, and only pop up significantly for a shootout at the end, except for some needless intimidation of Dean Stockwell.Perhaps I wasn't paying enough attention but this seems to be mostly a vehicle for Murphy to showcase his talents, rather than a serious attempt to push the envelope in the action-comedy genre. Most of the film's highlights involve Murphy's character Axel Foley getting into situations where he acts outlandishly, such as in a strip joint, a building site, a gun club, or Hugh Heffner's place. Yes HH cameos as himself, just to give you an idea of how seriously Scott, Bruckheimer, Simpson, and Murphy were taking this movie.There are entertaining moments with the usual 80s gun fights and car chases, one-liners, humourous internal police squabbles in Detroit and Beverly Hills, as Murphy shoots from the hip and plays all sides against each other, but the movie seems undermined by a lack of purpose, other than making slick gags or making the chief look stupid. You can rely on a Simpson/Bruckheimer movie to be put together well on the technical side, it has clearly had quite a budget lavished upon it, just a shame such attention to detail was not applied to the script (co-written by Murphy).In all this is a popcorn flick, nothing offensively bad or tasteless creeps in, but if you hate mediocre action/cop comedies, just steer clear and watch the Lethal Weapon movies instead.5/10 "},{"Title":"Decent sequel","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills Cop II (1987)   *** / *****Starring Eddie Murphy, Judge Reinhold, Ronny CoxOK sequel to surprise-smash 1984 original sees Murphy's Axel Foley on the trail of a cop killer who's smuggling a mass supply of high-tech weapons into California. Murphy's character is a bit too much of a loudmouth this time around, with too many recycled gags and ideas, but Reinhold's supporting character (with posters of Sly Stallone films--the original targeted lead actor of the first film--adorning his home) becomes a good focus of attention. Billy, we've gotta talk becomes a common sentence as he reveals guns, knives and uzis to his fellow detectives. All-in-all a decent, although not very good, sequel to Martin Brest's original. (Trivia The sequel grossed over $100 million at the box office, yet it took the filmmakers over seven years to release a sequel, because they were looking for a really good script with well-developed characters and progression. It's considered the worst of the series.)***/***** "},{"Title":"Disappointing Sequel to BHC.","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This sequel to the smash hit movie BEVERLY HILLS COP takes the Murphy character back to Los Angeles to solve a case of `Alphabet' crimes.  Unfortunately, BHC2 is another one of those ordinary sequels that got made just because its predecessor was such a huge hit, therefore lacking the quality of the original.  The major mistake of the movie comes from the storyline, which contains more bullets and not enough hilarity.  There are a few funny bits, though, such as John Ashton falling into a swimming pool and the scene where Murphy picks on Playboy ladies man Hugh Hefner, but the movie's good moments can't compete with lousy acting or a crummy script.2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Almost as good as its predecessor","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This inevitable sequel to Eddie Murphy's 1984 box office smash reunites most of the original film's cast and lets them reprise their star making roles. This time out, Detroit police detective Axel Foley (Murphy) once again responds to the call of duty....in Beverly Hills. Asking his friend (Paul Reiser) to sit in for him, he helps his old Beverly Hills cop buddies (Judge Reinhold, John Ashton) put an end to a series of crimes being performed alphabetically by a hit woman (Brigitte Nielsen) and her gang. Plenty of action packed scenes and funny moments but this film's main flaw is its frequent scenes that wind up not being entirely explained. It gets confusing at times but it doesn't necessarily cause a full distraction. Look for the hilarious Chris Rock in his film debuting bit part as a valet. "},{"Title":"Let's be fair with this one","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In the second installment to the highly successful Beverly Hills Cop trilogy, we find Axel Foley(Eddie Murphy) returning once again to Beverly Hills to solve crime.  This time Axel is trying to solve the shooting of Captain Bogomil(Ronny Cox).  As Axel digs deeper, he discovers that Bogomil had been on the trail of a group of bank robbers, which are headed by Maxwell Dent(Jurgen Prochnow), who just so happens to own an exquisite Beverly Hills gun club.  So Axel reunites with old buddies Billy Rosewood(Judge Reinhold) and John Taggart(John Ashton) to go and solve the crime.Being that this is the second film in the trilogy, one would expect Beverly Hills Cop II to either be a step up or a step down from the first film.  Beverly Hills Cop II tries to be stylish but can't even though it's in the hands of Tony Scott, director of 1986's Top Gun.  The action here is a lot wilder too, but after a while it starts to get pointless, especially in the ending shoot-out.  Of course, Eddie Murphy saves this film from being another average action-comedy, which is good.  So when you watch this film, try to be fair in judging in it.I give Beverly Hills Cop II an 8/10. "},{"Title":"not a great sequel, but a good one","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm not sure why, but BEVERLY HILLS COP 2 always seemed a little darker in tone to me, as opposed to what some people I know think. It probably has something to do with Tony Scott's direction and the cinematography, which gives it (again, to me) an even more gritty feel than the first one. The shocking attempted murder of Ronny Cox's Captain Bogamill prompts Axel Foley to return to Beverly Hills, who catches the incident on the local news while on a case in Detroit (a case that has a funny connection to the opening scene of the previous film). Eddie Murphy is in top form again, as are Judge Reinhold and John Ashton. I never really cared much for Brigette Neilsen, but she does a good job here, as do her cronies, Dean Stockwell and Jurgen Prochnow. Even Hugh Hefner himself has a cameo during a scene that takes place at the Playboy Mansion. Reinhold gets to show a slightly different side to Billy Rosewood this time around, a guy who has a nice gun collection, loves action movies (note the RAMBO poster above his couch), and fantasizes about being an action movie star - a dream that gets to come true during the warehouse raid climax. This sequel isn't quite as good as the previous, but it's at least a little different, so that makes it entertaining and worth watching. "},{"Title":"Neolithic incompetence indeed","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Superlame sequel has Detroit cop Murphy going back to Beverly Hills three years after the events of the first film to track down the person responsible for shooting Beverly Hills captain Bogamil, while he was investigating some ridiculous plot, melodramatically known from the first scene as The Alphabet Crimes.Several overly convenient explanatory scenes were required in this ridiculously contrived and unfunny sequel, this has none of the charm or chemistry or spontaneity of the first film, replacing that with badly over-directed scenes of blazing red sunsets and dark glowing neon lighting.Murphy does the best as he can with the material, but John Ashton looks (understandably) bored with his now unnecessarily mean character; while Judge Reinhold's character was changed from a likable goofball from the first film, to gun-toting, wannabe Rambo in a trenchcoat in this film.The soundtrack, partially by Bob Seger, falls flat, especially compared to the first film's. Formulaically returns to another strip club, before a lame attempt at another SuperCop routine, as Axle poses as a psychic from St. Croix.Dirty Harry reference was funny, one of the few times I laughed, also during Gilbert Gottfried's and Robert Pastorelli's cameos. I also laughed a bit at Pastorelli's ridiculous pompadour hairdo. Gil Hill was merely going through the motions of being Axle's obligatory angry superior. Hugh Heffner's cameo is needless and out-of-place, and the dump truck demolition derby leading up to it is a lame attempt to top the smash up intro in the first film, and it put more people's lives in danger than the villain's plot did.And if Bogomil was so seriously injured from multiple gunshot wounds at the start of the film, why does he seem to get up and back to work in a few days?What a waste. Did this film's screenwriters even watch the first film? "},{"Title":"A great under-rated sequel","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop 2 was a smash hit when it was released to theaters in 1987. Many action fans really loved this movie, as well as fans of the first Beverly Hills Cop film.One of the reasons why Beverly Hills Cop 2 is such a great sequel is because of the return of the stars from the first film. Eddie Murphy is back, as well as Judge Reinhold, John Ashton, and Ronny Cox. In addition to them, some new characters are introduced such as Brigitte Nielsen & Jurgen Prochnow as the new villains, and the cute Alice Adair as Ronny Cox's daughter in the film.Another reason why this sequel is good is because of the way the action and comedy scenes are balanced. While not as funny as the first film, Beverly Hills Cop 2 has a nice balanced blend of action and comedy. This means that both action & comedy fans will love this movie.Here is the final reason that this sequel is good So many great cameos are featured in the film! There are cameos by Paul Reiser (again), Gilbert Gottfried, Chris Rock, Hugh Hefner, Carrie Leigh, and DOZENS of sexy Playboy Playmates! Perhaps the only bad thing about the film is that there were many noticeable mistakes in editing. However, upon watching this movie more than 5 times, I got over the mistakes and managed to look past them. The good things about this movie far outweigh its disadvantages.To sum up, I strongly recommend this film to those who loved the first movie. It is a truly great sequel, one of the greatest movie sequels of all time. It follows very closely to the first film, and has an 80's feel to it just like the first movie. Don't miss those great cameos! "}{"Title":"Are you driving with your eyes open? Or you like using the force?","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" How often does a great song and a lousy song come out of the same movie. Shakedown by Bob Seger was nominated for an Academy Award for best song, while I Want Your Sex by George Michael won a Raqzzie for the worst song of the year.But, it's not about the song, it's about the actors. Here we have the gang back from Beverly Hills Cop Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy), a hipper Rosewood (Judge Reinhold), Capt.Bogomil (Ronny Cox) and Sgt. Taggart (John Ashton, and Inspector Todd (Gilbert R. Hill).This time the evil villain is the lovely Brigitte Nielsen.Not as funny as the original, but still has plenty of laughs and action as the team solves the Alphabet Crimes. "},{"Title":"The best","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think that part 2 is the best of the three. I think Axel is really funny in the first two movies, and not as funny in the third. I think the second one is better, because he's more of a con artist in that one, and the sound track is better. Part one definately has some very funny parts in it though. The thing I like least about part three is the fact that Inspector T gets killed. I like Todd alot. Did you know that Zues( Debo from Friday) is in beverly hills cop 2? I have a strong bias towards this movie because although it might not be the best movie ever made, it's my favorite movie of all time!! As Axel says, Trust me!! I love when he says that, because you know you shouldn't trust him at all. "},{"Title":"Just as funnier as the original, and also a lot more action-packed","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Axel Foley is back, and he's tougher and a lot more wisecrackingthan before in Beverly Hills Cop 2! Played with spritz andstyle by the great Eddie Murphy, Foley journeys back to BeverlyHills to find the shooter of his friend Lt. Andrew Bogomil(Ronny Cox). Soon enough, with his buddies Sgt. John Taggart(John Ashton) and Dt. Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhold), Axel nabsthe assailants. Jammed with loud explosions and gunfire (thanks to producerJerry Bruckheimer), Beverly Hills Cop II is more thrillingjust as it's hilarious. With Murphy's usual funny banter, theaction is given a funny and bum "},{"Title":"Probably one of the Best sequels to any film!","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop II is pure entertainment.Eddie Murphy's character Axel Foley is better than ever in this sequel to the 1984 original. The film's story is much better than the original, the soundtrack's great, there's a lot of humor and action. Tony Scott was so good at directing this (one of his best along with TOP GUN and True Romance). The film's got a great cast with Jurgen Prochnow (The Keep,Dune,In The Mouth Of Madness) and Dean Stockwell (Dune,Blue Velvet,To Live and Die in L.A.) are great as Foley's villains. Rating 10/10, an excellent sequel that doesn't disappoint and is worth the money to buy or the time to watch. If there's a BEVERLY HILLS COP IV, Tony Scott should direct. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Beverly Hills Cop, but nowhere as bad as three.","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I enjoyed the first Beverly Hills Cop, and thought that it was a very funny movie. Beverly Hills cop 2 didn't make as much money as the first film, but it did pretty well with 153 million. This is nowhere as good as the first movie, but it's still a good summer movie to watch for fun. Eddie Murphy is once again hilarious as Axel Foley, giving out more jokes than the first movie. Axel's friends are back too and they have some pretty funny moments in the movie also. The script is not as good as the first movie(Which was nominated for an Oscar for best screenplay), but not as horrible as three. Overall, a decent sequel to a classic cop movie that will make you fall off the couch laughing. "}]