[{"Title":"The timeless message of Cry Freedom","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I show this film to university students in speech and media law  because its lessons are timeless Why speaking out against injustice is important and can bring about the changes sought by the oppressed. Why freedom of the press and freedom of speech are essential to democracy. This is a must-see story of how apartheid was brought to the attention of the world through the activism of Steven Biko and the journalism of Donald Woods. It also gives an important lesson of free speech You can blow out a candle, but you can't blow out a fire. Once the flame begins to catch, the wind will blow it higher. (From Biko by Peter Gabriel, on Shaking the Tree). "},{"Title":"An exceptional film","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film is, quite simply, brilliant.  The cinematography is good, the acting superb and the story absolutely breathtaking.  This is the story of Donald Woods, a white South African who thought himself a liberal until he found out the reality of apartheid.  Kevin Kline is completely convincing - so much so that when Donald Woods himself appeared on TV some years later, I recognised him from Kline's portrayal.  Denzel Washington also turns in a masterful performance, as ever.I urge you to watch this.  It is long, but it is worth your patience because it tells such an incredible story.  Remember, folks, this really happened. "},{"Title":"Fine all round performances","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Billed as the story of Steve Biko -- played excellently by Denzel Washington, as you'd expect -- this was actually more the story of Donald Woods, played by Kevin Kline.This was undoubtedly the making of Kline as a serious actor, and he was surprisingly good in the role.Attenborough gave this the sort of direction you'd expect, and the often spectacular scenes of the masses were those of the sort that only he can get across.The remainder of the cast was competent enough and did a good job, in what ends up as an ultimately sad tale of a South Africa that is still nowhere near the distant past. "},{"Title":"Must-viewing just to begin to understand apartheid's legacy","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  CRY FREEDOM is an excellent primer for those wanting an overview of apartheid's cruelty in just a couple of hours. Famed director Richard Attenborough (GANDHI) is certainly no stranger to the genre, and the collaboration of the real-life Mr. and Mrs. Woods, the main white characters in their book and in this film, lends further authenticity to CRY FREEDOM. The video now in release actually runs a little over 2 and a half hours since 23 minutes of extra footage was inserted to make it a two part TV miniseries after the film's initial theatrical release. While the added length serves to heighten the film's forgivable flaws uneven character development and blanket stereotyping in particular, another possible flaw (the insistence on the white characters' fate over that of the African ones) may work out as a strength. Viewing CRYING FREEDOM as a politically and historically educational film (as I think it should, over its artistic merits), the story is one which black Africans know only too well, though the younger generation may now need to see it on film for full impact. It is the whites who have always been the film's and the book's target audience, hopefully driving them to change. Now twelve years after the movie's production, CRY FREEDOM is in many ways a more interesting film to watch. Almost ten years after black majority rule has been at least theorically in place, 1987's CRY FREEDOM's ideals remain by and large unrealized. It therefore remains as imperative as ever for white South Africans, particularly the younger ones who have only heard of these actions to see it, and absorb the film's messages. In total contrast to American slavery and the Jewish Holocaust's exposure, South Africans' struggles have been told by a mere two or three stories CRY FREEDOM, CRY THE BELOVED COUNTRY (OK, Count it twice if you include the remake), and SARAFINA (did I miss one?). All three dramas also clumsily feature American and British actors in both the white and black roles. Not one South African actor has played a major role, white, coloured, Indian or Black!). And yes I did miss another international South African drama, MANDELA and DEKLERK. Though this (also highly recommended) biopic was released after black majority rule was instituted, MANDELA was played by a Black American (Sidney Poitier, who also starred in the original S.A.-themed CRY THE BELOVED COUNTRY), while the Afrikaner DeKlerk was played by a (bald) very British Michael Caine, a good performance if you can dismiss that the very essence of Afrikanerdom is vehement anti-British feelings. Until local SABC TV and African films start dealing with their own legacy, CRY FREEDOM is about as authentic as you'll get. As villified as the whites (particularly the Afrikaners) are portrayed in the film, any observant (non-casual) visitor to South Africa even now in 1999, not to mention 1977 when CRY FREEDOM takes place, will generally find white's attitudes towards blacks restrained, even understated. Looking at CRY FREEDOM in hindsight, it is amazing that reconciliation can take place at all, and it is. But CRY FREEDOM at time shows not much has really changed in many people's minds yet, and that the  Black Africans' goal to FREEDOM and reconciliation is still ongoing. This is why if you're a novice to the situation, CRY FREEDOM, is your best introduction.  "},{"Title":"Good Sir Attenborough epic","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I saw the film for the first time in 1987, when it came out. I was touched by this story and I began being interested in other Sir Attenborough movies.I think Cry freedom is not as strong as Gandhi, nevertheless it's a movie worth to see. Because it talks about the struggles of Steven Biko, the anti-apartheid leader killed by South African government in '77. The film is seen with the eyes of Donald Woods, his friend journalist who quit the country with his family for being too close to the black battles...The first part of the film is really excellent. Kevin Kline and Denzel Washington are extraordinary, the movie is a cinematic joy (good screenplay, good dialogues and good cinematography). The second part, when Woods (Kline) organizes the run of his family from South Africa, becomes more conventional and shot in a very Hollywood style (although the film is British!). The message of the movie is neglected in favour of a more spectacular plot.By the way Cry freedom is a good movie because it talks about values like freedom, friendship and respect of human rights. "},{"Title":"Possibly the best ever work for all involved","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" As anyone old enough knows, South Africa long suffered under the vile, racist oppression of apartheid, which completely subjugated the black population. One of the most famous anti-apartheid activists was Steve Biko, who was murdered in jail. Following the murder, reporter Donald Woods sought to get Biko's message out to the world.In Cry Freedom, Woods (Kevin Kline) befriends Biko (Denzel Washington) before the latter is arrested on trumped up charges. When Woods attempts to spread Biko's word, he and his family begin living under threat of attack, and they are finally forced to flee the country. The last scene gut-wrenchingly shows police firing on protesters.As one of two movies (along with A World Apart) that helped galvanize the anti-apartheid movement, Cry Freedom stands out as possibly the best ever work for all involved. "},{"Title":"Don't judge this movie so harshly!","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" On watching this movie as part of background research for my GCSE History I was moved enough to search for details on it. To my horror the user known as Howlin Wolf harshly described the movie as 'mostly 2 and a half hours of boredom punctuated by occasional flickers of interest when Kline or Washington were given a passionate monologue to deliver'. How can a person, after watching the story of thousands of people in South Africa at the time some up such a excellent movie in this way? I have to admit, at parts of the movie I was less interested then at others but how can the movie as a whole be described as boring? Okay, so its a movie but not all movies are made for entertainment! Cry Freedom is a moving movie BASED ON A TRUE STORY AND TRUE PEOPLE. What right does Howlin Wolf have to say its boring? If you, like Howlin Wolf, find it boring, look into the details. In an event portrayed in the movie 700 CHILDREN are brutally shot just because they refuse to learn 'the white man's language' of Afrikanaas. In another event,a man is reported as dying by 'self-strangulation'? How is it possible to call the plight of others boring?I thoroughly recommend people who can feel empathy for others to watch this and enjoy superb actors portray a time in history which is still under heavy discussion. "},{"Title":"Thought provoking, gut wrenching and a humbling experience at 14 years of age","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I think the context of the story has been covered by other posters so I would just like to write about the impact this film had on me.I first saw this film the year of it's release around 1987. My school organised a trip to the cinema to see it, for an RE project I think. We all went along of course excited because we were on a school trip to the cinema! Little did we know what we were about to experience. To this day I still remember the feelings it invoked in me and i remembered crying a lot as were most of my friends. I think at the age we were we found it shocking and quiet rightly outraged in our own youthful way .It had such an impact on me that I joined the Anti Apartheid Movement the same year.I think it served it's purpose in my case. "},{"Title":"I cried! Recommend you rent this movie...","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cry Freedom was such a touching, unforgettable film. The acting was amazing, and they picked the perfect cast. I watched this at my school last year for the first time, and the first scene made me want to cry! Cry Freedom made me laugh, cry, confused, and made me just want to scream at those people who treated blacks cruelly! I recommend you rent this movie. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A Terrific Film!","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Richard Attenborough is one storyteller. 'Gandhi' & 'Chaplin' are widely regarded & respected to this date. 'Cry Freedom', according to me, is his finest work since 'Gandhi'. This British drama takes place in a time of violence, and is executed with flourish. Even the performances are top-notch! 'Cry Freedom' is set in the late 1970s, during the apartheid era of South Africa and centers around the real-life events involving black activist Steve Biko and his friend Donald Woods, who initially finds him destructive, and attempts to understand his way of life.'Cry Freedom' delves into the ideas of discrimination, political corruption, and the repercussions of violence. Based on a pair of books by journalist Donald Woods, this human-tragedy is wonderfully written by John Briley. Also, the dialogue at places, give you goose-flesh. Sure, the writing does drag a bit, but that doesn't effect it's impact.Richard Attenborough knows what he's making. He knows this isn't an easy story to make. But, the veteran directs each frame with flourish. Cinematography by Ronnie Taylor, is excellent. Editing & Art Design, are perfect.Performance-Wise Denzel Washington is fantastic as Steve Biko. He delivers a performance that easily ranks amongst his finest works to date. Kevin Kline as Donald Woods, on the other-hand, is restrained all through. Not once does he go over the top. Penelope Wilton is effective. Kevin McNally scores. Others lend good support.On the whole, 'Cry Freedom' is a terrific film, that over-shadows it's flaws, cleverly. Don't miss this one! "}{"Title":"Powerful Cinema","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" What a movie! I never imagined Richard Attenborough could have such a movie in him. Gandhi has always left me indifferent, apart from Ben Kingsley's performance, and I never considered Attenborough a particularly good filmmaker. But Cry Freedom held my interest like few movies have in recent times. It's an exciting, mesmerizing political movie with great performances by Kevin Kline and a young Denzel Washington.Kline plays Donald Woods, a South Africa newspaper editor who befriends the civil rights activist Steve Biko. It starts as a difficult friendship, for Woods sees Biko as a black supremacist preaching hatred against whites. But Biko, with his kind words, upbeat attitude and complete transparency, wins over Woods and introduces him to a reality about Apartheid that Woods knew nothing about.Biko is a decent, law-abiding citizen who altruistically stands up against all prejudice and the system that keeps down his people. One night, coming from an illegal meeting, he's arrested and beaten to death. The authorities try to hush up the matter because Biko has become a huge personality in South Africa. But through the efforts of Woods the truth comes out. But what should be a triumph only becomes a nightmare as Woods and his family become targets for the secret police.This movie has an interesting structure. It has in fact two narratives first it narrates the life and death of Biko. It's an amazing first half, completely dominated by the charisma of Washington in what may be his greatest performance yet.The second half, no less interesting, narrates Woods attempt to escape from South Africa to publish a book about Biko. Woods has become an enemy of state, a banned person, which means he can't meet people or leave his country. Plus he's constantly spied by the police. Kevin Kline gives a great performance in this second half too.Although the first half is quite straightforward, the second does interesting things with editing, by giving flashbacks of Biko and of events that show the repression against the black South Africans. Some may argue this is to make it more interesting, but for me the second half just as captivating, as Woods and his family devise a bold plan to escape South Africa.The last minutes were so heartbreaking I was in tears. George Fenton and Jonas Gwangwa's score certainly had something to do with it. Although I've never been much of a fan of Fenton (cannot stand his Gandhi score), I do think the score for Cry Freedom is one of the most beautiful ever composed for cinema. The movie, thanks to the music married to the powerful images, at times reached incredible peaks of emotion.Cry Freedom is definitely not a movie just to watch because of Denzel Washington. This is a movie to be cherished in its entirety. Acting, writing, music, editing, cinematography come together in a perfect synthesis to create an ode to the power of the human spirit. This movie deserve a place alongside movies like The Pianist, Life Is beautiful and The Shawshank Redemption. "},{"Title":"Cry Out...","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Richard Attenborough is a director whose name is synonymous with the Academy Award winning 'Gandhi', back in '83. I didn't know of any other work of his till i recently came across 'Cry Freedom', released back in 1987. While it may not have been as popular as his Gandhi, it is every bit as gripping, if not more, and was released when South Africa still had not got rid of the shackles of apartheid. While most movies on social issues come out after the event had happened, i guess this one released during the time.The story is based on real life characters and events. The book on which the movie was based, was written by Donald Woods (Kevin Kline), a journalist who used to work in South Africa until the end of the seventies. It traces the origins of Woods friendship with the charismatic black leader Steve Biko, who is wonderfully portrayed by Denzel Washington. I cannot imagine a better choice for the role. Washington exudes a natural charm and screen presence, which Biko's character required.While initially, Woods was against what he felt was black racism being spread by Biko, after meeting the man, he could not help being drawn into his struggles and ideas. The bond between them grows stronger, and Woods and his family realise and become more sensitive to the plight of the people Biko represents.However, finally, tragedy strikes, and Woods must now concentrate on escaping from South Africa, with his book, so that he can get it published and let the outside world know what is going on. The second half of the movie is a gripping tale of his escape from South Africa, along with his family, and will keep you on tenterhooks.There are some deliciously humorous dialogues too. The scene between Biko and the lawyer in the courtroom is an example.Lawyer Do you advocate violence? Biko I advocate a confrontation. Lawyer Well, isn't that violence, Mr. Biko? Biko Not necessarily. You and I are having a confrontation now, but i don't see any violence.However, there are moments that bring you back to the horrors that pervaded the country before better sense prevailed. The scene where the army opens fire on a protest by school children is gut wrenching and heartbreaking.This is definitely a must watch. I would suggest those not familiar with Attenborough's work, do take time out for this. There are movies which make a lot of money. And there are movies which make lives. I would any day prefer the latter. "},{"Title":"An ambitious, but a powerful, moving and compelling film","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" What a brilliant film. I will admit it is very ambitious, with the subject matter. At a little over two and a half hours, it is a very long film too. But neither of these pointers are flaws in any way. Cry Freedom, despite the minor flaws it may have, is a powerful, moving and compelling film about the story of the black activist Steve Biko in his struggles to awaken South Africa to the horrors of the apartheid. It is true, that the first half is stronger than the second in terms of emotional impact. People have also complained that the film suffers from too much Woods not enough Biko. I may be wrong, but although it is Biko's story, it is told in the perspective of Woods, so Woods is an important character in conveying Biko's story to the world.Cry Freedom visually looks amazing. With the show-stopping cinematography and the stunning South African scenery it was a visual feast. The opening scenes especially were brilliantly shot. George Fenton's music brought real dramatic weight to most scenes. It was subtle in scenes in the second half, but stirring and dramatic in the crowd scenes. The script was of exceptional quality, the courtroom scenes with Biko were enough to really make you think wow this is real quality stuff. The first half with Biko as the main focus constantly had something to feel emotional about, whether it was the police's attack of the South African citizens or Biko's death. The second half entirely about Donald Woods carries less of an emotional punch, but is compensated by how it is shot, performed and written. And there are parts that are genuinely suspenseful as well. The performances were exceptional from the entire cast, from the most minor character to the two leads, there wasn't a single bad performance. Regardless of the accents that is, but it is forgiven so easily by how much the performances draw you in. Denzel Washington in one of his more understated performances, gives a truly compelling performance as Biko, and Kevin Kline shows that he can be as good at drama as he is at comedy, for he gave a suitably subtle performance to match that of Washington's. And the two men's chemistry is believable and never strikes a false note. Penelope Wilton is lovely as Donald's wife Wendy, and she is a great actress anyway. Out the supporting performances, and there may be some bias, two stood out for me. One was Timothy West, who relishes his role as Captain DeWet. The other was the ever exceptional John Thaw in a brilliantly chilling cameo-role as Kruger. Lord Richard Attenborough's direction is focused and constantly sensitive as usual.Overall, a truly wonderful film. Ambitious and long it is, but never ceases to be compelling, powerful and achingly moving. A definite winner from Lord Richard Attenborough, and worthy of a lot more praise. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"There is a new light on racism.","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is an absolutely incredible film.  It shows South African racism from the perspective of the victims, and provokes a feeling of anti-racism in everyone who sees it.  It is the best historic film I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Tragic irony in view of the ANC's subsequent failure","Date":"3 March 2009","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It's sad to view this film now that we know how the ANC got shafted by international capitalism. Biko died for nothing much. Woods achieved little. Yes, outright apartheid was abolished, but all the apparatus of power was reserved by the minority whites, leaving the ANC government more or less impotent. As Naomi Klein writes in The Shock Doctrine, in the talks between the black and white leaderships the deKlerk government had a twofold strategy. First drawing on the ascendant Washington Consensus that there was no only one way to run an economy, it portrayed key sectors of economic decision making --- such as trade policy and the central bank --- as technical or adminsitrative. Then it used a wide range of new policy tools --- international trade agreements, innovations in constitutional law and structural adjustment programs --- to hand control of those power centres to supposedly impartial experts, economists and officials from the IMF, the World Bank, the GATT and the National Party --- anyone except the liberation fighters from the ANC. The statistical results are horrifying, with not much change accomplished, and AIDS flourishing. Viewing Cry Freedom in this light is deeply ironic --- actually tragic. The ANC has transformed itself from being the solution to being the primary problem. "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of *****","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" An overlong, but compelling retelling of the friendship between civil rights leader Steve Biko and Donald Woods. The first half of the film is the strongest where we see the bond formed between the two men, and how they help each other out, but the second half isn't as strong, due to the elimination of the Biko character. Still, its a compelling film with great performances by Kline and Washington, in the film that put the latter on the map. Washington was also was nominated for best supporting actor for the first time. Overall, a well made film that could have been trimmed down a bit. 7/10.____________________________________ "},{"Title":"Superb Movie About Friendship and Fighting for freedom.","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Very rarely does Denzil Washington make a bad movie and come to think of it that goes for Kevin Kline and in this case , this must count as one of their best films. It is more about of film about how strong friendship can more than the story of Steve Biko although we do get an insight into what the man was like and how far the reporter and friend Donald Woods went to preserve the mans name and let the world know what a corrupt , putrid society South Africa was. The Direction is outstanding from David Attenborough as it was for Gandhi although if there is any critisism to be aimed it could be at the length of the film. Two and a half hours is a long time to sit through a historic movie .What is amazing is how he manages to control all the extras. Thousands of people in both films. This film really does open your eyes to what happened before the break up of Aparthiet and you cannot fail to moved by it. 8 out of 10.    "},{"Title":"Biko Film Without Much Biko","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Steve Biko was a black activist who tried to resist the white minority governed South Africa in much the same way as Gandhi tried to resist the British empire's colonialism in India. Richard Attenborough's film Cry Freedom is not about Biko or Apartheid as much as it is about Donald Woods, the white liberal newspaper editor who risked his life trying to tell Biko's story. The film has a jarring point of view switch after Biko dies in prison from tortuous behavior at the hands of South African police. Woods, played by Kevin Kline, must choose whether to do the right thing and flee the country to publish books about Biko or allow his wife, played by Penelope Wilton, to pressure him into forgetting about the books. In that case, Biko dies in vain. What begins as a life-changing friendship between Biko and Woods degenerates into a standard by the numbers escape over the border yarn after Biko's death. Oscar-nominated Denzel Washington is good in only his fourth film as Biko, but something is wrong in a film that tries to depict the struggles of Apartheid by focusing more on the trials of a white family for more than half the film. Attenborough would have served his topic better by focusing on Biko's rise to prominence instead of beginning where Biko befriended Woods. Perhaps a black actor in a leading role in a 2 1/2 hour film wasn't exactly conducive to big box office, but the film was a tremendous box office flop anyway. Film politics aside, the film still entertains and sends a message or two, albeit, in PG-sanitized fashion. *** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Cry Freedom","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This film moved me beyond comprehension, it is and will remain my favourite film of all time, mainly because it has almost every emotion all rolled into its 157 minutes. What is the hardest part for me to take is that whenever i want to hear the amazing music and songs from the film, I have to put it into my DVD player, so I was wondering if anyone anywhere knows who sings the songs in the film and where they can be found, as I have looked everywhere I can think sporadically over the past 5 years. My favourite quote from the film is when in court the advocate says But your own words ask for direct confrontation, isn't that a direct call for violence? Biko replies Well you and I are in confrontation now, but I see no violence!!CRAIG ROBERTSON Fife, Scotland "},{"Title":"Excellent film handling a difficult topic","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is a film that everyone should watch. Quite apart from raising hugely important points (while South Africa is on the road to recovery there are still many countries in similar situations now), it is superbly directed while Denzel Washington gives, in my opinion, the best performance in his career so far. Kline also gives a good performance, although perhaps not as stunning as Washington's. John Thaw also puts in a good turn as the Chief of Police.There are so many possible areas where a film on apartheid could fall down, but all of these have been avoided. It would be easy to simply portray white people as the bad guys and black people as the good guys, but Attenborough has not done this. Sure, there were some white characters who seemed inherently evil, such as the Captain at the Soweto uprising, but to add extra dimensions to all the characters would make the film unbearably long. Some people complain about the length of the film as it is, but I think it needs the whole two and a half hours to tell the whole story, for it really is an incredible one.The best scene in the film is that of Steve Biko's funeral. When the whole crowd begins to sing the South African national anthem, it is probably one of, if not the most moving scenes I have seen.If you haven't seen this film already watch it. It may not be comfortable viewing, but it's certainly worth it. "}{"Title":"The best work I've seen for all involved","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The performance of every actor and actress (in the film) are excellently NATURAL which is what movie acting should be; and the directing skill is so brilliantly handled on every details that I am never tired of seeing it over and over again. However, I am rather surprised to see that this film is not included in some of the actors' and director, Attenborough's credits that puzzles me aren't they proud of making a claim that they have made such excellent, long lasting film for the audience? I am hoping I would get some answers to my puzzles from some one (possibly one of the knowledgeable personnel (insider) of the film. "},{"Title":"Cry Freedom A Terrfic Example of Phenomenal Acting and an Inspirational Adaptation of an Incredible Tale","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Cry Freedom is not just a movie. It is a historical account, heroic story, and insight into the cultural background of a major event in history. Not only does Denzel Washington do a terrific job of impersonating a motivating, determined hero, Steve Biko, but he delivers a message to the public about the horrors of South Arfrican Apartheid. The story of Biko, an influential leader, and his main influencee, Donald Woods, is a heartbreaking one. But, the ultimate success of his life can go beyond the atrocities committed in South Africa. Cry Freedom manages to communicate to its audience the optimistic aspect of the seemingly disturbing plot. It is because of great films like this one, that the public can become educated on terrible events in history, great leaders who sought to end them, and how we can never allow them to happen in the future. Because of this importance, Cry Freedom is an amazing film that should be seen by all. "},{"Title":"A true story that must affect all right thinking peoples' consciences","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I first watched this movie on its release in 1987 and was greatly affected emotionally, through a combination of guilt at what my fellow white human beings could do to innocent people and the reluctance of the outside world to really investigate these atrocities against man.Particularly moving was the Funeral of Steve Biko, made even more vivid and hard-hitting by the South African Anthem played at the time. I have long believed that this movie achieved what nobody else had managed - to open the eyes of the world to what was really happening in South Africa. I consider myself to be a normal right thinking person and I can attest to how this film changed my whole way of thinking about not just South Africa, but how we as white people perceive black people. I have never seen any difference between people of any colour or creed, but after viewing this film I physically changed my life and have spent the last 17 years living in a predominantly black country and helping many people rise above their present standard of living and achieve that which they would not have thought possible. The greatest reward I can honestly say I have received - to be able to say that in my own small way I have contributed and redressed the balance a little. But if more people thought like me and actually DID something to help black people without seeking reward then the entire black population of this planet would be a little better off.I challenge any right thinking person to watch Cry Freedom from beginning to end and not feel that emotion tugging at your heartstrings as you witness the 700 schoolchildren brutally shot dead in Sharpville for refusing to learn Afrikaans, the senseless murder of Steve Biko, such a champion for his own people's rights, and then, ultimately, to understand that all this is not merely a film, albeit a magnificent one, but that it all actually happened and less than 30 years ago.Yes, my friends, watch this movie and then see if you can go out afterwards and party hard. I couldn't. I was too upset at knowing the truth. That is the hallmark of a great film. It was obviously the intention of Sir Richard Attenborough to get this message over about South Africa. Of course he has achieved it. Unless you happen to support apartheid. God help you. "},{"Title":"A great and awakening movie","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I keep watching this movie over and over and over. I have to watch it at least once a week. I am from Africa and looking at that movie taught me some things that I didn't even know about Africa. Denzel's movies are all full of lessons for people of walks of life. I wish he was my own brother. I have also seen and love your Masala Mississipi. What a thrilling situation. When Denzel was trying to hook his brother up on the job, reminds me of my teen ages when my brother was always mad with me about getting myself busy all the time. My brother was always caring for my old father and he wants to see me the same way too. By the way where did Denzel get that African accent from in the Cry Freedom movie? I have first seen that movie in Africa and I didn't know then that Denzel was American till I moved down here. "},{"Title":"fascinating insight to the plight of the blacks in South Africa","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" i have just finished watching this film in my GCSE history class. it was thrilling and was a brilliant insight to what actually happened to Steve Biko during the time of the Apartheid law. How anybody can say that this film was the most boring or dull 2 and a half hours of their lives i don't know because it had me hooked from start to finish. it was great how Denzel Washington portrayed him and showed how he was fighting against the Apartheid law and to get equal rights for black people. In one part Steve Biko says to a policeman we are just as weak and human as you are, this is to show them that he and all of the other black people in south Africa were no different to the whites. Donald Woods inspired me because he fort for what he believed in and did not believe totally in apartheid. He and Steve Biko formed a very strong friendship that shook south Africa and went on to awaken the world. i very much enjoyed this film and strongly recommend this to people. it helped me see that racism is not right and that everybody is equal, their fate should not be determined by the colour of somebody's skin. n "},{"Title":"Breath taking","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" 'Cry Freedom' is a movie about how far people will go to find the truth.The first half is an interesting portrayal of an unlikely friendship between activist Steve Biko and Editor Don Woods (played fanatically by Dezel Washington and Kevin Klein). While the second half deals with Woods looking for answers on Biko's death.Although most people favor the first half of the movie which focuses on the unlikely friendship between Biko and Woods'. I found the second half about Don woods struggle to have Biko's story be heard around the world much more interesting. "},{"Title":"Electrifying film and story","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I was electrified when I first saw this in 1983 or 1984. Steven Biko is gone half way through the film but the resonance of his courage and wisdom is not forgotten. I didn't when finally in South Africa in 1993. It is also largely a story about friendship and loyalty. When I was in South Africa and heard the audience at a dance recital in Natal sing Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrika, my hair stood on its ends.  There is a lot to learn from this story for all peoples. "},{"Title":"An outstanding film that hasn't been acknowledged as a masterpiece","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It's a shame that this piece of work wasn't acknowledged as a piece of work. It has everything a historical film must have a serious historical research,  outstanding performances of every actor involved and a discrete but great direction.When I saw the movie I knew it should be a prototype for every biographical movie. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The story of Apartheid in South Africa is an amazing representation of how crucial it is that we never give up hope or our passion and drive to create positive change.Unfortunately, I wasn't especially moved by this film, not because the circumstances which it portrays aren't heart-rending and atrocious, but because I felt the film lacked any real compelling storytelling. The portrayal of Steve Biko was well performed, but his screen time was too limited, and the main character (the white newspaper editor) and his family did nothing in the ways they were portrayed or performed to endear the audience to these characters. I realize this is more of a docu-drama but there's obviously still some creative license when your writing, performing, and editing a film like this. The score was heavy-handed, and the cinematography was painfully bland and uninteresting. Much of the audio in this film was plainly re-done in post, and poorly (at one point there's a car peeling out on gravel).I honestly felt conflicted about this film, because while on the one hand I was learning a lot about a situation I'd known little about before watching it, I was terribly bored throughout most of the film. I hate to come down so hard on this film, but it's precisely because of the importance of its content that I do so! Stories like this need to be told in a compelling way that sucks the audience in and makes them feel like they're a part of the story. This movie presented events more like rattling off a time-line than telling a story; then this happened, then this happened, then this happened. Being nearly three hours long would be welcome from a movie telling this story in a way that made you feel truly connected to the events and characters, but in this film, it was a battle for me to sit through it to the end.My point in critiquing the film like this is that I feel like important stories like that of the struggle against Apartheid in South Africa need to be told, but they need more than to just be TOLD. They need to be crafted in such a way that they inspire a fire in your belly so that there's no room inside you for nihilism or doubt or despair. You have to feel so strongly for the characters that you're filled with such hope and righteous anger that you cry out loud in both outrage and joy.SPOILER Dragging a death-list across the screen at the end of this film is not only a cheap ploy to pluck at the audiences' heartstrings, but it leaves you feeling miserable and weak, and bears little connection to the seemingly endless hour-long sequence leading up to it of the white journalist's flight to escape (which completely lacked in any real sense of tension; again, without the heavy-handed score tipping its proverbial hat to let you know when there's tension, since you wouldn't know it otherwise). Poor storytelling and boring, shoddy film making--even when telling a brutally important story; especially when you're telling that kind of a story--inspires nihilism more than the most trite Hollywood fluff. I'm glad I forced my way through this film from beginning to end, but only to learn what not to do in my own projects. "},{"Title":"Very moving....","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" When this film appeared in 1987, it was considered very liberal and enlightened. However, when seen today, I could easily see someone criticizing the film for being paternalistic--and the same could be said for films like A Dry White Season and even the recent Bang Bang Club (made in South Africa itself only two years ago). After all, when Hollywood did a film about the apartheid era, it seemed to always feature a white guy in the lead and in the films, whites seemed to need to help rescue the poor, oppressed blacks--and even Bang Bang Club to a degree. While the stories ARE true, framing the stories these ways is a bit sad and I would love to see films that were about the black leaders in the fight for freedom. Despite this legitimate complaint, the film should not be written off, as it's an important and true story. And, for that matter, it's quite compelling.The film begins with Steven Biko (Denzel Washington) approaching the liberal white reporter, Donald Woods (Kevin Klein). While Woods thinks he's enlightened, he is a supporter of the white regime and is blind to some of the evils of apartheid. Over time, Biko is able to win over Woods--and Woods is introduced to black society within the township of Soweto. Later, after incurring the wrath of the white government, Biko is arrested and beaten to death. However, the death was written off as just some accident and Woods is determined to get out of the country and expose the brutality of the South African regime. The problem is, they are not about to just let him leave. So, Woods and his family come up with a very daring plan--a plan that takes half the film. As a sort of epilogue, the film ends with the bloody police attack on student protests in 1977--ending with over 700 children being shot to death. The ending is very fitting and quite moving.In general, I like the film. I cannot comment, however, on the accents done by Klein and Washington--I am an American who isn't attuned to such things. But, the acting is good, the film VERY compelling and it leaves you feeling raw at the end. My only complaint (other than paternalism) is the odd device of having Biko's character seeming to come to life during the film in flashback scenes or to dialog with Woods--even though he was 100% dead. Odd, that's for sure.By the way, if you are a geek (and I guess this means I am), look for Nick Tate near the very end playing a pilot. He also played a pilot on Space 1999--and was a regular on the series in case his face is familiar to you. "}{"Title":"The greatest Attenborough  since Ghandi","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This movie is using cinematography fantastically, the depth of the camera catches each character. Denzel Washington and Kevin Kline put on awesome performances though Washingtons accent does die in certain scenes. How is this movie laying forgotten? unable to rent nor hire in recent times it threatens to be lost forever. a worrying idea. Attenborough at his best since Ghandi, this master piece stands for what it should in movies such as these, no worrying about gaining audiences rather a cry for freedom in the SOuth African Apartheid.Though critised for the biased nature, the movie is faithful to the book by Donald Woods and faithful to the message intended to express to the world. ta and peace "},{"Title":"A very entertaining and thought provoking film","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Based on the books Biko and Asking for Trouble by its protagonist Donald Woods, this is an extremely good film which tells the story of the Daily Dispatch editor's friendship with the murdered Black Consciousness leader Steve Biko and their struggles against apartheid. Having previously taken on the British establishment in Oh! What a Lovely War, A Bridge Too Far and Gandhi, Richard Attenborough turned his attention to the far more pernicious and destructive South African establishment of the time. His direction is as assured as ever and the script by Gandhi screenwriter John Briley is strong but the film's second half is slightly lacking when compared to the first. While it is not the first film that I have seen dealing with apartheid, it is the first that was made while it still existed so that was very interesting. As far as I am aware, the film is very historically accurate, which I appreciated.Kevin Kline is extremely strong as Donald Woods, a liberal South African journalist who comes to Biko's attention when he accuses the Black Consciousness Movement of advocating racism. After meeting him, however, he comes to appreciate that Biko is advocating equality and, contrary to the fears of many conservative Afrikaners, has no desire to create a system in which blacks would oppress whites in the same manner as they are themselves oppressed. Like Gandhi and Martin Luther King, he advocates non-violence to achieve his political aims. Woods, who served as an adviser on the film, learns over the course of the film that the regime is even worse than he thought. After Biko is murdered, he is determined that justice be done, something which leads him to be banned and essentially placed under house arrest. The final straw comes when the Security Police sends his children T-Shirts laced with acid. He decides to leave South Africa for his and his family's safety. After 15 years, Woods returned home in 1994 to vote in the first democratic election. He died in 2001.In one of his first major film appearances, Denzel Washington is fantastic as Steve Biko, a performance which deservedly earned him a Best Supporting Actor nomination. Biko is a highly intelligent, principled and courageous man whose fierce intelligence is underestimated by the regime because of the colour of his skin. He has a perfectly logical and reasoned answer to every question whether in conversation or in court and there is nothing that he says in the film that I found any reason to disagree with even slightly. One of the best illustrations of this is when he says that a black child is doomed in live in the shanty towns on the outskirts of society irrespective of how intelligent he or she is whereas white children have considerably more opportunities. Biko is murdered about 80 minutes into the film and it is never as strong after his death. I think that it could have been better structured and included more scenes of him before he had to be killed.As is typical of Attenborough's films, the film has a very strong supporting cast, most notably Penelope Wilton as Woods' wife Wendy (though she does not have a South African accent) and Josette Simon as Dr. Mamphela Ramphele. However, I was slightly disappointed that Mamphela did not have a bigger role in the film as she seemed to be introduced with much fanfare and then simply disappeared soon after Biko's death. In real life, she was having an affair with Biko and had two children with him and a third on the way when he died but this is left out of the film, which is a shame as he could have made for an interesting subplot. As with the two Roots miniseries, I thought that it was a great idea to cast well known white actors with generally likable screen personas in antagonistic roles such as John Thaw as the Minister of Justice Jimmy Kruger (who died only six months before the film was released), Timothy West as Captain de Wet and Ian Richardson as the State Prosecutor. Conversely, Julian Glover is cast against his usual villainous type as Woods' friend Don Card. The film also features great appearances from Zakes Mokae (who has the largest role of any actual South African), Kevin McNally, Kate Hardie, Alec McCowen, Louis Mahoney, Joseph Marcell and Attenborough's brother-in-law Gerald Sim as the police doctor who examines the dying Biko. One actor whom I thought was conspicuous by his absence was the prominent anti-apartheid activist and playwright Athol Fugard, who previously played General Smuts in Gandhi.At more than two and a half hours, the film is a tad too long and it focuses too much on the Woods family's escape from South Africa. While an accurate depiction of their escape and good scenes in their own right, they could have easily been shortened. After a while, it began to feel more like an adventure film and this did not fit terribly well with the rest of the film. There were also not enough scenes of the regime discriminating against black South Africans in the second half (in stark contrast to the first) for my liking. Given the time, the film was shot in Zimbabwe rather than South Africa itself and Attenborough made excellent use of that country's scenery. The Soweto massacre is depicted in flashback towards the end of the film but I felt that it would have been better to place it in its proper place chronologically speaking and to give it more prominence as the scene could have been as effective and moving as the depiction of the similar Amritsar massacre in Gandhi.Overall, this is a very entertaining and thought provoking film but it is never as engrossing as it should be after Biko's death. It is a powerful statement against racism but it could have been even more so with slightly sharper writing. "},{"Title":"A powerful film about political awakening","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Cry Freedom is a film about the political awakening of white South African journalist Donald Woods after meeting black activist Stephen Biko during Apartheid in the mid-1970s. The film was produced prior to the end of Apartheid in 1994 and was based on the experiences of Woods who fled South Africa following the murder of Biko in order to publish books about the activist. Cry Freedom, along with the song Biko by Peter Gabriel, played a role in making Steve Biko a more widely known figure around the world, and also helped make a star of Denzel Washington, who received an Oscar nomination for his portrayal of Biko. The film is sometimes criticized as a white savior movie since it's primarily about Woods rather than Biko himself, but the political transformation depicted in the film is significant in its own right. Woods pursues the truth and is eventually convinced by Biko's radical argument, and as a result faced potentially severe consequences himself. Cry Freedom deserves credit for showing how systems of oppression operate, as well as for depicting the lengths people must go to in order to oppose such regimes. "},{"Title":"Terrific movie of an important time","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Donald Woods (Kevin Kline) is the editor of the liberal South African newspaper Daily Dispatch. His editorial criticizes Steve Biko (Denzel Washington) for being a black racist. Dr. Ramphele confronts him and brings him to Biko. Biko is banned and is followed everywhere by the security forces. He is fighting for black empowerment. Woods is impressed and befriends him. Biko is killed in police custody. Woods is also banned and must escape South Africa.I like the gritty street life. I like Denzel as Biko. The danger for these types of movies is to sideline quickly the black story for the white protagonist. Spoilers ... Biko does die before halfway into the movie. However, Woods is able to pick up the fight and essentially carry the spirit of Biko with him. What I truly like about Woods is that he's a well-informed smart guy. We don't have to have the shocked ignorant white man discovering black people. His initial disagreement with Biko is sincere and a reasonable argument. It keeps the movie smart and not fall too hard into the usual movie trope. "},{"Title":"The Unlikely Friendship Between Two Men!","Date":"20 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Cry Freedom is a powerful drama that focuses on the South African apartheid and the unlikely relationship that a black leader and a white liberal journalist formed. The movie itself is well-done, but my only complaint is that I wanted to see more Steve Biko who was the black leader. He had powerful, mesmerizing words and those words lifted this film to new heights.Richard Attenborough's film is not only about the special relationship Biko and Donald Woods formed, but how Woods escaped South Africa so he can publish a book that will tell the world about Biko.The acting is very good. Denzel Washington, in one of his early screen roles, took up the screen whenever he was on it. He was very captivating and memorable. I would have loved to seen more of him. Kevin Kline is really good as Woods, but sometimes I feel like this movie is about him rather than Biko.Overall, this is a powerful film that will deeply touch your heart. It's a moving film about one country's struggles against apartheid and how they cried to the world for help. The music in the film by George Fenton adds more to this movie and makes it even better. This is a drama that one should see. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Great movie to take a look at","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This movie was very interesting especially, since I don't know anything about South Africa and important events that have occurred there. It stars Kevin Kline as Donald Woods who is an editor for a liberal newspaper and hears how black activists have been causing trouble for the apartheid government. One activist, Steve Biko, who Woods disagrees with because he wishes for black South Africans to separate themselves from white South Africans ways of thinking and start thinking for themselves. Woods eventually change his opinion about Biko and once Biko shows Woods how blacks were oppressed in South Africa wants to support him. This becomes even more true when Biko is thrown in prison and tortured to death.Woods finds out what happened to Biko in prison and that the apartheid covered up how he died. Woods is determined to tell the true story even though he is being threatened by the apartheid.The direction and characterization was great especially Denzel Washington as Steve Biko. The style of the film was interesting as it was told in a documentary style, which some people might find the pacing too slow. The scenes where the activists and the protesters are shot by the National Party in South Africa are more disturbing than most movies because it shows whats happening without any cutting and in a documentary style. This is a great movie to watch for people who like watching important historical movies about a few amazing people. "},{"Title":"Learn something about South Africa","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" What is Cry Freedom like? It is simply great and unique experience about making of South Africa and how black people in that country were repressed by white people. Main character of the story is Donald Woods (Kevin Kline), chief editor of the newspaper Daily Dispatch in South Africa. Woods writes several articles, where he speaks critically about views of Steve Biko (Denzel Washington). Soon Woods meets Biko and he changes his views about him and he also begins to understand what authorities are doing to black people in South Africa (right from the top, even from the chief of police). When Biko dies in police custody, Woods decides that he have to write book about him and that no matter what he has to publish it. But Woods must escape from his country to get that book published and he must also put his family on second place, so world can find out the truth.Attenborough managed to make a good movie about people, with main message that black and white are the same, cause we are all people. Story leads us to South Africa and this (movie) is great way for the whole world to learn what happened in that land and I'm disappointed that only 3200 people rated this movie. This is movie from which we all can learn something. Although it is a bit long, this story couldn't be presented in any shorter way because director wanted to show us how hard was for Woods to get that book published after death of Biko. Also relationship between Woods and Biko was shown great, just like families of those two people and all the problems they are going through. But sometimes sacrifices must be made (Biko's death) so the truth could be reveled (Woods book). "},{"Title":"Disappointing. Good acting,not a very good film.","Date":"2 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Kevin Kline and Denzel Washington star in Richard Attenborough's disappointing Cry freedom. Attenborough is usually good when it comes to biographies. I mean this is the genius behind Gandhi and Chaplain. But there is something wrong with Cry freedom It's a little too shallow.I know they're just trying to tell a story, but the story isn't told very well.The film takes place around the time of apartheid,which everyone should know about. Denzel Washington plays Steve Biko,a man who is standing up for apartheid. Within an hour of the film, he is taken to jail and is murdered. But nobody knows that he was murdered. They are told it's a disease. But somebody knows.That somebody is a journalist named Donald Woods(played terrifically by Kevin Kline). He knows what actually happens,and he wants the world to know. But that doesn't go down well. People try to terrorize him and his family. The acting is good. Especially from Kevin Kline. and I realize that Attenborough is just trying to tell a story. But the way it's told is kind of hollow. Also, I found the film a bit annoying. For one main reason Towards the end, you just predict that something bad is going to happen. And something tragic happens about every five minutes.I was disappointed. Another flaw I realize that Gandhi was 3 hours long,but I still loved that movie. Cry freedom isn't three hours,and it's not as good. It actually felt too long. Overall, i'm giving it a thumbs down.Cry freedom C+ "},{"Title":"Apartheid must be banned !","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  In 1975, in South Africa, the friendship between a white liberal journalist and the pacifist black leader Steve Biko, victim of the Apartheid.An effective and often heart-rending political drama, which lays bear the cogs of the Apartheid regime, through meticulous reconstruction of actual events. "},{"Title":"Like Attenborough's Gandhi a quite good political film that could have a great one.","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In some ways it's a weaker film than Gandhi &#x96; a lot of the tension feels manufactured, even though the story is true. But on the other hand, the sheer emotional power of the strongest scenes, like the massacre in Soweto surpass anything in Gandhi.While many understandably had trouble with making this the story of a white man -- liberal editor Donald Woods and his family's escape from South Africa after he was banned -- instead of focusing the film on Woods friend Stephen Biko, I still felt the film worked, and was an effective plea to the world to do something about South Africa. Both Denzel Washington and Kevin Klein are very good, although I've found both even stronger in other films. "}{"Title":"Age and time have not been lenient with this film","Date":"17 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A long film about a very important character from South Africa, Stephen Biko. He is one of these Blacks who did not survive apartheid, who actually died a long time before their normal time. The already old film though does not show how important Biko was, what he really represented. His life and his teaching is reduced to little, at best a few witty remarks. The film being from 1987, the objective was to push South Africa over the brink that would lead her to liberation. So the film aims at showing how irrational the South African supporters of apartheid are, in 1987. To show this the film has to look beyond Biko's death, hence to center its discourse not on Biko but on a white liberal journalist and his escaping the absurd system in which he is living. His escape is made necessary because of the victimization he is the victim of, along with his family, and because he wants to publish the first book on Biko, after his death, and that can only happen in England. The film shows a way to escape South Africa, while apartheid is still standing and killing. So do not expect this way to be realistic and true. It could not be. But the film has tremendously aged because it does not show South Africa with any historical distantiation, the very distantiation that has taken place under Nelson Mandela's presidency and that is called forgiveness provided those who want to be forgiven speak up and out. The film is strong and emotional but that very historical limit makes it rather weak today, especially since the film does not mention the third racial community, the Indians. Panegyric books or films all have that defect they are looking at the person they are supposed to portrait from only one point of view. That explains why the film has aged so much, seems to be coming from so long ago, as if nothing had changed at all. A remake is necessary.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines, CEGID "},{"Title":"Menacing","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The story of Stephen Biko is told in very simple language by epic film director Richard Attenborough. Cry Freedom is in no way understated, yet it is subtle when required and forceful when needed, unlike the recent, gratuitous Power of One, which went way too far. This is a well restrained and perfectly balanced film.Denzel Washington's Biko and Kevin Kline's 'Donald Woods' are both very well portrayed, George Fenton's African music is wonderful and the cinematography is at times show stopping.It's a menacing look at a country which even to this day, has a long way to go before a humanitarian balance is in place.Sunday, May 30, 1993 - T.V. "},{"Title":"Half-great","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I swear that when the film was shown on commercial TV, it came with about 20 minutes of extra footage. Does anyone remember this? Anyway, Washington is oustanding, but everything with Kline is unneccessary. One hates to say this, but it really seems obvious that the studio thought that they needed a white character for the audience to identify with. The WHOLE movie should have been about Biko. "},{"Title":"A terrible missed opportunity.","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" There was a great film to be made about Steve Biko. Sadly this wasn't it. Denzel Washington - never the most flexible of actors - is totally unable to convey the great charisma that Biko had. Attenborough's big crowd scenes are laughable. The Soweto massacre wasn't like this, three neat lines of children ( some doing cartwheels!) marching happily into the guns of the soldiers. With Biko dead the film rapidly descends into farce. If the struggle against Apartheid was anything it was a black people's struggle yet somehow we are all supposed to be gripped by the escape of a white man and his family. I'm sure Donald Woods was a decent man and he would be the first to say that Biko was important while he wasn't. Penelope Wilton's accent is pure Hampshire and she seems completely unaware that she is in South Africa at all. at all. The Wood's family dog gets more lines than the black maid. As the family make their escape one the women I saw the film with - incidentally one of only about a dozen black people in a large, full cinema - whispered This is like the sound of music. She had a point.Overall this is a film by a well-intentioned if somewhat inept white liberal about a radical black people's struggle. And really South Africa needs well-intentioned white liberals like it needs a hole in the head. "},{"Title":"The South African Denzel","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  In the same way that Whoopi Goldberg played a South African character in 'Sarafina', Denzel portrayed the South African freedom fighter, Steve Biko in this Richard Attenborough film. Set in South Africa, but shot in Zimbabwe, it gave the African-American to get beneath the skin of the African. However, as Biko dies about half way through the film, although his influence continues to the end of the film, you could be forgiven for thinking that this is more of a Richard Attenborough film about South Africa rather than a vehicle for Denzel. Beyond the film, it is Attenborough who is remembered for capturing the South African situation rather than Denzel for his south African portrayal. It would take another director to take Denzel to the leading man status. "},{"Title":"political correctness?","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I first saw this film when i was about 13. It blew me away then and in many respects it still does now. But i am less inclined to see it as an accurate historical piece now.  There is precious little effort made to examine and interact with the racism - and thus fails to recognise that the most potent anti racism weapon is to understand it at its very core in those who commit it.  What we get instead is a dichotomy - on the one side, beko and woods in 3D panoramic rainbow vision - on the other, two dimensional characters are portrayed as unapologetic unthinking evil.This all makes for a great film story, but it worries me that people see the portrayal as 'accurate'. "},{"Title":"Starts good then becomes average","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Good South Africa aparteid drama that slowly deteriorates into an average movie as soon as Washington all but disappears from the movie in the second half.Good production values but could have had better screenplay.If one is into African historical dramas and into any of the lead actors,this one will work for you.Washington was incredible in this one and stole the whole movie......  "},{"Title":"Cry Freedom","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Lord Sir Richard Attenborough has always done biography films as far as I've seen, and this is a good example of one of them. It is the true story of a family, and a father, being terrorised by a war and needing to hide from some enemies. The father, Donald Woods (Acadmey Award winner Kevin Kline) is some kind of doctor or professor researching for methods of war, or something. He is therefore endangering his family because of the bad side finding out. He gets the help of many people to help him and his family get out of the country to the border without being caught. Also starring Denzel Washington a few times as Steve Biko. Kevin Kline is very good at the accent, and Attenborough has done quite a good film. Very good! "},{"Title":"Make yourself a martyr Watch Cry Freedom!","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I'm sorry if the above summary comes across as being needlessly flippant and unfairly harsh. I felt there was a very real need for such a scathing summary in this case, however. For whilst I, like most people, can appreciate the sentiments espoused in aid of such a noble cause as ending apartheid, the actual experience of watching the film was mostly 2 and a half hours of boredom punctuated by occasional flickers of interest when Kline or Washington were given a passionate monologue to deliver.Much of the film dwells for too long on the minutiae of meeting uninteresting secondary characters. I realise this is necessary as a loose historical transcript of events as they occurred, but it hardly makes for dynamic cinema. Things improve considerably whenever we get the chance to know the two main characters more intimately; or whenever one of them is threatened, but this happens in about 5 or 6 scenes over the total of two and a half hours. The rest of the time I was struggling to stay awake. Attenbrough may have won plaudits for Ghandi, but this counts for nought in my book, after seeing Cry Freedom. I won't even mention Jurassic Park. Whoops, just did.... !To give credit where it's due, Washington's performance electrifies the screen, and shows just why he became a star. Kline does good work here too, but it's a struggle to recognise this when the majority of the film is so dull. I feel at liberty to point out that such films as Schindler's List have dealt with similar weighty issues and STILL are excellent examples of triumphant cinema. Good intentions provide the flimsiest of excuses for plodding films. I'll end this review on a similar withering note as I started it If you want to suffer as your fellow human beings throughout history have done Watch Cry Freedom! Sorry if that trivialises anybody's pain, but hopefully it should be a sufficiently strong message to convince people who are undecided that they might do best to stay away from the film. "},{"Title":"may contain a spoiler","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" this is a very simple comment. this movie was good until it reached the middle, where a tragic thing happened Steven Biko was killed. the movie was down hill from there - that is, in terms of quality. after that event, i became more and more anxious to turn it off, but i hoped that maybe the movie would pick up again. it didn't! it my opinion, donald james wood's reaction to the events in his life were unrealistic, or at least not performed very convincingly. at certain events in the movie, the viewer is likely to feel blood thirsty - particularly when we see what happens to Wood's children. it becomes hard to except Wood's passivity and his wife's infantile attachment to their home in south Africa, even if their children could be harmed. so my suggestion is watch this movie until the middle and then turn it off - it's only worth watching half of it. "}{"Title":"Silly last Scene","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The Impression that 'Cry Freedom' left with me was one of anger and insult, but not in the usual way. I have a more interesting take on the movie. I was angry not at what I saw but at how the movie was put together and I was insulted by the way the director, Richard Attenborough, tried to force his message upon me.The main reason why I was not so incensed by the things that were happening in the movie is because I already knew what apartheid was and what it entailed, though I imagine this movie was meant to be informative to people who didn't. I watched this movie expecting the black African majority to be cruelly and unfairly treated by the White African minority so I was not shocked as much by what happened. The only part that stirred me up was the scene when Steve Biko was in jail. Even then I was more confused than angry because of the confusing style with which the director went from scene to scene without explanation than angry at the S. African Government. Only in retrospect was that scene emotional to me.Most of the scenes that were meant to be emotional were somewhat melodramatic with all the loud African drums and national anthems playing. When I saw bigotry by the police I was angry but I also wondered why would any intelligent person act that way or do such things.The final scene of the movie opens with the S. African national anthem playing once again and louder than ever, it's starting to get a little repetitive by this time. We see thousands of African children running out of there classrooms as if they are going to recess. But they are carrying banners and chanting and marching. It's a protest with thousand of children in and only children. They peacefully march and sing and dance reminiscent of the Martin Luther King Freedom Marches from the 60's until they are stop by a line on police officers wearing a uniform that looks strikingly like the ones the Nazi SS wore. The head officer, looking like Field Marshal Erwin Rommel, says 'this is an illegal gathering and it must be dispersed in 3 seconds' or something to that effect. He counts to three while the schoolchildren continue to sing and dance with the only confrontation being a single school kid menacingly pointing his finger at an officer. Then chief officer orders his fellow policemen to open fire.When this happened I sat back took a breath and said why are they doing this to those nice little children. What kind of person shoots dancing singing children in their backs? It then dawned on me that that was not what happened. People don't shoot kids like that just for chanting. This made me angry. I don't like being lied to about historical events. This director fabricates the truth to promote his own agenda similar to that nutcase Michael Moore and I don't like him either.What most likely happened is a large gathering of students, most likely educated college types, took place in S. Africa. The students were rightfully outraged about the policy of apartheid and they decided to cause some trouble by rioting. The police were sent and they tried to bring order but a large scale street fight took place in which many people were killed similar to Kentucky State. The movie though depicted the events like they were Tiananmen Square. The police had mo reason to fire into that crowd. That would have caused an outrage a hundred times that of Steven Biko's murder. And the protesters had every reason to cause trouble in an attempt to get publicity.I also noticed that in the background cars were overturned and buildings were burning. Did the police bullets cause that destruction? They director probably put those things in the background so that people familiar with the actual events would recognize the setting. Protests never work like that unless you have a Tiananmen Square episode. The fact that the director put such a distorted scene into the movie was insulting to my intelligence. Does he think I'm a fool who will believe anything I see?I dislike Michael Moore because he distorts the truth, attacks good people's reputation, and makes money doing it. Richard Attenborough has done the same thing with this scene, but instead of attacking individual people he has defamed all the white South Africans by making them out to be murderous, bigoted, tyrants. Apartheid was a terrible policy. It made people into second class citizens within their own land. Though I felt for the Steven Biko and all the black South Africans, my lasting memory of this movie will be of insult and anger towards the director.  "}]