[{"Title":"tremendous watchability","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":" If you've been to film school or honestly believe black and white film noir somehow has the edge on all other genres then cease reading and go back to your bongo, beret and pretentious clover cigarettes because you will never understand how much fun this film is. Take the icon duo of Frankie and Annette put them in a parody of their own genre add a half dozen cameos from some of the most memorable characters 60's T.V. had to offer add some great casting especially the role of Bobby (Demian Slade) and you have Back to the Beach. Frankie is an over worked car dealer Annette is an overly optimistic housewife- they opt to take a trip to Hawaii stopping along the way in L.A. to visit their eldest daughter who happens to live on the very beach they once romped as teens. Did I mention their son Bobby (an ashamed to be Frankie and Annettes son donning punk garb and attitude) tags along creating the punchiest of the punchlines and the films narration. There on the beach Frankie finds his daughter dating a surfer and an old flame losing Annette in the process while ticking off the local beach roughians. The plot is great as a parody with the perfect couple playing the leads while the story plays out in old beach film fashion.It's risqué enough to keep your eyes open but innocent enough in dialogue to show a six year old. Sure the acting is over the top but didn't I mention this was a parody of the beach films. Add to this a great musical score including Dick Dale and Stevie Ray Vaughn and you have not so much a great film as a very watchable/researchable one. Is it as good as say Requiem For a Dream no of course not but let me ask how often can you really watch a man lose his arm while his girl friend reverts to public sodomy for drug money...Go for the FUN!! Go watch Back To The Beach, you won't be disappointed!!!!! "},{"Title":"Frankie and Annette get back to their home turf","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  For those of us who grew up on Beach Party movies, this is a fun revisiting of the genre. Done as a combination homage/spoof to these early/mid 60's drive-in specials, the movie reunites some of the principle players and revisits the myth of California as Shangri-La.Annette, Frankie, Connie and dozens of guests in cameo roles gently rib the genre and themselves. As usual, Annette and Frankie have some difference of opinions and go off in different directions--even though they have been married for 20 years. Their plots to make each other jealous and the ultimate reconciliation are no surprise, but still make for a pleasant 90 minutes.Annette and Connie are as lovely as ever. The villains are redeemed in the end and, of course, the Big Kahuna overcomes his anxiety and wins the surfing competition(even though he has not been on a board in over 20 years)..  "},{"Title":"If you're not a big old sour puss...","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  you'll like this movie..It's completely non-serious.  It doesn't try to BE a beach movie of the 1960's...it tries to be a silly remake.The costumes and sets are delightful - every known form of beachie cabana style is represented.  Annette looks adorable in her cartoonish costumes, and is an inspiration to get out to the beach for all us old folks.The cuts with real surfing footage are enough to keep real surfers mesmerized, and the bathing suit styles are updated and sexy.What more could you want on in the background on a Saturday afternoon? "},{"Title":"A fun Movie Spoof of Baby boomers Coming of Age","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This a movie that should be taken tongue and cheek, And just enjoyed for the fun it represents and the cameos of all the baby boomer stars. the songs are fun the story is a little silly but its fun to go back and realize how silly things were when we we younger,But I must say that I tottaly enjoyed frankie and annette as well as all the other stars of the flic, I heard a rumor that there was suppose to be a sequal however thats when unfortunatly annette was stricken with M.S. and so that was that ...so follow former mouseketeers and all others get this fun movie when it finnally arives on DVD this summer and enjoy it as I will "},{"Title":"Back to the Beach for Frankie and Annette!","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":" Back to the Beach (1987) was an interesting movie that was produced during the 80's. The Big Kahuna (Frankie Avalon) is a family man now who's wife (Annette) is a preppy housewife who has a kitchen cabinet full of Skippy's peanut butter (creamy) with a 50's housewife aura. She's always smiling and just so happy. The kids are at the rebellious age and are weirded out by their strange behavior. That's until the family heads back to the beach and the kids discover their parents lively background!You can't go wrong with this movie if you're a big fan of the 60's films that starred Annette and Frankie. A true nostalgia flick filled with several older stars (The Skipper and Gilligan) and new ones (i.e. Pee-Wee Herman). What keeps this from being a real keeper is the way the film ends, but if you're a fan of the stars it wont matter. A nice reunion picture.Recommended for Beach Blanket Bingo fans. Others yield caution before viewing! "},{"Title":"Say, do you want to hear about an accident I once had?","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This is a great piece of retro kitsch.  Frankie and Annette spoof themselves and their squeaky clean image from the 60s.  Loads of inside jokes for those who love the old beach movies.  Appearances by Dick Dale, Connie Stevens, OJ Simpson, and Pee Wee Herman are all top notch.This was the first PG movie I ever saw.  I loved it and watched it over and over.  Re-watching it for the first time in a decade revealed so many jokes I didn't get as a child.  It's great, great, great!! "},{"Title":"Whatever happened to Frankie & Annette?","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Frankie and Annette, together again.  The movie really does contain the silliness of the original beach movies. Not laugh out loud funny but smiles, chuckles and yes, the occasional groan (the good kind...). Nevermind the story, it's' light abnd totally improbable. Again, like the originals.. Look for the jokes, the spoofing of the genre and of Frankie & Annette and the cameos. I mean look at the list...Connie Stevens (more than a cameo, she again plays the bad girl that tries to lure Frankie away from Annette), Stevie Ray Vaughan (In a great duet with the King Of The Surf Guitar, Dick Dale... a rare appearance on movie screens by Stevie Ray..), Pee Wee Herman (typically goofy..), Don Adams. Edd Kookie Byrnes, Barbara Billingsly, Jerry Mathers and Tony Dow (see a theme here?), Bob Denver and Alan Hale, Jr. Great cameos, worked in in insane ways. Hey, even the band Fishbone and Annette do a song called Jamaican Ska. This isn't Schindler's List here, people, it's light, silly comedy for people in light, silly moods. Worth a try is in the mood.. particularly if you have seen some of the Beach Blanket movies.. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, with Great Characters, and wonderful light touch","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Of course this movie won't mean much to you if you don't know who Frankie and Annette and Connie Stevens are, but that makes you ignorant, that doesn't make the movie bad.  I can't believe the negative comments I've been reading.  This is a wonderful movie parody of the old themes of the beach movies.  It has a great cast with many funny lines and a wonderful light touch that doesn't take itself too seriously and throws in bizarre touches like Pee Wee Herman appearing out of nowhere to sing Surfin' Bird.  It was quite a feat for them to make funny characters out of Frankie Avalon and Annette Funicello as a middle-aged couple; they weren't exactly known for their great acting or comedy talent.  Their son in the movie was one of the most enjoyable movie characters of the 1980's.  Every scene in the movie brings a smile.  Great Stuff. "},{"Title":"Somewhat Cheesy...","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  but very enjoyable, none the less. I'm 26 and still enjoy watching this movie. ) Seeing Annette & Frankie together is like all those 50s beach movies returned - and ya gotta love PeeWee Herman because 'the bird IS the word'! ;) "},{"Title":"fun, family flavored fare","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":" What makes Back to The Beach so enjoyable is the great cast and cameos that pepper this film. We get a followup to those old cheesy beach movies, with a Chevy Chase Vacation kinda feel. The parents are as mixed up as the teenagers and it's of course all just silly st up for some cute musical numbers. While obviously not a classic love story like Dr. Zhivago or even Sleepless in Seattle, it's just a fun kitsch filled family musical picture. How can you resist Pee Wee Herman flying above the beach doing Surfin' Bird with Fishbone, or Dick Dale rocking with Stevie Ray Vaughan? This film is meant to be enjoyed, not analyzed. "}{"Title":"Childhood Favorite","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  As A child I remember watching this film countlessly. I wasn't old enough to remember the beach movies, although throughout the years I came to know and love them. This movie follows Frankie and Annette after they've gotten married and have a couple of kids. I love how it's a movie about how just cause you get older it doesn't mean you have to give up the things that you use to love. This film, much like the original beach movie, is extremely camp. However, it's so funny, if taken with a grain of salt. And Don Adams as the boat master still cracks me up. It's a wonderful family film. "},{"Title":"Good, but not as good as the originals","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Maybe some of the people who have seen this don't get it. Frankie and Annette are spoofing themselves. This really isn't supposed to be a reunion or a comeback. In the ending credits, Annette and Frankie are walking along the beach and Annette says Are we the cheesiest couple you've ever seen or what?. I thought it was a cute movie and a lovely piece of nostalgia for any Frankie and/or Annette fans. "},{"Title":"Jamaica Ska!","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Back to the Beach is one of my favorite movies of all time. Imagine my delight to find it in a local thrift store for $4.00! It made my day. And it still cheers me up on a rainy day! You have to love Bobby, Frankie and Annette's son! He is HILARIOUS! I also think Lori Loughlin is so beautiful and young in this movie. It makes me want to visit California. Are there really beach parties like that? "},{"Title":"back to the beach","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":" Best movie ever!!! If you haven't seen it - BUY IT I could watch this movie over and over again LOVE LOVE LOVE IT ) Annette keeps you laughing The cheesy songs are catchy haha The beach is GORGEOUS and you gotta love the Big Kahuna ) last song from the movie is the best one yet haha the guy even gives Becky from full house an engagement ring with a little surfboard on it haha - so classic...(she should've said no haha but thats besides the point) haah Watch it ) Best movie ever!!! If you haven't seen it - BUY IT I could watch this movie over and over again LOVE LOVE LOVE IT ) Annette keeps you laughing The cheesy songs are catchy haha The beach is GORGEOUS and you gotta love the Big Kahuna ) last song from the movie is the best one yet haha the guy even gives Becky from full house an engagement ring with a little surfboard on it haha - so classic...(she should've said no haha but thats besides the point) haah Watch it ) Best movie ever!!! If you haven't seen it - BUY IT I could watch this movie over and over again LOVE LOVE LOVE IT ) Annette keeps you laughing The cheesy songs are catchy haha The beach is GORGEOUS and you gotta love the Big Kahuna ) last song from the movie is the best one yet haha the guy even gives Becky from full house an engagement ring with a little surfboard on it haha - so classic...(she should've said no haha but thats besides the point) haah Watch it ) "},{"Title":"beach movies","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":" In the early to mid 60's Annette and Frankie were in what I used to think as dumb beach movies. But as I've gotten older their really quite funny and entertaining. The music was good and boy Annette and Frankie could sure sing. Their really wasn't much of a plot to these movies just hanging out at the beach with the girls in bikinis of course Annette was in her one piece, and the guys and their surfboards. Back to the Beach follows this rule and even carries on the music side of it too. I personally fell head over heels (again) for the 45 year old Annette when I saw her in this. I was very upset when I found out she had her first public symptoms of MS during filming of this movie. But this is a good last tribute to the queen of the 60's beach movies. It's not the best movie it's silly it does have a plot though, and it is watchable but I still give it only a six because the kid that plays Annette and Frankie's son in this movie is so annoying that I wanted to strangle him. Lori Loughlin(of full house fame) is cast as their daughter and she does a fine job but it still doesn't overshadow the annoying son. Pee Wee Herman a.k.a. Paul Reubens makes a brief appearance in this as a singer singing us The Bird "},{"Title":"Fun, laughs, wacky 80's hairstyles...","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Just plain entertaining, if you don't like this film you don't how to have fun.  With cameos from O.J. Simpson and Gilligans Island cast members, and even the voice of inspector gadget, this film is chock full of fun songs, an interesting (if cheesy plot) and of course, lots of surfing.  "},{"Title":"Great,fun movie!","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  One of my favorite feel good movies. And yes, I have seen it before. In fact Ive seen it so many times Ive almost memorized the dialog. I have seen the 60's beach movies a couple of times and actually prefer the 80's version. Perhaps because the 60's were before my time. Anyway, this movie remains a favorite escape for me(its not supposed to be reality people, come on!)lots of nice people and even the bad guys are good deep down inside. How I would love to spend my evenings hanging out at Daddy O's!! This movie is as close as I can get. Lots of fun and laughs! "},{"Title":"Camp at the beach","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This film is a wonderfully campy tribute to pop culture.  With Cameo appearances from Pee-Wee Herman,  Don Adams,  Jerry Mathers,  Tony Dow,  Barbara Billingsly, Bob Denver, Alan Hale Jr.,  Fishbone, Stevie Ray Vaughn, and many others how could you go wrong.  There is some killer surf footage. Plus Demian Slade has incredible comedic timing with his sarcasm.  I love this movie. "},{"Title":"If You Like Old Beach Movies . . .","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I originally went to see this movie only because I'm a huge Don Adams fan. When the movie started I thought it was just awful. Then, I suddenly realized they were making FUN of their old beach movies . . . and themselves.  From then on, I couldn't stop laughing.  They played it for all it's worth and it came off great.  It's not the best movie ever made, but if you like the old beach movies, give this one a try. You'll find yourself laughing at all the stupid jokes and silly situations. Three cheers for the Harbor Master (Don Adams)! "},{"Title":"C'mon it's not THAT bad","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Frankie and Annette are married now with children, and return to the beach while going through a life crisis.  For those of us who grew up as kids watching the beach blanket movies, this one is a special treat.  For those who didn't see those movies I guess it isn't quite up to that.  It's nice seeing all those folks back on the screen again, even if the plot is inane (hey, just like the originals!).  And they even threw Lori Laughlin in for us Lori Laughlin fans. "}{"Title":"If you look at the ceiling when you hear of reunion movies...","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Twenty some-odd years after livening the beach scene, Annette and Frankie return, helping the viewers along with the already self-explanatory title.Frankie is an obsessed car dealer who is married to Annette, the perennial optimist.  They intend to travel to Hawaii with their son, to see if Frankie can relax.  On the way, they stop to see their slightly more liberated daughter in California.  When they meet up with members of the old gang, we see how Frankie and Annette re-evaluate their relationship.  In the process, they and their children also have an opportunity to share with each other more openly.  It's all in good and clean fun, and is more of a family movie than most that intended to be so. "},{"Title":"One of the best American comedies of the last 30 years!","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  BACK TO THE BEACH is undoubtedly one of the best, funniest American Comedies of the last thirty years! It is a great movie - with a great cast, great settings, and great music! Frankie Avalon and Annette Funicello are back. They're visiting their daughter in L.A. While there, there are all sorts of hilarious situations, jokes, and even cameos (Don Adams, Bob Denver, Alan Hale Jr.)Fun from first reel to last. A real treasure.  "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Great Movie ! Totally 80s , you've got to see it. I've watched it annually since '87 as soon the summer season starts. "},{"Title":"this was a fun movie","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Back to the Beach was a fun movie. It was entertaining. I have watched it sence 1988 I think. It never really gets tiresome.It's also a little goofy but not a lot.I give it *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Redeeming qualities CAN be found...!","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  As you might imagine this is not going to make anybodys top lists for any kind of movie. Nowhere near good enough to make any, nowhere near bad enough to deserve it.However, I did find myself far more entertained with it than I expected. There are laughs to be had now and again and at least it doesn't take itself too seriously.But beyond all of that, for us music fans (particularly guitarists) is the pairing of Dickie Dale and Stevie Ray Vaughan playing Pipeline together at the local hangout. Redemption! "},{"Title":"This is a Love it or Hate if Film..","Date":"22 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":" As another poster has mentioned, tongue and cheek comedy. You either get the humor or you don't. Most don't even understand that this is a contribute and self knock off of Beach Blanket Bingo that was shot back in the 60s. Now that is a hard movie to watch for someone who didn't grow up in those days... However, if one watched this BttB as a child - the all--*(cough)*--star cast, were recognizable at first glimpse, and even Stevie Ray Vaughan made and Cameo appearance. You gotta Love this movie and the goofey quirks that are implied. Kinda like the Loaded gun or Hot shots movies - which i hate...But I say regress to say, its a hate it or love it movie. BR "},{"Title":"Changed my mind on this one","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":" And not in the most flattering direction. I remember liking this when it first came out... I'm old enough to be able to identify exactly what they were parodying, I enjoyed the cameos by such 1960's luminaries as Don Adams and Alan Hale Jr., and I liked the music of the period, so it followed that I would enjoy the movie.However, it doesn't hold up well. It's deliberately corny, which was acceptable at the time but now comes off as tedious and dull. It feels over-long, although I don't think the run time is excessive (it just feels that way). Many of the songs seem forced, crammed in instead of being part of the natural flow, and the songs aren't that catchy (except for the stand-up-and-dance California Sun).Fans of the era or the performers might enjoy it, at least once, but I don't think I'll come back to it again. "},{"Title":"Still think it's great","Date":"11 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":" I just watched Back To The Beach last night after not having seen it for at least 10 years and I still think it's great. It isn't Casablanca or Citizen Kane, but I doubt many people were expecting it to be. It's gloriously silly and does a wonderful job of skewering the old beach party pictures (which I thought were brainless fun too). Even though Annette and Frankie are all grown up, they still act like teenagers (and look like they're having great fun doing it). While most of us boys were looking a lot higher once, I was amazed at Annette's legs; at 45, hers were better than a twenty-year-old's. Sadly, it was her last movie, but at least, in my opinion, she ended her career on a high note. If you've never watched any Frankie & Annette beach party movies, see at least a couple before seeing this; you'll appreciate it more. "},{"Title":"Funny rehash of the old beach party movies","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":" In this movie Annette Funicello and Frankie Avalon played the characters they played in all those beach party movies. They married, moved to Ohio, have a daughter named Sandy (Lori Loughlin) in Califonia and a rebellious son Bobby (Damian Slade). They also act like the 1960s never ended. They go to California to visit Sandy and find things have changed at the beach. Well...not really. The kids at the beach STILL act like a bunch of idiots (just with better bodies this time), sex and drugs are NEVER brought up, nobody would dare swear and (sigh) there's a rival beach gang (all dressed in black) whose overacting would make Jim Carrey blush!This starts off great with son Bobby always insulting his father and seeing how everybody reacts to Funicello and Avalon's naivety and sweetness. Also the cameos by Bob Denver, Connie Stevens, Don Adams etc etc are fun and Annette sings a really fun song (Jamaica Ska). But the jokes quickly get repetitious and the movie completely goes flying out the window when Pee Wee Herman (!!!) shows up to sing The Bird. Bizarre doesn't begin to cover it. Still it does have a lot of truly funny gags, is VERY colorful and the cast gives it their all. Just ALL the kids on the beach acting like a bunch of morons got on my nerves (I was never a big fan of the original Beach Party movies anyways). There are a few funny jabs at Funicello and her peanut butter commercials. I recommend it, but only if you've seen the beach party movies. Otherwise you'll be lost. I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Not bad if you don't take it seriously","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I have a friend (to keep his name confidential, let's just call him Nor) who swears up and down on the merits of 1987's beach blanket bimbo film Back to the Beach staring Frankie Avalon and Annette Funicello.  In a recent communication, Nor commented on how this film always made him `feel good', and how many films can `honestly make that claim?'Now, when Back to the Beach first came to our local theatre some 17 years ago, I remember accompanying my little sister to the mall venue and having a fluff of a good time. I couldn't recall for you any of the characters or storyline if confronted on the street today, but as I roll my eyes upwards to try and recall this sand castle of a movie, I am not left with any resounding bad notions.Well, flip forward to 2004 and Paramount Studio's is finally releasing Back to the Beach on DVD to what I can only expect was little pressure (sorry, Nor).  I doubt there was a lengthy petition nor do I expect that there was a rampage outside the Studio gates looking to free this film from its dust ridden resting place.  However, now that its back, what better way to start off the summer than putting this small gem into the DVD player and being reminded of a simpler, more innocent time.  Playing on Saturday afternoon television every so often, you may not require a detailed review of the films storyline, but here goes&#133;Frankie and Annette have grown from their beach personas and are now living in Ohio.  They return to L.A. to visit their daughter who to their surprise, is living with her boyfriend.  To further add stress and tension, Frankie bumps into Connie (an old friend) who still has the hots for him and soon Frankie and Annette's marriage is on the rocks.  All comes to a head when a group of thugs teams up with Frankie and Annette's rebellious son and challenge the father (known only to us in the film as the Big Kahuna), to a surfing contest.  Back to the Beach's script could probably been written on a post-it note, but that doesn't mean we are not going to have some fun along the way.  Interweaved through all the 80's fashion crazes are old television stars and even a 60's type musical number on the beach that if you don't watch out, will have you tapping your feet to the Jamaica SKA.  Blink and you might miss Bob Denver and the late Alan Hale (Gilligan and the Skipper for you younger folk), Pee Wee Herman, Don Adams (Get Smart), Barbara Billingsly, Tony Dow and Jerry Mathers (Leave it to Beaver).  Even Stevie Ray Vaughn and O.J. Simpson can be seen if you don't take washroom breaks. Now, I will be the first to admit that throwing a bunch of stars into a movie doesn't necessarily make for a good time, but the fact that none of these accredited actors take themselves seriously, means that the audience too can sit back and enjoy the performance.  When Bob Denver continues to play up his Gilligan character he made famous, it takes us back even further to childhood memories of sitting in front of the 13 inch black and white television rooting for the castaways to eventually find their way off the island.Back to the Beach is not for all tastes and that was evident even back in '87 when the movie only grossed $13 million (granted, it was released on the same date as Dirty Dancing so it sort of slipped into the background).  The humor is definitely roll-your-eyeish and the corny surfing scene in the climax kind of left me with a bad taste in my mouth.  Most younger viewers won't get the inside jokes either like when Annette goes to the cupboard and pulls out a jar of SKIPPY peanut butter (she was their commercial spokesperson back in the early 80's) and that might take away from some of the films appeal.However, for a fun time in the vein of Saturday Night Live where each scene sets itself up as a skit &#150; some work, some don't &#150; it's not a bad way to say &#145;hello' to the summer.    Or should I say `aloha'?  www.gregsrants.com  "}{"Title":"Great only if you have seen the old beach movies","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I just watched this movie again, and it is a hilarious satire if you watched the beach movies in the 60s. My wife didn't, and just doesn't appreciate it. Anette and Frankie are terrific parodies of themselves. Sadly, if you watch closely you can see how unsteady she is in several scenes. I don't think Pee Wee adds anything to the movie; his cover of Surfin Bird is awful. OTOH, the Jamaica Ska scene with Fishbone and Anette and the Warm California Sun with Frankie, Connie Stevens and Dickie Dale are terrific. Good movie for a rainy Labor Day Monday. "},{"Title":"Masked Criticisms","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":" Back to the Beach (1987) Masked Criticisms ReviewHunterSo the premise is simple, we watch a film at random, sometimes it's good&#x85; mostly it's not, this is Masked Criticisms.EisensteinI think from the title alone one can tell which of the two basic categories this film belongs to. Hunter If you mean it was poop, then yeah it was poop.EisensteinNow let's not be too hasty. Back to the Beach is a comedy film from the 1980's that spoofs surfer pictures from the 60's. It follows two old film stars that return to the seaside to relive their glory days and embarrass their hip kids. This film is part of a series, but honestly I had no idea until just now when I looked it up on IMDb.HunterYou wouldn't need to see the others to understand what the hell was going on. It was so random and unpredictable and yet cliché at the same time. I guessed the ending ten minutes into the film, however I would never have imagined Pee Wee Herman to come out of nowhere to sing surfing bird then literally fly away, but that mind fart certainly happened.EisensteinThis whole film had a lot of set ups for cameos but I guess we're too young to recognize any of them. Except, that is, for OJ Simpson. Not the film makers fault, I mean they couldn't have guessed he'd kill his wife, but it did really date this film. Along with a whole pile of other 80's clichés; skateboards, waist high thongs, surfing, bad hairstyles&#x85;Hunter&#x85;cocaine&#x85;EisensteinThere was no drugs in this film.HunterI meant the director.EisensteinThat would explain the lack of choreography.HunterOh yeah, I kind of forgot it was a musical, I suppose that's a good thing though, I can't stand musicals.EisensteinYou liked Frozen&#x85;HunterAnother thing I have to give this film credit for is that everyone in it is fit, not the main family, granted, but everyone else is attractive, sadly no chubby chicks though.EisensteinMy main problem with the characters is that they were all wannabes. The punks who were supposed to be intimidating looked like pantomime Sex Pistols.Hunter&#x85; and since it's on a beach the girls are in thongs. I'm not usually a fan of those really long 80's thongs but some of those chicks, man. EisensteinYes well, anyways, what it all comes down to is an out dated film laughing at even more out dated films, unfortunately it really doesn't hold up as I can't tell what's an 80's cliché is and what's a 60's farce.HunterI was thinking of giving this film a 6 out of 10 just for the babes alone, but Eisenstein here says I have to rate the entire movie as a whole so I'm gonna have to say 3 out of 10. It's not so much a beach party, more of a tsunami of poop.EisensteinWhat a poetic analogy to end on. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"BACK TO THE BEACH and back to the Old-Fashioned custom of giving a Film a fair viewing before ruling on its worth. Hear that Ebert, Roeper and Company?","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":" The preeminence of a formerly strictly Black type of Music had been with us for well over a decade when the New Song & Dance form, now known as Rock 'n' Roll was forever fused with the Movies.The Southern California Surfing Scene, the New Mores of permitting the Exhibition and viewing of highly Semi-Nude Human form on the screen and the Economic$ and Realitie$ that possibly for the first time in our history, the Adolescent or Teen Ager was beginning to show that it was to show that it was His/Her expendable Ca$h Dollar$ that were a, if not THE, number factor in the Movie Business.The resulting type of Film Genre, the Teen-Age Beach Movie. In the brief period of 3-5 years we were treated to such spectacles as BEACH PARTY, HOW TO STUFF A WILD BIKINI, BEACH BLANKET BINGO, MUSCLE BEACH PARTY; 'B' Films all and all from the gang over at American-International Pictures.* All designed to be shown at that now nearly extinct institution known as The Drive-In Movie Theatre.**IT was a case of Formula Film to the Nth Degree. All that was needed was some Guitar-laden Rock 'n' Roll Music from some semi famous group, such as Lovin' Spoonful, the Buckinghams or the Mainliners. Add a Male and Female lead (how 'bout Annette Funicello & Frankie Avalon?)and a large group of (Woo,woo,woo,woo!) Stuffed Bikinis and a corresponding number of Athletic Male Swimmers and Surfers. Next we need some Comic Relief in the form of guys like Don Rickles, Buddy Hackett and the Great Stone Face (Himself), Silent Film Comedian, Buster Keaton; they all did Beach Films in that role. The last ingredient would be a Comic Villain and his cohorts. Harvey Lembeck filled that bill very well.The Producers of BACK TO THE BEACH wisely added to the retro-effect and enjoyment of the movie by having stocked the movie with plenty of Denizens of the '60's Scene. Edd Byrnnes ('Kookie' from 77 SUNSET STRIP), Connie Stevens, Alan Hale, Jr. & Bob Denver (Gilligan & Skipper), Tony Dowe (Wally), Jerry Mathers (the Beaver), Barbara Billingsley (June Cleaver), Don Adams (Maxwell Smart, Tennessee Tuxedo's voice)all make some pretty decent sized cameos. Added to the mix we have top Recording Guitarists Dick Dale and Rodney Bingeheimer; providing just for proper Musical Interest, Nostalgia and Authenticity.AS for a Contemporary component, they added a virtually pointless appearance by the then red-hot and very popular Paul Reubens (Pee-Wee Herman) to sing the old Rock 'n' Roll Classic, The Bird; and a now ironic spoof of the old Hertz Car Rental Commercials with old O.J. Simpson (himself); accurately lampooning his long running getting through the Airport commercials! THE Movie had been sort of prematurely panned and dismissed obviously by a large number of (Everybody, Hurry and Genuflect) Critics who had never even screened it. This hurt it bat the Box Office and by the time that word had gotten out about its true merits, it was headed for Videoland.BACK TO THE BEACH is a truly amusing production and is worthy to be classified with the Modern Comedy work of Messers Woody Allen, Mel Brooks and the Team of Zucker,Abrahams & Zucker.WE now would be all ready to roll the film. And they were highly successful during that brief period. Hence, this Parody-Send Up-Tribute to the whole bunch of films.BACK TO THE BEACH (Paramount, 1987) provides us with a gentle and truly funny film that answers a lot of the heretofore unanswered questions, like What happens to old Surfers? Is the Beach still open? Did those two Love Birds ever marry? What about the Next Generation? Is 'Kookie' still parkin' them cars? So just remember how they started filming their Beach Scenes with Lights, Camera, and EVERYBODY TWIST!NOTE * American-International or A.I.P. for short; now how could we forget them? They were probably responsible for more Pictures that we DIDN'T WATCH at the Drive-Ins than the other Companies Films we DID SEE!NOTE ** There was even an A Film Beach Movie with DON'T MAKE WAVES (Filmways/MGM, 1967). It was a Top shelf Production with a first rate cast including Tony Curtis, Claudia Cardinalle, Robert Webber, Sharon Tate, Dave draper, Chet Yorton, Reg Lewis, China Lee, Mort Sahl, Dub Taylor, Joanna Barnes, Jim Backus & Henny Backus (Mr. & Mrs. Jim Backus-uncredited.) "},{"Title":"pee-wee's cameo is wonderful!","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  i thought that this movie was not that well done, but i loved pee-wee herman's cameo in this film, when he sings a few songs, inluding 'the bird is the word. other than that, i didn't very much care for the movie that much.  "},{"Title":"why do you goddamn people do this to me?","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":" Frankie and Annette were hanging on the sand when Frankie got a letter from his uncle Sam, it said get Moondog and all your clan your all invited to a beach party Viet Nam, cooking hot dogs with napalm beach party Viet Nam. Holy lord what turds. Sometimes there are movies that require booze or drugs to watch it cause the movie so does suck, the amount of drugs or booze you got to use to successfully watch Back to the Beach is dangerous. Dangerous! Oh man, does this movie not work properly, it's broken in so many ways and broken so fundamentally, there is no fixing it other than using fire- fire to burn it all away. Good ole cleansing bright fire. What do you people want from movies? I mean why do you give people your money? It only validates the very worst behavior. "},{"Title":"Beached","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This movie missed the chance to be a classic. Now, I loved the Beach movies....they are in that so bad that they are good genre by now. Right up there with QUEEN OF OUTER SPACE and BAD GIRLS GO TO HELL.But this movie really didn't parody the old movies and that's where it missed. If they had really gone out and tried to lampoon the source like THE BRADY BUNCH MOVIE, it could have been great. The beach could've been like that David Lee Roth CALIFORNIA GIRLS video and we could've had some more risque humor. As it was, we got a made-for-TV feel to it.I propose they remake the beach movies with Rose McGowan as Annette's character and anybody they want as Frankie "},{"Title":"Once upon a time I thought it was good!","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  When you were a kid, did you have a movie that you watched over, and over, and over again? I did. It was Back to the Beach. I thought that Pee Wee Herman's cameo was hilarious! Ditto for Frankie and Annette's surly son Bobby. This is when I was 10! I recently watched it as an adult and found that Frankie and Annette's continual fighting was childish, and NOT funny. I found Bobby really annoying. It's a great movie if you're looking for a show the whole family can watch together, but personally, I wouldn't watch it alone unless I was ready for a nap. "},{"Title":"The attempt is there...","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":" Frankie Avalon and Annette Funicello co-produced this nostalgic romp about two swingin' teen sweethearts from the '60s now married and middle-aged, coping with the passing of time (not good material for a comedy) and the problems of their own punk kids. It has guest spots and musical numbers galore but, unlike the themes in Grease, for instance, this doesn't have the impact or widespread appeal to be wildly successful; it just doesn't work. The film has a very weak script, which certainly was no help to the director, and the scenes don't build any momentum. Even the nostalgia-factor in seeing Avalon and Funicello together again is low (where's the chemistry? All they do here is bicker). A lot of people put their time and talent into this picture, but it doesn't soar, doesn't spark fond memories. It's a wash-out. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Beach, Blanket, Boring!","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  The onetime beach partiers, now parents, return to the sandy paradise where it all began. The fun from the 1960's teen flicks just isn't there and the jokes are neither funny, nor well delivered. Cameos by Don Adams, Pee Wee Herman and Bob Denver couldn't even begin to save this poor attempt.  "},{"Title":"This is too bad to be the worst movie ever made","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This movie . . .  whew, where to begin?  It seems to be some sort of parody, but it is so self-conscious in its pastiche - yet at the same time oblivious at how stupid it is - that it fails on all levels.  It is basically a love letter to the the worst elements of pop culture in 1987, with a layer of kitschy 1960s references on top.  The lowlight is surely the Jamaica Ska number, in which Fishbone humiliates itself as Annette instructs the beach-goers in jazzercising.  It is reeeeeallllly painful.  "}{"Title":"Stuff like this doesn't work in the 1980's","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Frankie Avalon and Annette Funicello, whose series of Beach Party films were huge hits for teenage crowds back in the 1960's resurrect the series with this lame 1987 Paramount release. By this time, Avalon and Funicello are too old to be believable anymore in those surf bum roles and younger costars don't help either. Star gazers may appreciate this film only for its cameos by many stars of popular 1960's TV series. "},{"Title":"A waste of celluloid","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Yes, I grew up with the Beach movies - well, I was a young child, but I saw them.  No, this reunion isn't worth watching.  It is produced by Frankie and Annette, and thus primarily self-serving.  The director has been involved with only a handful of projects over the years, and the lack of experience is evident.Cameos by Gilligan, Skipper, Don Adams, and the Leave It to Beaver gang are forced.  Pee Wee's little number is more in tune with the 50s-in-the-80s funkiness of the script.It's an innocent romp, but will appeal only to those who are hardcore fans of the original 60s Beach flicks.  Psycho Beach Party actually did the retro thing much better, but that R-rated film with a drag queen as the lead sure won't make too many of you happy. "},{"Title":"Could it be any worse?","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical","Review":"  The only thing in this movie that is the least bit entertaining is the kid (Demian Slade) who keeps telling his parents how dumb they are.  And he is completely right!  This movie is painfully boring.  The humor, if you would call it that, is stupid even for a cheesy 80's movie.  Unless you are a diehard fan of Frankie & Annette, avoid! "}]