[{"Title":"TOP GUN rocks, plain and simple","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"299 out of 369 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe the reviews I have read about Top Gun being technically inaccurate, not enough character development, an overall simple and childish plot... gimme a freegin' break! This film was made to look cool, sound cool, and define cool. Yeah, okay, the MiG-28s are really F-5 Tigers; I've read the 'goofs' section before. And Tom Cruise's height. And about 'Maverick going supersonic - I'll be there in 30 seconds,' and the laws of physics preventing him from covering 200 or so miles from the carrier in that time. Whatever! So what! If Top Gun had tried to be accurate and true-to-life in every respect, it would have been some oh-so-serious flick like Courage Under Fire. Here's some examples of what I mean1 - what's the best way to evade cannon fire? Do a snazzy barrel roll. Problem solved!2 - the MiG pilots have tinted visors. The good guys don't. Go figure.2.5 - Russian planes are actually grey or green. The MiG 28s are black. The Tomcats are... yeah, you guessed it... white! Good vs. Evil.3 - Modern air-to-air combat is usually fought at distances of tens of miles between aircraft. Top Gun uses much cooler spitting-distance WWI era tactics.4 - It's too close for missiles. I'm switching to guns! Enough said.5 - the generic guy carrying coffee who gets knocked over by the fuming air-control officer. We never see him get up. Classic.6 - even the edited TV version is a few steps above normal-cool. ... you'll be flying a cargo plane edit... out of Hong Kong!7 - the way Iceman says, Mayday, Mav's in trouble. He's in a flat spin, and heading out to sea.8 - the graceful way Top Gun maintained a PG rating, without using the F-word once.Top Gun came out in 1986. That's 1986. Seventeen years ago. It rocked then... it rocks now. Just watch it and have some fun. "},{"Title":"I always liked a bit of cheddar","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"154 out of 196 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Absolute cheese on a stick, but Top Gun proves that that's not always a bad thing. This movie's got everything - an arrogant prodigy who'd be out on his arse if he wasn't so good, a sensible, uglier best friend, a love interest (although she's a bit of a mess), an arch nemesis and his dumb sidekick, a few cool high fives and catchphrases, an emotional death scene, a euphoric victory scene and of course, some unforgettable action scenes. What more could any red-blooded child of the eighties ask for!? And anyone born around 1980 will remember how everyone was doing that double high five and saying 'talk to me, goose' to the kid next to them in class. Certainly one of my all time favourites. "},{"Title":"And all the Air Force got was Iron Eagle .....","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"142 out of 178 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If there's ever proof of the cachet of Naval Aviation, this is it. Those poor Air Force guys got a trio of Iron Eagle flicks that went from bad to horrible, whereas the Navy flyboys got this great 1980's classic. Sure, it's cheesy and corny, but it makes the cheese and corn taste pretty damn good. A cynic might argue that it's just a two hour long Navy recruiting ad (one that worked for me, two years later I found my ass in Pensacola sweating through AOCS, short for Aviation Officer Candidate School, the program immortalized in An Officer and a Gentleman) but by making a pro-Navy movie, the filmmakers also got invaluable technical assistance from top Navy aviators, and it shows.For starters, although this movie takes numerous liberties in order to entertain, the basic setup, in which fighter pilots from the fleet get sent to NAS Miramar, aka, Top Gun for intensive training, is 100% accurate. The Navy, back during Vietnam, was getting sick of losing too many pilots in air-to-air combat. The problem, they discovered, was their fighter jocks had been trained for purely long-range missile interceptions, meaning they'd lost their dogfighting skills. And, in Vietnam, several American planes were accidentally shot down by their own side by missiles, so, as a safety factor, enemy planes had to be visually identified, meaning American pilots were back to engaging the enemy at short range, hence the need for dogfighting. The Top Gun school was started as a result, and the rest is history.Now, back to the movie. Tom Cruise is Maverick, a hotshot pilot but also somewhat unstable. If Risky Business launched his career as a movie star, then Top Gun cemented it. Guys wanted to be like him, and women of course lusted after him. The plot is pure formula, but executed with consummate professionalism. The team who put this movie together knew exactly how to push all the right buttons. But the crème de la crème is surely the flying. I don't think that any movie, before or since, has ever rendered air combat in a more convincing and dramatic fashion. For nearly 100 years fighter pilots have been the modern equivalent of olden knights, men who brought a sense of glamour and romance to the deadly art of war, and this movie gives them a fitting tribute.8/10  "},{"Title":"Classic 80's movie Tom Cruise at his best","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"52 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The fact that people are still writing about this film 15yrs after it was first released (and I'm not just talking about me!) really says a lot. I was dubious about writing a comment, seeing as it really has been ages since it was released and thinking that most people who wanted to see it probably already have. After recently watching it for the umpteenth time on TV, I felt compelled to write a quickie ;) I have to say, it's the first time I looked up Top Gun on the imdb and I was actually quite surprised that it only received a 6.4 rating. If you haven't seen the movie yet, don't judge it by the ratings, read a few user comments first and just rent it out, I guarantee you'll have a good time, especially with its amazing soundtrack! The best 80's songs ever written, I still get chills down my back listening to them ;) It's a simple plot but there's something about it that makes it a seriously enjoyable film and one you can watch time and time again. Go have fun! Enjoy!     "},{"Title":"One Of The 'Coolest' Movies Ever","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"45 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top gun, loved and loathed by many alike. The film that launched Tom Cruise's career. I'm a student and watching Top Gun for me is an amazing uplifting experience. A 'feel good' movie that could lift the worse of moods.The film executes cheese to perfection, yes there are some silly lines but there are some real good ones too! The aerial action sequences are truly amazing, and for 1986 nothing short of magnificent.The reason why Top Gun appeals to me...Imagine yourself on a Saturday night, not painting the town red staying in for the night. You have your few cans of Budweiser, your nachos what more could you ask for.From the amazing flight sequences, Mavericks motorbike, trashy romance and to the cool 80's soundtrack. Top Gun should be taken for what it is. An entertaining Film. "},{"Title":"Entertaining no brainer","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"43 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is a high quality, visually stunning film that does all it can to take your breath away. It is the excellently choreographed dog fights that remain in the mind longer than anything as they are high octane, dazzling bursts of excitement which bring the film to life. However, fighter jet sequences do not make a film and it is the plot where Top Gun has some occasional problems.Parts of the story are overly cheesy and clichéd. The proud to be American theme is dire, repetitive and anyone who dislikes over patriotism in films will despise this. The story line involving Tom Cruise and Tom Skerrit approaches boredom and is the pinnacle of Top Gun's cheese. 'Cheese' is OK, as long as it is not serious and that is where that specific story line falls flat. The fun cheesy parts are some of the films best moments. The volleyball scene is truly a classic and the four actors involved are genuinely enjoying themselves. The relationship between Tom Cruise and Anthony Edwards is also very moving at times and the dynamic they have makes for great viewing.The acting is what saves Top Gun from being Tinsel town garbage. Tom Cruise launched his career with this film. His cocky smile makes him perfect for this role and Cruise does fantastically at portraying a determined, passionate character. It is the emotional scenes where Cruise really sets himself apart from his peers. Cruise provides the few scenes where the audience are made to feel any emotion and he carries out his responsibility creditably. Anthony Edwards as Goose is also effective as the man who takes second spot to Cruise's Maverick. He is instantly popular with the audience with his wit, humour and charm. Val Kilmer and Rick Rossovich are great as the rivals. They play off each other really well and do a fantastic job to personify arrogance. Michael Ironside does what he does best and once again, manages to go through a whole film without smiling.The story between Cruise and Kelly McGillis is very romantic and sensual. The heat between them is conveyed very well on screen and it is this that sets Top Gun above films such as Iron Eagle and Chuck Norris films.Berlin's 'Take My Breath Away' is a song that still gets a good deal of airplay and suits this film to perfection; it's cheesy and its 80s. The music is very effective at setting the mood and complements the feel of the film.Top Gun is a film that achieves its objectives, to entertain. If you're looking for intelligent writing or mass thought provocation, this film isn't for you. Top Gun is best suited to those who desire to switch off their brain and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Beautifully fake","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is a school of thought that says all movies should be compared on an absolute scale.  It would say that movies must have a high level of credibility or familiarity in order to be good movies.  People who fall into this category simply should not watch Top Gun.  They won't enjoy it. Other people take the opposite, but no more valid approach of looking a each movie individually, disregarding all else but the movie.  For these people, no outside reality or credibility is important, because for them, a movie exists to entertain in whatever way it chooses to.  These people would enjoy Top Gun very much.  It is extremely doubtful that the producers ever even considered making Top Gun as a portrait of a fighter pilot's life, and this is why it is entertaining.  It is a rare type of movie, one that no one dares to make today, one that not only transcends reality, but wears it as a mask into the world of fantasy.  Everything from the wild dogfights to the fake love to the over the top glamorized (or should I say canonized) characters lets you know that this is a good old American hero drama.  That is why it is a horrible and fraudulent portrait of reality, and that is why I love it. "},{"Title":"I Feel The Need, The Need For Speed","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun it can be argued is the perfect Reagan Era film and is is definitely the film that cemented Tom Cruise's stardom. It's probably now the film that most people will identify him with.Cruise plays Pete Mitchell aka Maverick who gets recommended for the Navy's elite Top Gun fighter pilot school. The best of the best train here at what they euphemistically call Fightertown, USA. The problem Tom has is he's the best and he knows it. That doesn't near and endear him to his fellow pilots.You can add Top Gun to a list of films that goes all the way back to Task Force where the story of the development of the aircraft carrier was told, to The Bridges at Toko-Ri which was a film that told about the first jet air war in Korea. What Gary Cooper flew in Task Force and what William Holden piloted in The Bridges at Toko-Ri are as ancient to Cruise's generation as what Eddie Rickenbacker flew in the first World War was to Holden and Cooper.One thing that has not left is that war in the air still is the glamor service because it allows a record of individual achievement. And with flying combat at the speeds they do, one has to make less than split second decisions. The men are better now than they were in the previous wars simply because they have to be.Cruise is ably assisted by such folks as Tim Rossovich, Barry Tubb, Clarence Gilyard, Whip Hubley, and Adrian Pasdar as fellow pilots at the Top Gun school. Val Kilmer turns in a nice performance as Cruise's number one rival to be number one in the class.Best in the film besides Tom is Anthony Edwards as his co-pilot and best friend. His death scene with Cruise is particularly poignant as is Edwards's wife Meg Ryan's scene with Tom as he breaks the news.Romance for Cruise is provided by Kelly McGillis who certainly had her choice of hunks to fall for, but this film doe seem to make a point that women like confidence in their men even if it can be overbearing at times to those around. McGillis is a civilian instructor so the romance does not bring Tom or her under military fraternization infractions.Top Gun is a film every bit as good as the ones I mentioned before. Tom Cruise was never more appealing on the screen. And this review is dedicated to the fighter pilots of the United States Navy, some of the best and brightest of the younger generation who are defending freedom for old codgers like me. "},{"Title":"Polished and heartfelt","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"28 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun is undoubtedly one of my favourite films, and one of those that has the ability to keep enthralling you even while watching for the tenth time. Director Tony Scott was chosen after the producers saw his work in advertising, and true to their judgement he has produced a visual masterpiece. It looks simply gorgeous, and the live action sequences have never been bettered. If there is one flaw in the film it is that it is somewhat shallow, with all of the people behind the film (and Tom Cruise) rather better at making visual spectaculars than an engaging story. However the story does work well in drawing you into the world of Maverick and his fellow naval aviators, Cruise forms an excellent rapport with Anthony Edwards as Goose, and the dialogue is snappy and eminently quotable. Everyone has at some stage used Maverick's line - I couls tell you, but then I'd have to kill you, and the cover of the Righteous Brothers is unforgettable. The film is backed by one of the best soundtracks of the decade, and a very strong supporting cast. In my opinion, the film succeeds in everything it sets out to achieve. A cracking script, a gripping story, and simply stunning aerial photography. You have to see this film. "},{"Title":"A film that holds a special place in my heart.","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" The following is an excerpt from a non-fiction story I wrote entitled Eighteen Years from Olean. Copyright 2004. All Rights Reserved.The set up is that I'm 18 years old, and about one week after my graduation from High School. I've been having a one year, long distance romance with a girl named Tammy. I've driven 500 miles to surprise her, and here's what we did the first night I arrived&#133; Chapter 11 The Castle Cinema; Olean, New York; Summer 1986 We came back to her place, had dinner with her mom&#151;I don't remember anyone else being there&#151;and Tammy suggested that we see a movie. There was a new film playing in town that she really wanted to see and asked me if I would take her. Of course I would.The local two screen cinema was called The Castle, and my memory tells me that it was&#151;not surprisingly&#151;built like a castle, with spires, and uneven brick around the top like Jack-O-Lantern teeth. She told me the name of the movie and I distinctly remember thinking what a stupid title. It sounded like a cheesy cowboy movie. I had not heard of it&#151;it was very new&#151;and was certain that it was going to suck. I despised westerns. But I would try to suffer through this horrible movie for her sake, knowing full and well that I would hate it.The film was Top Gun.Boy was I wrong.Top Gun was the paradigm of 80's cinema. By that I mean it was a high-octane action/adventure film with a script filled with campy dialog, and a thin, formulaic plot that was driven by a kick-ass soundtrack. It was common of the motion pictures during that decade for the music to be the star; one long rock video, like the ones we watched on that new network MTV (back when they actually played videos).I'm only a little embarrassed to tell you that Top Gun changed my life. I had already started skydiving by then and the visuals of aviation and the attitude of the pilots drew me in. I saw that movie not less than ten times while it was still playing in theaters, and countless times since on video and DVD. Even now I know every line by heart. It was the script for my generation, introducing such phrases as Talk to me Goose, It's time to buzz the tower, Let's turn and burn, call the ball and I feel the need&#133;the need for speed. Obviously I wasn't the only one infatuated with this movie. Top Gun was the winner of the People's Choice Award for 1986, nominated for four Academy Awards (winning one), catapulting six of its songs to Billboard's Top 10, and, oh yeah, it grossed three-hundred million dollars world-wide. It was a popular film. On a practical note, my repeated viewings of Top Gun in theaters taught me an invaluable lesson about performance.Throughout my time in theater, mostly plays, we were always told that there is no bad audience, only a bad performance. That's a lie.A film doesn't change from performance to performance. Every line is delivered exactly the same way, with the same timing and the same inflection. The performance give by the actors is identical each time it's viewed; exactly as it was the instant it was captured on film. Yet, I noticed that each time I saw Top Gun in a cinema, the audience reacted differently.Sometimes they would laugh at the humorous parts, other times not. A few times they cheered when Maverick shot the last MIG, and once or twice they actually chuckled when Goose hit his head on the canopy, breaking his neck. The live people in the audience never, in fact, responded the same way at any two showings of the film. Now since the movie changed not one iota, I came to the conclusion that there are indeed bad audiences.On occasion, when I have a show that tanks, I reminded myself of the Top Gun rule, and it brings me comfort.Sometimes. "}{"Title":"Jerry Bruckheimer delivers again.","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"44 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jerry Bruckheimer; the name strikes fear into my heart.The man honestly cannot tell the difference between action and boredom.  With him its hit or miss.In this case, hit.Big hit.Tom Cruise's performance is stellar, playing a role that he would end up playing again and again as the overconfident 'Maverick' who eventually learns his lesson.  And a ham-handed lesson it is, hammered home in the end by his constant I'm not leaving my wingman! yell.Val Kilmer shines...heck, the whole supporting cast shines!  Meg Ryan, Anthony Edwards, Rim Robbins, Micheal Ironsides, Skerrit--they all come through beautifully.  The action scenes are some of the best aerial shots ever shot.On to the complaints.Jerry Bruckheimer loads the sap on with a cement truck, nearly drowning this movie in it.  The dialogue is corny.  Basically--the very things that made the entire movie 'Armageddon' horrible mar the corners of Top Gun.  The ending is worse than corny; it's a clear case of deus ex machina.  A very clear case.  The deus almost knocked me out of my seat.A satisfying movie, altogether.  Four out of five stars. "},{"Title":"Iconic Movie","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I feel the need, the need for speed! Top Gun is without any doubt one of the iconic movies of the 80's and marked Tom Cruise's international stardom after Risky Business another successful picture. The late Tony Scott directed a brilliant film based on fighter pilots in the Navy who aspire to become the best of the best in this exciting action drama starring Tom as the charismatic Pete Maverick Mitchell and his love affair with his instructor Charlie Blackwood played by Kelly McGillis and let's not forget Tom Skerritt, Anthony Edwards and Meg Ryan who delivered unforgettable performances. The dogfighting scenes involving F-14A Tomcats are perfect and believable without today's visual effects, in addition to the movie's soundtrack with its great songs. Top Gun is a masterpiece movie for everybody. "},{"Title":"The students call it... TOP GUN","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember when I saw Top Gun for the first time. I was 3 years old, and I wanted to become a pilot.At that time, Top Gun was my favourite movie. It still is in some ways, but a lot has changed. (Tom Cruise has done other movies)The story is simple, but I love this movie. Just to watch Tom Cruise beeing this macho man and a softy at the same time is really fun.To be honest, the intro is the best part of the movie, except Tom of course. The students call it... TOP GUNOne can really live into the story while watching them sitting in their benches, or flying around in the air.  "},{"Title":"I feel the need - the need for speed!","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is a big piece of 1980s cheese. Definitely a Hollywood product, it was however very successful at the box office. The success is mostly due to the action and to Tom Cruise and his winning smile. The aerial combat shown in Top Gun is exciting, but it's not always logical or consistent (shooting down Soviet fighter planes would result in war in real life). What makes it better is the film's soundtrack. Catchy upbeat rock & pop songs back the action and the romance on screen. That's pretty much the film's appeal. There are plenty of faults, but in the end it's entertaining and makes one feel good. The fighter pilot life seems so appealing in Top Gun that registrations to join the navy in the USA went up significantly after the film was released. According to the film in order to become one of the top fighter pilots in America you have to be a) a male b) have an attitude c) be good-looking d) be a good fighter pilot. Oh, and you have to believe that America is always on the side of good. Come to think of it, was there even a brunette in the film? It seemed to me like all the women were blondes. Yeah, but at least the dogfights are some of the best in film history. There's no Top Gun program in reality though. Still, while you're there playing with the boys you feel cool and like you belong. Val Kilmer makes an impression, but it turns out he didn't want to be in the film. He had to play the role of Tom Iceman Kazansky because of contract obligations. Top Gun is not a bad film. Even if everything in it is by the numbers it's still a notable 1980s flick (in my opinion Take My Breath Away is an annoying and corny song). The film is bright, it's action-packed, it's sometimes touching, it's at times funny. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Most obnoxious boys' club movie ever made.","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" If they were handing out awards for the most superficial, testosterone-driven movie of all time, i would have no trouble picking a winner.The reviewer in the tele paper gave this two stars and called it vacuous, which made me think it would be fun to see, in the hopes it would be fun-bad. But unfortunately, there was no fun to be had. You couldn't even laugh, the filmmakers took themselves so seriously. The only fun was remembering Hot Shots sending it up. The way Top Gun takes itself so seriously was really begging to be sent up.Disparaging boys club atmosphere is obnoxious to watch. Tom Cruise should feel ashamed when he looks back at that cocky smirk planted on his face, that smirk that thought the adolescent politics of these silly guys would seem significant to viewers. If you're any older than a young adolescent boy yourself (though even this audience would only have been interested in it in the 80's, because its dated so badly), you won't enjoy this one bit.The aesthetic of these boys standing in the gym showers with their shirts off, looking at each other and flirting with each other, as well as the volleyball sequence where the camera pores over the muscles of the men jumping around, is the exact kind of body is all attitude prevalent in the late 80's that was satirised in American Psycho. If you want to get more value out of American Psycho, in fact, see this movie first. You'll see that its an important thing being said in that movie - that this kind of worship of what looks good is unhealthy, and dangerous. "},{"Title":"Perhaps The Most Typical Bruckheimer Production","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You can just imagine Jerry Bruckheimer sitting at the studio offices in a totally disinterested mood as his colleagues discuss the pre planning stages of TOP GUN . Dismissing anything that vaguely resembles a good idea Jerry turns to them and says  Forget about complicated plots and great stories . Hire me a couple of hunky actors with great teeth and write me a couple of songs for the soundtrack  and his colleagues comply Personally speaking the above attitude seems kind of lousy if you want to make a good film but it's logical if you want to make a successful one . Tom Cruise and Val Kilmer , if the teenage girls don't rush out to the cinema to see either of these guys sure as hell every dentist in the country will , so right away you've got a ready made audience . Add to that lots of macho big boys toys ( In this case fighter jets ) which will appeal to a teenage male audience and you've got an even bigger ready made audience . Plus you can release a soundtrack which means more money and advertising for the movieYes indeed TOP GUN was a mega success at the cinema which proves Jerry Bruckheimer knows his stuff . However as many , many people have noted there's a big difference between a GOOD movie and a SUCCESSFUL movie and watching TOP GUN after almost 20 years after it came out it comes across as being shallow , thread bare and rather jingoistic . From the very first scene of fighter aircraft flying off the carrier to the closing credits director Tony Scott seems to be making something that's a cross between a recruiting film for the US Navy and a music video , there's romance for the girls , a few dog fight for the boys but much of it seems aimed for the next MTV slot . There's not a lot here that will challenge the mindI also couldn't noticing the flag waving either , in just about every scene a character proudly boasts that  The United States has the best fighter pilots in the world  . I'm not dissing anyone across the pond who's served their country but the undisputed kings of the sky are the Israeli airforce who manged to destroy 240 Egyptian fighters in one single day during the 1967 six day war . They also shot down 38 Syrian aircraft in dogfights , again in a single day , in June 1982 . The Israelis have no equals when it comes to fighter pilots * . I can understand Hollywood getting all nationalistic since they had such a right wing president ( A former Hollywood actor no less ) at the time but the  God bless the United States - we're the best at everything we do  attitude does grate very quickly especially to non Americans and a later Bruckheimer production PEARL HARBOR drowned in its patriotic fervor with an American fighter pilot almost winning The Battle Of Britain single handed A lot of people flocked to the cinema when it was first released and a lot of people bought the soundtrack too , but as a film it is rather shallow , uninvolving and if you can't remember the 1980s then you might be ever so puzzled why this film made so much money . If truth be told I'm slightly puzzled myself and I suggest you go out of your way to watch AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN which is a very similar movie but a far better one* For a film that strangely negates the skill of the Israeli airforce I couldn't help noticing that this movie was inspired by an article written by Ehud Yonay . I've not checked up on this guy's background but wouldn't Ehud Yonay be an Israeli name ?  "},{"Title":"Pistol","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This film is of historical interest. It is the first engineered blockbuster focused on romanticizing the gizmos of war as toys. Post Tom Clancy. It marks the turning point of Tom Cruise from a promising actor with controlled energy in `Color of Money' to a strutting mugger.It marks the first major screen debut of Meg Ryan, establishing her formula. So too with Val Kilmer, but both of those are mere celebrities rather than actors. Here also is Robbins who would turn into a fine actor.It is the event that got the Department of Defense re-energized about the effectiveness of Hollywood.But most of all, this film marks the switch between Ridley and Tony. Tony was expected to be the one to make intelligent films. Ridley had made two very impressive scifi films, but these were notable for their art direction. The money was on Ridley to fade, or find a commercial niche like Cameron. But things turned out the reverse. Tony has been making this same film over and over, each version more snappy, swoopy and gizmo-laden than the last. "},{"Title":"How silly can a movie be?","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It took almost fifteen years until I watched Top Gun for the first time. I clearly remember that this movie was very popular when it ran in the German theatres in 1987 and I heard a lot about this mixture of action, adventure and romance. I never expected Top Gun to be a masterpiece. However, I always thought that I had missed something, not having seen it. But when I actually watched this movie one week ago it occured to me that I was wrong. Action and adventure? A bunch of guys that want to be heros doing nothing but cracking stupid jokes and flying around in jets all the time, finally fighting (and of course winning) against a nameless enemy (i.e. the Soviet Union). No thrill at all. No explanation of the Cold War background at all. Dialogues as silly as can be, leaving me helpless whether to laugh or cry. Romance? Tom Cruise and Kelly McGillis in something that is meant to be a love story but fails to convey the slightest touch of romance. Acting? Cruise and Kilmer in their ridiculous Who gets to perform the broadest grin/the ugliest sneer?-competition. The single funny aspect is the music score, a synthesizer sound emerging from the deepest depths of the 1980s, this very strange decade.Let's face it Top Gun is nothing but a commercial for the US Navy (just think of the jets starting from and landing on the carrier in the warm, red light of sunrise or sunset) and a perfect example of the hyper-patriotism of the Reagan era. The movie depicts some sort of unreflected militarism that is not my cup of tea.Only in terms of technique (cinematography, editing &#133;) this work is quite all right. So Top Gun isn't exactly one of the worst but surely one of the silliest movies I have ever seen 2 out of 10 - period. "},{"Title":"Spectacular looking, but emotionally lifeless and intellectually vacant","Date":"21 June 2011","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" There were a number of great films that came out in the 1980s, but Top Gun nearly single-handedly stigmatized that era as being one of utter crap. Released in 1986, the film was a massive blockbuster, but aside from marveling over its technicalities and surface glitz, it is a near indefensible film, even as far as popcorn summer flicks go.The plot &#x96; if one chooses to lavish such a description on it &#x96; basically focuses on a group of crème de la crème aerial fighter pilots who attend an elite flight school in California and compete to see who will be Top Gun.So much for the plot! The focal character is a cocky, swaggering air jockey named Maverick, played with exuberant arrogance by Tom Cruise. All of the pilots spend their days either doing absurdly risky aerial acrobatics or preening around like peacocks displaying their plumage. Maverick functions as a veritable checklist of clichés for the modern action hero. His dead father was a pilot legend, but with a cloud hanging over him, which gives Maverick major daddy issues. The new adviser at the school just happens to be Kelly McGillis, the sexy woman that Maverick tried to pick up at the local bar the evening before with an embarrassing Righteous Brothers serenade (only the film seems to think it is charming!). Maverick's best friend is a pre-ER Anthony Edwards, who is a funny and sensitive family man married to ditzy Meg Ryan. And given that he is stuck with the nickname of Goose when all the other guys have coy macho nicknames like Iceman, Wolfman and Viper, you get the correct impression that this will be the film's sacrificial lamb to give Maverick his crisis in swaggering. Maverick also has a rivalry with another flyer, played by Val Kilmer, but since that plot thread is forgotten almost as soon as it is introduced, it seems pointless to comment on it.The film has been rightfully accused of heralding in the era of ADHD-action filmmaking, drowning in jingoism, featuring blatant homoeroticism and being little more than a feature length music video. The fact that there is some truth to all of those accusations may make the film seem like great dumb fun or a guilty pleasure, but that overlooks the fact that it is mind-deadeningly tedious.Director Tony Scott provides slick direction and the cinematography is spectacular, but nothing can detract from the fact that the film is emotionally lifeless and intellectually vacant. There are literally entire passages that seem to be nothing more than extended music videos. The film is bookended by aerial dogfights against faceless unknown enemies. Who are they and what are their nefarious plans? The film doesn't care. This may well be the first action film ever that fails to feature either a villain or any identifiable central conflict. Which pilot will become Top Gun at the flight school? The film could also care less about that since it is treated as irrelevant. In fact, precious few things seem to matter in this morass of noise than the next flashing light, billowing flag or whizzing plane.Bad film aficionados can laugh over the film's introduction of McGillis as our country's foremost expert aerial tactician, who has never set foot in a cockpit. Cruise and McGillis have a nonexistent sexual chemistry and spend the duration of the film lobbing their lines at each other like grenades and staring with such intensity that one fears a detached retina. Truthfully, there is nothing wrong with McGillis's acting here, but she is included in the film for only two cynical reasons. First, every action film must have the girl. Second, because her character attests to the red-blooded heterosexuality of our leading man.The second is apparently important because Scott often depicts the hunky pilots as sex objects. They are often parading around in tighty-whities or precariously balanced towels fresh from the shower trying to out-macho each other and filmed with the blatant sexuality of a Calvin Klein perfume commercial. One lengthy sequence depicting a volleyball game is completely pointless to the film unless it is needed to pad the time out or the film wishes to showcase the sweaty bodies of the guys in tiny shorts &#x96; you be the judge. Of course, since the film refuses to step outside of PG-rated territory lest they lose their target audience of intellectually stunted adolescents, there is no actual nudity. In truth, while all of the displays of male skin are initially enticing, like the film itself, it becomes an annoyingly empty tease after a while.Although many have forgotten it, Cruise has demonstrated some great acting. While he is ideally iconic and definitely at his sexiest as Maverick, it becomes a thundering bore to watch him reduced to repeatedly strut across the screen with a smarmy grin plastered to his face and offer little else. Edwards turns in the film's best performance as Goose, largely because he is allowed to be affable and appealing without being saddled with the obnoxious posturing of some of the other characters. Tom Skerritt is on hand to provide a bit of maturity as a semi-mentor, but the remainder of the cast including Kilmer, John Stockwell, Tim Robbins, have literally nothing to do but function as scenery.Arguably the film's greatest weakness is that we have no rooting interest in anything that transpires on screen. Nothing seems credible, threatening or of any urgency. The film seems placidly laid-back about everything &#x96; including its action sequences, which will fail to lift the pulse of the most non-demanding viewer. Although this has been elevated as a somewhat dubious icon of 1980s filmmaking, this may well be the first hit action film with a complete lack of humor and a dearth of any real action. "},{"Title":"Top Jerk","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"17 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh what an annoying movie! Regardless of all other considerations, I just could not get past the casting of Tom Cruise, who plays Maverick, a hotshot fighter pilot who competes with other young pilot dudes in tough, daring aerial competition at an elite pilot school to see who can be the best.Cruise swaggers and smirks his way through the plot, all decked out in heavy-duty flight suit and shades, his boyish face, short stature, and immaturity in deportment making a mockery of what the film no doubt had intended. I found his presence in this film rather nauseating. Instead of portraying the top gun, his character comes across more as the top jerk.In plot and dialogue, the film could be described as a popcorn flick for kids, with lots of action, as fighter jets blast off, roar and soar, topsy-turvy like, showing off the daring-do of their annoyingly smug aviators.The dialogue is just as sophomoric as the plot. In one dogfight scene, a couple of pilots converse. Okay man, let's turn and burn ... We're going ballistic man, go get 'em ... it's time to buzz the tower ... kinda like a video game ... man.Further, the film seems permanently time-bound in the 1980s, partly because of Tom Cruise, but also because the film's theme of jingoistic American patriotism, while cogent then, is far less cogent now.The film does present some good visuals. The aerial shots are especially good. And costumes and production design seem credible.Overall, this is just a typical Hollywood action movie around which a lot of media buzz was made when it came out, but now seems dated and is easily forgettable. "}{"Title":"Easily one of the worst films I've ever seen.","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun is simply one of the dumbest stories ever submitted to film. The movie lacks each and every characteristic of real entertainment that I can think of.  The characters are unimaginably dull and dim-witted, the story is typical war movie crap played as a backdrop to a bunch of typical romantic crap, and the dialogue is sub-human.  Tom Cruise and Kelly McGillis have about as much romantic chemistry on screen as Jay and Silent Bob.  None of the actors act the way real people act or talk the way real people talk.The one thing that really killed me about Top Gun was the fact that the capabilities of its actors were so underestimated by director Tony Scott. Tom Cruise has easily proven himself to be one of the great American Actors of modern times, starring in Born on the Fourth of July, Jerry Maguire, and Magnolia, for which he was awarded the Oscar for Best Supporting Actor.  Meg Ryan has proven herself in Sleepless in Seattle and When Harry Met Sally. . ., one of the best romantic comedies ever made.  Val Kilmer didn't even want to do this movie, and who could blame him?  He's done much better work in films like Heat, True Romance, and Tombstone, in which he played an untouchable Doc Holliday.  These are good actors trapped in a horrid film.  This is typical, however, of producer Jerry Bruckheimer, who brought us other cinematic duds such as Pearl Harbor and Armageddon. "},{"Title":"Top. Men.","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm sure that if Tony Scott ever imagined his 1986 blockbuster Top Gun would be taught in Film Studies curriculums, it would not be under the 'ironic/alternative/reappropriated viewing' week. Indisputably, the film's slick, macho posturing is now legendarily lampooned/revered as a classic of unintentional(?) homoerotic camp, and more lampooned than revered for its glibly brazen patriotism, militarism, and daftly monolithic cold war politics. Nonetheless, there is a moment, after the deluge of plane-porn, shirtless, oily volleyball romps, curiously lizard-like makeout sessions, repetitive musical cues that appear blatantly designed for comedy, and endless discussion of hard-ons, where even the most sophisticatedly distanciated viewer is likely to have the gall to stop and think, Gee whiz &#x96; this movie is actually kind of fun. Like, fun-fun, not just 'I'm-laughing-because-it's-so- ridiculously-hyperbolic' fun. What is happening? Tom Cruise, how have you bewitched me so with your voodoo magic and dazzling, Cheshire-cat grin?! This, surely, is the 'danger zone' Kenny Loggins keeps so helpfully cautioning us against. Yes &#x96; begrudgingly as it may be, the Simpson/Bruckheimer mystique is infectious, greasy-beer-ad-reminiscent as it may be. Even nearly thirty years on, the film's MTV-flashiness is energizing, the flying sequences remain exciting, and even the ra-ra-military propaganda throughout is somewhat cute in its hokiness (bear in mind how unironic an enlistment tool the film served as to return to the solemn world of pooh-pooh-hood). And, despite spawning decades of jeering, patriarchal frat-boy morons and lazy Halloween costumes alike, it's virtually impossible not to be won over by The Cruiser's million-dollar grin, so hypnotically charismatic that even his smarmy swagger starts to (fairly disturbingly) become strangely seductive. Bonus points to Val Kilmer to somehow cobbling an iconic codename (I've lost count of how many ICEMANs have bested me at laser tag through the years) out of a lazy, moralizing drawl, Kelly McGillis for somehow remaining sassy instead of sappy, Meg Ryan for somehow remaining on the right side of annoying, and Anthony Edwards for stealing all the best (unironic) lines as adorably subservient perennial wingman Goose. Also, playing 'spot- the-Tim-Robbins' is always good for a lark. Yes, Top Gun will 'take your breath away', whether from laughing, genuine enrapture, or a bashful mix of both. If nothing else, the film remains an essential piece of cinema history for evidently discouraging Sir Cruisealot from taking part in a movie musical after his cringeworthy karaoke bout here (at least until Rock of Ages, which is loathsome for reasons far beyond him). Danger, danger, Pete Mitchell. -6/10 "},{"Title":"The piece of crap that happened to be one of my favorite movies......ever!","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" To start, I watched thousands of movies, literally (The Godfather, Goodfellas, etc..). And from my perspective, Top Gun is an average popcorn flick. The plot is as cheesy as any movie. After you watch the movie for a while, the story will fade but something else will stick with you. That thing is what forced me to give this movie a 9/10. What is that thing? Well, the feel of the movie, the mode. The 80s fresh air. And the beautiful soundtrack. These things overcome all the flaws in this all-flawed movie. This is the weirdest review I have ever wrote, but it's true. You will like and detest this movie at the same time. The question is what feeling will you choose? To conclude, this is a really terrible movie but one of my favorites. Give it a chance (on a big screen) and you won't be disappointed or will you? "},{"Title":"The REAL star is the Grumman F-14A Tomcat","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wonderful and just an entertaining movie. Those of us who love aircraft just like to watch this movie hundreds of times. To watch the main star of the picture, beautiful Grumman F-14A Tomcat is just worth repeating it at last once a week!! By the way this movie created the fad of building miniature plastic scale models of the Tomcat. Several manufacturers like Monogram and Revell started selling kits like hot cakes and they couldn't keep up with demand. Card models were also offered. The Tomcat became an overnight movie star!!! She acted beautifully, quite natural and showing her beautiful curvaceous lines uncensored!!! Just can't wait to see Top Gun II. And don't miss the soundtrack, specially Take my Breath Away. "},{"Title":"Cheesy And Cliché,","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is a good movie with a decent storyline and a good cast.It was my first time seeing the movie,I since its so well known I expected it to be a lot better,Tom Cruise did deliver a great performance however,but this movie is so cheesy,there's constant singing to feel good songs and a cliché love story to it as well.I don't really like Val Kilmer as an actor,mainly because he was the worst Batman ever,but he delivered a pretty solid performance as Iceman.Students of a Us Fighting school compete against each other to be the best in there class,while one of the students,Maverick (Tom Cruise),dates the teacher,Charlie (Kelly McGillis). "},{"Title":"Entertaining macho tale of airborne acrobatics and dogfight daredeviltry","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Maybe this is something of a U.S. military naval recruitment film but if taken not too seriously, this testosterone laced movie actually makes for quite entertaining viewing. The jet maneuvers shown are both impressive & exciting and might tend to increase the viewer's respect (as it certainly did mine) for the amazing skill and incredible nerve of real life fighter pilots. The story revolves around a bold, daring, and overconfident navy fighter pilot, Lieutenant Pete Mitchell (call name 'Maverick'), who is sent to the Top Gun Naval Flying School along with his close pal, Goose. Maverick strives to prove himself the best pilot in this demanding course, but faces both stiff competition from a fellow pilot named Iceman as well as personal conflict dealing with his own haunting demons following the mysterious death of his father, also an air ace pilot. Meanwhile, he falls for a lovely civilian astrophysics instructor, Charlotte (Charlie) Blackwood.Tom Cruise is well cast in the role of the hotshot pilot...the cocky, audacious, fearless, but ultimately conflicted and anguished Maverick. Kelly McGillis portrays his often antagonistic love interest, Charlie, who's as smart as she is pretty. Other stars include Tom Skerrit as a real top gun flight instructor, Commander Metcalf (Viper), who proves to be both a skilled and professional pilot but also a compassionate individual. Meg Ryan appears in her screen debut as Goose's perky, fun loving young wife, Carole Bradshaw, a minor role and one which I personally found rather irritating.I half expected that I'd find this movie just all too macho, but it's actually quite engaging to watch. Maverick's personal story, his inner strife, and his romance with Charlie prove less riveting than the incredible airborne stunts with these jets. Yes, they have to be among the best aerial shots ever. This film was made during the Cold War era with its USSR enmity so there are appearances by enemy Russian MiG fighters, naturally cast as the intrusive villains of the piece. The film also does a great job at depicting all the male bonding between these pilots...the camaraderie, rivalry, banter, inter dependency, and genuine close friendship.Maverick is a fighter pilot who, according to Charlie, is only happy when he's 'going Mach Two with his hair on fire'. He's heard to remark just prior to climbing into the cockpit, 'I feel the need for speed'. He also takes great delight in unexpected and forbidden fly byes next to the control tower, scaring the living daylights out of his colleagues and causing them to spill their coffee. I love the little paper airplane touch with Charlie! Guess how Maverick transports himself around the city while on the ground...that's right, zipping about on a motorcycle!The movie features highly effective cinematography of these jets taking off from the aircraft carrier, all accompanied by a fabulous racy musical soundtrack. The romantic scenes are of course to the Oscar winning song 'Take My Breath Away'. Although it certainly features its sad moments, Top Gun is on the whole simply a lively and fun movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Not for airplane enthusiasts, mind...","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you are into airplanes, or airplane films in general - I don't think this film is for you. Why? It's drama. OK, it's drama with comedy and glory, but it's still drama. You will find no references/jargon to technicalities of aircraft that are real.As for the film itself, it's art. I can appreciate the film, I'm sure you could too - Acting's pulled off pretty well, perhaps glorifying the United States a bit too much, however.The problem with this film is the fact that in reality, the pilots going up there would be young men risking their life; the fact that in this film, enthusiasm is so high, really cuts away the realism. However, the battle scenes are full of adrenalin, even for the viewer, and the drama is unpredictable.7/10. "},{"Title":"The Guilty Pleasure Known As Top Gun!","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie, when you get down to it, is essentially an 80's Harry Potter in flight school, with Ron being Goose, Malfoy being Iceman, and Professor McGonagall being a hot flight instructor that Harry has intrercourse with. Any who, this is a movie to watch with your Tom Cruise obsessed gal (or guy) because he has his shirt off 45% of the time, smiles 85% of the time, and flies in a jet a lot. Instead of being a action movie with chick movie elements to keep the ladies in, this is a chick flick with action in it. But thanks to great aerial photography, a spectacular duo in Cruise and Anthony Edwards, and a few funny moments ( this movie doesn't work serious) this one is one that us guys don't mind watching... too much. "},{"Title":"Indeed, there's no points for second best","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was released even before I was born. Tom was also quite young in this movie. This movie was my favorite movie for a long time, it is still in my top 3 movies. In fact, this movie was responsible for Tom cruise's stardom. I heard in that year 1986, a lot of guys wanted to be pilots just because of this movie.Top Gun is a story of pilot Pete Mitchell code name Maverick who is regarded dangerous pilot by the navy. Pete's father disappears in 1965 Vietnam war. So, his father was considered reckless pilot by everyone. Maverick knows his father was a great pilot and he didn't screw up. But still there's a stigma attached to his family name. So, Maverick always tries to endeavor very hard when he flies.Top Gun is a film about emotion, passion and most importantly ego of Maverick. Top Gun shows all the flavors of emotions. It shows desperation of Maverick not to be second. Maverick has only one friend Goose. Goose is his family. Nobody likes Maverick, but Goose. Maverick doesn't want to risk Goose's job, by doing some unnecessary stints in the sky, but his desperation and ego to be better than others due what happened to his father, never listens to him.Tom Cruise pulls off performance of his life in this movie. He is well complimented by Kelly Mcgillis (Charley), Val Kilmer (Iceman) and Anthony Edwards (Goose). My fad for Top Gun is such that I had Maverick as my username on my email id for years. I've sen this flick more than 50 times. I know every dialogue in this movie. This movie is a top notch and as far as movie characters are concerned, Tom Cruise will always be remembered as Maverick than any other characters he has played. "},{"Title":"This movie was really good!! And Tom Cruise was so HOT!!","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was surprisingly good, and I thought that it was a really good movie about Top Gun. There really is a Top Gun, and it is the best of the best, and this movie really showed the viewers that it was! I liked how there was a little bit of romance included in the movie because it made it a little bit better. Tom Cruise was the HOTTEST in this movie!!! Today he is still good looking for his age, but in this movie, there are no words to describe him!! The movie was really good, but the one thing that made it amazing was him in it!! In this movie, to me, he is hotter than Shia LaBoeuf and Alex Pettyfer (they are still really hot)! Even though he made the movie even better, overall the movie its self I would give and 8 out of 10 with or without him in it. I would definitely recommend watching this, especially if you're a girl because you will not be able to keep your eyes off of Tom Cruise! "}{"Title":"Great DVD to own","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun in dolby 6.1 sound is awesome.sounds better than when i saw it in the theater in '86. i thought they said this month cause an increase in people joining the Navy. Meg Ryan, Anthony Edwards,and Val Kilmer were virtually nobodies when this came out as well.All turned out too be prominent actors.Top Gun would not be as cool if it were made today because of the computer graphics.it would turn out like Stealth.The footage of them flying was awesome,especially for 1986. This movie was very quotable as well.i remember everyone saying I feel the need...the need for speed!and every guy i was friends with wanted a crotch-rocket bike after seeing Top Gun. "},{"Title":"Missing Something","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first saw Top Gun my first reaction was Hmm... that was missing something it took my 5 seconds to realise that what this film is missing is a plot. You may think I'm exaggerating here, but in my opinion this is one of the most overrated piles of garbage ever filmed. This film has one saving grace- the plane sequences. Honestly, buy a DVD player, a big screen TV, some really nice surround sound and then skip all the scenes featuring any attempts at plot, because in all honesty they don't try very hard. The acting is just bad. Wooden, and without any emotion whatsoever. There is absolutely no chemistry in the romance, and the plot is, in short, rubbish. Honestly, there is no virtue in it whatsoever.In short don't see this movie if you can any sense of acting or plot writing. "},{"Title":"Stupis waste of time","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have flown just about everything under the sun, starting with the F-15 for the Air force, then going to the F-14, and F/A-18 during a Air Force/Navy pilot exchange program, so naturally, I'm drawn to any movie about aircraft. Top gun was THE BIGGEST WASTE OF TIME!!! the movie is nothing more then a glorified romance! I can honestly say that whoever decided to make this movie should be castrated with rusty kitchen scissors. I could have handled the fake missiles, and the F-5's serving as Mig's, as long as there wasn't any romance. This movie SUCKED, the music sucked, and most of the actors sucked. just thinking about this movie makes me contemplate suicide. "},{"Title":"This movie is dumb.","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A bunch of hunks fly around for some training course. Of course, they seem to spend a large amount of time with nothing on but towels and underwear or playing volleyball shirtless. During the romantic scenes, I felt like yelling at the TV Uh, hello movie, are you there, wake up....do something. The acting isn't that great either or the dialogue, I mean who came up with You stink or It's confidential! I was amazed by such great dialogue. Of course to top it all off, the hero wins a big battle and has his name on the front page of every English written newspaper in the world. Also, his friend dies and I guess we were supposed to feel sad about it, I suppose. Basic routine here, lots of noise, lots of music, very little brains. "},{"Title":"Bottom Gun","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"23 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is about a man who likes to smile a lot.One day, while smiling, he decides to join the air force. Why not? He hasn't smiled while in mid air before.After signing up, he meets his fellow recruits and decides to smile at them. He also smiles at a sexy woman with big boobs...Nice.While training, he subdues the nasty sergeant by smiling at him. The sergeant smiles back and everyone is happy.The adventure takes to the air and Cruise must engage in aerial wargames with the enemy. He realises he has run out of missiles so decides to smile at his enemy, causing the enemy to crash dive to earth, exploding. All they found were his dentures.Cruise meets the sexy girl and smiles. The End. "},{"Title":"Dated US Navy Recruitment Flick","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"38 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Made when Ridley Scott still made good films and Tony Scott made, well, Tony Scott films - this one is based on the premise that a rampantly jingoistic aeroplane flick won't need add-on extras like a plot, characterisation or good dialogue.Having dated rather less well than Michael Douglas in Fatal Attraction, Top Gun remains problematic. Well toned, well oiled men wander semi-naked around the set while Jeffrey Kimball's camera lingers with lascivious attention on every protruding pectoral. Men like Goose and Slider sit behind Maverick and Iceman. Was the, presumably bored, scriptwriter having a laugh at the expense of a homophobic US military? I'm an optimist; I like to think so.The plot centres on a pilot, scarred by the shabby treatment his father received at the hands of the military. Logically he would become an investigative journalist or something; try to clear his old pa's name. But then this is a Tony Scott film, a medium which logic has traditionally given a wide berth. Instead he becomes (surprise) a pilot, and tries to prove the old boy's innocence in a kind of modernist's trial by ordeal. During this quest he loses his tail gunner (ahem, navigator), forms a new and lasting relationship and even experiments briefly with heterosexuality.The dialogue uses a device common to many modern books/films (c.f. Outbreak, John Grisham novels) - the guttural gruntings of the characters being liberally interspersed with technical jargon, thus relieving the writer of anything more challenging than regurgitating a textbook. Happily this also removes any feeling of nagging unease the audience could feel if confronted with long words they might be expected to know.Nice flight sequences though, and rather like Microsoft Word, which has just tried to replace my use of less well with fewer wells - Top Gun can be, at times, unintentionally hilarious. "},{"Title":"An 80's Iconic Film Marked Great Aerial Scenes And Footages","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" After the release of Risky Business which became a box office hit,Tom Cruise became a superstar playing the role of Joel Goodsen.Then Top Gun was released.This iconic film back in the 80's catapulted Cruise into becoming a world-famous movie megastar.This 80's iconic film is about U.S.Navy fighter jet pilots studying in a top-notch Navy Aviation school commonly known as Top Gun.It centers on a cocky and highly-skilled pilot Lt.Pete Maverick Mitchell.It tells his story on how his arrogance and confidence as well as his unorthodox way of flying on air were questioned when his friend and co-pilot Goose was killed in an accident.This also resulted in him losing the top honors to his rival Iceman.Added to that,we also get to witness Maverick's romantic interlude with his flight instructor Charlie.Finally,we also get to witness how Maverick regained his confidence back especially when the U.S. Navy fighter jet pilots won the battle against the so-called visitors (Russians)in the South China Sea. No question that this was one iconic film back in the 80's.The great aerial scenes and footages were shot extremely well by the late director Tony Scott.The role of Maverick definitely suits Cruise's persona which clearly defined his movie career as well as the future roles for which he is extremely effective for many years to come.The supporting cast consists of many talented actors and actresses that became future stars themselves such as Tim Robbins,Meg Ryan,Anthony Edwards and Val Kilmer.Too bad that despite of the many great things the movie has had,it definitely has its low points.We definitely have a clichéd and predictable script particularly Maverick's character development.Also,the romance between Charlie and Maverick was far from believable and there was something lacking between them.That was highlighted especially as time went on considering Cruise and Kelly McGillis in real life were known to be different from each other.It was evident that it does not hold up at present after it was released almost 30 years ago.It was definitely an 80's film and it would probably stay there for years to come.Definitely,Cruise can do something about it with Top Gun 2 and make it a great update with its release in the future. "},{"Title":"Without a mistake","Date":"8 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Would hardly be accused of clichés, as it is more a source of them. This movie is the very definition of coolness, because what will a driver of a Ferrari or a sports car be left to say when comparing to a naval aviator sitting in an elegant piece of metal propelled by two turbofan sources of pure power with 111kN of thrust each?Sweat, skin, volleyball and boys playing too gay? Well, it is disputable, but if you're afraid of it, then you can't call yourself a man, can you?The story ignores the politics, the usual patriotic bullshit and is pleasantly satisfied with silent Stars and Stripes in the background. To the better, because there is only space for superlatives who will be the best of the best five percent. It's a way of life. Even on the ground won't the main protagonist accept nothing else but the hardest of challenges and aims directly at the highest flying target, an older very feminine civil instructor.The competition and points were the movie's invention, but only because, as the military adviser said, there would be no survivor claiming the prize. Such are the amounts of testosterone in the air.To the amazing quality of the flying footage contributes the most the fact, that it is closer to reality than fiction. Filmed under patronage of U.S Navy and also sending the whole film crew to actually experience all the g's.I would never dare to admit that a movie I praise so much has absolutely no intellectual essence. It is modest enough to focus on what it is best at, and at that with passion. Same as Top gun pilots, the crew aimed at nothing but the best, because they knew, the list for second places hangs in the female toilet. "},{"Title":"Classic, But...","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I feel almost embarrassed to give this movie that rating, but I'll explain why. Tom Cruise and Kelly McGillis worked together to create a good classic. 'Top Gun' has memorable scenes and even a few memorable quotes. None of the actors who are present in the film are bad at their job by any means. But as I continue to see the movie, each time I watch it, it gets a little harder to finish it. It starts seeming slower and slower. It still has plot, but it's slow moving. Granted, this is because my default preference is an upbeat film. Unless I'm watching something by John Hughes, I usually prefer action. This is just the training for characters who would go on to see action later that we'll miss. Pardon my mention of Marvel in a review for an 80s film, but look at this like a superhero flick. Say, 'Iron Man'. We got to see Tony Stark's origin story, what made him become Iron Man, then we got to see him become Iron Man and actually fly around getting bad guys. In 'Top Gun', we get to see Maverick's origin story...and then it's it. Just the origin. We don't see planes having real fights and battles, and again, this is not always a bad thing, this is just what made the movie slow-moving. I saw planes flying through the air, I saw targets on the pilot's screens, and then it was over. Like they teased a dogfight in midair between fighter jets that will never happen. It's still a good movie, it's just not what I like. "},{"Title":"On Top Gun","Date":"17 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, this was a pretty fun experience, especially after the barrage fired by Honest Trailers. America, f**k yeah! This is one of the Cruise missiles' earlier and harder hits, and it surely pays off. And later I played the video game Tom Clancy's H.A.W.X, and it kinda feel like a later modern version of Top Gun. Plus, I find the opening background music loop, Ready Aurora, seriously suitable for the opening sequence of Top Gun, from Paramount logo to debrief back on the Carrier. Honest Trailer fired on the fact that they used Kenny Loggins' Danger Zone three times... well, figure they'll have one less spot to hit if they dubbed the first part with looping Ready Aurora. Too bad Tom Salsa didn't compose that for Top Gun in 1986, that would have been epic. I tried that, by the way, and it was good. The story was great as well, even though the closing scene would look really better with a kiss. And Maverick chose to become an instructor in the Top Gun Academy... probably the one(or one of his trainees) that trained David Crenshaw, the top pilot from H.A.W.X. This is an enticing thought. "}{"Title":"A true 80s classic...","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is pure quality for many reasons, be it the hard hitting ballad soundtrack, the magnificent camera work or the great pace of the film. Many fans of aviation and aspiring pilots were made purely through watching this classic as children, and after you've watched it, it's easy to see why...Tom Cruise stars as Maverick, with his youth and charm flawlessly suiting the hotshot protagonist of the film. Cruise strikes the perfect balance in presenting Maverick as a pilot who lives life on the edge, but isn't totally out of control. Kelly McGillis does a good job too, yet her lack of any truly memorable scenes gives her the appearance of being in Cruise's shadow somewhat. The movie's pace is poised well, with quieter, slower scenes slotting in between the more intense action sequences. This neatly brings us onto the camera work, which is simply out of this world. The F14s are shot in splendid aerial sequences where they perform all manner of crazy manoeuvres and stunts in summery locations. The scenes involving Maverick's bike in particular seem to evoke the strong sense of youth found throughout the film. The soundtrack is marvellous and remains famous to this day, with vintage classics by artists such as The Righteous Brothers intermixed with 80s rock ballads and quieter melodies for the more sombre scenes. Unlike many modern action films, Tony Scott gives Maverick genuine obstacles and tribulations to overcome, which invokes a much greater sense of fulfilment and maturity by the picture's conclusion. Top Gun has inspired future pilots all around the world and continues to do so. It's a film of passion, energy and youth, but also of learning and coming of age. Those born after the film's era may find themselves wishing they'd been alive through it, as not many films capture the vibrancy of the 80s, or the excitement of being a pilot, like Top Gun does. "},{"Title":"Pure guilty pleasure!","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Over the years, I've gone back and forth on whether TOP GUN (1986) was in reality a good movie or a bad movie. A huge hit when it first came out in 1986, I, like most others, were thoroughly entertained by the fast pace, catchy soundtrack, and exciting aerial dogfight scenes. Still am to this day. But there was actually a time when, with perspective, I realized that Top Gun was in reality not truly a good film, but more of a guilty pleasure type movie. The dialogue is pretty standard, the tale very linear and one-note, the acting nothing to write home about. Yet, somehow this movie is very iconic due to the aforementioned positives as well as a few memorable one-liners/moments.Top Gun tells the tale of naval aviator Lt. Pete Mitchell, AKA Maverick, an brash, cocky, uninhibited fighter pilot who plays by his own rules. Maverick is essayed by the great Tom Cruise in one of his most infamous roles. No matter how many great performances he gives in other more noteworthy films/roles, he may forever be branded by this one, the role that really made him a household name. Cruise's trademark cockiness is on full display here, as the role of Maverick requires not much more than mugging. Certainly not even close to his more challenging roles. But still Cruise carries the proceedings excellently with a persuasive, energetic performance full of bravado.While Cruise provides the screen presence, the supporting cast helps to fill out the story. Kelly McGillis plays Charlie, the beautiful, leggy civilian flight instructor who is the requisite love interest. Val Kilmer is Lt. Iceman, the equally cocky and cool #1 rival for Maverick at flight school. Scene-stealing Anthony Edwards is Lt. Goose, Maverick's RIO and wisecracking best friend. Always-reliable Michael Ironside is Lt.Comm. Jester, the grumpy field flight trainer. And, last but not least, stalwart veteran Tom Skerrit is school Comm. Viper, who HAPPENED to have flown with Mav's father, who died in Vietnam on a classified mission. Also notable are then-newcomers Meg Ryan, in an entertaining cameo role as Goose's wife, and Tim Robbins as RIO Merlin, who probably has one of the most oft-quoted lines/moments from this movie. Although the story is standard, this talented cast does a good job of making it sing.The real star of Top Gun is the late, great director Tony Scott, who unapologetically tells this rah-rah, gung-ho tale with stylistic flair. The aerial flight scenes are, to this day, eye-popping and energetic, and underscored with a brilliant soundtrack. The song Take My Breath Away actually took home the Best Song Oscar for 1986! This film is one of the first examples of music video style filmmaking, where the movie itself was a long sequence of quickly edited scenes, with many scenes punctuated with music, most notably the aerial scenes and the shirtless beach volleyball scene! Another huge plus of this movie is the tense Maverick-Ice relationship (many people say that Cruise had more chemistry with Kilmer than he did with McGillis!LOL). With stars Cruise and Kilmer, who both certainly went onto do much better things than this movie, it's a lot of fun watching their characters snipe at each other throughout until the infamous climax where they make all friendly with each other. Cruise, in particular, has gone onto MUCH bigger and better things since this infamous, iconic movie for which he ironically may mostly be remembered for. "},{"Title":"True masterpiece","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Great movie about flying, love and friendship. But don't expect reality, it's supposed to by funny, not real, and that's exactly what you'll get. I'm a guy looking for fun, life around me is serious enough, and Top Gun is one of my all time favorites. I might be a little biased but to me, the story is terrific, very romantic (and cheesy!) at the moments (which I like) and there are some great quotes, so it provides two hours of pure entertainment. Tom Cruise did great and it launched his career, in my opinion it's his best role. Movie is visually stunning and soundtrack is good as well. I don't know what else to say, it's my first review and I hope it was helpful. Top Gun is a true masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Because real men play volleyball in jeans","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" What is 'Top Gun'? You think it's a story about a bunch of fighter pilots? It is a story about a man's struggle with his own homosexuality! It is! That is what 'Top Gun' is about, man! - TarantinoTony Scott's Top Gun stars Tom Cruise as Maverick, a hotshot fly-boy who spends his days bedding babes, flying F14 Tomcats, posing in Ray-Bans, driving motorcycles and dog-fighting vaguely foreign fighter jets. Cocky but cute, Cruise's character would lead to a 500 percent increase in US Navy applicants. Cruise made cockpits cool.All the criticisms typically hurled toward Top Gun are true. The film's goofy, homo-erotic, jingoistic, its plot offers the usual Reaganesque war-porn and its style is Susan Sontag's fascist aesthetic on steroids. Tom Cruise's Maverick, and his fellow ace pilots (Goose and Iceman, the latter played by a scenery chewing Val Kilmer), are themselves called upon to do very little.But bad art can be good. Tony Scott's cinematography was novel for the era, his camera work and cutting were a solid decade ahead of their time, the F-14 is a goddess and Scott's aerial photography has still not been matched. For all its stupidity, Scott's chicks, jets and rock-and-roll aesthetic was new.But new things can be uncomfortably old. Though directed by a Brit, Top Gun oozes a very dated type of American nationalism. Riefenstahl's Triump of the Willis for the MTV generation, this is America as she sees herself the underdog, cocky, righteous, insanely patriotic, casually warmongering and always protecting the free world with a babe on the arm (Meg Ryan) and 40,000 tonnes of tubular metal strapped below the crotch. The necrometrics and megadeaths incurred by Western Imperialism be damned. We look good blowing s**t up. Unsurprisingly, the film was produced by Jerry Bruckheimer, king of high-octane trash.Like most action movies released in the 1980s, Top Gun has become a camp classic. Effeminate, prissy and overcooked, the film's 1980's aesthetic (lots of synth, bubblegum pop, stylised sex scenes and sparkling teeth) is today typically viewed as being comically innocent. Others take it dead seriously.7.9/10 &#x96; Evil, but some kind of 80s classic. "},{"Title":"Danger Zone!","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tom Cruise stars as a super-confident navy flier(Maverick) sent to the prestigious Top Gun program to become the best of the best, along with friend Anthony Edwards(The Goose). Film details their ups and downs, trials and tribulations learning to control their arrogance and graduate from the program, with the help of their love interests(Kelly McGillis & Meg Ryan) High-octane adventure is pretty clichéd, but incredibly entertaining and energetic, with many rousing scenes, and spectacular aerial action and(at the time) state of the art aircraft. Romance with McGillis is not credible, but a small issue in such a fun movie, a guilty pleasure of sorts, though a blockbuster hit in 1986! "},{"Title":"Classic 80s action...","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" TOP GUNBack to the 80s&#x85; this is a classic movie. I have seen it quite a few times now, but I felt that I had to introduce my daughter to the classic now she has turned 12.The movie is about a group of fighter pilots who are the best in the world that are trained as the elite of the elite.I really like the film. It has great action scenes and an actual story. Unfortunately it is a love story. A love story between a student and one of the instructors.Tom Cruise is the main character. He is a reckless pilot who likes to mess around and joke about in the air, which gets him in trouble from time to time&#x85; but he is one of the best. Tom did a good job, but he is a very good actor anyway so this is no surprise. This was one of his earlier roles and it is easy to see how he has had such a huge career after this. His partner in the air is played by Anthony Edwards. I remember watching Anthony in E.R. a lot and was shocked to be reminded that he was in Top Gun. But he did a great job. Other cast members are Val Kilmer, Kelly McGillis, Tom Skerritt, Michael Ironside, Tim Robbins, James Tolkan & Meg Ryan. The casting is great and they all work very well together.The action scenes in the air were very well done and there were some great fighting scenes. There was some funny moments in the film, sad moments and exhilarating moments. This film was very well put together and was an emotional ride.The film has a great soundtrack too&#x85; some classic songs from the 80s which never gets old. Yes, some of the songs are super cheesy, but that is what makes this film a classic.There are so many great quotes that come out of this film. It is well known for the singing scene in the bar. Possibly the worst chat up line ever!I will give this film 7 out of 10.It is a classic, but nowhere near as good as some of the other movies to come out of the 80s. My daughter liked it which was the whole point of watching it again.I feel the need... The need for speed!For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204 "},{"Title":"Top Gun a slightly memorable film.","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is a good movie for those 12 and up. Top Gun touches us on many levels. It touches our intellect level by showing how important school (classroom) is in learning to be a good fighter pilot. It touches our heart by the romance between Tom Cruise and Meg Ryan. It touches our need for adventure and competition with the air flights and competition between pilots. However, it is competition and adventure with a purpose, to give the knowledge to survive. Top gun may even be an inspiring film to get people to enroll in the US Military as fight pilots or support air staff. Top Gun is entertaining as well. I thought that Michael Ironside made a good flight instructor. I give the film seven thumbs up. A slightly memorable film, and love does conquer all. "},{"Title":"It's great to see it on the big screen again . . . the 3D is another matter.","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is easy to be cynical about Top Gun, especially if you weren't there 27 years ago. Here in one noisy little package is 80s popcorn entertainment in its purest form, a $350,000,000 hit that made a megastar out of Tom Cruise. If you were there then it might be a little easier to forgive Paramount Pictures for wanting to re-release this silly action flick even if they only used the excuse to re-fit it for the IMAX 3D process and charge extra for the tickets. It's great to see it on the big screen again . . . the 3D is another matter. We'll get to that in a moment.There is a lot that comes as a surprise in revisiting Top Gun, first and foremost is the reminder that movies of this era were shot on film. In today's digital world, it is a bit shocking to be pulled back into the grainy world of celluloid, but that only adds to the nostalgia. Another is pure stunt work, a nearly-dead art that has been abandoned in this age of computer animation. Top Gun was applauded for its aircraft stunt work which is still impressive. The editors did a beautiful job of creating a visual orientation that is easy to follow. It still holds up.It is also great to see the young faces of actors that we now instantaneously recognize. Anthony Edwards (who still had hair!) was at a point in his career between avenging nerds and his trip to the E.R. Val Kilmer, long before Batman, had a hairstyle that made him a foot taller. Meg Ryan has a small role and is actually billed 14th in the credits. Then there's young and beautiful Kelly McGillis with blonde, perfect hair and a shock of red lipstick. Just off playing the love interest in Witness she plays no less the love interest here. She has a mooney romance with Tom Cruise in the movie that is still tinged with sexual energy (though if you know her personal life, it makes the famous bar serenade somewhat awkward). Plus, over in the corners are old reliables, Tom Skerritt, Michael Ironside and James Tolkan. No 80s film could be without them.And of course, Tom Cruise, who by this time had made his name in the hit Risky Business, but here would become a full-fledged movie star, taking off for a wonderful film career which included a balance of sobering dramas (Born on the Fourth of July, Eyes Wide Shut, Magnolia) with escapist entertainment (Days of Thunder, Mission Impossible). All before his career crash-landed on Oprah's couch. Now just past 50, as he attempts to regain his former glory, Top Gun is a reminder of why he became a star in the first place. He's a nice guy, not smug or hateful. He was impossibly good looking and sported a 50 megawatt smile. In Top Gun, it isn't his performance but his presence that works. He has the same kind of haunted loner spirit that Steve McQueen had. Describing the plot is unnecessary, you're not here for the plot, you're here for the experience. You get cookie-cutter characters, dazzling stunt work and kind of summer movie nonsense that, in a way, we are still getting. The difference here is that we can pull back and enjoy it as a product of our own teenage years. There is nostalgia galore here. The movie, even after nearly 30 years, is still just plain fun.What is not so much fun is the new 3D process. Unlike the re-fitted animated films like Beauty and the Beast and The Lion King, live action pictures just don't transfer as well. Nothing really pops off the screen as you might expect and your bulky 3D glasses (which look like ski goggles) only serve to clear up the blur. Often, you can see the 3D blur with the glasses on.The question is, why do this? Why not just trust that audiences will enjoy the immersive experience of seeing the movie on the over-sized IMAX screen and leave it at that, much like the recent release of Raiders of the Lost Ark. Top Gun is great escapist nostalgia that didn't need modern technology to be entertaining. "},{"Title":"Quintessential movies of the 80s no-brainer plot, impressive special effects, cheesy lines and an undeniable, mellow charm","Date":"3 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun Maverick (Tom Cruise) and his fellas are manning the world's best jets adroitly, inventing their own moves and taking snapshots. Later, they train to get into the elite 'Top Gun' squad, and fight off those 'blasted enemies'. In all these sequences, the audience can hear a ubiquitous peppy Beverly Hills Cop-like pop number in the background that's quite sucky to be frank. Otherwise, the movie is a breezer, not a strain-on-the-brain but ain't too witty too. The story well, is like Lady Gaga's 'Judas' music video, cartoonish and flippant, not to forget abundant with clichés. The dialogs range from pleasers like I feel the need, the need for Speed' to random throwaways like Val's 'Tom and Goose are ladies' joke. Maverick, for a complex, larger than life man isn't just quite so, since the only thing arcane about him is the story of his father. Tom Cruise can make  Maverick sound laughable at moments ( he doesn't have that strong, bellowing grunt that an air commander has) but does it reasonably well in other scenes which require more of his 'boy-next-door' charm. Kelly McGillis does her job fine, but the chemistry between Tom and Gillis is weird, because at times it seems like a teenage-romance when it's not. That's where the director and writer are to be blamed for having the silly elevator-all- smiling-scene. Age-factor is inconsistent throughout since all the characters can't be less than 25 but act in some shots like 'Grease' kids. Take for example the inane rivalry between Tom and Val. The latter calling Tom dangerous is fine but the locker room sequence where both face each other, snarling and giving cocky bitch looks is cheesy. I mean come on guys isn't it enough to see the young army guys cheering for Jersey Shore that the cream of the crop pilots relegate to such sappy rivalries. The flight sequences are engaging, but I really wanted the characters to drop F-bombs in such arbitrary situations. Of course,PG appeals to a wider audience but these guys come off a bit to clean for the situations they're thrown in. Eg. Tom Cruise crash landing in a twirl should make him go 'I'm f***ing' losing it' or 'Oh f***, man!'. Roger Ebert was right when he said ' Movies like TG are hard to review because the good parts are so good while the bad ones are so relentless'. I'd go with a 7 on 10 for Top Gun, and you know why? Cos for a non-action movies fan, Top Gun still managed to hold my attention for 110 minutes of life. "},{"Title":"One of the Quintessential Films of the 1980s","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" As students at the Navy's elite fighter weapons school compete to be best in the class, one daring young flyer (Tom Cruise) learns a few things from a civilian instructor (Kelly McGillis) that are not taught in the classroom. Top Gun is just one of those must-see 1980s films, very quotable, with a classic cast of Tom Cruise, Anthony Edwards, Meg Ryan and Val Kilmer, among others. It spawned the popular parody film Hot Shots, and remains a hit today despite the fact it focused on a Cold War theme that no longer seems relevant.Both John Carpenter and David Cronenberg allegedly turned down the chance to direct, and we have to wonder how it would have been different. Cronenberg would have brought in a whole new audience, probably reducing the popularity while improving the style.Tony Scott is first and foremost an action director, which makes him ideal for this film. The film could have been trimmed a bit by reducing the stock footage of the military stuff. And it definitely needed a reduced use of Danger Zone and Take My Breath Away (why play the same songs repeatedly?). But overall, it is a fun, light and rather exciting film if you are into dogfights.If you have not seen Top Gun, you really should. It ranks, at least for me, as one of Tom Cruise's top three most enjoyable films and is definitely at the peak of his career. A good actor he is not, but an essential part of the 1980s he was. "}{"Title":"Mega blockbuster still kicks ass almost 25 years later","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" The mother of all Tom Cruise movies. This was the launching pad for his incredible charmed career winning streak. Was there ever any doubt who could play the cocky, slightly egocentric naval fighter pilot? If there was, I haven't heard about it.Cruise, so dominates this film, that I wasn't really that concerned that one of his cast mates, Val Kilmer, is terribly underused.As for the other parts, who doesn't love the character of Goose. I can almost say that I was on the verge of tears when the tragic turn of events happen. (If you don't know what I'm talking about, dig yourself out of the hole you have been living in!) A very young Meg Ryan and also Tim Robbins have minor parts and James Tolkan as what else, a tough as nails authority figure.But most of the show is Cruise. As for Kelly McGillis, I can't for the life of me remember that she ever did anything as sexy again.There are too many reasons why this was the absolute powerhouse blockbuster of the 80's, but just to name a few, the aerial sequences are spectacular, the soundtrack is amazing and that Cruise hadn't been turned into a poster boy for weirdness yet. "},{"Title":"Incredibly cheesy, but still great 80's fun","Date":"24 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" They just don't make films like they did in the 80's. The hairdos, the attitudes, the cheesiness, the realism...I love Top Gun despite the fact that the movie is outdated for todays fast paced CGI loving audiences, the plot is a little too simple for my liking, some of the acting is over the top and stereotypical *cough* Tom Cruise and Kelly McGillis *cough*.But I still love it because it represents it's decade so well. From the very beginning, the music, the yellow lit back round, the aircrafts being maneuvered around the hanger (I'm a chick so I'm not sure if that's what it's called, but whatever). It screams 80's, and that's why it's so good. It's one of those staple films of it's decade along with other classics like Risky Business(which also starts Tom Cruise), Beverly Hills Cop, Die Hard, Lethal Weapon and other great flicks.But the cheese ain't the only other fault in this movie. Though I'm a big fan of Top Gun the movie does have it's flaws. One, too cliché...From beginning to the end the film is filled with stereotypical clichés maybe that's what makes it so cheesy. Another flaw too much music...Again the film is just jam packed with classic 80's tracks which gets a bit annoying after awhile. The third flaw no chemistry between McGillis and Cruise. Every time I watched Kelly McGillis trying to woo Tom Criuse I cringed. I found these scenes to be boring and a waste of good time. Fourth flaw, the movie drags on in a few scenes. Apart from a few flaws the movie is a great popcorn flick and a lot fun. It should be regarded for what it is a true classic and one of Tom Cruise's best films to date.Another I have to point out is the fact that the film is subconsciously homoerotic. I know you have all heard this before but it's the truth. Of course this little known fact was made known to the otherwise ignorant masses by none other than Quentin Tarantino in the 90's flick Sleep With Me, and after you watch his famous monologue in that movie you have to admit it does make a lot of sense. As watching the movie recently on TV, and I decided to rent for further inspection. The scenes with Val Kilmer and Tom Cruise are filled with sexual tension most of all the dangerous scene. Awkward...Also what the hell was that volleyball scene about anyway. It seemed to make no sense what so ever. But at the end of the day, the cheesiness, the over-the-top acting, the homoerotic subtext, the stereotypical and almost forced in love story make it the great film that it is. Actually I think it's the flaws that make this film so much fun to watch and so enjoyable. Also the incredible fighter-jets sequences are amazing. The fact that this movie was done before CGI became the big thing in Hollywood makes it so real because you know those aircrafts are real. The danger those stunt men where in when flying those fighter-squadrons is real. You can't fake stuff like that.The realism of the action sequences is I think a reason why the film remains so popular today. Another thing about this movie is that it introduced us to a lot of actors that weren't that well known back them like Michael Ironside (from earlier Scanners' fame), Anthony Edwards, who went on to do ER, Meg Ryan, Val Kilmer and of course how can we forget Tim Robbins' infamous cameo, he's literally on the screen for like five minutes or less on only two scenes in that entire movie.Not only did it make these no name actors house hold names, but it also made it's two main stars leading 80's stars. Kelly McGillis most well known role before Top Gun was that of Rachel Lapp in Witness opposite Harrison Ford, but this was the movie that made her a leading lady. She would go on to start in other 80's flicks like Made in Heaven and The Accused. And then there's Tom Cruise who rose to the limelight with another 80's classic Risky Business, but this is the film that propelled him to real stardom and made him a huge box office attraction. After this he went off to start in other classics like The Color of Money, Rain Man, Days of Thunder, A Few Good Men, Interview with a Vampire, Mission Impossible, Jerry Maguire, and Magnolia just to name a few.I must say that recently when I was watching this movie and Goose dies I actually began to tear up right when Maverick (Tom Cruise) is holding his body in the middle of the ocean and when he goes to Goose's house to pick some of his personal items from the navy and he shuts the door just before he sees Meg Ryan's character and starts to cry. I thought that apart from his typical badass performance throughout the whole film this scene in particular is some of Cruise's best acting to date. Say what you will about the guy, but he can act, and if you doubt his acting ability even after seeing that scene watch A Few Good Men, Magnolia, Interview with a Vampire and Collateral, I personally think those are his best performances.Overrall this is a great movie for people who love 80's flicks. It's also a movie that makes you smile, laugh and possibly cry as well. If you haven't seen it then watch it. Trust me is better than some of the garbage we are forced to watch these days. "},{"Title":"He's dangerous, but he can be our wingman anytime.","Date":"23 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Pete Maverick Mitchell is a hot shot super jet pilot in waiting. Trouble is is that he has a disregard for authority and carries around a family burden into the bargain. Selected for training at the Top Gun school in San Diego, Mitchell must harness his ability and realise his dreams, or else face the consequence.Top Gun is a golden film, why you ask? Well it's one of those oddities that most people know is actually not very good in substance, yet it amazingly stands up as a secretly closeted treasure from an enigmatic cinematic time. Top Gun can probably lay claim to being the definition of the 80s pop picture, blaring music coupled with tremendous action sequences are oddly offset by the formulaic sub-plots happening down on the Top Gun floor. Yes the film has no substance, but director Tony Scott and scallywag producers Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer merged a number of crowd pleasing elements to create a box office smash, and in the process launch one time poster boy Tom Cruise into the stratosphere of super stardom.We have a military setting, daring do training programme, buff bodies for those of any sexual persuasion, competitive edginess, and of course the obligatory love interest romance that here is as unlikely as it is actually forced. Tho to be fair to both Cruise great and cocky and Kelly McGillis miscast and poor, their love scenes are tender and comfortably raising the pulse beat in 80s cinema sensuality. Much macho posturing drips from every other frame, be it Cruise tearing around on his motorcycle or Val Kilmer Iceman pumping out his bare chest and smirking away. It could be said that Top Gun is an advertisement for the homo-erotic army! Yet in spite of its obvious daftness, Top Gun is very much a thrill ride. Disengage yourself from the preposterous nature of events out of the sky, and it royally entertains as an action picture of worth. Zooming jet sequences and sparky man to man beefcake exchanges more than make this a worthy revisit, especially now in this HD and booming home cinema age.It's not great for sure, and anyone really proclaiming it to be as such has been having MTV filtered into their brains for the last 20 years. But it is an entertaining film, and the people involved with it knew exactly what they was doing, and when one looks at the ream of poor imitations that have followed over the years? Well Top Gun actually holds up as one of the most quintessential 80s pictures ever made....for better or worse? 7/10 "},{"Title":"An interesting film, regardless of the mistakes","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" For the record, I'm not a huge Tom Cruise fan. I really don't like him that much and I think he seems to be a bit over the top at all times. Regardless of that I do watch some of his films at least the ones that I want to watch.The basic gist of the film is that Cruise plays a USN pilot who goes to an academy called TOP Gun to see if he has what it takes to be one of the best pilots around. Overall it's a good film, regardless of the mistakes that are made, which are more or less for military terms and what not.If you enjoy military films or enjoy Tom cruise in general then you will not be disappointed by watching this film. "},{"Title":"The best of the best in 80's action cheesy fun.","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have an unapologetic taste in well crafted blockbusters (one look at the roster of my recent user comments will tell you that!) and I'm interested in all facets of the media and the attempted process of 'selling' a product. These two fields coalesce magnificently in Top Gun, hence my admiration for how it's constructed. It's a good-looking, glossy and simplistic celebration of boys with their toys, but it fulfils its intentions superbly.If such a thing bothers you, then ignore all the scenes where each character trades dialogue consisting of slogans and concentrate on enjoying the exhilarating combat sequences instead. Myself I think there's something to be said for stock story lines inhabited by individuals with chiselled features, because it's all fantasy, but if somebody chooses not to buy into that then I suppose it's up to them. Millions of people did, though - including myself - so if nothing else Top Gun has to be recognised as a milestone of popular entertainment. Therein lies the key to understanding why certain folk hate it so much, I think... ! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable lightweight Eighties flick (spoilers)","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well known as the picture that turned Tom Cruise into an international icon and coming with one of the great memorable soundtracks, Top Gun is an enjoyable first-rate Eighties movie.Maverick (Cruise) and his best friend Goose (Anthony Edwards) are two cocky, talented pilots working in the US Navy. After they succeed in rescuing a fellow pilot who nearly died in mid-air combat, their commanding officer Stinger (James Tolkan) decides to send them to Top Gun, a top flying school that trains the best of the best of the US Navy's fighter pilots...The plot is in some ways a parallel to An Officer and a Gentlemen, which was made much earlier in the decade. Both movies are set inside a flight school, both have a troubled central character (in that movie it was Richard Gere, here it's Tom Cruise) who must confront their past and negotiate a romance in the course of the movie. The main character in both movies has a best friend who comes to a tragic end, and both movies feature a very memorable romantic theme song.In terms of plot and characters, Top Gun is ever so slightly inferior to the earlier movie. The main strength in the cast is Cruise, who holds the movie up with likable charm and strong inner intensity. Kelly McGillis is slightly stilted as his love interest. She performs the role well, but she cannot really compete with Cruise. Because of this, the romance holds no real frisson and it is only the soundtrack playing in the background of their love scenes that allows the relationship to generate any chemistry.Anthony Edwards does well in the role of Goose, but his character is too underdeveloped that when he eventually meets his tragic fate it lacks the impact that it should. Tom Skerrit, Micheal Ironside and James Tolkan are fine as the flight school commanders and Val Kilmer is enjoyable arrogant as Maverick's rival Iceman.The brilliantly shot dogfight sequences give a stirring and disorienting realistic feel of real-life airborne combat, and these combined with the searingly memorable title track Take My Breath Away are the picture's technical highlights. "},{"Title":"80's icon","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie worked back when it came out. It had all the ingredient to be a success at the box office. But that doesn't make it a good movie. Far from it. You could say it's a tribute to machismo. And of course, there's that cheesy romantic fling between Tom Cruise and Kelly McGillis. You could probably say that the romance was better between the guys and their plane. The action scenes are good, even though you're not always sure what's going on up there. One thing is for sure, the soundtrack is good. Great songs from the 80's. And Tom Cruise is not bad.Seen at home, in Toronto, on January 30th, 2006.76/100 (**½) "},{"Title":"Good Movie,  Evocative of an Era","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is hard to be too critical of Top Gun because the main purpose of the movie is to provide two hours of mindless entertainment, and it succeeds in that effort. This isn't a simplistic movie masquerading as an insightful one. It is pretty obvious what the aim of all of those involved in this movie was - to put rear ends in the seats. That being said, I thought there were some nice touches in Top Gun. First, Tom Cruise, whose acting I have always considered good but not great, is perfect as Maverick. He did cocksure well back then. Second, the Kelly McGillis character, Charlie, is a tough, ambitious woman, and has a natural beauty that is missing from today's pop-tart leading ladies. Back then, directors actually cast leading ladies who looked like women we all know and could, gasp, act! Third, it is a perfect time capsule of the mid 80's, the good, the bad , and the ugly. Whatever you think of that decade (I thought the pop culture back then was more fun and a lot less mean than it is today) this film captures the rah-rah patriotism and the growing self-assuredness of America in the Reagan era perfectly. All in all, a good movie that captures a specific era very well and succeeds in doing exactly what is was intended to do - entertain. "},{"Title":"Great 80's classic with the best soundtrack ever","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie couldn't have been as good as it is if it had been made today. They just really had the hang of it in the 80's, especially when it comes to easy action-flicks like this one. Of the air combat-movies I have seen (I have not seen that many of them), this is clearly the best. Why is that? Well, the story is quite interesting. Also, I really like some of the military-characters in the movie. Especially Viper. Tom Skerrit does a really good job with him. There are also lots of cool action in the movie. The last scene is the best. Unfortunately, there's a rather long drama-part in the middle of the movie that destroys the great action-feeling a bit, but everything gets OK as soon as it ends. And last, this movie has the best soundtrack ever!! Danger Zone, Mighty Wings and Through the Fire are forever true classics. "},{"Title":"'Top Gun'","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" An immensely entertaining, coming-of-age picture that casts Tom Cruise as Lt. Pete Mitchell, call sign Maverick, whose a cracker jack fighter pilot out to be the best of the best. He's thrilled when he gets sent with his partner (the goofy, in a good way, Anthony Edwards) to the best fire weapons school in the country, where he can compete for the 'Top Gun' trophy. Maverick, naturally assuming he will win, (partly) creates tension between him and another pilot (Val Kilmer) and great character interactions result from this, with a nice touch of additional collisions of mixed personalities that take place between the rest of the classmates and the main duo. As Maverick continues his lessons and classes, he woos a civilian instructor (the charming Kelly McGillis) who teaches him a few things he can't learn in a classroom. A fresh, exciting, and very funny blockbuster hit that's sure to keep you entertained through its complete running time. Highly recommended. Rating Four out of Five Stars (Excellent). "}{"Title":"good movie that was widely successful.","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tom Cruise, Anthony Edwards, Val Kilmar and others star as Navy Pilots who compete for high honors in the sky. Cruise and Edwards are best friends named Maverick and Goose, and Kilmar stars as the icy Iceman who believes Maverick doesn't take good risks and chances.although the cover looks cartoonish to the first time viewer, this massive success is still popular with today's audiences. The movie doesn't have a lot to it plot wise. It just throws interesting situations inas it goes. Edwards and Cruise are convincing as best friends, and Kelly McGiiliss is good enough as Cruise's love interest. you've lost that loving feeling goodness gracious Great Balls of Fire I've got the need--- The need, for speed!***/4 "},{"Title":"Decent fun film","Date":"19 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a former Air Force cadet I'd like to point out how popular this movie is among airmen. It's easily the most well known popular film around.That said, the USAF Aircraft in this film are not fighters, but low level bombers. The were employed in the sort of role that is now predominantly carried out by the much newer and more effective warthogs (A-10 tankbusters).I presume that the production crew were smart enough to realize that filming jet fighters is nigh on impossible regards the close up photography involved, so they went with slower aircraft.For people that know military aircraft, the idea that F14 Tom Cats (low level bombers) being handed tasked with the job of clearing the skies of Migs (much faster more nimble dog fighting type fighters) is completely absurd. That said, this is a remarkably fun light entertainment type movie that everyone, even those in the know, can enjoy. "},{"Title":"Before Tom Cruise Went All Nuts O","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Before Tom Cruise went all Scientology, Kelly McGillis was a lesbian, Anthony Edwards in the ER, Val Kilmer in the Doors, and unknowns Tim Robbins and Meg Ryan in the film before they became stars.The movie was the best reason for the mid 1980s. As Cruise is Maverick a hotshot Navy pilot who helped save another fellow flier. He and sidekick Edwards Goose, are sent to the Top Gun school to train with the best.And in the process, Cruise falls in love with McGillis Charlie, the civilian flight instructor. Who he met at the bar the night before. As both must hide their feelings for one another.And he and Edwards must deal with pilots such as Kilmer's Iceman. As the pilots must get points for only first place and no points are awarded for second place.Still it is a film that is the best of yesterday, today, and tomorrow regardless of what you think about Cruise today. "},{"Title":"Just a great 80s movie","Date":"16 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Is this movie perfect? No. Is it totally accurate? No. But its just a damn fine piece of 80s filmmaking. That being said, the beach volleyball scene is one of the most unintentionally homo-erotic scenes in film history. But once again, its 80s filmmaking! Just an epic film that in my mind is one of the seminal big budget films of the 80s. I actually know a guy who was an instructor at the real Top Gun and was an extra in the film. He has no problem with the film, despite its inaccuracies from a military standpoint, so neither do I.Fun film. If this was 1986 right now, I'd say its a truly great film. But this fired me up when I first saw it like 10 years ago, and it still fires me up now. Tom Cruise is just...well...Tom Cruise. So much enthusiasm, so much energy, so much Cruise. Corny greatness. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is a really good film, and is well worth watching. It is entertaining to watch, as something is always happening. Tom Cruise plays Maverick, a cocky pilot, who goes to Top Gun - for the best of the best. He is quite big headed, and gets the lady he likes .. eventually!!! There are some great moments in this play - funny, happy and sad. It has something for everyone - comedy, action, romance. It is really worth buying this film, as it is great to watch, however many times you have seen it. This film has stood the test of time. It came out about 20 years ago, and yet it is still enjoyed by many people. which just proves what a fantastic film it is! "},{"Title":"Top Gun will knock your socks off; well at least your shoes.","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Two young aircraft pilots are sent to Top Gun after saving their fellow buddy from crashing his aircraft. Top Gun is a school that trains the top one percent of pilots in the United States. Maverick is an expert pilot who flies with Goose, a great friend and a great pilot. Maverick fights against his rival Iceman and they battle for a trophy for best pilot. The outstanding actor in the movie was Tom Cruise who played Maverick. He acted like a dangerous bad boy with no limits. He had a fearless attitude towards everything, and Cruise nailed his role perfectly. Others actors such as Anthony Edwards (Goose) and Kelly McGillis (Charlie) acted well but didn't stand out as much as Cruise. Top Gun is a fun movie, but it's nothing more than a blockbuster rental. Adults will like the movie more than kids. The 110 minute movie might be too long for children and could bore them, and adults would appreciate the romance scenes more. "},{"Title":"am i crazy?","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is my favourite movie of all time...call me crazy...i know it's just a basic, fluffy hollywood story that's been done a million times before (and will be done another million times again)...the acting is not outstanding and the dialogue is real cheesy, but once the dogfighting scenes hit the screen i forget about all that...the characters are oh so typical, but for some reason i care about maverick and goose...i know that the movie is supposedly about a gay man coming to terms with his homosexuality, as very funnily stated by quentin tarentino in sleep with me, but i just don't care...this movie kicks butt and i love it-  "},{"Title":"The Great Movie of the 80's","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun is, without a doubt, one of the greatest movies to ever grace the screens during the 1980's. There is not one area where this movie falls short of cinematic brilliance. Great acting, although I would've liked to see someone other than Kelly McGillis, great cinematography, good directing by Tony Scott, and an audibly stunning soundtrack led this movie to be considered THE movie of '86. This is one of my personal fave's and really deserves a higher rating than it has. Altogether a fabulous display of motion picture excellence. "},{"Title":"Great Film!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this film. It appeals to both men and women. It has plenty of action, up in the fighter planes. It could also be classed as a bit of a chick flick because of the romance story in entangled in it. But guys, don't be put off by that, it is still a cool film to watch!!!Tom Cruise pulls off the part of Maverick perfectly and his co-star Kelly McGillis (Charlie) is a perfect supporting actress.This film has one of the best storylines i've even encountered and it ranks highly in my Top 50 films of all time. Every time i hear Take My Breath Away by Berlin (the theme song) I picture Tom Cruise on a motor bike, riding near the Top Gun base.I'd give this film 10 / 10 and i hardly ever rate films as high as that!!!  "},{"Title":"The best movie of all time, hands down.","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There isn't anything else to say.  The soundtrack, the story, the cast, the chemistry.  This movie is THE BEST ever made.  I was in 4th grade when it came into the theaters and I saw it there, to the complete depletion of my piggy bank (as it was) at least 12 times.  Anyone growing up who saw this as a kid had to want to be a fighter pilot.  Every American who saw this was proud at the end to be one.  It doesn't get any better than that. EVER. "}{"Title":"6/10???","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was awesome.  The entire cast rocked.  Cruise & Kilmer were fantastic.  I cannot believe the voting rates this movie a 6.  The only people who should be voting a 6 are the seniors.  The movie is 15 years old and I can watch it anytime as if it were the first time. "},{"Title":"This movie has everything!","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  From a phenomenal sound track to a great plot, Top Gun has everything. This is full of action and dogfighting yet is still a drama.  Tom Cruise is only one among the list of great actors/actresses and all of them play great roles.  If you haven't seen this film, you are missing out.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun is not a great movie but it is an entertaining one, this is the movie that put Tom Cruise on the map and it is still one of his better movies. This film features outstanding dog fight scenes, and the action is fast paced. The best thing about this movie is it's supporting cast which includes Anthony Edwards(Of ER) and Val Kilmer. "},{"Title":"Great aerial shots!","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite film. But not because there was a special message of the acting was great - there was obviously none of that. It's my favorite film because of the F-14 Tomcat. The air combat scenes are by far the best of any jet fighter film. They are great because no shots were computer images! There was trick photography in some shots, like using models that shot missiles and the one scene where 'Maverick' and 'Goose' did the inverted dive and flipped-off the MiG pilot was made by splicing two pieces of film together.The aerial shots in Flight of the Intruder were great as well, but some shots, such as the night shots, were computer generated. Even the TV show JAG uses F-14 scenes from Top Gun and computer generates them. It may be more cost-efective to do that, but nothing beats filming the real thing.All in all, I can give nothing but props to the cinematogrophy and editing. As for the acting and storyline.... that's another story! "},{"Title":"Great, fun, fanciful movie","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun is very much a product of its 80's time, and I consider that a great thing!The movie follows Lt. Pete Mitchell during his education through the top US Navy flight school, Top Gun.  I loved the combat!  While at the flight school, three storylines develop one is a romance, one is the fight to be the best, and the final is a tragic storyline.  Each storyline thread only makes the movie better, by fleshing out the characters in the movie.One of the best parts of the movie is the end, but I won't give it away. I will, however, tell you that it is very exciting!While some elements of the movie are obviously very fanciful, it is fanciful in a fun way...  And that is the reason we watch movies, isn't it?  This is a movie that I will gladly watch over and over.~Nick~ "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC! for an 80's movie...it's still HOT!!","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun has proven itself to be one heck of a great film! When I finally got round to watching it...13yrs after it was made, I loved it! The soundtrack was fab! When I heard Danger Zone and Take my breath away, I just had a major case of deja vu from when I was young. I haven't heard Danger Zone since I was about 6/7!!! I was never a devout Tom Cruise fan, he was always a 'good' actor to me, but he was great in this! As was Anthony Edwards! and Val Kilmer! not to mention Meg Ryan, my favourite actress! So as u can tell, I really think highly of this movie. Good Stuff peoples!! "},{"Title":"Entertainment","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While this film is full of inaccuracies keep in mind the object of the film makers is to make money which they did with this film. As a former Navy enlisted type who was stationed at the Navy Fighter Weapons School i.e. Topgun I can say that if a movie was made about the actual goings on at Topgun it would be one very boring motion picture. It should be viewed as entertainment and not art. I do applaud the film makers who target marketed this movie to the right audience.Virtually anyone in any job would view a film about their profession and be able to say It's not really like that but Hollywood is about entertainment and the film Topgun had it's share of it.        "},{"Title":"just saying how great the movie is!","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Possibly the best film about naval aviation.  Tom Cruise gives a wonderful performance! Keeps you on the edge of your seat, hopping that Maverick will come out on top to prove he IS the TOP GUN. "},{"Title":"WORDS CAN'T GET ENOUGH TO TELL ABOUT TOP GUN","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In 1986 when I was a young boy that began to live near an airforce jetbase, the legend started for me.I met TOP GUN.It's a legend because it's never been just a movie for me.All the musics, scenes, scripts, and all stuff feels me great and emotional.It's the Spirit of TOP GUN.Despite all the technical or artistical faults I believe both the movie and the soundtrack even all other things (especially the others in fact...) are the bests of all times.Still when I remind a part of a scene or a music in TOP GUN, I feel different.I've seen it 50-60 times maybe more, not just the movie, but all filled with spirit of TOP GUN... "},{"Title":"Top Gun Rocks","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw Top Gun when I was a High School freshman.After almost twenty years of viewing it regularly,I could probably write the script!!!It was a film that clearly defined what is cool in the 80's.It is about Navy jet fighter pilots or should I say arrogant Navy jet fighter pilots.It is arrogance personified!!!!Tom Cruise starred as Lt.Pete Maverick Mitchell,an extremely cocky Naval aviator who was selected to train in the prestigious Navy school called Top Gun.It is a school that provides training in dogfighting skills and air combat. The movie has all the elements to make it a great popcorn flick.It is a story about jet fighter pilots who gives a movie a macho feel and makes rock stars out of them.It has romance.It has great rivalry between two of the best pilots in class namely Maverick and Ice.It talks about friendship among these pilots especially that of Maverick and Goose.There are great memorable lines that is clearly identified with the film such as I feel the need,the need for speed and Your ego is writing checks your body cash.Also,there is a mysterious death of the main character Maverick's father.Also,who could forget the dogfight scenes and the aerial photography?And finally,it has great soundtrack especially with songs such as Highway to the Dangerzone,which essentially describes the lifestyle of the pilots and the romantic love song Take my breath away as well as the instrumental Top Gun Anthem gives the movie its MTV feel.This is a feel good movie considering it talks about an jet fighter pilot who later loses his confidence after his friend/co- pilot dies in a dogfighting accident and how he gains it back.This film is for everyone who feels down.It is a film that helps me personally to gain confidence in life whenever I feel incapable of overcoming problems and challenges in life.Watch it and enjoy it.Or why don't you buy the DVD.Watch it to keep your confidence in check.For we will see these arrogant characters in the movies again. "}{"Title":"Plot's kind of thin, but......","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The plot may a bit thin, and even perhaps a mite bit jingoistic, but hey, who cares? With all of the flying, fun, and adrenaline, just sit back and enjoy the fun.Iceman talks way too much during an engagement, anyway. Shut up, and die like an aviator! "},{"Title":"The Greatest Date Movie Of All Time","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With something for everyone comes Tom Cruise's hit movie, Top Gun. Guys, grab your favorite girl and rent this movie today.  You will love the heart-pounding high action plot of smooth pilots and fast planes.  She will love, well, Tom Cruise (and Val Kilmer) and also the steamy love story spliced between action shots.  And even if you're a film buff, you cannot change the undeniably American plot of an all-American boy living his father's dream, and the tragic scene's of a great loss (watch the movie!). Containing one of the most quote scenes of all time, re-made in a dozen movies and every bar in every city in the world (at least once!), Top Gun is an ultimate feel-good-about-living-in-America movie.  What more could you ask for? "},{"Title":"Top Gun, the 80's at it's best!","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun, a movie that can be defined by one simple word. Fantastic. *Warning* if you are a movie conisour who enjoys movies with deep plots and phenomenal profound acting, this is not the movie for you...Top Gun is a movie that is in my Top 5, without a doubt. This movie is everything 1980's American youth craved. Action, patriotism, rock music, and of course our military forces decimating fragile and infinitesimal enemy forces.Keep this in mind when watching this movie. Top Gun is not a movie that should be watched over with a fine tooth comb. If you actually watch this movie from a critical standpoint, you will notice that there are many technical glitches (i.e. switching of airplane registration numbers with the same pilot in them, enemy fighters appearing out of nowhere, etc.)and a couple of cheesy scenes (i.e. volleyball scene, shower scene, etc.). The acting at times gets a bit ridiculous, and of course Tom Cruise singing You Lost That Loving Feeling, since when do hard core naval aviators sing sappy love songs?Ok, so we have covered these items that critics jumped all over when reviewing this movie. It's time to get down to basics. What is the main purpose of a movie? To entertain it's audience of course. And when it comes down to basic entertainment, this movie rains supreme. The Ariel Dog Fighting scenes are absolutely fantastic. The acting is pretty good, and the plot is decent. A renegade navy pilot who doesn't play by the rules, comes back after loosing his RIO and becomes the hero. This ladies and gentlemen, is classic American heroism at it's best. And myself along with 90% of the American Public loved it. From the first Stay on my wing, I'll take you all the way in to You can be my wingman anytime this movie thrilled and entertained a confused American public, and re-taught them how to take pride in their country.This movie was so successful because it reached out to all audiences. The guys loved the fast planes and rock music, the ladies enjoyed seeing Tom Cruise and Val Kilmer play volleyball topless. Top Gun along with movies like Breakfast Club, Pretty in Pink, 16 Candles, and Fast Times were the movies that were delighting 1980's youth around America.The one star in this movie that dosen't get enough recognition in my opinion is the Grumman F-14 Tomcat. This plane which has been the backbone of the US navy for almost 35 years, is the real star of this film. An aircraft that is capable of supersonic flight, able to track 24 targets and fire on 6 of them by the push of a button, and is able to wipe out bogeys up to 80 miles away with it's Phoenix missile. DO you think this movie could of been made with the under-powered F-86? Absolutely not, this behemoth of an aircraft made Top Gun the best aerial/fighter plane film ever.In closing, Top Gun is an awesome movie. If you enjoy those deep movies like Dead Poet's Society, don't even gaze your eyes on this movie as you pass it in the store. If your looking for a movie with fantastic action packed sequences, and macho un-realistic acting, hey welcome to the club. Pick this one up for sure, you'll really enjoy it.Rating 10/10EndNote The only major flaw with Top Gun? Cruise has to drive around on that ridiculous motorcycle. Yes it added significantly to his bad-boy image, but he should of been riding around in a 1986 turbo charged Buick Grand National. Bad call on the motorcycle there props crew.. "},{"Title":"What a ride!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow! The main thing that I can say about TOP GUN is, What a ride! Lieutenant Mitchell (Tom Cruise), in my opinion, was a VERY courageous soldier. His partner, Lieutenant Bradshaw (Anthony Edwards) was the same way, too. When they sang You've Lost That Lovin' Feelin', I thought they sounded good. Also, I was taken aback by the airplane stunts! They were TOTALLY breathtaking and intriguing. To me, Charlie (Kelly McGillis) looked VERY pretty in the dressy outfits she wore when she taught at the academy. I liked the fact that she was very strict and business-like. In conclusion, I HIGHLY recommend this smash hit to all you people who are Tom Cruise fans or like a good action/drama with a little romance and lots of plane stunts in it.  "},{"Title":"classic","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I read a lot of criticism slamming Top Gun as cliched and predictable.You could call Top Gun cliched in the same way Star Wars is cliched.  These movies use themes and plotlines that have been done over in countless movies.But Top Gun is 15 years old!  Like Star Wars, it wasn't following the tried, stale plot cliches; it was SETTING them and writing them  The daredevil, insubordinate pilot.  The grizzled teacher who used to fly with the hero's old man.  The old man himself, who was thought to die dishonorably, but was actually a hero as well.  The wingman who dies and weighs heavily on the hero's conscious.Yes, it's all old and played out... NOW, 15 years later.  Top Gun was one of the first to combine these elements into one plot.  It is story telling at its best.  That is why so many movies and shows have tried to imitate it over the past two decades. "},{"Title":"Must See of the 80s Films","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Typical Hollywooded, larger-than-life blockbuster from the mid-80s.  This movie is a must see for Cruise fans.  One of the best soundtracks of the 80s.  Kelly McGillis, Val Kilmer, and Tom Skeritt give one of the best performances of their careers.  Of course it is not an accurate depiction of Top Gun as some have pointed out .... it is a movie made for pure entertainment value. "},{"Title":"High Powered Recruitment for Naval Aviation","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Without a doubt in my humble opinion, this very energetic and fast-paced film did so much to boost recruitment into the Navy in the late '80's!I saw it in its initial release in the summer of '86 and had a blast of a time! Driven by an excellent soundtrack (even today) and terrific editing, it was a tight and non-stop thrill ride that kept me engrossed for most of that viewing and is still immensely enjoyable today! I own the DVD with both pan/scan and widescreen versions. Video quality is very good and the audio... well, lets just say in 5.1 it will blow your shorts off... especially the opening credits!! I always make it a point to crank it up!The technical aspects of the film are of particularly of interest to me. The flight deck scenes and the aerial sequences are particularly fun to watch. It would be hard to deny that watching the (now venerable) Tomcat in all its glory is truly a thing of beauty! At least two aircraft carriers were used to depict USS Enterprise (CVN 65); The big 'E' herself and the Nimitz-class Carl Vinson (CVN 70). You would need a practiced eye to see which was used where in the film but the two ships are quite different if you know what to look for. But, to a casual observer out to just have a great time, the differences are not apparent. The fictional Russian 'MiG-28's' were in fact F-5's which look like nothing I am aware of in the Soviet inventory!! But, considering the time frame that filming occurred it is understandable that the production would not have had the means or the resources to procure bona-fide operational MiGs!!! If you are a military hardware nut or know what you are looking at, some suspension of disbelief is required! It doesn't hurt the film though unless you get hung up on the details.*Potential Spoiler Alert* The aerial stall incident depicted in the film was based on actual problems with the original F-14 A's which used Pratt and Whitney power plants, prompting  a change to the GE F-110's which all but eliminated this deficiency in the A+ and D upgrades. I digress... This was a very dramatic scene which shows how dangerous a 'Punch Out' can be, which it is even under 'ideal' conditions.Dogfighting is just what the Tomcat is designed for and to do that, you have to get closer than you would with missiles (much closer). The idea as was stated in the movie is to increase your 'kill ratio'. The bit of history concerning Vietnam was accurate. So I have no heartburn with seeing the aircraft so close. It can and does happen.My advice See it and have a great experience doing so! 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Capitalist Homoerotic Tosh","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film, when viewed in retrospect, is symptomatic of the 1980's yuppie culture. When Mavrick's best friend dies his girlfriend virtually disowns him and only takes him back when he has some earning potential again (when he regains his Mojo, so to speak).In fact, the phallus plays a crucial role in the film, from it's embodiment in the physical shape of the airplane all the way through to Cruise playing with his stout beer bottle in the final scene. And why is it that you have semi-naked men playing beach volleyball hugging one another as often as they possibly can? Probably to keep Julian Clary (and Graham Norton (if you are American and do not know who Julian Clary is)) happy....Still, saying that, if you take your brain out of gear and marvel at the production values rather than the script then it's an OK way to pass a couple of hours of your life. Do remember though, you'll never get those couple of hours back - so be warned if you hate it and realise after you should've watched a rerun of Citizen Kane. "},{"Title":"Boring military garbage.","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'd recommend this movie only if you're gonna spend time listening to the audio commentary from the actual Navy pilots and technical advisers. Those guys have some very interesting things to say about the military and aviation. I wish there was just a commentary by them. I'm not a big fan of the US military, especially the stuff that's going on in the middle east right now, but on the DVD, they're the only ones with interesting stuff to say.It's a damn shame though, that we're stuck watching this boring, pointless and completely routine action movie. So at the beginning of the movie Maverick (Tom Cruise) and Goose (that guy from ER) are sent to the Top Gun flight school and are taught to be even better pilots than they are already. While there, Maverick seems to spend large amounts of time trying to bed a civilian employee (Kelly McGillis) and badly singing Righteous Brothers and Jerry Lee Lewis songs. Learning to be better pilots requires spending time looking hunky in towels/white underwear and playing shirtless Volleyball, One day, Maverick is up flying around (like in most of the movie) when suddenly there's a big problem and Goose is killed. Of course he spends a huge chunk of movie time feeling bad and thinking of quitting and all that.Then suddenly they graduate from Top Gun school and the writer decided that now it's time for a war. So suddenly Maverick has to grow-up and fight the bad guys, save some good guys, hang out with Val Kilmer and just plain save the day. He comes back to the aircraft carrier and is told that his stupid name is on the front page of every English language paper in the world and he's now all happy again. He goes back to become an instructor and meets up with Kelly McGillis so that he can jam his tongue down her throat again, probably because she lost that loving feeling.I'd say that in this move Tom Cruise solidifies the kind of role that will define his career. In almost every single Tom Cruise movie, he starts out as a young cocky guy who thinks he knows everything and is completely full of himself. In almost every case, he'll keep on being cocky until about 3/4 of the way through the movie either a friend dies or he become paralyzed or he finds out that the girl he nailed in the bahamas is pregnant, etc. Then he'll become mature and he'll prove himself to the rest of the world, or at least the people watching it. After a while, one Tom Cruise movie is just like another. Eventually Tom Cruise should find another role because after 20+ years, it's getting old.The movie itself is a blatant propaganda piece, meant to entice young men to join the military and young women to find shirtless guys playing volleyball. Much like Saving Private Ryan or Pearl Harbor, it's meant to get you all proud about the US military and maybe have you play some Born in the USA while raising the flag in your front yard. It's a feel good movie that ignores more serious problems of bad foreign policy and over spending on the military. But I guess those would be too complex of issues to raise during all the loud stock footage and motorcycle riding.... "},{"Title":"Ego-Maniac","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Murphy's Law was written for movies like this.  It's obvious that Jerry Bruckheimer and Tom Cruise were trying to pawn off to the almighty dollar in their creation of this abyssmal flick.  Thankfully, Platoon and ALIENS kicked its butt at the Oscars, if not the box office.  Then again, the Oscars are a moot point.Top Gun wants to be patriotic, but winds up being an embarrasment and waste of time.  The plot has enough holes to be an imitation Swiss cheese substitute and the acting is horrendous.  Tom Cruise proves he can be a total twit without ability.  Thank God for Rain Man.  Fighter jock wannabes (oh, I'm sorry, the navy calls them aviators) take note you can't fly if you are the height of Tom Cruise.  Here endeth the lesson.  Even the editing is atrocious.  What a sloppy production!  You'll find yourself hating the music either on the spot or down the road.  Believe me.Overall, a movie I saw once and don't want to see again.  I hated it.  1 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"Watch 'Sleep with Me' and you'll never see Top Gun the same again.","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun - on the surface, a militaristic, macho-adrenalin movie with the obligatory love interest. Pure Reagan-era Hollywood. But ONLY on the surface, that is.Read between the lines, as Tarantino did to such infamy, and you'll soon begin to see what's really going on in this film. If you don't see it, watch Sleep With Me, a 1994 movie in which Quentin Tarantino cameos (late-on) at a party and does little more than completely re-interpret Top Gun. It's funny, and probably spot-on. Just listen to Hollywood and Wolfman the first time we see them in the briefing room.Then when you've rewatched Top Gun, try watching Point Break, Batman Forever, and a few others like that.Regardless of your politics, Top Gun is a fun movie, one of those oh-so 80s films that defined their era - it's usually found in the same collection as Ferris Bueller, The Goonies, St.Elmo's Fire, Dirty Dancing and that sort of stuff. Kitsch.Oh, and the leads (Cruise, McGillis and Kilmer) are all gorgeous here. "},{"Title":"Not quite bad enough to be amusing","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite the kitsch, 80s context in which we now see it, and Tarantino's hysterical spiel about how, deep down, Val Kilmer and Tom Cruise just want to be saucy with each other's bottoms, this really is a pretty drab movie. Cruise is an ugly, obnoxious dwarf and Kelly McGillis appears to be watching a promising career slip away from her as the film unfurls. Tim Robbins is wasted, and never trust a man called Val.When I first saw Top Gun, I fell off my seat laughing at the bit where Anthony Edwards dies. This is, and this alone, makes it worth two marks.It's just a load of vacuous pish and poopoo, with a glossy production sheen. "},{"Title":"Trend-Setter of the Highest Degree","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have been told that my reviews have a tendency to over elaborate the points of discussion. I cannot yet determine if this is because of my love for movies, or an arrogant assumption that what I write needs to be read. Or even a pompous self love for the flow of my own writing. In any case, with Top Gun I have decided to be as to the point as possible. I won't talk about the story or it's characters too much because, I can't think of anyone who hasn't seen this film.Top Gun is one of those powerhouse films whose impact is unparalleled. It profits from repeat viewings and it's stylistic touches often take the breath away. Most go on to say that it's effects on the cinema screen enhance it's entertainment value by a a factor of 10. I wouldn't know; I was only 7 years old when it came out.But Top Gun is a more important film that it's ever been credit for. I say this because, to date it remains the defining achievement of the Bruckheimer/ Simpson production team. This production team reshaped the face of the slick action film almost single-handedly. I would like to work the stretch and say that they almost created a new genre of film, but that would be pushing it. Today, all action films cannot survive without various essential components; handsome stars, pulsating soundtrack, powerful cinematography, new and inventive action shots, exotic locales.......Top Gun was the first on the scene to adequately and successfully combine all these elements into one film. It is a trendsetter and has, needless to say, inspired the production of thousands of other films. Top Gun is a film everybody knows, and it carries with it an incredible subliminal effect. I say this because, even if your not conscious of it, Top Gun and it's influence is consistently at play in the back of our minds when we talk about film. Almost any film!Today Bruckheimer (Simpson passed away 2 years ago) and his team are the paragons of this field. Most producers go unnoticed by the average audience; a huge number however, recognize and acknowledge Bruckheimer as a huge player and I can vouch for many who are just as eager to watch a Tom Cruise film as they are a Jerry Bruckheimer production. His influence is immense and this is all thanks to Top Gun being the revolutionary action film that is is.As with many of Tony Scott's films (Days of Thunder, Last Boy Scout, True Romance) this film is about a cocky sure-fire character who thinks he has all the answers until he gets a whiff of the real world and it's responsibilities and undergoes a major character change. He experiences various heartaches; from love and love lost to the loss of those dear to him, and he must overcome all this and find the strength to win the day and thereby prove his real mettle and evolution. This story has been used ad infinitum but in this case the hero-zero-hero story is so well complemented by the 80's slickness brought to the foreground by Bruckheimer/ Simpson. Cruise should consider himself the world's most fortunate actor; Top Gun is one of the most important films of the 20th century and Tom Cruise was it's star. If the man did nothing else, he would have attained God-like status as an actor and continue to be lionized by an adoring public.Many film-makers will despise this film; it has made it near impossbile for small budget productions to make a deep impact. Sure there are a number that make it, but Top Gun ensured that lest an action flick carry a budget of over $100 million, it would never survive. That said, all the things that make the hairs stand on the back of our necks today have been inspired, to a large extent, from this film. Even the cinema trailers today need to pack a whopping punch to make the audience eager. If you notice, movie previews today, look like they cost as much as the actual film. This genre of film packs a lethal punch. Only the big fish can swim; the small will be devoured!!Make no mistake about it, Top Gun is a vital contribution to modern day cinema. Our appreciation for sound quality in film, adrenaline-rushes, sex, action, cinematography have crucially been enhanced by this film.After all I've said, I cannot help frown when I consider that this film is merely about fighter jets!! "},{"Title":"Arf!  Arf!","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a dog! An extended music video, scenes strung together with music and Tom Cruise's (albeit killer) smile and sweat sheen.  McGillis is TOTALLY miscast, and no self-respecting woman would fall for these lines.  She is completely unbelievable mouthing her character's jobspeak, as well.  Do our top guns really behave this way and associate with people like this? God...I saw this at original release and again last night, and it went from a 5 to a 1.  An absolute dog.  I wonder how Tim Robbins, a man of talent, views this exercise now.   "},{"Title":"Cliches and Hype","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the worst A movies ever made.  The plot line was predictable.  The dialogue was just a series of cliches.  The acting was horrendous.  Tom Cruise plays every emotion with the same slick smile.   > This film was garbage "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, I suppose there is a lot to criticize in this film, but yet it still was very entertaining. It was fun to see Meg Ryan looking like she did on that soap opera, and Anthony Edwards with hair. This film made Edwards a star, and I hear that he can't stand the film. He is one of those major anti-military leftists and said that Top Gun is just the sort of jingoistic stuff that he hates. I wonder if he still feels that way. He did a good acting job in it though, as did the entire cast. Grade B+ "},{"Title":"80s films. Should they be destroyed?","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What was wrong with the eighties?Shoulder pads. Dynasty. Wham. Duran Duran.And the movies! First Blood 2. Rocky 3. Desperate Seeking Susan. And Top Gun. God! Teeth, hair smiles, Cruise, You've Lost that Loving Feeling. People sitting in a studio in front of a lot of red and green screens pretending they're directing a battle. The awful love interest. That thwacking drum beat in the theme song. The dull two-second clips of film of two planes only appearing close to each other because of the telephoto. The combat dialogue where everything's said twice He's on your tail! On your tail!.Look at the list of best ever films on IMDB's, or anyone else's list. Only Scorcese was consistently excellent in the period. The eighties were a black hole.  Style-conscious but clueless, Top Gun is typical of its era. "},{"Title":"This is unbelievable.","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boy oh boy! 1986 must have been a horrible year for movies. This movie ranks as one of the worst that I have ever seen. The script and performances were equally bad. All of the characters were one dimensional (in fact, they were so superficial, this script could have been written by Aynn Rand), and none were in any way sympathetic. Even the death of Goose left me totally indifferent.Of course, the music is extremely dated (coming out at a time when most music was horrible, they were able to pick the worst of the worst), and best forgotten (in fact, I had forgotten all of these songs until I forced myself to watch this disaster).It's best moments were, at best, mediocre. "},{"Title":"The Best Of The Best","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" TOP GUN **** Tom Cruise plays Maverick Mitchell, an intelligent macho fighter pilot who is sent with partner Anthony Edwards to attend the elite US Flying school in California to compete for the Top Gun trophy. Most of the film is centered on Cruise while training and the climax unfolds as dramatic content is introduced into the story. What makes this film so appealing to watch is that for what Tony Scott, Jerry Bruckheilmer and Don Simpson wanted to produce from the basic storyline, the film succeeds. 'Top Gun' is an entertaining coming-of-age picture that is both exciting (making the film fun to watch) and dramatic in a realistic sense (making it more balanced). The contrasting characters in the Naval Flying school adds to the film's clever edge as Cruise throttles high speed aircrafts on air and woos one of his instructors (Kelly McGillis of 'Witness') on ground. "},{"Title":"It's Gay morning in Gay America!","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not only is this the most contrived, stupid, jingoistic, predictable, unnecessary piece of celluloid to drop from the rancid console of Reagan-era Hollywood, it's also the gayest mainstream movie of the decade, including Chariots of Fire. Turn down the sound and you'll merely see pretty muscle boys with perfect hair and spotless uniforms ignoring women in a bar, glistening in their tighty-whities as they pose for each other in the shower room, waiting for their mustachioed daddy (Skerritt) to affirm them before they go off and strap huge machines between their legs, and preening for each other on the volleyball court. Turn the sound up, and it's even better. I'm getting a hard-on. Don't tease me. So's my Johnson. In short, not only a bad film, but also an unbelievably gay one. Drink up, Republican America! So's my Johnson! "}{"Title":"Interesting to see this long after release as a kind of artifact","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"20 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very interesting.  A sort of romance-tinged shill for the military-industrial complex!  Quite period and Reaganesque.Pardon if you think I'm a spoilsport by not falling over backward to let the love story just sort of wash over me, but I can't help but think this movie was designed to specifications to rewire our emotion response centers, teaching us to confuse romantic boy-girl love with machine love.  Top Gun is a sort of guy flick disguised as a chick flick  It has the sexy 30-million dollar weapon systems--really the ultimate tech orgasm--with a sexy girl Pentagon weapon systems analyst injected into the story.  The sparks fly and both the gals and guys in the audience get all hot and bothered, while thinking that the other is getting hot and bothered for the same reason they are.  Little do they know!Some good writing, some good deliveries.  The cinematography and editing is astonishing!I highly recommend this movie in conjunction with reflections about the period in which it was released.  Star Wars (SDI, not the movie) was still being debated, The USSR was still a few years from dissolution, and U.S. power desperately needed it's citizens to be emotionally attached to the idea that global power issues would continue to require increasingly rarified hardware solutions, rather than political, social, or philosophical ones.  If you think about these things while viewing, it will highlight the role of the supposedly liberal media in forwarding strangely antiprogressive agendas as they unabashedly stoop to melding these messages with deep feelings of sexual response, bringing the demands of power disturbingly (criminally?) close to home indeed.It reminds me of something an acting teacher told our class  If you want to get out of jury duty, tell them you're an actor.  If these very talented people can willingly take money to expertly deliver these kinds of messages to us, they can tell us anything--as long as the price is right.Top Gun is the quintessential period piece from the late-20th century United States.  Don't miss it, and I'm not really being facetious.  If you've seen it before, check it out again with new eyes.  "},{"Title":"Highly Overrated","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I decided to watch Top Gun as it was one of those movies that fell into the 'I can't believe I've never watched that' category.I'll get straight to the point here - Top Gun is without doubt one of the most overrated movies of all time - bar none!It is a horrible, horrible movie. I found it insanely, mind-numbingly boring. The best part for me was when it ended and I could suitably dispose of the DVD. I only gave it 1/10 because there was no option for giving it 0.The only positive I can take away from watching Top Gun is knowing how bad it is, and that I will know never to watch it ever, ever again. Give it a miss and find something better to watch - that wouldn't be hard! "},{"Title":"If you feel the need, the need for speed, Top Gun is what you need!","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" A Legend in it's own time.Timeless classic.Really does get better with age.Yep, all of the above are true and many more platitudes that are bandied about or discussed when this film is mentioned. I struggle to grasp why this has a sub 7 rating on here, especially considering some of the dire films that have been rated 9 or above on IMDb, this film deserves a much higher rating.It's a great night in with pizza and popcorn movie, more fun if everyone has seen it before so you can play the Top Gun quote game. I'd love to see this on the big screen with the full sound system to hear the big adrenaline rush that comes with hearing the jets screaming around and the music pumping. Even though I happily watch it at home of a 40 inch TV with a 5.1 PC audio system which isn't exactly lacking in power or effect...It's a fun if somewhat cheesy 80's film that is of course a formula film that was repeated several times (Especially with Tom Cruise starring in them!) with a soundtrack that is still as good today as it was in the late 80's when this film came out. The plot may be paper thin but the action, the music and the quotability and great fun of the film is what makes it so much fun to watch and gives it massive replay value.It's fast paced action sequences and aerial cinematography are top notch, simply breathtaking and stunning for the most. The drama of the shooting is the backbone of this film, the adrenaline it can induce is spectacular and some of the shots are simply haunting.The humour is laugh out loud funny and it featured some bloody good looking men and great looking women so the eye candy is never far away. The film has very few lulls and the action is never far away. It has emotion and feeling but always gets back into the Danger Zone pretty quick with characters that are likable and fun to watch. The casting was very well done and you can sense that the cast and crew must have had a riot while making this film (With The exception of Iceman/Val Kilmer, who actually kept himself apart from the crew for the most to allow for his character to be felt as a true outsider.)As may be apparent I'm a Top Gun fan, have been since I first watched this film, I was gripped from the opening chimes of the epic Top Gun theme followed by that big haired 80's guitar riff and the initial sounds of engines winding up as the steam drifts across the deck of the aircraft carrier. I'm a firm believer that if this film doesn't get your stuff going at some point, your stuff is broken. It's not a film to be taken seriously, it's meant to be enjoyed with friends and laughed along with. The film may have a few plot holes, there are about a million goofs, it spawned more than a handful of web sites to point out all the goofs and flaws in the film, dialogue and all other things Top Gun related but it's got a fan base the size of a massive army and for a reason, it's just a good movie because of all that.The soundtrack and aerial footage really are the stars of this film, even though the cast was pretty huge, the Director Tony Scott really went all in and made a huge effort with Top Gun (Even at his own personal expense considering he ended up hiring a US Aircraft carrier to get a shot just how he wanted!)It's just one of those films if you like it, whenever it is on, you can sit down and watch it no matter where you walked in, or turned over and found it was on. It's like a really comfortable pair of slippers that always feel good to slip on when you get the chance. I often wish I could turn back the clock to being a teenager again to watch it for the first time all over again and get the chills down my spine as each action sequence gears up; the rush as the roar of the F-14 engines scream and howl. I envy the people who have not seen this film as they have experience the roller-coaster ride that this film can offer.It's funny as I was inspired to come write this review after meeting someone the other week who had not seen Top Gun, which for me has been a rare experience. In fact I don't know many people who do not own either a copy if the VHS or a DVD of Top Gun, and most of my friends have the OST in their music collection or the larger part of it as Singles/MP3's.If you have not seen it, get on ebay or Amazon or wherever, spend a few quid and buy a copy, get some friends around for the night, snag some beer, popcorn, pizza or tofu if that floats your boat and have a great night in. If you don't take it too seriously you should have a good night.If you have seen it and enjoyed it, get on here and give it some love and vote it up, if only to get it ranked above a lot of the rubbish ranked highly.It's also worth watching the DVD extras/Making of Top Gun if you liked the film as it's pretty interesting stuff and very funny in parts, as some of the trivia about the film is fascinating. "},{"Title":"Cliché-filled classic...","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Everyone is familiar with Top Gun. Yep, it is one of those movies that everyone has seen. Perhaps it is because of Tom Cruise, or perhaps because of its cheesy and cliché filled storyline. Or perhaps it is because of the music, or even because of the beach volley scene. Whatever the reason, you just have to admit that it is one of those pseudo-classic movies.The storyline is so predictable that even a blind man sees what is coming a mile away. But despite its predictability, then there is still something enjoyable about Top Gun. For me it was the dogfight scenes with the jet fighter planes.The story is about Maverick (played by Tom Cruise) a young hotshot fighter pilot student who takes on the burden of his fathers legacy as he attempts to prove his worth at the academy. Love and loss are two things that strike hard in his otherwise perfect life. When a conflict of war is at the threshold, Maverick has to make use of all his skills in order to pull through.There is a good ensemble of talents in Top Gun with Tom Cruise and Val Kilmer in the lead roles. And the likes of Anthony Edwards, Tom Skerritt, Tim Robbins, James Tolkan, Meg Ryan, Rick Rossovich and Michael Ironside really helped put Top Gun on the map.If you haven't already seen Top Gun then you are missing out on one of the most memorable movies from the mid-Eighties. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Fun Ride.","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is an action drama film directed by Tony Scott. Its a story about a rebellious ace fighter pilot Maverick, played by Tom Cruise, going to an elite school for the best fighter pilots in the world. There he meets and falls for a female instructor as he competes to become the top of his class. Top Gun is a classic and a must see for everyone. Its incredibly memorable and has found itself remembered in movie history. Top Gun is an iconic and fun ride from beginning to end. The movie is very well remembered for its iconic acting, scenes, quotes, shots, look, and soundtrack. Maverick is an true American boy. He's cocky, dangerous, competitive, flirtatious and he doesn't play by the rules. He's remembered for his likable screen presence and fun acting. We like Maverick and want to see him succeed. The scenes of him bantering with the other pilots or flirting with his love interest are all ones that stick out in your mind. Tom Cruise looks like the movie star he is in his jeans white t shirt combo while riding his motorcycle. Its all these things that give the movie its own iconic identity and when someone sees a cool bomber jacket they think Top Gun. The soundtrack is probably the most iconic part of the film. Danger Zone pounds through the movie leaving it oozing with intense coolness. Playing with the Boys has inspired many rumors and theories. And of course Take My Breath Away plays over and over until your sick of it. The plot is great and brings the audience right in. The idea of having a elite school of pilots all competing shows people things they wouldn't normally ever see. The drama, while not amazing, is very endearing. We want Maverick to be the best and get the girl, and his rivalry with Iceman, played by Val Kilmer, is very fun to watch. The script does a great part of really sinking the audience in the film. The cocky banter, the aviation lingo, and the confidence of the characters all come across as genuine. The most important thing about the film, is that its just a really fun watch. Its just the right kind of cheesy. Sure The script is a little much in terms of characters saying some pretty goofy stuff, but the lines still feel very real. The Character of Iceman is very one dimensional in that he's the jerk rival who cant appreciate the hero's free spirited ways. Take My Breath Away playing every time Tom Cruise and Kelly McGillis are on screen is also really goofy. All the hammy lines and awkward 80s romance have a charm to them though. The best part about Top Gun however, is the action scenes in the fighter jets. Real expert maneuvers are shot expertly and every angle of the planes brings on the action. Overall Top Gun is a must see for all. Its very of it's time and is an iconic part of movie history. While it might not have the most intricate and beautifully crafted script, its still a lot of fun to watch. "},{"Title":"A good film with occasional flaws","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is not only an American movie from almost 30 years ago, it is actually as American as it gets with some truly patriotic notes about people in the military. And there are other areas in this 105-minute movie that go way over the top. One would be masculinity, this is really packed with testosterone. Another area would be just how generic and predictable it is in many aspects, for example the instructor who falls in love with the main character Maverick, or the friend who dies and Maverick's brief identity crisis before he returns a better pilot than he has ever been. Another of these could be his mentor who is a great hero himself and still offers Maverick at the end to be his co-pilot. Or Val Kilmer's character, who is a bit of an antagonist early on, but in the end accepts Maverick's greatness. Or of course the final sequence with the vessel they have to save. So yeah, if you are into subtle films, this one is definitely not one to watch for you.However, as a whole it was still a solid movie I guess. Despite its flaws, it was okay to watch from start to finish because of the way the characters were written and portrayed convincingly and this comes from somebody who really is not too interested in military or war movies. Then again, this is more about one man's journey to himself and how he overcomes several obstacles on the way than really about the forces. Tom Cruise is still very young here, not an Oscar nominee yet, but you can see the star potential he possesses. Tom Skerritt is fun to watch in here as well I think and Meg Ryan plays a supporting character in the early years of her career. Quite an irony that she was going to have a much bigger career than female lead Kelly McGillis here early in her career too, who was a rising star back then after her Golden Globe nominated performance in Witness. Top Gun not only won Giorgio Moroder his 3rd Academy Awards, but scored 3 more nominations in the technical categories. All in all, I guess this was a decent watch, but not among the best of 1986. Probably especially patriots will enjoy this very 80s-looking movie. "},{"Title":"A Little bit cheesy but still a good film","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is a little bit cheesy for my taste, but actually in a good way. Top Gun manages to show that just because your cheesy you can still pull of a damn good story. This film has just about something for everyone the arrogant individual who would most likely have been fired had it not been for the fact he could actually do all the things he boasted about. It also had romance, friendship, some funny moments and good a good script. It had some good action moments, I mean if your looking for authentic war films then this isn't it, but for a reasonable family friendly film (there is only one scene with bad language and mildly suggestible sex scenes that the kids would ignore anyway. "},{"Title":"Flying Against a Ghost","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are few movies that are considered classics that I have yet to see, but Top Gun was one of them. I was pretty tired of hearing the endless references and not understanding them, so I decided to finally sit down and give it a shot. It's enjoyable, but I think it was more of a product of it's time. It's better appreciated as an 80's film than a film in general. Now I don't mean that the effects don't hold up, because they do. I just feel like it had all the fruit at the right time, where as now some of them might be expired or just not as popular. Whether it was 'Take My Breath Away', a smash hit at the time, or Tom Cruise, a blossoming superstar actor, Top Gun is a good movie that was definitely considered great back in the day.Maverick, one of the most famous film characters of all time, learns to become not just a better Navy pilot, but a more well rounded man. Tom Cruise has been better for sure but he has some fun with this role. But when you look at Collateral and even last years Edge of Tomorrow, Cruise is a legitimate actor, but I think at this point in his career he was just trying to make it big. He's extremely cocky and not particularly fond of anybody trying to tell him what to do. He needs wisdom and a life altering event that humbles him. Well he definitely gets both of those. But his cockiness is why the character became so famous. It's one of the main reasons why I think a sequel could be both great and potentially unnecessary. We go on a journey with Maverick throughout the film. A journey that changes his character quite a bit, so I'm not sure a second look at his character works. On the other-hand, knowing where his character ends up, it can be an interesting passing of the torch story if you will.What I think was missing here was more of a back story with Maverick. We get a little bit with his father and a quick remark about his mother, but I would have liked to see more of how he became so cocky and conceded. I did enjoy the romance between Cruise and Kelly McGinnis, who has some of the most stunning eyes you will ever see. You can tell she was one of the few people that could get to him and help him through all the troubles he ends up going through.+Effects hold up +Kilmer and McGinnis' performance +Music -Needed more back story -Too much of an 80's product 7.0/10 "},{"Title":"This movie's great for all the wrong reasons . . . or the right ones?","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tarantino ruined TOP GUN for me. There, I said it. Now I can't watch it without the homoerotic undertones leaping right outta the screen the towel scenes in the locker room; the lingering shots of beach hardbodies; the extremely questionable macho dialogue; the air boss who walks around screaming, I WANT SOME BUTTS!. It is absolutely hilarious, and I sincerely hope that such a brilliant subversion was no accident. This movie's way too polished for that. But in all seriousness, TOP GUN does feature some awesome planes, impressive aerial photography, and Mighty Wings, a bitchin' song if ever there was one. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Classic '80s aerial drama that makes a star of the F-14 Tomcat","Date":"4 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Pete Maverick Mitchell flies F-14 Tomcats for the US Navy with his Radar Intercept Officer Nick Goose Bradshaw. Maverick is a bit of a wildcard with a certain contempt for the rule but when the unit's number one pilot has a panic attack during an encounter with a pair of MiGs he finds himself sent to the prestigious 'Top Gun' school where he and Goose will train and compete with the finest pilots in the Navy. Once there he quickly ruffles a few feathers but also impresses with his flying and is one of the favourites to be top of the class. Away from the flying he gets involved with instructor Charlotte Charlie Blackwood. A tragic accident during training means he considers whether or not to quit but when a situation arises in the Indian Ocean he takes to the skies again and must put what he learnt into practice.I first watched this film in the eighties, loved it and watched it many times but having not watched it for several years I wondered how it would have aged. Thankfully it was as enjoyable as ever. The story itself is a little cliché but it is well told and the aerial scenes are some of the best in any film I've seen&#x85; no CGI here. The romantic subplot does feel a little forced as the two leads don't seem to have the right chemistry&#x85; the relationship between the pilots and RIOs, especially between Maverick and Goose are more interesting than the romance. When the 'tragic event' occurs it is quite a shock and genuinely emotional. The cast do a decent job and it is no surprise that this launched Tom Cruise's career as an action star&#x85; however the real stars are the Grumman F-14 Tomcats. Director Tony Scott did a great job capturing the action both in the sky and on the ground. Overall I'd say this is a must see for anybody who likes modern military aircraft and those who like decent action. "}{"Title":"Not original, not smart, but about as entertaining as bad karaoke","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" The look of the dogfight sequences in Top Gun are no doubt inspired by the X-Wing sequence that ends Star Wars, but the movie's characters are more derivative of The Breakfast Club than the Rebel Alliance. The chatter of the fighter pilots, their personality-revealing nicknames, even the out-of-place 1970s 'stache on one of them are all straight out of the attack on the Death Star. Most brazenly, at a crucial moment the hero gets inspiration from a dead friend while the people in the control room wonder what the hell he's doing; it isn't called the Force in Top Gun, but it might as well be. There are only so many ways to squeeze a camera into a cockpit, so some visual similarities are unavoidable, but the closeups of faceless, black-gloved enemies squeezing their triggers are unnecessarily familiar. What Top Gun's action scenes aren't able to replicate from the 1977 space opera are the exterior shots. Using B-roll of actual fighter planes instead of models limits the amount of dangerous stunts and explosions that can be used, and director Tony Scott has to cut creatively to give the illusion of combat. He is not particularly successful at this admittedly difficult task; the footage of the planes isn't very helpful in making sense of the action or in ascertaining who's doing what and why. The dialogue has to carry that load, but unfortunately it's not up to the task either. It's embarrassingly clunky, not only in the planes where the fighters speak of their hard-ons, but during the drama on the ground. The pilots are written to be juvenile, which is arguably appropriate for the frat-like atmosphere of a fighter pilot school, but it's a stupid kind of juvenile that isn't as endearing as writers Jim Cash and Jack Epps might have hoped. If the Top Gun academy that the most skilled pilots attend were Hogwarts, almost every character in this movie would be Draco Malfoy preening, cocky, impotent, witless. Even Tom Cruise's Maverick, who has a potboiler character arc involving a dead father, is an insufferable, grinning ape, and the extent to which he becomes sympathetic is directly proportional to the extent to which he drops that act.Though I mentioned The Breakfast Club, the comparison is unfair; the kids in that movie were all intelligent and sensitive. Their similarity to Top Gun's kids is only on the surface, in the way the fresh- faced pilots posture to cover up what must be deep insecurities. Only Maverick's are seriously examined, and his slow acquisition of humility is an appealing if largely predictable thread. But Val Kilmer's Iceman is never given clear motivations, despite his strong screen presence &#x97;it is much stronger, in fact, than that of Maverick's love interest played by Witness's Kelly McGillis. Meg Ryan outperforms the cast's many other household names in an unfortunately minor role.In lieu of a smart script and appealing visuals, our cue that something emotional or exciting is happening in Top Gun is a soundtrack in which the same three songs (all cheesy, but all catchy and well- chosen) are used at least twice each. The film is entertaining like bad karaoke is entertaining, which is to say that it's good for a few laughs if you don't mind the cringing, and it is probably best enjoyed with alcohol. "},{"Title":"Fun Action","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun was a hit when it first came out in 1986. In fact, I could not get away from it. It was shown several times on video in my first high school on days we were suppose to outside exercising but it was either rainy or to cold - so the class usually voted to watch Top Gun (again)! So I did catch a burn-out on the movie but it is still a good film in-spite of any inaccurate details within the film. - It's fun to watch.No the film is not perfect - it's just a fun movie that was never meant to be 100% accurate. The movie was meant to entertain and that is exactly what does entertain the viewer.I can't believe the IMDb rating is this low for Top Gun... that surprises me quite a bit.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" What I like most about Top Gun is how it really puts you in Tom Cruise's shoes. If you enjoyed the old propaganda movies about the underground resistance in Nazi-occupied Europe, you'll probably like this one. As students at the Navy's elite fighter weapons school compete to be best in the class, one daring young flyer learns a few things from a civilian instructor that are not taught in the classroom. The airplane they use is so advanced that it seems like it can read minds. Top Gun is not by any means a classic; it is, however, a nice snap-shot of a society. The plot is fairly generic, but the buildup has enough suspense to make the whole movie worth a watch. This was so-so, one of those films that could have been a lot better had the editing been tighter. "},{"Title":"A movie without story","Date":"6 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is a total waste of time to watch this movie. It was already more than half movie and still I was waiting for something interesting to happen. The movie has no story at all. Just an incident and then what, nothing. This is a boring movie to watch. I heard a lot this title and I thought sounds boring but maybe is good. I should stick with my first thought. I guess this is what you risk with every movie to get disappointed. No great acting from anybody, but no actor to blame the movie doesn't need great performance. I wonder how much money it takes to do this kind of film, it is painful when you think about how many things could be accomplished with the same amount. I just wanted to say Bad movie without story but I can not send a review with less than 10 lines. So here are my ten lines. "},{"Title":"One of the top movies in the 1980s.","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is one of the most iconic movies of the 1980s, a story where the Navy's elite fighter weapons school students compete to be the best in the class. One of the students, Maverick (Tom Cruise), fights the attitudes of the other pilots and struggles to be the best pilot, all the while forming a relationship with civilian instructor Charlie Blackwood (Kelly McGillis).This is one of those movies I saw once when I was a little kid. While I don't remember much of it, I do recall finding Maverick's daring character interesting as he strives to stand out and the romance between him and Charlie to be a good piece of chemistry for this action-adventure movie. The dogfighting scenes with the F-14A Tomcats are well-choreographed and Tom Cruise is a go getter in his Maverick role. His love/hate friendship formed with his comrades provided a nice touch of sportsmanship and heartfelt drama. Actors Tom Skerritt, Val Kilmer and Meg Ryan all rounded up what is a pretty good cast of characters with some stellar acting.Overall, it's a nice piece of action drama.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Great fun 80s popcorn action movie","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" On March 3, 1969 the United States Navy established an elite school for the top one percent of its pilots. Its purpose was to teach the lost art of aerial combat and to insure that the handful of men who graduated were the best fighter pilots in the world. So starts this action masterpiece from director Tony Scott. Hot shot pilot Maverick (Tom Cruise) gets a chance to attend Fighter Weapons School or Top Gun in Miramar when his lead Cougar loses it in the air. He's met by cold as ice Iceman (Val Kilmer) as his calculating competition. He always has his navigator Goose (Anthony Edwards) by his side. He constantly tries to prove himself running on instinct against his father's perceived failed mission. Top Gun commanding officer is Viper (Tom Skerritt) and Jester (Michael Ironside) is an instructor. Charlie (Kelly McGillis) is a civilian instructor.The action is great. Tony Scott shoots the action like a music video and it looks amazing. He gets great access to military hardware and locations. This is not the older generation military movie. Movie star Tom Cruise is perfectly suited as Maverick. The only minor hiccup is the limited chemistry between McGillis and Cruise. It's not bad and it doesn't detract from anything. This movie just has all the fun 80s stuff. It's funny. It's fun. It's a great popcorn movie. "},{"Title":"Talk to me, Goose.","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hot shot fighter pilot Maverick (Tom Cruise) clashes with other pilots at Top Gun School while trying to prove himself and live down his father's bad reputation. He also makes time to get sexy with instructor Kelly McGillis, who may or may not have lost that lovin' feelin'. What an awesome movie. Who doesn't love Top Gun? It made Tom Cruise a household name, gave us countless quotable lines, and has one of the best soundtracks ever. Yeah, it's cheesy and formulaic but it's also a lot of fun. Hey, it's got a mustachioed Anthony Edwards playing a dude called Goose! How cool is that? One word of caution for all the young guys out there following a woman into the ladies room will not work out well for you. Only Maverick can pull that off and get away with it. "},{"Title":"There's something here you can't dismiss","Date":"9 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" From its attractive lead actor who went on to become a huge name, its producer-credit to industry legend Jerry Bruckheimer, its soundtrack composed of rock and pop hits, its inclusion of action sequences, romance, and average to mediocre displays of acting, Top Gun includes every minute detail about the classic American movie blockbuster. What's surprising, in addition, is that the film actually has credible payoff in the end, and while existing mostly as a curious piece of cinema history, it also works to be an entertaining picture on a basic level.Tom Cruise stars as a United States Naval Aviator Lieutenant by the name of Pete Maverick Mitchell, a young, hot-shot aviator who loves flying and goofing off when he really should be working. His partner-and-crime and longtime friend, whom he considers family, is Nick Goose Bradshaw (Anthony Edwards), who has a wife and kid back home, but accepts Maverick mainly because of the fact that he doesn't have much else besides him. Maverick's father was killed in Vietnam, which only leaves Maverick in denial that his dad's death was because of circumstance, rather than the actuality of the situation being a personal mistake.After one goof-off session too many, Maverick and Goose are sent to Fighter Weapons School (nicknamed Top Gun) by their superior officer, who admires their talents but simply can't control them and recognizes they deserve to be placed in the elite squad of pilots. Upon arriving to Top Gun, Maverick meets a wonderful woman by the name of Charlotte Blackwood (Kelly McGillis), who he learns is his instructor during his time at the school. He also clashes with rival student Lieutenant Tom Iceman Kazanski (Val Kilmer), whom, while he detests on his competitive level, thoroughly admires him for his skill and devotion to flying.One of Top Gun's underlying strengths is how it doesn't settle for being another indistinguishable piece of action filmmaking nor a fluffy romantic piece with some disjointed shots of aerial combat thrown in as an excuse for screen writing diversity. The film also attempts to humanize the bond squadmates have with one another, and show how one comes of age when they are thrown into a group with extremely high expectations set on them. The issue here, however, is that writers Jim Cash and Jack Epps, Jr. throw those elements in the film at such an alarmingly fast rate that it's easy to miss these subtler, low-key elements that, in turn, work to make up the film.The scenes that do work and require no further contemplation are the scenes of aerial combat, which are clear, coherent, and intense thanks to Tony Scott's strong direction. With his shots and structure, Scott always strove for clarity even when it seemed that little could be established. Whether he was filming a runaway train or fighter jets circling around an area in the sky, appearing as if they were defying gravity with every nosedive and loop, Scott was clear and vivid with his direction. Give Scott some great, crystal-clear cinematography by Jeffrey L. Kimball - who worked with Scott through much of his career - and you have a visually distinct and astonishing picture.If only Kimball and Scott had better writing and acting to work with when it came down to structuring Top Gun's story. The film's story often feels too cluttered, as I said, struggling to fit so much into its one-hundred and nine minute runtime, and then on top of that, you have average acting by Cruise and McGillis, some strong work by Edwards, and some seriously mediocre and over-the-top acting by Kilmer, who throws scenes off instantly when he walks on screen. Top Gun is so structurally uneven that it is a blessing that the film has its unique visuals and strong cinematographical work going for it.Yet, there's something here I can't easily dismiss like I can with the barrage of other blockbusters I am put through every summer. Maybe it's the musical genius and simplicity of Kenny Loggins' signature song Danger Zone, which comes on about a dozen times in the film. Perhaps it's the gay subtext Quentin Tarantino's character Sid alluded to in the now famous monologue in the little-seen independent flick Sleep With Me that kept me alert and interested. Or perhaps it's just that this film is so American that is hurts at times. As difficult as it is to define and place, Top Gun can't be written off with a few words, and instead, must be given some solid care and attention as if it were an award-worthy movie rather than just a piece of summer fluff.Starring Tom Cruise, Kelly McGillis, Anthony Edwards, and Val Kilmer. Directed by Tony Scott. "},{"Title":"I've got the need.. the need for speed!!","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Pete Mitchell, call sign Maverick is one of the navy's top pilots, but also one of its most reckless. Along with his co-pilot Goose they enter and compete in the navy's top flight training program and competitions simply known as Top Gun. It is there he meets Charlie a beautiful flight instructor, romance follows as does emotional heartbreak as Mavericks recklessness finally catches up to him.One of the most successful movies of the 1980's with its blend of action, romance, comedy and drama makes it still to this day a great film. Some of the finest aerial action ever caught on film you will almost feel as though you are up in the sky with the pilots. Beloved by many film goers and perhaps one of Tom Cruise's most beloved characters. The play off between Cruise and Edwards is perfection and is evident from the first five mins of the film. Notable recognition should as well go to Val Kilmer who plays Cruises rival, Iceman. The soundtrack to this film is perfect and beloved by many fans of the film and fans of music from the 80s. Top Gun is a must see for any film fan of any age, as it still to this day is considered a classic. So if you have the need for speed, Top Gun is a must watch. "},{"Title":"The only good thing about this movie are the jets","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" The only reason that I give this movie a seven is because it is about jet fighters and dogfighting them. There are not many dogfights in this movie though and the plot is almost non-existence. It is basically about a hot shot pilot who goes to an elite naval pilot school (Top Gun) and trains to be even better. He then goes for the top pilot trophy, but has an accident and must overcome his loss and get back into the field.I guess this movie is then a human drama, though it takes a while for the death of Maverick's friend, Goose, to happen, and by then three-quarters of the movie is over and there is little time for him to reconcile with himself. I guess the movie builds up to this spot to create a huge fall, but it would have been far better if the death of Goose occur closer to the beginning and then spent the rest of the movie trying to overcome the guilt and the sorrow of this death. As it is, it is a romp through fighter school with a little drama at the end.What I can applaud the movie is the brilliant cinematography, which comes close to that of The Rock and Bad Boys. It is produced by the same people, but it is directed by one of the Scott family. It is an okay movie, but not something that I am going to waste my time drawing out as it is quite empty beyond the jets. "}{"Title":"Good and bad in equal measures","Date":"18 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Following his shocking suicide earlier this year, director Tony Scott's legend was cemented, with actors and fellow directors flooding to pay tribute to the man that delivered the likes of The Last Boy Scout (1991) and Crimson Tide (1995). Personally, with the greatest respect, I feel his death has overshadowed what was a relatively average career, in which his finest achievement, the Tarantino-scripted True Romance (1993), was possibly his most low-octane film, given that he is most fondly remembered for his work in the action field. Therefore, it seemed the perfect time to re-visit his most popular film, Top Gun, the high- fiving homoerotica-fest that cemented the careers of both Scott and star Tom Cruise, a film that they are still, 26 years later, best remembered for.With top fighter pilot Cougar (John Stockwell) losing his nerve during a dogfight and dropping out of the Air Force, hot-shot pilot Pete 'Maverick' Mitchell is offered the chance to join the Top Gun flight school. Fancying himself as the best of the best, Maverick, along with his RIO lieutenant Goose (Anthony Edwards), sets about establishing a name for himself with grand stunts and a cocky attitude, almost coming to blows with his fellow elite students, namely Iceman (Val Kilmer). He even finds time to romance instructor Charlie Blackwood (Kelly McGillis). But when a tragic accident occurs, Maverick must do a bit of soul-searching, and question his ability to live up to the legend of his father.For a film that remains so immensely popular, Top Gun is shockingly bad. The almost unbearable swagger of the now slightly creepy Scientology dwarf Tom Cruise leads to many moments of teeth-grinding anger- inducement, with the much-imitated You've Got That Lovin' Feeling karaoke moment being simply embarrassing. But with most square-jawed, Reagan-era 1980's action films comes much hilarity, with the best- selling soundtrack proving to be the king of synthesised cheddar, and the near-constant homoeroticism questioning the era's view of a 'man's man'. The volleyball scene is especially jaw-dropping, with slow-motion arse-slapping and greased-up torso's aplenty, playing out like a pre-sex ritual by Cruise and Kilmer.The film is real justification of Tony Scott's reputation as a great action director. The dogfight scenes are filmed beautifully, with rapid editing and spectacular framing generating real excitement between all the crud (especially impressive given the cost of flying these machines and the heavily-restricted time-frames in which the crew had to shoot within). Yet whenever the film is in danger of getting quite good, it delves into another cliché or shifts the focus back to the uninvolving romance between Maverick and Charlie, with scenes involving Maverick's inner-demon fighting especially causing the fists to clench. With a film having the ability to be so bad and rather good in equal measures, it's hard to really justify it's massive fan-base and endless imitations, yet it's also difficult to deny. "},{"Title":"Drama on the ground, excitement in the air","Date":"29 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tony Scott's Top Gun was obviously built on the template of 1982's An Officer and a Gentleman and was a mega-hit in May/June of 1986.THE PLOT Two hotshot Navy pilots, Maverick (Tom Cruise) and Goose (Anthony Edwards), are sent to a prestigious flight school in San Diego where they must endure the rivalry of other pilots, like Iceman (Val Kilmer). Maverick seeks a relationship with one of the school's civilian instructors (Kelly McGillis) and also faces a crisis when his cocky confidence is shaken.Top Gun is basically a modern The Blue Max in that it mixes the drama on the ground with the excitement in the air. It's a good mix that keeps it from being one-dimensional.Some criticize the film as being superficial fluff but, while Top Gun is definitely a blockbuster, it actually has some credible depth. For example, the rivalry of the pilots, the mystery of Maverick's father, the grievous death of one of the main characters, and Maverick's crisis of confidence. A good example of the film's depth can be seen in the scene where Iceman confronts Maverick in the locker room after a tragedy. Iceman is sincere but walks on eggshells because he respects Maverick's unpredictable and dangerous nature. The scene rings true-to-life.Tom Skerritt is notable as one of the older instructors of the school, Viper. There's a good scene in the 2nd half where Maverick visits Viper's house on a Sunday, which features a great (funny) line from Skerritt (I'm not going to blow sunshine&#x85;).Unfortunately, the film has been accused of being somehow homo-erotic. Nonsense. In case these clueless critics didn't notice, Maverick is chasing McGillis' character throughout the film and even breaks into a Ladies Room to see her. Meanwhile Goose is happily married with children. As for the locker room scenes and the all-male volley ball game, the story takes place at a flight school where all the students are MALE. The volley ball sequence is just a fun scene, nothing more, and was likely thrown in for the ladies. Besides, notice that Maverick leaves the game prematurely to go see HIS BABE. I can't help but wonder if these criticizers are projecting their OWN ISSUES on to the film. Enough said.On the downside, there are some cringe-inducing scenes, like the aforementioned one in the Ladies Room with its awkward dialogue. A minor flaw is that the film starts to lose its drive by the final act, maybe because it drags on and should've been edited. The film runs 110 minutes, by the way.Top Gun has a decent mid-80's soundtrack highlighted by Kenny Loggins' Danger Zone. Speaking of the soundtrack, Judas Priest's excellent track Reckless off of TURBO was picked by the producers for the soundtrack, but the Priest boys foolishly turned down the offer because (1.) they didn't know who Tom Cruise was since he wasn't a major star until after this movie, (2.) they therefore didn't think the movie would be a hit, and (3.) if they sold the song to the movie it would've been omitted from TURBO. Big mistake because the film was a massive blockbuster and it would've rocketed Priest into superstardom. In any case, listen to Reckless on youtube sometime and you'll see that it would've fit the movie perfectly. It also would've been the heaviest song on the soundtrack by far, even though it's light by Priest's standards.BOTTOM LINE Top Gun screams mid-80's blockbuster and deservedly so. It's a kinetic film with a nice mix of drama, fun, crisis and aircraft excitement.GRADE B "},{"Title":"It's a classic - deal with it","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is one of the most famous movies of the 80's and all time . It's the best known Tony Scott (RIP) movie . It's also probably the best movie with flying machines.The story in Top Gun is a well known story that appears in many movies. Young hero wants to fulfill his dream . He has friends and enemies . He will meet the love of his life . He will have some kind of crisis , but in the end everything will work out for him . Screenplay here isn't surprising , but does a good job portraying the characters. I liked the rivalry between Maverick and Iceman , friendship between Maverick and Goose and the love between Maverick and Charlotte . Many people seem to complain that love story was fake to them , but I don't agree. I've seen better love stories , but also a lot more unbelievable (Batman).Top Gun is wonderfully photographed . It also has a great soundtrack with such memorable songs like Take my breath away (Berlin) and Danger zone (Kenny Loggins). The movie is funny (great on-going joke with coffee). It's even funnier when you watch it as a movie about homosexuals (Quentin Tarantino). Some people complain that this movie is very pro-military , but I don't mind that . It's good to see one movie where the military isn't portrayed in negative light.Tom Cruise fits the role of Maverick very well . He's charming , no bulls**t and risky attitude makes him a likable and memorable character. This movie includes all - star cast  Tom Cruise (at the beginning of his career) , Val Kilmer (Tombstone) , Kelly McGillis (The Accused) , Meg Ryan (When Harry met Sally), Tom Skerrick (Alien) and Anthony Edwards (Revenge of the nerds). Everyone does a good job , with the exception of McGillis. She's hardly anything but eye candy . I especially liked Edwards as Goose and Kilmer as Iceman.The success of Top Gun spawned Iron Eagle - a much weaker movie , made for kids but still watchable. Top Gun is superior to that one. It's a good entertainment and a classic.I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Action, romance, drama, and Tom Cruise this ones' a classic","Date":"24 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun provides an adrenaline rush without being mindless action, romance without being soppy, drama without being adolescent, and competition without being petty. Tom Cruise is fantastic here, and Top Gun is what a lot of us will remember him for.The top 1 percent of US Air Force fighter pilots are sent to receive aerial combat at the best facility in the world, known as Top Gun. They are already the elite but only one can come out on the very top, and see their name on the Top Gun trophy when they graduate. Tom Cruise is Pete Mitchell, a hotshot pilot aptly nicknamed 'Maverick'. He loves to fly, and he does it well, but his maneuvers are always more daring (and dangerous) than the textbook 'correct' ones. He is cavalier about the danger, until another officer is killed during a routine air drill, and he feels responsible. Can he deal with his guilt, learn the truth behind his father's mysterious death, win the girl, and still end up as the very Top Gun?'Top Gun' is entertaining, exciting, well acted, beautifully filmed, it's a classic. It rocked then, it still rocks now. "},{"Title":"Have you lost that lovin' feelin' ...for the dudes?","Date":"24 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Do you feel the need? The need for speed? The need for a shirtless game of volleyball? No? Then I guess you're one of those p*$*iez who rides a motorcycle with a helmet. Are you a pilot who has a hard-on for briefs? And no, I don't mean the underwear. That would be gay ...and make no mistake, there is nothing gay about Top Gun. I'm talking about briefs given in the briefing room. Enter the world of Top Gun, a world where the lights are never turned on during the day, a world where Ice Man, Goose Man and Cougar Man are not villains in Mega Man, but hot shot pilots who admire each other's cockpits. Did I mention Tom Cruise is in it too? Bring it on back.... OH bring it on back... bring it on back to the tarmac! "},{"Title":"Tony Scott at the height of his powers","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the movie the critics loved to hate, its inaccuracies, its cheesy story lines, and its blatant pandering to the all-American hero spirit of the 80s all cited as reasons why it should not be taken seriously.I agree with all the above, and yet, why do I keep coming back to it? I must have seen it a dozen times. It gets the adrenalin going, I know every line, every cliché, and I look forward to hearing and seeing them all over again. And I'm not even an American!It's just one of those movies where the whole is somehow greater than the sum of its parts, which work together to make something special. The acting is one of the reasons Tom Cruise hits the spot perfectly, the chemistry with Kelly McGillis is electric (and surely she has never looked more stunning!), the heart warms to Anthony Edwards and Meg Ryan, while Val Kilmer, Tom Skerritt, Michael Ironside and the others do just what they're good at without ever distracting from the central characters.And Tony Scott's direction is surely much underestimated with perhaps the sole exception of that love scene (presumably just a vehicle for the backing track You Take My Breatb Away), the action is tight, superbly cut, and the action sequences unequalled of their kind. He surely made a star of Tom Cruise, bringing the best out of him after a number of merely promising earlier performances (a feat he sadly failed to repeat 4 years later with Days of Thunder).I watched Top Gun again tonight, over a quarter of a century after its release, in memory of that great British director who has just been so tragically lost to us. It has lost none of its ability to keep one's attention riveted to the screen. Tony Scott, you will not be forgotten. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top GunThis movie was the biggest hit ever. My dad recalled seeing this in the 80s when it came out. I was curious about seeing this and I was happy about it afterwards. What has Hollywood come to honestly with all this justin beiber crap? I guess Old is Gold.An arrogant pilot and his friend take a flight class and fall in love with a teacher.The Pluses EVERYTHING!!! The Minuses a little cornyOverall, Top Gun deserved to be a classic. Everything from acting to special effects was good. What really got me curious was which hostile territory was the carrier in during the climax? Watch it and you will love it. My message to Hollywood is DO not remake this movie under any circumstance. "},{"Title":"Top gun .... the name itself","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" In short we can say top gun is simple story ,good direction, good acting.Tom cruse looks fresh in this movie and he acted very well. The good thing about this movie is flying scenes are directed very well,special effects were good. I gave this movie 6 stars that means it was one time watch movie. Climax of the movie was nice. stunts scenes of this movie specially starting scene and climax scenes were really good.Now some bad thing about this movies........ This is movie is totally tom cruise fan's movie. Actress meg Ryann was wasted in this movie. Some part of the movie (in the middle) you getting little bored.But due to the good direction and acting movie was watchful. "},{"Title":"The genius of the 80's","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a solid movie. I saw it when I was 6 or 7, loved it, saw it in my 20's, loved it with that sentimental remembrance of what awesome used to be. It's epic like the Goonies is still epic, chock full of predictable, over the top scenes and corny music that somehow becomes unforgettable. The whole montage with take my breathe away is just visual poetry. This is what a movie should be, it's not over the top with grand theatrics and the weighty import of deep philosophical questions. It's sublimely shallow and borderline hilarious (in a bad way), but the sum is greater than the parts, it all works to make an entertaining film.OK, yeah, there is romance in this movie, whatever, I actually like the romance in this movie I find it hilarious and somewhat weird yet very real. Yes, there is supposed gayness, well, why is seeing a man with his shirt off necessarily gay? So what? It's hilarious that society deems men with shirts off as gay, but women with shirts off is not gay... Are gay women not turned on by women with shirts off? Do men who play sports and shower together all get labelled as gay? NO... Basically, grow up people.It should be an 8.0 on IMDb at least, people have no taste these days. "},{"Title":"Adrenaline, attitude, and a little bit of plot","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is a testosterone charged movie, with a blend of fighter jets and machismo, with a bit of love story thrown in for good measure. There is a little tragedy thrown in, and a little triumph as well. The film appeals a bit to everyone, with a simple plot, with some of the typical elements thrown in for good measure.The film starts off with a fighter jet dogfight, in which Maverick (Tom Cruise) and Goose (Anthony Edwards) are flying a mission, and encounter a pair of enemy planes, that no one has seen before. The pair are not allowed to fire, so instead, they showboat a little, and chase off the enemy. Once they land, they find out they are going to an elite fighter pilot's school, nicknamed Top Gun, but not before ruffling some feathers by buzzing the tower with a high speed flyby.Once at Top Gun, they meet Iceman (Val Kilmer) who is their main competition at the school, and Maverick, on a dare from Goose, proceeds to hit on Charlie (Kelly McGillis). While in class, they find out Charlie is a civilian instructor at the school. While on one of the flights, Iceman's plane cuts in front of Maverick's, which stalls the engines, a crash ensues, and Goose will never fly with Maverick again.Charlie, once Maverick has hit on her, wants to know more about the encounter with the enemy jets. This leads to a relationship, and they fall in love. Charlie supports Maverick after the crash, but Maverick doesn't know if he can ever really fly in combat again. During his struggle to fly in simulated combat, Maverick learns that his father was actually a hero, and saved lives, instead of being at fault and getting himself killed. This knowledge convinces Maverick to stay in Top Gun, and graduate, and at graduation, a situation arises, and Iceman and Maverick get called into combat, and Maverick's dogfighting ability is no longer questioned.There are many scenes that contribute to the adrenaline and machismo of the film. There is a scene in which the fighter jocks are playing volleyball, with sweat and grit. There are several shots of Maverick on his motorcycle. There are several confrontations, where the stubbornness and cockiness of the fighter jocks is evident, as they butt heads, similar to animals in the wild. Some scenes are boosted by confusing camera angles, and jostling around, to help the viewer understand the rigors and disorientation of air combat. The music at times gets intense, and there is some radio chatter type dialogue that adds to the intensity of the pilots.This is a quality film, and is very entertaining, with appeal to most people, but has some other similar films. These movies are entertaining; however don't expect to be deep in thought at the credits.If you are looking for adrenaline, excitement, and a healthy dose of cockiness, Top Gun is worth checking out. Maverick's words sum it up pretty well, I feel the need&#x85; The need, for speed! "}{"Title":"For what it is...","Date":"24 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" You know, Top Gun is one of those movies that everyone has seen, unless you. So I gave it a chance now, even thought I tend to dislike this kind of movie.First off I read many people claiming that this film is homo erotic. I just saw the whole movie and didn't see it.. maybe homo eroticism (does this word even exist?) is in the eyes of who sees... The writers just made a good job showing that for a macho team they HAVE to be very close friends to do their best. But as I see, they've been misunderstood here.Tom Cruise's films are always like that he's a nice man and all the girls want to have him. He can be arrogant, stupid, rude and people always love his characters. What is your problem? So that's it, Top Gun is an entertainment with sort of reality and welfare. Not a good movie to me anyways. "},{"Title":"Overrated!","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I guess this is the much hyped movie that made Tom Cruise famous. I can't see whats so endearing about this film. I mean it is a good movie but is it that good? I think this is a good movie for entertainment, not awards. I will admit though that Tom Cruise had a memorable performance.This is about the training of pilots during the Cold War and how a hotshot attempts to be the number one.I said before that Cruise did a heck of a job. Val Kilmer also was great as Cruise's rival.The soundtrack is awesome. I love the songs Danger Zone and Take my Breath Away. Overall, this is a good movie but nothing special. I rate this film 7/10. "},{"Title":"Anti-climax (for me at least)","Date":"31 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think I wasted mental effort imagining what 'Top Gun' would be like in terms of its supposed brilliance. However watching it when I finally got the DVD off here today was an unfortunate anti-climax.The flight scenes were the best bit and the romance and soundtrack were OK, but the plot and characterisation didn't cut it as well as I hoped it would. It seems so weak and badly written in that respect, as I watch it, unable to really grasp the lead of the film as I do with a good one. Perhaps it just has to be seen as a light movie that satisfies different interests and tastes rather than anything too deep and in that respect it has aged well as a classic action/love/war thriller. But like the grindhouse movies of the 70s which just sold what they knew the viewers wanted to see, there are limits to the artistry of the film. "},{"Title":"Soaped up gay man action","Date":"28 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" From what i had heard about this movie, it could have been like Apocalypse Now or it could have been another one of those movies which are spoofed in the likes of Pulp Fiction. But it wasn't. I don't know whether its an adapted screenplay or an original one, still this is such a movie that i won't mind even if the novel is written for the movie. I am a marine and did not go through seal training however the boot camp depiction and training was very similar to what I went through at Paris Island over 20 years ago. Even the physical part where the senior instructor blew the skullcap off of a grunt and others. That used to happen and Paris Island and in other schools I went too all the time. I'm gay and Filipino and well, ... Guys are cute but how many mindless dances and sex scenes are needed to show that they are call boys? Forget all the other reviews. This a brave, powerful movie, reminding us of the times before Gay Liberation, of why it is so necessary. It is a strong drama with lots of passions and emotions. It is very easy to follow even though the subtitles are very hard to read at times. The acting is totally convincing, and the story is heartrending. The locker room scenes are beautiful.This movie is not about men dancing in their underwear. It is so easy for us Americans to sit in our little corner of the world and ignore what goes on in other places, even our own inner cities. This movie is about a family of soldiers that love one another enough to do what it takes to survive in their hostile environment. Here the people might win, but usually it is the environment that succeeds. Maybe, just maybe, we should do something about that! "},{"Title":"It's the highway to the overrated zone!!!","Date":"6 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have never been able to watch this movie from beginning to end, so my review is probably not the best resource for a person deciding whether or not they would like to see this movie. I am also not the biggest Tom Cruise fan in the world. Not that I dislike him or anything, he just has never been able to put a movie together that I find complete. Even the ones I like a bit usually have a lot of flaws within them. This one has to many flaws for me to like, the only thing I sort of like about this movie is the 80's music that accompanies this piece. Other than that it is just like some sort of a commercial for the United States Air Force, or are they Navy? Anyways, the story is about these guys competing in some sort of academy to become the top gun and that is about all there is to it from what I have seen. I have pretty much seen all the movie, just not all at one time cause it just kind of bores me. You take away the music and you are just left with guys flying in jets and competing over a woman. It is almost a chick flick that tries to disguise itself as some over the top action movie because of the inclusion of jets in it. Val Kilmer is in this film too, and he livens things up and for some reason is considered the villain of the movie, but seriously Tom Cruise's character in this film is less likable in my opinion. "},{"Title":"air high thriller","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of my favorite movies. It was big hit back in the 80s, I loved it then, I love it now. I love Tom Cruise because of this movie, what teenage girl didn't back then. It's a story about the ultimate pilots with a mission to defend and kill. Maverick has the ghost of his dad's air fighting past on his shoulder as he wears his heart on his air-fighting sleeve. His flying is erratic, dangerous and genius. It is filled with the usual high testosterone filled airmen enter Val Kilmer, the handsome arch rival. There is the inevitable conflicted romance between pilot and beautiful blonde air instructor featuring the unforgettable, romantic hit sleeper Take My Breath Away and the much remembered scene when he first serenades her in the bar with You've Lost That Loving Feeling. Maverick dazzles with his air fighting skills and genius but because of his troubled past he remains number two. There is the predictable loss of life when his wingman Goose dies during practice in jet wash causing Maverck to doubt his confidence and unnaturally skilled air fighting talent. He finds our from his superior that his father died a hero and he has nothing to be ashamed of. The last fighting scene shows Tom Cruise kicking butt in the air as he saves Val Kilmer, showing incredible skill at dogfighting. He proceeds to show daring maneuvers untested by pilots which in the end saves the day. He reunites with Kelly McGillis in the end. Tom Cruise plays the cocky arrogant Maverick with all the charm oozing out of every pore. This movie appeals to men because of the air fight scenes and to women because of the hot romance. An all time favorite that will stand the test of time. There is one famous line, Val Kilmer says to Cruise you can be my wingman anytime, while Cruise cockily grins and says bulls--t, you can be mine, and the crowd cheers. "},{"Title":"a highly entertaining--but not high-class--guilty pleasure matinée","Date":"24 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is not a movie that I wholeheartedly defend with my approval rating or with the fact that I enjoyed it. I acknowledged that although I liked the movie&#x97;mind you as a guilty pleasure&#x97;it is not a particularly good motion picture. It's a no-brainer; the perfect kind of movie for people who don't look for logic in their films. It's a quintessential Saturday matinée. It's also the movie responsible for the kickoff of Tom Cruise's career. And it's been the target for many spoofs, rip-offs, and parodies such as the hit comedy Hot Shots! (1991) with Charlie Sheen. So although Top Gun is not a good movie, it is a decidedly influential movie and it is guilty pleasure entertainment at its best.Tom Cruise plays 'Maverick' a hot shot fighter pilot who becomes selected to take part in Top Gun, an elite school for flying aces. He's got a lot of pride and a brain full of recklessness, but he's also a very good pilot. Yeah, we know the type. Amidst and in his schooling, he faces competition from another hotshot played by Val Kilmer and a romantic attachment from one of his instructors, played by Kelly McGillis.What really saves this movie from sinking (or pummeling from the sky, I guess we should say) is not the harebrained script, but the performances. After all, Tom Cruise's career launched off not merely because he was in a hit movie, but because he played, like Harrison Ford in his kickoff, a cocky character that the audience went for. Cruise, with his schmuck hotshot attitude and chirpy grin is precisely the sort of protagonist that a no-brainer audience goes for. He started off playing cocky characters and he played them well. Kelly McGillis, although having no character depth, does also manage to pull off a very interesting performance and that is why, for me anyway, the relationship between her and Cruise remains a little interesting even though this love subplot, like many, is completely unnecessary.But the high point for me was a very spectacular action scene toward the end of the picture where Cruise and others engage with enemy fighters while flying over the ocean. This scene was explosive, kinetic, fast-moving, and yet stretched a great length of time and was just the jarring motion we needed after the middle of the movie really began to run slow.Top Gun is one of those movies that is hard to praise for a long time, because there's a lot more to complain about than there is to praise. In the end, I enjoyed the picture because of some sweet action scenes, strong performances, and just a kind of steady guilty pleasure atmosphere that surrounded the whole ordeal. Now if your brain refuses to let down its sophisticated guards at any time, this will not be the picture to suit your day. It's a harebrained story with harebrained characters. But if you drop your standards for just a little while, kick back, relax, and try not to take it too seriously, you will find some primal low-key entertainment. "},{"Title":"up there with the best of the best","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" i watched this movie 1st time in 1987 at that time i wasn't very much impressed then again in 1992 this time i was fairly quite impressed and in 1997 i watched it about 5 times and so much impressed and fascinated by airiel photography and visual effect i myself cant believed it. Every scene of real and drill kind of dogfight looks so much real and original that you must appreciate the genius of producer jerry bruckhiemer. I had a desire to be a fighter pilot and after watching this i would definitely like to jump into the cockpit of an F-14 or F-16. In this film i happened to see actor Tom cruise for the 1st time and also guys like Val kilmer and Anthony Edwards. This film also produced one of the most marvelous sound track. At the deck of USS Enterpirse this film delivers more than you could expect. This film is the inspiration why the actor tom cruise developed a passion for flying and own his own private jets and it also motivates others like to develop a passion to soar into the skies. This is the best movie about military aviation history ever. "},{"Title":"Pulsating action with cool Cruise to light up any guy's day","Date":"15 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Radical air pilot Maverick (Cruise) and his friend Goose (Edwards) are sent to Top Gun, the toughest challenge for the pair who compete to be the best.Tony Scott's pulsating actioner is remembered today for those terrific jet sequences, the swift introduction of the then fastest motorbike in the world, and perhaps significant in today's modern culture, Tom Cruise's macho bravado smile.Over 20 years have passed and the lead star and director have certainly moved up in the world. Cruise receiving three Oscar nominations and Scott winning a Primetime Emmy. And this is where it pretty much all started for the pair, and what an introduction.Top Gun opens with Cruise's Maverick disregarding a direct order to help out a fellow pilot, getting told off before getting his just desserts, a reward to go to the most famous academy, Top Gun, and herein lies the action, the drama and even some exquisitely handled comedy.Above all, this Scott picture is an out and out action drama that spices up the situations with that cheeky comedy only somebody called Tom Cruise can bring. Maverick is the catalyst of sharp intake and a bravado icon that would make any guy instantly jealous of his quick thinking and constant confidence. Not to mention his friendship with Goose is a wonderful addition to slow down the motives of the continuous action.There are fist brawls, fighter jets, boats, fighter jets, motorbikes and fighter jets. Yes, it is targeted towards the type of guy who enjoys a Tom Clancy novel. Even the romance sequences seem more masculine as if to fill out every guy's fantasy. The ongoing rivalry and competitiveness in the service is spicy and intriguing with a few twists thrown in. The use of the motorbike was well executed, especially going over the blind hill but this film is undoubtedly recalled for the fighter jet sequences. The perfect synchronization of the planes in motion is pure adrenaline soaked talent that must have been a real challenge to film and direct. Nevertheless there is some friction with these plane inclusions. The camera is moving so fast and frequently it is hard to justify what is happening on screen. The mumbled dialogue does not help matters, not to mention the preferred lexis in talking code will strike a few people out of the game.But, looking at it from an enjoyment point of view, what is happening on screen is transfixed and you cannot tear away should the phone ring or the footy game starting.Cruise, as already mentioned, lights up the screen with that sharp white smile and his smart timing and cockiness helps achieve the strong lead role necessary for the action soaked script.The training and pushing to be the best inevitably lands Goose and Maverick in trouble and some friction generates from The Ice Man, giving the film a spicy drama, along with one of the most sad twists for friendship to ever hit our screens. A must see "},{"Title":"Not great, good though.","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is a classic film from the eighties that most regard as a good or great film. I think it was good, not great and that may be due to my opinions towards a few of the aspects of this film.Basically it is about a few pilots, Maverick and Goose, who get into TOp GUn, which is a program for the best pilots. There they fly against the best and compete to see who actually is the best.Tom Cruise never was one of my more favorite actors, and his character in this film is kind of annoying. Completely arrogant and also a bit of a know it all. It is funny how Val Kilmers character is portrayed in a negative way most of the film and also arrogant while Tom Cruis is every bit, if not more, arrogant than Val Kilmer is.The love story in this film is a little lame in my opinion. It does not seem that they actually are in love despite claiming to be. Maverick just meets her in a bar, she turns out to be his instructor, she is really interested in his knowledge of MIGs, but somehow they develop a relationship because of all this. Odd love story and one that seemed very lame.I really like the flying sequences and they show a lot of good footage of jets taking off. There also is a lot of technical air force terms used and this is good and makes it seem real, however there was a lot of stuff that I did not comprehend as easily and was confusing. But it seemed like a real group of guys involved in flying jets.It seemed that at times this film dragged and there is a lot of odd parts. Like a lot of singing. Also there are a lot of parts that seemed a little homosexual to me. If you have seen this film, you know what parts I am talking about.The music is awesome though. Great selection of eighties music in this one.So, not a great film, but pretty good. I recommend seeing it if you never have seen it. "}{"Title":"Twenty Years On....","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" 1986's Top Gun had a lot going for it a first rate production staff featuring the action partnership of Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer, direction by Tony Scott, and lead acting by a young Tom Cruise and a still youthful Kelly McGillis, backed by a solid supporting cast that included Val Kilmer, Anthony Edwards, Tom Skerrit, Michael Ironside and, in cameos, Meg Ryan and Tim Robbins. Couple this horsepower with a superb popular music score, lots of action sequences featuring the Navy's hot F-14 fighter aircraft, and hijinks and angst among young naval aviators, and you have a great action movie that spent months in the theaters. The storyline centers around Navy LT Pete Maverick Mitchell (Tom Cruise), a brash, immature, but gifted flier. In a close encounter with enemy Migs over the Persian Gulf, Maverick saves his wingman and earns a slot at the prestigious Fighter Weapons School for himself and his backseater, Goose (played with everyman humility by Anthony Edwards). At the school, Maverick quickly develops a rivalry with his chief competitor, Iceman (played with suitable demeanor by Val Kilmer) and a romance with one of his instructors, Charlie (Kelly McGillis). However, Maverick's willingness to push the flying envelope gets him and Goose into an horrific flying accident. The accident robs Maverick of his self-confidence and threatens to take him out of the cockpit altogether. Some gentle mentoring by one of his flight instructors (Tom Skerrit) gets Maverick back out to his carrier, right in the middle of an confrontation with the bad guys. In a vicious aerial dogfight involving an outnumbered Maverick and Iceman, Maverick must finally grow up and become a team player. An absolutely terrific music score and action sequences involving dog-fighting F-14's and Red team aircraft (cutting edge at the time) tend to mask a sometimes incoherent script. The romance between Maverick and Charlie gets worked in around the flying sequences, as does a rather obscure sub-plot involving Maverick's MIA father. The jumpy editing causes supporting cast to sometimes wander in and out of scenes without real introduction or explanation. Minor flaws aside, Top Gun continues to hold up well as a highly enjoyable action movie twenty years on. "},{"Title":"Impossible to NOT like","Date":"22 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" As much as you want to dismiss Top Gun as one of the cheesiest movies ever, it simply cannot be done. There might not be a lot to love about the film, but I challenge anyone to find something to hate about it.The story of Pete Maverick Mitchell (Cruise) and his partner Goose (Edwards) as they are selected to attend the Navy's top air academy for dogfighting is classically structured. There are so many archetypes (the mission gone wrong, the rebellious pilot, the instructor-student romance) that Top Gun has both an eye-rolling quality and yet a comfortably familiar quality. It's so easy to follow that you get bored through most of it, but you never once stop rooting for Maverick and Goose and you laugh at the completely implausible yet successful courting tactics employed by Maverick on his love interest, Charlie.Another thing that can make a movie fun that Top Gun has plenty of is music. A rockin 80s soundtrack that can't be beat, from Danger Zone to Take My Breath Away, the film is partially as lovable as it is because even if what you're watching is boring, what you're listening to is fun.Top Gun could be a totally forgettable film, but it is that innocent, charming quality that lets it get away with the fact that everyone's who hasn't seen it thinks it is one of the best films of the 80s, when it is by no stretch of the mind in that category. "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed this film as I have always been fascinated by airplanes and flying. Tom Cruise was awesome and was simply an enjoyable film for me. Still remarkable that I enjoy this film after many viewings and doesn't get tiring. Val Kilmer did a nice job of playing Iceman and everything wraps up nicely at the end. Action scenes are well filmed and believable. At the end of the day, a nice feel good movie and one that can be recommended to families (with kids above 12 years old?) Tom Cruise really has had a remarkable career and this is one of the earlier films that catapulted him to stardom. Two thumbs up from me. "},{"Title":"Fun 80's flick","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a cheesy 80's flick that is great fun to watch, the shots of the F-14's are stunning and really well filmed, the music is very 80's with the song Danger Zone and Take my Breath away, the acting is great and the action is cool. Top Gun is directed by Tony Scott (Ridley Scott's brother), Top Gun is a blend of action, drama and romance and it's done pretty good, the script is good and the dialogue is fine.Top Gun does have some cheesy moments but that doesn't matter because it's a fun movie that doesn't disappoint with the action of the F-14's, the drama between the characters and the romance between Maverick (Tom Cruise)and Charlie (Kelly McGillis), if you love 80's flicks then check Top Gun out. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A good film, amazing dog fight action sequences, apart from the corny plot","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film will always go down as an 80s classic with its appeal to both the lads and the ladies. The lads go for the action, the women go for the love story.No doubt about it, the film has some amazing dog fights as well as a sturdy plot to emphasis its reasoning.The overall cast was chosen well, Tom Cruise suited the cocky hero heart throb, as always. Kelly McGillis was the perfect choice to play the intelligent love interest, Val Kilmer played his best role to date as the rival Ice Man and Tom Skerrit was well chosen to play the warm hearted mentor.It is not usually my cup of tea, but the romance side of it was not as bad as I expected because it for once had a realistic approach.What let the film down for me was the stupid musical numbers, such as you've lost that loving feeling and goodness gracious great balls of fire. As not only did it make the actors look stupid, but they were also unrealistic, how many times do you see that in real life? The film is also backed up by an awesome soundtrack, which gave the film that atmosphere.Overall, a film that everyone should watch at least once in their life time. "},{"Title":"Iceman Sucks","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER!!!!! I will never see Val Kilmer as anyone other than Iceman. i blame him completely for Goose's death and Goose was cool (i reckon he knew he was going to send Maverick and Goose through his jet wash!). i now have a lot of trouble liking any character that Mr Kilmer plays.  "},{"Title":"For the 80's, its ok","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There were many movies in the 80's, (that will remain nameless), that totally sucked a**, but Top Gun was actually alright.  i admit, yes, that it was not the best, but the actors cocky attitudes, good looks, and the soundtrack really brought this movie up to speed.  7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Cool Flick despite some drawbacks","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT Top Gun is one of the best U.S. Navy films that I have seen from Tom Cruise despite having some fictitious exaggerations within an excellent storyline. Great effects, good directing by Tony Scott, awesome camera angles of the F-14 Tomcat flying, and great acting by the whole cast (Cruise, McGillis, Kilmer, Edwards, and many more). Although the film was made in 1986, Top Gun is still a modern film to me in this very day. It definitely brings entertainment and excitement.However, one drawback of this film was when  Goose  (Anthony Edwards) died because of his head accidentally hitting the jet canopy while he and  Maverick  (Tom Cruise) ejected out of their spinning, jetwashed F-14. That was way too sad when  Goose  died due to major head injuries. If I was  Maverick , I would feel the same way. It would defintely take some time to recover.About the enemy aircraft in Top Gun, another drawback to this film is that I wished they used real Russian MiGS like the MiG-29 Fulcrum, MiG- 25 Foxbat, or some other MiGS instead of simulated black F-5 jets (MiG-28's) with Russian emblems painted on them. The film would look more realistic with the real MiGS around. I guess the film crew didn't have much budget for them.Anyways, Top Gun is a pretty good film to watch whenever you're in a good mood for entertainment. Another positive thing about this film is that it has a good soundtrack with Kenny Loggins, Cheap Trick, and Berlin. I never get tired of listening to it, either. "},{"Title":"Rating it on what it is, pure entertainment.","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sure this movie wasn't nominated for any awards, and nor should it have been.  This movie doesn't not try to be an Academy Award winner, it knows that it is pure entertainment.  The acting might be just par, and the directing average, but the action sequences in this movie are top notch. Still, 16 years later, Top Gun is still one of the top grossing movies of all time.  And it shows, this movie isn't slow on the action and not heavy on the dialogue.  Tom Cruise gives a good performance as a maverick of a pilot who refuses to fly by the rules.  Val Kilmer is great as the cold as ice antagonist. I do think the role Charlie (Kelly McGillis) could have been casted better, Cruise and McGillis don't seem to have that on screen chemistry that he and Kidman had in the later hit Days of Thunder.  The sound in this movie is incredible, and the music fits just right.  All and all if you haven't experience Top Gun yet, go out and at least rent it, the DVD release is nothing special (its a shame, they did this movie no justice on DVD)but without a doubt this is the best Bruckheimer action flick to date, The Rock being second.****/***** (4/5) "},{"Title":"Not very realistic, but often funny...","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, about three-quarters of this movie is hokey melodrama, so don't take it seriously. Even the dogfight scenes (some people think they are great) are INCREDIBLY unrealistic - F-14s carry Phoenix missiles capable of splashing a target from 100 MILES away. Most air combat does not take place nose-to-nose like the dogfights in the movie. Oh well.Overall, a classic 80s flick.SPOILERS SPOILERSGoose is easily the most likable and real character in the whole film, and what do they do? Kill him off. ARGH. "}{"Title":"Cinema can be simplistic","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun is a fantastic film.  There can be no arguments in my mind about this rather bold statement.  The plot is simple, the action is good and the script is pure quote heaven (ego writing cheques that you're body can't cash etc).  This makes for the perfect combination and is a great example of 80's cinema and popcorn fodder...However, Top Gun is just that - popcorn fodder.  There is no hidden plot. This film isn't about relationships or even flying - its a simple guide on how to make a sure-fire hit with a touch of arrogance and flair...  An entire generation loves this film (my friends and I still use the quotes when we're out drinking).So those who base their reviews on the fact that its not Shakespeare are completely missing the point - Top Gun is shallow, ego-fuelled movie that makes people smile and made a star out of Tom Cruise "},{"Title":"Depends what you like (1 MAJOR SPOILER)","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is hard to decide whether this movie is a classic or complete rubbish. Admittedly the first time I saw it I absolutely loved it, but when I bought it on video and watched it again I realised that I really liked it, but at the same time hated it The flight scenes are amazing, and really get your adrenaline going, as they are fast, exciting, and tightly edited. The characters are fun to watch, and the dual between Ice Man and Maverick is interesting and draws you in.At the same time, however, you have this overriding cheesiness that goes on pretty much throughout the movie. This is due mainly to the music score, which features guitars playing what is probably meant to be 'exhilirating' music, but actually makes you sick after the first few times you have listened to it. Another thing which annoyed me were the filters evidently used in the film. There is a scene where a helicopter is lifting ****SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER**** Goose and Maverick out of the water after Goose is killed, and the sky has suddenly turned into multiple shades of red and blue because of the effects used. It seems to me that a more 'realistic' air to the film would have done it a lot of good, but then again, Jerry Bruckheimer knows what casual film goers enjoy, and Top Gun was a money making extravaganza. Lastly, the film appeared to be one big advert for the US navy. So, overall, if you are looking for cheap, fun entertainment, see this, but don't expect any more than that. "},{"Title":"Shallow on storyline,good on romance.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun was Tom Cruises major breakthrough role.Why?All I thought of it was the action sequences were dull and undetailed,very unclear.What I liked about it was the romance.There is a chemistry between the pilot and his teacher what sparks.The two theme songs were good as well,especially the way it is used in the diner in the end.I liked that part of the storyline,other than that the movie sucked,but I have to give Tom Cruise some credit for his performance,he was brilliant along with Val Kilmer and Anthony Edwards loveable character. The plane sequences were a little too shaky and dark,you can't really see what happens. Among this the romance scenes do impress.The romance scenes and the acting make up for bad action scenes so I would rate 3/5.It'd be great if they made the action sequences better. "},{"Title":"Um, Tom Cruise look's good and fly good.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not really my kind of film, I can understand the people that like it (the endless hordes of teengirls) but there is some cool scenes with the airplanes, and if you can forget about how oh and pretty Mr. Cruise is, he actually do a good actingjob.7/10. "},{"Title":"Just scary how digestible and solid it is","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the sort of movie where you really don't need ANY extra's on the dvd because absolutely nobody cares about what happened behind the scenes nor would anybody like to hear comments from any maker of this movie.  It's a typical Bruckheimer (Pearl Harbor) production that aims at a large audience with great precision (how ironic).  The only important factors are excellent sound and a very large screen.  Turn off your brain functions before take-off plz. and we guarantee a safe and commercial success.  BTW I would like to see some statistical figures of the recruiting successes of the airforces in the Anglo Saxon world in the years 1986-now.  I have the strong feeling that those went ballistic too.Strangely enough it is still very entertaining but also as dated as a movie possibly can get the score is a really cheap eighties sound, the actors (except Tim Robbins and Tom Skerrit) are typical eighties commercial faces (and nothing more than that), and the genre is really out of this time. When exactly WAS the last/only worldwide really commercial successful fighterjet-flick?  I think that was Top Gun, because it was released just before the 'end' of the cold war and therefore a 'legitimate' diversion from daily grind.  Long live Ronald Reagan; we'll probable see more of this sort of movies in the coming Bush jr era.We never really see the faces of the enemy.  Let's say they are behind some virtual iron curtain or something.  That creates a fairly scary element or at least a great deal of suspense.  But also an extremely myopic vision that results (not in the story but in the mind) in propagandistic and misplaced heroism.  Since when can a such a big-mouth loner  become a fighterjock in the first place (I tried it and it didn't work) ?  His nickname says it all Maverick ('Your ego's writing cheques that your body can't cash').  'The Right Stuff' (1983, Kaufman) is also propagandistic and heroic, but at least also fairly realistic, human and above all epic.  Nevertheless, the dogfights in Top Gun are terrific, apart from some obvious repetitions.Where I find it hard to sit through Titanic, Enemy of the state, Independence Day, or Pearl Harbor (still refuse to pay money for that one) in three or four stages or even start looking at them because I know up front they are complete and utter bul***it/feelg**d/box**fice smash hits, I must have seen Top Gun at least ten times by now and that's not because of some supposed compensation of a supposed shortcoming in manlihood.  I never understood why people see phallic symbols in (fighter)planes or even guitars or even cars.  Tony Scott and especially cinematographer Jeffrey Kimball (Jacob's Ladder, which has superior photography by far) created a very solid piece of work in which every (superficial) element falls into place and doesn't need any brain activity ;-)  "},{"Title":"3 cheers for the REAL star the F-14 Tomcat!","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nobody, not even IMDB, gets this film. The vehicle for this vehicle flick is the F-14 jet fighter, an aircaft that can track 20-some targets on radar and shoot down six simultaneously, has swing wings, is huge but extremely nimble, and can be used as a fighter, a mediocre bomber, and (in Iranian hands) as a poor man's Airborn Early Warning (in essence a flying radar station) aircraft. I grew up in SD County and let me tell you TOP GUN was loved by the Navy, because it brought people to airshows at Miramar Naval Air Station (now a Marine Air base), and brought up enlistments. TOP GUN is a service film made with the cooperation of the military, which is why there's so much real cockpit footage. What IMDB doesn't get is the MiG-28. At the time (1985-6)Jane's Defence Monthly and other defence rags were speculating about a new Soviet fighter from that well-established design bureau. What the press didn't know was that the MiG boys had been at work on a twin-engined pocket rocket, the MiG-29, since 1975 (jets took up to a decade to develop before high-speed computers; the Soviets used slide rules and rocket-powered models). The producers of TOP GUN, obviously not deep students of military aviation, made up a number and stuck MiG in front of it (MiGs were odd numbered), and used an Agressor squadron (master pilots who act as the enemy in training dogfights) T-33 Talon jet trainer painted black as their mystery plane. (I saw that jet at the 1986 Blue Angels show at Miramar.) Remember, this was the decade that saw the lame film FIREFOX (jet planes with lazers and thought-diven missiles) hit the screens. To sum up The military got a recruitment, feel good movie; Simpson got mounds of money for cocaine and black jeans; and the public had the factoid that Miramar NAS was Fightertown, USA.MiG comes from the bureau's founder's last names, Mikoyan and Guryevich. Other fighter bureaus were Sukhoi, Yakovlev, Polikarpov, Gregorovich.The F-14 was built by Grumman, who had built USN planes since the 1930's. "},{"Title":"The flag waving epic of pilots and sex.","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  TOP GUN is a patriotic aviation film about barnstorming navy jet pilots who are training at a cold war aviation school called TOP GUN. The romance angle was not added into the script until WARREN SKARREN or someone did a rewrite at the behest of the producers. I read this once. TOP GUN was the big hit of 1986 (one of them) and every guy who went into this thing went out wanting to be like TOM CRUISE. The films strength is the ropmancre story which appealed to women and the music video like flight sequences and MTV flash of the movie. TOP GUN was sort of a flag waving movie but it was a good one. Granted, it was just a movie but I enjoyed it. The flight sequences were shot using NASA tracking cameras and gave the movie a unusual look for it's dogfight sequences. This film was also one of the most heavily imitated movies of all time. The film was released at a time when PARAMOUNT was producing hit after hit movie, this was during the time of BRANDON TARTIKOFF I think. The mid 1980's was good to this company and this was one of the biggest hits it had. Critics bitched that it wasn't real enough and was fake..it was just a movie. However, ticket receipts and a unusual straight to video release in 1987 for around 24 bucks sparked it as a top video seller as well. The TOM CRUISE/KELLY MCGILLIS romance subplot heralded the ticket buying power of the female audience which made the producers rich men. A classic in terms of hollywood fantasy film production. Still seen in syndication. "},{"Title":"The plaque for the alternates is down in the ladies' room.","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun is a gripping story about an elite group of Navy pilots who compete to be the best in the air.  The pilots of Top Gun all have inflated egos and are very arrogant when it comes to the skills as pilots, and thats what I love about this film.  These macho students fly together, compete with each other and in the end learn to trust each other.  Maverick and Iceman learn that there are some things more important than winning.  A great cast combined with Tony Scott's ability to produce blockbusters make this Bruckheimer/Simpson film one of the best ever. "},{"Title":"Reagan-era Film making That's As Classic As The Gipper Himself...","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  And possibly the best film of all(or at least the most fun) I saw this as a boy with my Grandfather, a Navy man who was stationed in San Diego in the 40's. It was a great experience. I wanted to fly with Maverick.I think the point of the film is patriotism, something we lack today. Top Gun has inspired countless men and women to join the military. It put a human face on victims of war.It shows that in the end..we are all on the same team. The scene where Maverick and Iceman hug is one of the great movie moments. It has been said that this movie is for guys and the answer is yes.That is why I like it so much. It's made for guys, about guys. But it doesnt yield to stereotypes of women. The female lead is a air defense expert who works for the pentagon and is older and wiser than our male lead.All in all Top Gun is a classic film and the film of my youth. "},{"Title":"A decent yarn","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I like F-14 Tomcats so I liked the film. There are numerous technical errors in it, but who cares? It is decent story about a cocky fighter pilot (Tom Cruise) out to make his mark on the world. He learns some hard lessons about personal responsibility. He also manages to fall in love with the gorgeous Kelly McGillis although he was a confirmed bachelor's before meeting her. The film holds together fairly well. The fact that there are lots of F-14 scenes makes it even better, in my opinion. The acting is OK, but nothing to get all excited about. Watch for a decent performance from Tom Cruise, Kelly McGillis, Meg Ryan and Anthony Edwards. This was the first film in which Val Kilmer ever stood out as far as I was concerned. A fun film to watch. I gave it a 7. "}{"Title":"Not to be considered a love movie","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun is your typical love story mixed with 30,000 pounds of thrust behind it.  Tom Cruise unleashes a powerful performance as Maverick Mitchell, a Navy pilot sent to the Navy's prestigious fighter weapons school known as Top Gun.  The sheer heart-pounding combination of action, music, and incredible aerial photography makes Top Gun a great movie. Kelly McGillis plays Charlotte Blackwood, the love interest of Maverick.  The age difference was a little hard to believe, but other than that, her performance was believable, and perfectly played.  She grew from the hard-nosed bitch who's only thrill out of life is teaching pilots about new enemy intelligence, to a woman interested in teaching Maverick how to maneuver around her body.  There are many scenes between her and Maverick that are lacking in feeling, but I guess that's not what I watched this movie for.  I did, however, like the karaoke scene in the bar where Maverick and Goose (Anthony Edwards), are singing to her. Top Gun delivers with an all-star cast including Val Kilmer, Tom Skerritt, and Michael Ironside.  Jerry Brukheimer picked all of the actors chosen for this movie personally.    Now, I do not make it a habit to read all of the goofs that are listed in the IMDb database before writing my reviews, however having known that this particular movie is full of errors, I had no idea just how many.  That will definitely have an impact on my final score of this movie. While Top Gun set the standard for the `fighter plane' genre, keep in mind that Iron Eagle I and it's only worthy sequel, part II are the only other movies you could put into the category.  All in all, Top Gun takes you on a thrill ride from zero to excitement in 109 min.  "},{"Title":"Low Gun.","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun (1986) Dir Tony Scott / Cast Tom Cruise, Kelly McGillis, Val Kilmer, Anthony Edwards, Tom Skerritt Women love this film for the romance and males love the action. For me, the best aspect is the end credits that signalled that this overrated dog show was over. It is a film about being the best you can be but unfortunately the film itself fails to live up to this expectation. Aerial photography and sky action sequences are overwhelming but story is full of clichés. Two Navy pilots compete at the Fighter Weapons School where top honors are known as Top Guns. Tony Scott is skilled at presenting action. This is a stretch from his previous film, a vampire flick called The Hunger. Tom Cruise has fun as the hotshot pilot whose father was also a fighter pilot who had disappeared. The rest of the cast are reduced to mere stereotypes. Kelly McGillis as an instructor is a dumb romantic prop. It comes to no surprise that she falls for Cruise and makes that imbecilic appearance in the conclusion just to jerk viewers around. Val Kilmer plays the ever familiar rival pilot who will come to respect him. Anthony Edwards plays the best friend who meets a tragic end. Tom Skerritt plays a commander who knew the father of the Cruise character and that is the extent of his role. Too bad the script didn't meet tragic end. Potential theme gunned down by corny romantic drivel where the top gun is the soundtrack album. Score 4 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"3 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Only just watched it but still great it doesn't age. Tom Cruz is great in it and the all the actors are really good at what they do. Not cheesy this film is serious and action packed. Sometimes its hard to see who is flying the planes and which ones are the bad guys but great anyway and that is only a very small but of the film.I would recommend it to anyone who likes action and Tom Cruz especially. I would also recommend it to anyone who like adventure and has a little romance as well. I love the graphics they are great and I can't wait to see if they will make another one but they don't have to because it doesn't need another one although it would be good to see what it is like if they made one in the future of what happened to the charters "},{"Title":"Top Gun is a nice movie for youth","Date":"24 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is a nice movie for youth. Not only that it was well directed and captured, but it also gives motivation to the youth about Aeronautics, team behavior. I myself was a kid when the movie was released and I remember how much I enjoyed watching it.I was inspired by the movie and in fact I later carried forward the inspiration in my career goal. Years later, I applied for commission in Air Force in my country. The movie also gave me idea like how we work in teams, and to organize ourselves towards a coordinate effort and mutual goals. It was also a good learning for me to know about rival groups and that how should we strive for victory, while working in teams.I still like the movie and I do watch it whenever I have time.The concept of friendship with teach, though, was new to me )Baber "},{"Title":"One Of Cruise's Best!","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tom Cruise, Kelly McGillis, Anthony Edwards, Val Kilmer, Michael Ironside and Tom Skerritt star in Tony Scott's 1986 action drama. Cruise plays Pete Mitchell aka Maverick and has a best friend, Goose (Edwards). They are hotshot navy pilots sent to a school for the best called, Top Gun. Soon, Maverick meets astrophysicist, Charlie (McGillis) and they become romantically involved with each other. When Goose dies in an accident, Maverick becomes emotionally drained and loses his concentration. He eventually gets back in gear and graduates with his crew members. Kilmer plays Iceman, Skerritt plays instructor/pilot, Viper and Ironside plays his assistant, Jester. This is definitely one of Cruise's best with a great cast, excellent score by Harold Faltermeyer and cool aerial sequences. I recommend this 80's classic. "},{"Title":"Jerry Bruckheimer's high flying masterpiece","Date":"27 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" When navy pilot named Maverick encounters a pair of MiGs over the Persian Gulf, his wingman is clearly out flown and freaks. On almost no fuel, Maverick is able to talk him back down to the Carrier. When his wingman turns in his wings, Maverick is moved up in the standings and sent to the Top Gun Naval Flying School. There he fights the attitudes of the other pilots and an old story of his father's death in combat that killed others due to his father's error. Maverick struggles to be the best pilot, stepping on the toes of his other students and in a different way to Charlie, a civilian instructor to whom he is strongly attracted to.I think that this is Jerry Bruckheimer's greatest film ever made from the classic 80s. The story was original with emotional moments that could leave you teary-eyed, the cast including Tom Cruise, Kelly McGillis, Anthony Edwards, Meg Ryan, Tim Robbins, and Val Kilmer were amazing with their performances, the action's pretty good and the soundtrack was great.The 3D version of that film is coming in February 2013 and I cannot wait to see it and I'm recommend this as one of the greatest 80's films from the past few decades. Thumbs up from me. ) "},{"Title":"A great classic","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" 25 years later and still this movie makes me feel good, make me have a good time and just every time again love it. Can't remember how many times I have seen this one in the last twenty years but enough to even know the dialogues. I am just never bored with it. It is still the best movie in his genre and doesn't even shows his 25 years. This is one of those movies that it is better not to tell too much about it because you will never tell it well enough to do credit to the movie. As I read in a review on IMDb, don't watch the rating. It is actually incredible low for a movie like this. Just give it a try, hopefully enjoy the movie and the great soundtrack! The movie is great, the images are beautiful, the story and the actors did a very good job all those years ago. "},{"Title":"One of the great movies.","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie when it was first released in 1986 and again today, 25 years later and the movie is actually better the second time around. This is one of the great action movies. This movie features an ensemble cast that is fantastic and the the story is pure entertainment. This is Tom Cruise's best movie by far; he carries it and makes it his own. Kelly McGillis is absolutely beautiful. She is a sweetheart, beautiful, intelligent and what a smile! The close-up shots of Ms. McGillis and Mr. Cruise fully capture the chemistry between them. They are actors, but chemistry cannot be faked and in this movie chemistry abounds. The script is wonderful, loaded with clever lines with double-meanings that are perfectly delivered by the cast. Val Kylmer is great in this movie. The action scenes have to be among the most spectacular ever filmed, and without special effects. The character of Maverick is heroic and flawed. He does goofy things but regardless he is a positive figure. Anthony Edwards is perfect as Maverick's navigator, friend and confidant. The story moves forward at the brisk pace and keeps the audience engaged. This is a movie that is story driven and it works because the story is evocative and the acting superb. Tony Scott put together one of the great movies. It's hard to believe that 25 years have gone by since this movie was first released, but the fact that it as watchable today as it was 25 years ago shows how good this movie really is and that is because it deals with themes that transcend time. "},{"Title":"Unintentionally funny combination of macho posturing, cheesy acting and cornball dialog","Date":"18 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Top Gun' simply didn't work for me. In fact, I found the combination of unadulterated macho posturing, cheesy acting and cornball dialog rather irritating. However, it can be viewed as an unintentional comedy as its hard to believe some lines were said with a straight face. The plot is extremely clichéd and the film feels more like an ad for the military than a genuine feature. There are some decent flying sequences in the second half as the film contrives a way for our heroes to save the day. Hugely overrated in my opinion, and strictly for hard-core Tom Cruise fan boys.Overall 3/10 "},{"Title":"The great mainstream hit of the 80s","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film that made Tom Cruise a star. It's rather peculiar because he's a contradictory character. Call-signed Maverick (his character is the eminently forgettable Pete Mitchell) he's certainly the joker in the pack but he seems a little clean-cut for all that once he's out of the cockpit. He's got considerable chutzpah not only hitting on Kelly McGillis' Blackwood in a bar but getting the entire bar to back him in song in so doing; then he finds out she's his instructor but has the wherewithal to change gear and have her anyway. In short (no pun intended) he is all things to all men.I guess this is the secret of Cruise's enduring success, right there in this character - the ability to appeal to everyone without becoming dilute. This film also has a considerable supporting cast of the military, apart from anything else, dynamically and stirringly captured by Tony Scott and, of course, a pungent, echt-1986 soundtrack featuring Berlin's huge syrupy hit 'Take My Breath Away'. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Love it and always will","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Really i am the owner of hundreds of films, but this is what started my love for films. It has everything, action, comedy, sadness, seriousness, great music, feel good factor, great effects, and a great main character. I must have seen this over 300 times own the special edition DVD and soundtrack. Know it word for word and cannot speak of it highly enough. Bit weary of the possible sequel as I find it hard to imagine that this can ever be topped.This film sums up the feel good 80's an era that was wonderful for both film and music. Where nothing was taken to seriously and was viewed and listened to for the mere pleasure. Today action films need bigger and better stunts, and crazy story lines. I don't buy that, this is the stuff great films are made of, enjoy it embrace it. "},{"Title":"Good? Sure. Great? Uhh...","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" My Take A good look, but not as good as its box-office status made it look. One of the highest-grossing films of the 80's. The film which gave name to Tom Cruise a Superstar. It also features one of the most exciting aerial sequences ever lensed. So, is Tony Scott's 1986 popular blockbuster TOP GUN worth all the attention? Judging by action, star power and breathtaking aerial photography, it does. TOP GUN is grandeur of sound and fury, but once it settles down, it turns rather slow and weak. While he blows us away with top-notch energy, director Scott and Kaboom producers Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer can't find much more to offer when aerial action and top-notch photography rest backstage. The romance subplot between Cruise Maverick and his flight schoolteacher (Kelly McGillis) is fairly competent, but other plot elements fall on a flat note. But TOP GUN has pretty much more elements that get us going and, for a mission that only wants to bring us a big-budget star-vehicle for a well-named cast list, TOP GUN still has enough juice to keep us quenched until the end credits.Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"ah, the 80's","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen this movie yesterday for the first time, and i'm almost 30 so u can say that i finally filled a hole in my movie culture. Well what to say? as having never been a fan of it at the time, i watched it with a cold attitude maybe, and more than getting galvanized by it, i laughed most of the time, because of all the 80's clichés.First of all, notice it ANYTHING maverick does, everyone praises him. He crashes an airplane wow maverick you're the man!, he farts wow man THAT was a sonic boom!, he breaks the rules no no you shouldn't have done that, but then hey man i couldn't tell you but u are the best, i mean come on lol.And he has the regular uglier sidekick who also does nothing else in the airplane than telling wow maverick you're great all the time.And what a poor excuse kelly mcgillis comes up with to get laid with maverick. I just want more info on the mig's well lady why don't u invite goose at home since he even has a photo of a mig? DAnyway this movie is so 80's. Action scene for you - boring love scene for your girlfriend - action scene again - boring kelly mcgillis scene again - and so on.If it was me i'd have cut all the love scenes and i'd have kept just the scenes with maverick and viper (the senior top gun) as intermissions. But those were the 80's, every action movie hero had to have get laid in the movie, even rambo did in rambo 2.All in all it was great fun to watch it. Heil to the 80's! D "},{"Title":"Bubblegum Entertainment wont take your breath away","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yes, believe it or not I've never seen the famous Top Gun until now, so I took the opportunity to experience the exhilaration - hmmmm? - of viewing it on the big screen with super sonic sound and Tom's huge, gorgeous - hmmmm? - mug right there in front of me.Director Tony Scott knows the only two things really going for his film are his attractive cast - Cruise, Kelly McGillis, Anthony Edwards, Val Kilmer, Rick Rissovich and Meg Ryan - and the spectacular stunts involving the F-16's that these elite pilots hurl around in. So Scott does the smart thing, and keeps his camera sharply focused on his beautiful players. When they are not in view, we invariably find ourselves looking at aerial acrobatics that will impress any thrill-seeking audience. unfortunately the visual is Top Gun's only strength, with the exception perhaps of some slick sound effects editing.Top Gun lacks totally in substance and surprises. Jim Cash and Jack Epps Jnr's script is pure throw away fodder, with very little in it to make us think, and nothing that helps us care about the participants. When the bad guys fly black fighters (Migs) and all look the same underneath their sinister, tinted helmets, you soon realise you're not watching a mentally challenging film. No, that's too mean, but really Top Gun is no more than a little bit of fun. Bubblegum entertainment.The soundtrack of this flick went along way to helping it succeed, with the hits Danger Zone and Take My Breath Away - winner of best original song at the Academy Awards. Also starred Tom Skerritt and Michael Ironside.Monday, March 31, 1997 - Astor Theatre "},{"Title":"A movie for the ego","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" War. Pride. Speed. Tom Cruise. Enough said. This is a movie either for girls that love Val Kilmer and Tom Cruise, or it is for guys that love action over a storyline.Tom Cruise plays Maverick, the fastest and most daring pilot in the Navy. He is selected to go to the Top Gun Academy, where the best of the best are trained, to graduate. Coming with him is his trusty sidekick Goose, a likable family man who loves flying.At the Academy, Maverick meets Viper, one of the training coaches that motivates him throughout the film, Charlie, a cute girl to catch his eye, and Iceman, the rival pilot who is both friend and foe at the same time. The story focuses around Cruise as he goes through the Top Gun Academy.The storyline is not as strong as one would think. The makers of this film replaced it with scenes of intense flying, volleyball scenes between Kilmer and Cruise, or scenes of romance between Charlie and Maverick. While the airplane sequences are good, I look for more than just that in a movie.The acting from Tom Cruise is all smiles or pouty frowns. It is Val that provides the talented acting, and he of all people did not even want to be in this film. He was forced to go along with it, and it didn't hurt him, but he is a much more talented actor than Cruise.I will say this; the music was great. Kenny Loggins made a classic with Danger Zone. Should have got an Oscar nomination to be honest with you, it's a great song to listen to. It helped create the scenes well.There were scenes that make me hesitate to criticize it, but there are also the disappointments of this film. It's a Tom Cruise film, one where he can be loved, supported, and admired by his legion of fans. Despite its box office, it does not match with his better quality films like Eyes Wide Shut and Born on the Fourth of July. These films make him famous as a serious actor, while this film is food for his ego and image on screen.In truth, the film isn't that bad, but there are so many better choices than this film. "},{"Title":"loved it!","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" The great thing about this movie, is that it is one of the only movies out there where you KNOW everyone has seen it, you KNOW you can say bs, you can be my wingman any time etc etc and everyone knows what you're talking about, its so classic, sure its silly and out dated, but thats what happens to movies... i cannot believe people here take this movie so seriously, i mean if it means so little to you, why even bother to comment on it at all...on one of the first date i had with my now husband we watched this TIMELESS classic, and laughed and made fun of it so much yet loved it at the same time that it kinda showed to each other our sense of humor and what we have in common...i LOVE this movie... and anyone who doesn't, should go bugger off because you don't know how to have fun! "},{"Title":"top gun is why many are pilots today in the military","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" top gun is perhaps one of the few movies which is about a.c.m -air combat maneuvers, and best of all, it is not a science fiction movie and there are no plastic clips or silicon actions unlike in stealth which is an eye-opener though, but never does it scare the guts out of a pilot, but top gun is all about the pilot in you, for me it is a religion-raw, real,and right.this movie is not for everybody but still any-body can enjoy it,the air combat jargon and the screen-play has splendid aviatronics in fact there is a superb coincidence about both the human and non-human heroes of this movie , this movie is about f-14 tomcats flown by tom cruise in top gun ! now that's what i call the t-effect. "},{"Title":"Classic boys own flick","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Maverick is a young hotshot Navy aviator who gets his chance to go to Top Gun, the most prestigious Aerial Combat school in the US Military. Soon rivalries, friendships, and romance take hold along with really cool aerial sequences.This isn't really a plot movie as there is barely none. Maverick and Co. go to school, learn their thing and fly around while looking slick and cool. While providing an entertaining movie that is obviously fueled by Reagan era politics as much as it is by jet fuel and testosterone. However, the coolness here works out as Tom Cruise is certainly cool and this film essentially guaranteed him super-stardom and his current position in the movie world. The aerial sequences and climatic combat scene are just as fun as they ever were despite not having computer effects, which most people take completely for granted now.So take this film as a boys own romp and you'll enjoy it, because that is just what is was meant to be. 8/10Rated PG for occasional profanity "},{"Title":"Another Memorable Quote","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here is another memorable quote that I do not know why, but for some reason was not put into the memorable quotes section. Talk to me Goose there is a good one. Or how about I should be a photographer. And you just cannot forget Charlie Wow, your friend was amazing. Mavrick (Feel good sigh). Goose Nah (in the bar after they both came out of the women bathroom). Or how about this Commander guy Who do we have up there? Officer Couger and Merlin, and Maverick and Goose. Commander guy Oh great, Maverick and Goose. And definitely this one Commander guy God Damnit Maverick. (after each coffee incident. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Top Gun' is my English teacher's all time favorite movie. So, since I love Tom Cruise's young face and I love movies about male bonding, I decided to try it out. Actually, I loved the movie. Maverick was so charming as a young and arrogant pilot. Actually, Guys were all really charming as hot, young pilot. I didn't think Maverick was really in love with Charlie. I thought Maverick's more like in love with the other guys, especially Goose. There was just that very deep platonic love between Maverick and Goose. Overall, I really liked the movie, though it was so cliché. This movie strictly followed a formula => arrogant guy, the friend, the rival, the love interest. But the way this film was made just drew me in and made me dream about falling in love with a young handsome pilot. Overall, I loved it! "}{"Title":"Top Gun = Top Film","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun was the top film of 1986 - the same year I was born. The film begins when Maverick and Goose are informed by their fiery tempered boss Stinger that they are going to Top Gun, the air base which trains its fighter pilots to be the best in the world. Stinger was going to send Cougar, but he lost confidence in his ability and dropped out of the Navy.Maverick and Goose arrive at Top Gun and meet two of the senior instructors - Viper (first winner of the Top Gun trophy in 1969) and Jester. They also meet Iceman - current holder of the Top Gun trophy and rated as the best fighter pilot in the Navy -, Slider, Wolfman and Hollywood.On their first night at Top Gun, Maverick and Goose go to a local nightclub and Maverick's attention is drawn to an attractive woman called Charlie (Charlotte). He starts to sing You've Lost That Loving Feeling and the rest of his colleagues join in. When they are back at Top Gun, the pilots are introduced to a female civilian doctor and it turns out to be Charlie. She asks Maverick around her house for dinner and during their conversation he tells her about his father, who was shot down in Vietnam in 1965 and never seen again.When Maverick and Goose fly for the first time, they defeat Jester and Maverick celebrates with a circus stunt flyby which soaks the control tower radio operator with coffee. Viper then reprimands Maverick for breaking the Top Gun rules - The Top Gun rules exist for your safety. They are not flexible and neither am I. Maverick is leaving a lesson at Top Gun when Charlie follows him out of the school and tries to explain that she saw genius in his flying, but he speeds off on his motorbike. Charlie follows him in her Porsche Spyder and when he eventually stops she admits to loving him.Maverick and Goose are flying in another training exercise when their aeroplane goes into a jet spin and when Maverick finally manages to eject, Goose hits his head on the canopy and they both parachute down into the sea. It is obvious that Goose has been badly injured and when Maverick is in the washrooms at the military hospital, Viper informs him that Goose is dead.An official enquiry confirms clears Maverick of any responsibility for the crash which claimed Goose's life, but he is still racked with guilt and decides to quit the Navy. Viper persuades Maverick to change his mind and he shows up the next day to graduate with the rest of his Top Gun class.During the graduation, Maverick and his colleagues are informed that they must leave as soon as possible because of a crisis in the Indian ocean. Maverick's brilliance ensures that the majority of the enemy m.i.g's are quickly eliminated and that the remaining ones back out. He wins the Top Gun trophy and returns to Fightertown u.s.a after accepting Stinger's offer of a flight instructor's role.In the closing scene, Charlie appears at the local pub and informs Maverick that she decided to stay at Top Gun because the best of the best were there. "},{"Title":"Coool","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was a Tomcat PC for VF-142. Did I see right? Are those 14's from 142 & 143 at the beginning? Did you know those things burn 400 gallons of fuel every 60 seconds in full zone 5 afterburner? I think they required about 40 - 50 hours of maintenance for each flight hour. I have to fill 10 lines? Am I there yet? Nope, not yet. Whwn I was in, the Cold War was still on. The name of our squadron was The GhostRiders. VF-143 where the Pukin Dogs. 142 was started in 1948 I believe and has since been decommissioned. BooHoo. Fighter Pilots can Party harder than any group of 1%er Bikers I ever hung out with. We lost about 10 guys from the whole ship on a 6 month. Med Cruise. Thats about average. I'm still in one piece. We cool now? "},{"Title":"Top Gun ... is still dangerous","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are some movies in this world that one should not miss.TOP GUN is one of them.I've watched it for millions of times,not because it's the best film ever made,but because it is the best for me. Actually TOP GUN is more than a movie,it's a good state of mind.It was in my early childhood when I saw it for the first time with my dad,who's a pilot and who enjoys it as much as I do.You may say I'm emotionally involved,but...come on, the movie has everything action,love,great actors,drama,truth,the best soundtrack...And as corny and superficial as this might sound, I must say I hardly think I'll ever see a more handsome man than Tom Cruise in TOP GUN (especially in the beginning when he recognizes his teacher and puts on his famous sunglasses) Of course the pretty boy is doubled by a fantastic actor,very ambitious and talented, capable of inducing the feelings of his character to the audience (even at the dawn of his acting career).He's done a perfect job there! I like the other actors too.Goose is one of a kind,Iceman as well (see the summary) As a conclusion,I guess one can best judge a movie by the number of famous quotes and scenes from it(motorcycles,planes,sunglasses,volleyball).. A lot,aren't there?...Just watch it!It's great and fun and whatever... It never grows old. It's so uncool to say that this movie is not cool.Because it's actually the definition of cool. Don't look for the weak parts in it,that's really not the point. Sit on the couch and relax by watching the movie TOP GUN. As simple as that. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"What a ride!","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow! The main thing that I can say about TOP GUN is, What a ride! Mitchell (Tom Cruise), in my opinion, was a very courageous soldier. His partner, Bradshaw (Anthony Edwards), was the same way, too. When they sang You've Lost That Lovin' Feelin', I thought they sounded good. Also, I was taken aback by the airplane stunts! They were totally breathtaking and intriguing. To me, Charlie (Kelly McGillis) looked very pretty in the dressy outfits she wore when she taught at the academy. I liked the fact that she was very strict and business-like. In conclusion, I highly recommend this smash hit to all you people who are fans of Tom Cruise or like a good action/drama with a little romance and lots of plane stunts in it. "},{"Title":"Your ego's writing cheques your body can't cash","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ah, Top Gun, the movie equivalent of the power chord. Although it was never designed to be anything more than an action-packed blockbuster it has gained classic status because it exemplifies everything that is good about the genre.Its brash, might-is-right ethos is as rooted in the 1980s as square-shouldered women and Anita Dobson's hair, but the film still has a timeless feel despite the obvious anachronism that the Cold War has ended.It is remarkable that nearly 20 years after its release it remains the best air-combat flick. Firebirds (aka Wings of the Apache) showed that helicopters weren't as exciting as jets, and Iron Eagle and its increasingly dire sequels were just too silly. Part of me suspects that getting workable footage of military jets is too tall an order for most filmmakers, but I like to believe that would-be directors realise that Top Gun is definitive.Cheesy moments are plentiful, but they work partly because they are justified by the drama and partly because the silly macho scenes are knowingly undermined by being peculiarly homoerotic.Tom Cruise perfected his jaw-wobblingly intense brand of acting for this film and, when needed, delivers a surprisingly subtle performance. I could go on about how well-paced the drama is, but all you really need to know is that the flying scenes are gripping and the music is as exciting as finding the treasure of Sierra Madre down the back of your sofa.I'd also say that Top Gun is one of the most quotable films I've ever seen, although I've seen it so many times that it could just be familiarity. Either way, Top Gun is the most modern classic I can think of. "},{"Title":"the best of the best","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" What else can be said, classic soundtrack, awesome aerial footage, even some romance thrown in for the ladies, this movie has got it all.Probably one of the best movies that has ever been about the military, although they exaggerated quite a bit about the Fighter Weapons School (Top Gun). The special edition Top Gun DVD that came out last year is very informative, as you can listen to the feature commentary from the director, one of the writers, and the technical adviser. My favorite scene is the very beginning when the F-14's are getting ready to launch and you see the blast deflector raise up from the deck, then the signal is given to go to full afterburner and you see both engines open up and start glowing red. Then the signal to shoot em is given and the plane roars down the flight deck. The footage combined with Danger Zone lets the viewer know they are in for one hell of a ride. "},{"Title":"The flying mania","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie is full of air and little of land )) with excellent action pack scenes and chases in the air. The best you could get is shown. Tom as usual handsome and attractive with few other characters as important as himself. The whole movie is abt Tom(maverick) and his approach towards flying, the man is running low on confidence becz of some events related to his dad who also was an excellent pilot. Loses his flying partner in a small mishap and has to overcome the grief. He does it in a style and the climax scene with the migs flying around is mind boggling. Some of the scenes were really touching. But on the whole the movie is nothing but action and ambition. To be the Best of the best is something special and to see the best of the best is not less special than that.. Top Gun just rox , could have been better in some parts but the loopholes not worth highlighting. Enjoy!! "},{"Title":"A feel good film. Simple plot, easy to watch and entertaining","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" The simplicity of Top Gun makes it easy to watch and entertaining. This was the film that really made Tom Cruise into the big name he is now. Throughout the film he fails to entertain, whilst becoming attracted to Kelly McGuiness, and facing other issues. Top Gun is an action film / Romance story. Although he has fallen in love, he still has his duties and wants to become the best of the best, a 'Top Gun' pilot. The flying sequences are great, and the real jets that are used make it more realistic-no poor CGI is used like today. And even for the tougher scenes to film, models were used to create the ultra-realistic effects. When watched, this can become very much a feel good film. Its not complicated, and its got laughs too, combined with some sad moments and gripping jet fight scenes. The music is also great-Berlin's 'Take my breath away' is very good, and so is 'Dangerzone'. This is one of those films were you haven't watched it, when you hear its name you automatically go Oh no, well all I've got to say is why? Its brilliant! "},{"Title":"No, I wasn't on a mind altering drug when writing this review!","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ah, Top Gun, what can I say. This is my favorite action film of all time. Kind of a cult movie for my group of friends and I. When the movie came out in 1986, it was definitely good timing as I had just been dumped by my girlfriend and it was the ultimate feel good movie that I needed. The movie had such an impact on my friends and me that a year later, when we were on as cruise to Mexico, the movie was a topic of discussion amongst our shipmates. My friends and I entered a talent contest and sang You've lost that loving feeling' and actually won. The less than stellar performance didn't quite have the same effect of the females as did Tom Cruise's performance did on Kelly McGillis but it still was a lot of fun. I loved the one liners and the camaraderie that was very evident in the film. At the time, the special effects of the dogfighting was outstanding, and the soundtrack was unequaled. The on and off love affair between Cruise and McGillis was electric. I was so awed by Cruise jamming on his motorcycle at Mirimar Naval Air station, that I went out and bought my own rice-rocket, proudly wearing my Top Gun baseball cap. Remember, motorcycle helmets were not required back then! So many actors and actresses seemingly got their big break in the movie. It's always fun to see the credits and hear people that haven't quite seen the movie as much as I have say wow, I had no idea that he or she was in the movie. I've seen the movie probably a hundred times, and it gets better each time! "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is by far the best movie of all time. It has it all...action, a love story (without being a chick-flick), comradary, humor...everything. Not only is it the most quotable movie of all time (i.e. Negative Ghostrider, the pattern is full I feel the need, the need for speed and There's no points for second place to name a few) but it also has one of the greatest soundtracks of all time. You'll be hard pressed to find any boy born after 1978 who didn't, at some point in his childhood, pretend to be Maverick, Goose, Iceman, Slider, Hollywood, Wolfman, Viper or Jester. If you haven't seen this, you're definitely not American, and if you HAVE seen this but didn't like it, you're probably a Communist. "}{"Title":"Glorious!","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I adore this movie, and do hereby revel in it's glory. Now I'm not saying it should have walked home with a bag of Oscars, but in my opinion, it really is a great movie. Admittedly, ever since the first time I saw it, I always turn it off as Maverick throws the dog tags in to the ocean. I do this because anyone with half a brain can see the bristling sexual tension between Iceman and Maverick. No offence to Kelly McGillis, but Maverick and Charlie have NO chemistry together, and the sex scene you do see it ridiculously un-erotic. Removing any gay comments from this review, an under the circumstances, that's not to easy, Top Gun still, after an embarrassing amount of viewings, still makes me laugh, and cry, and cheer. And as long as you skip the end, there can be no complaints. "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" i love this film its one of the best films that i have ever watched and all maverick, yes i would!!!!! i think this is a good film for men and women to watch it has something in it for everyone but i would recommend it to anyone no in fact everyone. its happy and sad and it has action and romance and great acting. personally the bes part of the film for me is where maverick is SO in love with her and she with him but none of them will come out and say it and then when you think they ll kiss they just don't and its the best thing to watch to learn how to play hard to get. and the best saying in the film maverick you stud, take me to bed or lose me forever i think i might use it sometime and just change the name though!!!!! "},{"Title":"great movie with stunning aerial photography","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" i was only 2 years old when this was released but i caught it on TV when i was around 9 and couldn't get over it ! being interested in design myself it sent me off into an urge to draw fighter jets. some of the shots are amazing and i still think even to this day nothing compares since the take over of computers and people crossing over to digital effects to filming but thanks to the U.S navy allowing film crews to capture footage of the air craft and ships it made the whole thing possible. after watching the documentary on how top gun was made you can really appreciate and understand how the whole movie came together and how it could so easily not have been released at all ! of course along with all of that there is the music which although stereotypical of the time accented the film perfectly. "},{"Title":"Tom Cruise, F-14, Aviators and Kenny Loggins......what more do you want?","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is and always will be a timeless classic. The action, the romance and the one liners will live forever. Trust me when i say, this movie is a 10. I cannot honestly say that this movie is the greatest movie ever made but it is definitely my favorite. The best movie ever made will always be the ones that you never really want to watch again and again, IE. Citizen Kane. This film provides a great rush and thrill every time you watch it. You'll laugh you'll cry and you will be on the edge of your seat for the entire film. This movie captures everything in our world that is great Competition, women, romance, friendship, enemies and AVIATORS!! "},{"Title":"Know which version DVD to buy and why..","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yes,I have both.I Love the movie(the jets made the movie) but oh-no they flubbed the new Widescreen edition. Stick to the 1st edition DVD(blue cover), NOT the 2nd Collector's ed.The Collector's Edition picture is darkened, I suppose to give a more theater feel.Its to the extreme where I thought my TV's color was giving out(but its perfect). Now about the the sound.Hummmm lets see, go for a theater look but lets skip the improved sound.At least they could have kept it the same.On the Collector's Ed. it seemed muffled. And I do mean like you had ear muffs on.Those jet engines should have kicked..But didn't. I found on my system that its sound seemed to be 50% better on the 1st edition. Now how about the picture size.I do love a anamorphic Wide Screen(my TV is not though)best of all. BUT here is whats offered. The the 1st Ed.(blue cover) had pan&scan(full screen-in case you didn't know) AND letterbox ratio=1.85( letterbox=Black lines added over the picture to give a theater feel). The Collectors Wide Screen is letterbox ratio=2.35(covered even more). **Note**Yes there is a full screen Collectors Edition, but I can't comment on that, because I would never buy a full screen over a wide screen and haven't seen it to compare "},{"Title":"Top movie of my life...","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...well maybe not entirely. But this was a life changer for me. I don't know why. I still cry each and every time the poor RIO dies. The clichés are all over the place, like the in-fighting between the students and the no points for second best etc, the obvious contempt for authority (then why join the air force, eh?), the lost dad who turns out to perhaps have been a hero (we never really learn it, though) and of course Meg Ryan's role as the perfect wife (Oh, I love her so in this movie).Maybe the best quote is Tom Skerrit's I'm not gonna blow sunshine up your ass. But it's the overall feel of the movie, the utterly 80s touch and not least Kelly McGillis' Charlie that does this for me. Not to mention Maverick himself...I was 15 when this movie came out and it still has one of the best soundtracks (Top Gun Anthem).Top Gun is simply one of my top three favorites of all times, and I cannot recommend this highly enough...although if people haven't seen this then they are either too old or too young. It's a child of it's times. "},{"Title":"help on a song played numerous times throughout the movie","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This song is played numerous times throughout the movie.I have been wondering what the name of the song is that is played when Maverick is riding his motorcycle the first time, when he gets sent to Top Gun. I really need help on this one people. Like no joking. This is a very serious matter Could anybody out there help me?? Please send responses to hawks822007@yahoo.com. All help will be very greatly appreciated. And any help with the name of the theme song for the movie would also be very nice indeed. Thank you to anyone and everyone who responds. And if I can be of any help to you just let me know by sending questions to the above mentioned e-mail address. -Bradley- "},{"Title":"Yes and No","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Alright the script is useless, despite containing a few great lines i crack myself up etc but it is a film i.e not real some scripts especially a while ago were in-keeping with what people liked to hear at the time, emotions were plainly stated and illustrated because that was the way it was. Also, the corny script notwithstanding, anyone who can see this film and not have their breath taken away by the stunning flying is either a liar or inbred; despite having a father who flies telling you whether a particular film-pilot almost lost that stunt or not. The quality of this movie is not judged by the script, thank god, but by its undeniable ability to capture its audience and take it right through the movie; King Arthur's (2004) script again was not really amazing but it doesn't detract too much from the film, and sound-track. However much you try to pick faults with this movie (if you try saying one thing about Goose....)there is one thing you can't deny, this film is a classic and the amount of references ad line-dropping it has created over the years only further serves to prove this fact. There are some things nobody can change however much they pretend to be a reliable film critic. "},{"Title":"Best of the best 80s!","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rarely has there been a movie since that unflinchingly celebrates machismo, and never has one been done so well. This film oozes masculinity like an Old Spice advert. Top Gun incorporates the angst that teenagers of the 80s felt at that time whilst also demonstrating with surprisingly faithful accuracy the political opinion the West had of Soviet Russia. Witness the evil faceless commies be outflown by the heroic likes of Maverick and Iceman! After I grew up and the 80s went, it became clear that Top Gun was never going to be able stand up to critical scrutiny but when I remember what it was intended for- ie entertainment, then it is difficult not to argue in this films favour. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Films","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't remember when i first saw this film but i must have been pretty young. I just watched it again the other day and i still think its one of the best films i know of. Its got action, romance, tragedy and a good cast. If you haven't seen this film yet, you're missing out. What a great classic film. It defiantly gets my vote. Tom Cruse is a great actor and really plays a perfect part in this film. This is also the only fighter pilot film i know of with good/intense action scenes and a good romance story to back it up with. It also contains humour and a sense of 'ahh thats so cool' feeling, wishing you too could be a fighter pilot. Though i do like action/easy to watch films so my view maybe swayed by this, but seriously please watch this film, you'll want to just watch over and over again. "}{"Title":"This is the best movie of all time!","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has been my favorite movie for about 10 years now.  This movie never gets old, after I'd guess 20 times watching it, it never gets boring. This movie can make you laugh, it can make you cry; when Maverick re-engages and takes down his first kill you just feel like jumping up with joy as a smile hits your face.  When Maverick finally lets go and throws Goose's dog tags into ocean you feels your eyes getting heavier as a tear rolls down your face.  The action and suspense is incredible, there are quotes in this movie that I will never forget, and smiles that won't ever leave my mind.  Also, can you believe the surround sound with this movie?  This movie was filmed in 1986 but, when you play it even on VHS using surround sound, you can almost feel and hear the jet flying right over you as they go by the air cameras.  One of the best parts of the movie is the fact that all of the stunts are actually done by real pilots, it is all real, don't believe me? Just take a look at all of the credits at the end of the movie, all of the Naval Pilots and commanders.  There is also, I regret to inform all of those who were unaware of this, but during the filming, one man died doing a stunt on camera; this man was Art Scholl, credited as the dedication of the movie. He was flying one of the stunts as they were fighting in training and his plane flew through the Jet-Wash of another plane, thus taking the plane out of control and killing him; this is where a change in script took place and the idea of how they left Goose to die. I dedicate this review in Art Scholl's loving memory, you can read more about him by searching his name on IMDB or on Yahoo! "},{"Title":"I wonder what the RPM is like in a fighter jet?","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is without a doubt, the best guy movie ever. Fast machines, a hot chick, and explosions. The one flaw would have to the **SPOILERS** death of Goose, played flawlessly by Anthony Edwards. Tom Cruise is a solid fighter jock, with Val Kilmer playing the good guy/rival bit perfectly. Some lines fall flat, but the superb flight sequences make up for any flaws. "},{"Title":"Good Stuff!","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie.  I grew up watching it.  Even though by todays standards it isn't very accurate or politically correct, it is still very entertaining.  This style of movie making has become the standard Jerry Bruckheimer entertainment.8/10. "},{"Title":"Cruiser in 80ties number one hit","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  TOP GUN (1986)  spoiler alert((( Top Gun is the typical Tom Cruise movie, together with Days of Thunder, Mission Impossible and The Firm. It doesn't get much more Tom Cruise than that, but this is the deluxe Tom movie. Here he plays a tough, cool and charming pilot that simply takes her breath away with his charm and flying, his name is Maverick. Kelly McGillis plays the girl and the sort of against Maverick guy is played by Val Kilmer, although he is also a good-guy. The movie is a absolute classic, its fantastic to watch too! Explosions in the air together with hot romance and fine 80ties style and colours, this is a very 80ties movie and its great to watch it, specially now as we've really gotten over it.  We love Top Gun! STARS **** 4/5 "},{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being that I am a huge Tom Cruise fan, I have seen Top Gun over 1,000 times. When I saw Top Gun for the very first time, that's when I fell in love with Tom Cruise and have been hooked ever since. It has everything, romance, without being to mushy; action, all the flying scenes; drama, Goose's death and Maverick coming to terms with it; all in one movie.I give this movie two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"One of the Best of the Best.","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tom Cruise is riveting in this over-the-top ode to flight school as a fighter pilot who competes against other pilots in an elite training program, and has eyes for his instructor (Kelly McGillis), and things start to heat up between the two leads.  Cruise and McGillis have great chemistry, but the best scenes involve the ongoing confrontation between Cruise and Val Kilmer, as one of Cruise's flight opponents.  The jet plane sequences are also interesting and also make the film an amazing success.4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A totally kick-butt action movie","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun was one of the coolest movies I've ever seen. It's about a pilot named Pete Maverick Mitchell and his best friend Nick Goose Bradshaw who attended a flight school called Top Gun after a rescue of another Navy pilot. I saw it on DVD. It was really cool from beginning to end. I give it 9/10 "},{"Title":"NAVY FLYING SCHOOL","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  TOP GUN is about a navy flying school for the best students in the navy. The story revolves around two men who get sent there. The film was about as pro navy as you can get with some theaters letting the navy set up recruiting tables outside theatres showing the film. TOP GUN was a first in the new home video market being a big seller on VHS. The film was released on home video with several pop commercials on the tape. The marketing of the video was a tie in and was uncommon at the time; home video was a new territory.  "},{"Title":"did you see those tomcats?","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  o men I love this movie!!!!really, Tom is the perfect guy for this character!and then those tomcat's!!! I love those f-14's!here in the Netherlands we have the F-16 but the TOMCAT is a 100 times more beautiful! I watch JAG a lot and see almost every episode a tomcat but in this movie you really got to see them! if you know what I mean -)yeah, I really love this movie!!!I hope they'll make more movies like this one "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST ACTION FILMS EVER MADE !!!","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very basic movie formula, but one of the best movies made.  Few films feature so many young stars, who went on to become major stars of film and television. The flying action sequences in this movie were some of the best ever put on film. Each of the key player's character was carefully developed throughout the film, which enhanced the total quality of the film. Even after fifteen plus years, this movie plays well. Being a trivia nut, my only concern is that on the DVD text of the movie, and even in imdb memorable quotes from Top Gun some of the lines spoken by James Tolkan's character Stinger are credited to the Duke Stoud's character Air Boss Johnson. This is a film that will put that patriotic lump in your throat.  This film is well worth viewing.  "}{"Title":"Great job!","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is probably one of my favorites, no wait it is the best film I ever saw! It has all a movie should have, a good story, good actors, good lines, good music, fantastic fly-scenes and a lot more. It´s not a shakespear masterpiece, but thats not the point with this movie. Its just entertainment and damn god! My buddies complain about me liking this movie, but frankly I don´t give a s***! This is a very good movie, if you haven´t seen it, do it! 10 of 10! "},{"Title":"these comments show what i truly feel about the film","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER This film is purely magical, mixing romance with action, including hotties like Tom Cruise and Val Kilmer. They're acting makes this film what it is. the thrill of all the planes provides edge of the seat entertainment. the part where goose dies is upsetting but the acting is sensitive. truly brilliant film. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"FLY!!!!","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie about a maverick (Tom Cruise, before he star as scotsman in Far and Away) who fly planes, and fell in love with woman who look like man (Kelly Mcnellis). It has nice senes like the one where he is singing in a bar to a girl he like. Nice film. And watch for the planes!!! "},{"Title":"This is a classic!","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun is without a doubt one of the best movies I have ever seen! It's also one of my favorites! Tom Cruise stars as Maverick, a navy pilot who attends the U.S. Flying Top Gun Naval School with his partner (Anthony Edwards). He also fell in love with an instructor (Kelly McGillis) to whom he is strongly attracted to. The film also stars Meg Ryan, Val Kilmer, Tom Skerritt, Michael Ironside, Rick Rossovich, Tim Robbins, John Stockwell, and others. If you like Tom Cruise, you will definitely like Top Gun! I like it!10/10 stars! "},{"Title":"Big Planes and Kelly McGillis","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think the title says it all. Tom Cruise has never bettered this performance in my eyes, Val Kilmer has never achieved quite this level of cool and Kelly McGillis is as fantastic as always.8/10 "},{"Title":"Tom Cruise At His Best!","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun is one of the films from the 80s that became a classic. Tom Cruise stars as a navy pilot who attends the U.S. Flying Top Gun Naval Flying School with his partner (Anthony Edwards). He also fell in love with a civilian instructor to whom he is strongly attracted to. It has great music and great acting. Top Gun is a movie that is action packed and thrilling. Excellent!10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Classic!","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you've never seen this movie - do yourself a favor.  It isn't the most philosophical movie in the world, but it's got everything a person could want to be entertained.  It's got fast planes for the men and a nice little love plot for women.  Tom Cruise does an excellent job of getting these LOOKS on his face in this movie - well, you'll know what I mean.This is so popular because it's like that saying women want him and men want to be him.  It's every man's dream life and, for the girls, this movie is EXCELLENT eye candy. Also, this movie will make you cry - so be prepared.  "},{"Title":"All my childhood!","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Children of the 80's!!! great! good souvenirs! even if it's a nanard! Great music! Great Movie! Great (not so tall but great) Tom Cruise! Great (idem) Meg Ryan! And and and and and! VAL KILMEURE!!! "},{"Title":"A HunkFest!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say, the volleyball scene says it all with Tom Cruise, Val Kilmer and Rick Rossovich shirtless and sweaty. Tom Cruise's sex scene with Kelly McGillis is one of the most erotic scenes ever. Top Gun is a heart pumping action movie with all the testerone-hunks a girl can handle. The music and dogfight scenes are good too (massive understatement)!This is my second place all time favorite movie (right behind Final Countdown) and the very first movie I ever owned on videotape. "},{"Title":"Greatest movie ever!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was, without a shadow of a doubt, one of the best movies ever made about Naval aviation. Especially since it featured the greatest carrier-borne fighter that the U.S. Navy flies today the F-14 Tomcat. Tom Cruise was entirely believable as a Tomcat pilot, with all his cockiness and arrogance, as was Iceman and Goose. "}{"Title":"The Greatest Fighter Pilot Movie of All Time","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun has to be the greatest fighter pilot movie of all time, and arguably one of the best films of all time. The mixture of action, drama, and romance appeals to most everyone. This has to be one of the best performances ever by Tom Cruise, Jerry Maguire included. He plays the fighter jockey so well, and so realistic. I should know, my best friend is an Air Force pilot. The stress these men go through to defend our country is so intense, seeing as how they have the most dangerous job in the entire military industry. Being a pilot for the Navy is more dangerous than being one for the Air Force, as you base off of an aircraft carrier. Just think about having to land a fighter jet moving at around 400 mph on a carrier. The emotion and intensity of the characters, and just the movie itself, captivate you. This is definitely one movie that you could watch over and over and never get sick of. "},{"Title":"Top Gun is a fairy tale.","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you watch it once, you're bound to say Top Gun sucks!!  But, if you watch it a couple of more times, you can really enjoy it.  Just read a few of these User Comments all the negative comments come from first-time watchers, and all the positive comments come from people who've watched Top Gun several times.I think this is a quality of fairy-tale movies and books.  You wouldn't enjoy Dr. Seuss books if you only read them only once.  They don't make sense. You enjoy the books when you go back and read them again and again, studying each rhyme and drawing.Top Gun has intense over-acting, romanticized characters, a predictable plot, endless factual errors, and the potentially annoying Tom Cruise.  These will bother any adult watching Top Gun for the first time.  But, if you watch the movie over again, you can laugh at the movie's problems and admire the movie's action, scenery, pretty faces, and fantasy.I just can't believe that since filming this movie, the Navy moved TOPGUN from California to Nevada. "},{"Title":"My all-time and my favorite Tom Cruise movie!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the best airplane movie I have ever seen! I have that movie on DVD, and it's great! I can watch that movie any time I want to. This is action-packed, same as other action movies. This movie is a must-see for any Tom Cruise, Kelly McGillis, Val Kilmer, or Anthony Edwards fan. Rating ***.5/****. That means very good. "},{"Title":"I feel the need for Speed!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wicked film, probably made for men, but hey I'm a girl and I loved it! That may have something to do with Tom Cruise being in it but the film itself is pukka too! It definitely brings excitement, action, entertainment, humour, romance, and definitely tears, when you know who dies its so sad! Ok what shall I write now, watch it if you haven't yet, ciao luv AnnaXXXXX "},{"Title":"IT'S DA BOMB!!!","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For anyone who hasn't seen Top Gun, GET OFF YOUR BUTTS AND WATCH IT!!!!! It is truly da bomb! It's my absolute all time FAVOURITE movie. The only part I didn't like was the intensly mushy part but that's ok. It just didn't seem to go so well with the rest of the film. Or maybe it went too well. Hmmm...may have to think a bit more about that one. Anyway, for a film made in the 1980's it's the best. I'm 17 and I love it above all other moves (though ID4 comes easy 2nd.) Go watch it. That's all I can say. "},{"Title":"Greatest Movie ever","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say that I am a Top Gun junky.  I have seen this movie countless times and enjoy it each and every time.  I know all the lines by heart and can basically recite the movie to anyone.  It has all the elements -- action, drama, romance, humor, hot guys playing volleyball ;-)  It just doesn't get any better than this movie -)   Andrea "},{"Title":"The best film in the world","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time on my 8th Birthday.  I had always wanted to see it, because my parents kept saying how good it was.  When I saw it, it changed my world.  You know how some people have a theme song, to get them through the good times, and the hard times, well this is my theme movie!  The characters are amazing.  They work so well together to create the tension and the lasting friendships that we all know happen on in the Navy.  When I watch this film, I don't just watch it, I am in there with them.  I can feel all the excitement of being up in the air with them, the tension of the battles, and the joy of coming out alive!  I think my overwhelming love for this movie comes from the fact that I have been to most of the places it was filmed.  Having lived in San Diego, I have been to 'Top Gun', and where they play volleyball, the swimming pool they go to to recieve the Top Gun trophy was my local swimming pool, just around the corner from where I lived.  That is why I love it so much...it is home! Also Tom Cruise is just the best actor that ever set foot on that set, and most others actually!  He really plays the role so well, that again you feel what he feels!  I love him!!! "},{"Title":"Great movie to be a good pilot.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie for riding a plane and learning how to be a good pilot. Maverick Pete Mitchell (Tom Cruise) and Charlotte Charlie Blackwood (Kelly McGillis) are great in this movie. Everybody should see that movie, so that they will think of learning how to fly a plane.  "},{"Title":"Top Gun may have been blown a little bit out of proportion, but the performances are so good that it doesn't matter.","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun is a fighter pilot training facility designed to pick out the best fighter pilots and turn them into The Best Of The Best - in particular, to teach them to `dogfight,' a skill which seems to have been largely lost due to the convenience of missiles and locking mechanisms. It is clearly a formula film in the now-typical Jerry Bruckheimer fashion, but the performances are excellent, as are the majority of the aerial flight sequences. Even the obligatory romantic subplot is fairly believable due to the quality acting, as well as an excellent 80s soundtrack (oh, admit it).Tom Cruise stars as Maverick Mitchell, a superb fighter pilot with a semi-subconscious and potentially dangerous need to live up to the skill of his father, who mysteriously died in battle. The best scenes in the film, needless to say, are those in the air, both in the training sequences as well as the surprisingly effective final battle. Some of those scenes were a little overdone, though, such as the scene with the inverted mid-flight Polaroid. I realize that they were not exactly flying bi-planes, but I still doubt that those fighter planes could be maneuvered to the point where two of them could literally fly a couple of feet apart like that. However, despite that, I think that the scene achieved its desired effect.The main thing that I did not like about Top Gun was its predictability, which is why I'm not sure if what I am about to say could really qualify as a spoiler. But just in case, here's the obligatory notice - (spoilers ahead). First of all, it's a formula film, so you know that Maverick is going to get the girl (in a scene that nearly ruined the otherwise good ending). But there were other, subtler but not much less obvious things. For example, the film starts off with a training sequence in which a pilot referred to as Cougar freezes up in the plane and nearly kills himself and his co-pilot. Maverick (of course) goes back to fly him back to the aircraft carrier on his wing, despite the fact that he was nearly out of fuel. Cougar's near-death experience inspires him to quit so he doesn't get killed and leave his wife and kid fatherless and husbandless. After this scene, it's pretty obvious that Maverick would find himself in a similar situation later in the film. Even more predictable than that was the death of Goose, Maverick's long time friend and co-pilot. As soon as you see him with his wife and kid (particularly the slow-motion shot of him hugging his son), it is so clear that he's going to die that they might as well have put it right into the dialogue - `You know Goose, I'm really gonna miss you when you get killed in the next Act.'Despite the predictability, I still really liked Top Gun because of the acting as well as the cinematography. Tom Cruise and Val Kilmer, as Maverick and Iceman, work so well on screen that you could almost compare them to Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh. Besides that, ironically, enough, the romantic subplot actually works here. I'm always complaining about this, but the romance in Bruckheimer films almost never works because it's always so manipulative and awkwardly thrown in. But there was actually some thought put into that element of Top Gun. The imagery and atmosphere, for example, greatly enhanced the relationship between Maverick and Charlie, his female instructor. The romance in Bruckheimer films is usually added for the obvious purpose of widening the audience by appealing to women, but the quality of that part of this film overshadows its inherent purpose, so Bravo, Jerry, the romance didn't suck. But wait, then they throw in a scene with the sweaty pilots all playing shirtless volleyball, occasionally flexing for the passing camera. For shame, Jerry (yeah you too, Tony), you canceled out your good romance scene with THAT little addition. On the other hand, there was also some good comic relief, although some of it may have gone a little too far, such as the `buzzing the tower' scenes. I would think that a stunt like that would precipitate some serious disciplinary action from Maverick's superiors, but I have to admit that it was funny. I particularly liked it when the guy in the tower who spilled coffee on himself goes out into the hallway and runs into a young guy carrying a tray of coffee mugs (`God DAMN it, that's twice!').Adding to this better than average film is a pretty good ending, except for the final scene between Maverick and Charlie, which was just dumb. I liked the way that the rivalry between Maverick and Iceman was eliminated by the final battle scene, rather than having one of them (it would have been Maverick, of course) come out as the winner as the other sulks away in defeat. That final battle scene was probably the best part of the film, by the way, especially the extremely skilled editing. Despite the fact that Maverick threw Goose's dog tags into the ocean at the end of the film (a ridiculous move comparable to when the old Rose stupidly threw that jewel in the ocean at the end of Titanic, severely limiting the already limited satisfaction delivered by that film), Top Gun still manages to come off as a quality action film.  "},{"Title":"The sky ain't the limit!","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is probably one of the greatest movies of all times! Well, it made Tom Cruise famous... NO, really! As much as I love Tomcats and such, I guess no other action movie can defeat Top Gun. Fan-tas-tic action-packed, supersonic adventure that has totally EVERYTHING to become ( and stay ) a top-of-the bill eighties classic the hero, the girl, the plane and the wonderful air-to-air combat!Perfect score 10/10! "}{"Title":"I feel the need, the need for speed!","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my TOP 10 movies of all time.  The dogfighting in the F16 plane is awesome.  Kelly McGillis looks good and Tom Cruise is convincing as the maverick pilot (pun intended).  Look out for a young Anthony Edwards who plays Goose.  He plays a doctor in ER, in case you didn't know!  What more can I say but get this movie.  Even if you're not a Cruise fan, you will enjoy the fast paced action of the whole movie. "},{"Title":"Best Comments","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  best movie i have ever ever ever seen. this movie rocks! and is the best and i will never change my choice. Tom Cruise rocks in the movie and the F-14 is showing its true power! i love that plane, i have a 6 foot poster of it on my wall. Its the best plane and its a shame that there going to put it on retirement! i wish i had the chance to even touch a real F-14 Tom cat "},{"Title":"A don't miss film, truly a classic! *****","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great American film that shows the true power of the United States Navy. A few technical glitches, but nothing a non military buff would catch to ruin the film.  But overall the film is very technically correct.  As for the plot, I find it a little on the out there side, but for being written in 1986 it is very plausible.  I find this movie to touch me a way that only military force could.  But being a military buff, I guess that this movie is the best that I've seen...nothing has come close. "},{"Title":"Why I Watch Top Gun","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the most well done movies in this century !When I first watched Top Gun on the cinema with my mother (who by the way is a airplane freak) I just sat and watched amazed by the fabulous flying scenes. As I grew older I started to get the main story and it has EVERYTHING, defeat, victory, love, passion (both human and for flying) and most of all the tight bond between friends. My only advice is SEE IT.Favourite scene ?? When MAVERICK throws the necklace from the Carrier..tears in my eyes every single time. "},{"Title":"*****,perfect 5 stars,up there with the best of the best I'LL SAY FOR THIS GENIUNE 80'S CLASSIC OF A MOVIE!","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Along with Blues brothers,Back to the future,the wizard & transformers the movie among other films THIS IS A GRAND MOVIE! oh & I'll explain for a some of the reviews here apparently there looking too much for a plot instead of just enjoying this flick & unlike most movies the good to high amount of strong swearing is actually funny sure it may look like a story which is basically cruise wins girl but then again if they tried to do that kind of approach the film whould be truly campy(can you say Dicaprio although I liked his role in Growing pains) so the film has a bunch of good stuff 1A good story 2strong swearing(good amount of the mentioning of the S word) that is funny 3grand soundtrack (danger zone,take my breath away 4a love story that could be horridly campy but it isn't really 5all in all a film that gets people interested in it not just jet fighter movie fans, so anyway a pure treat of 80's nostalgia alike other 80's classics. "},{"Title":"Not realistic, but what a film","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the all time great films. Hang on, I hear you say. It has totally unrealistic scenes, the protocols are all wrong, the MiGs look surprisingly like US fighters etc...So what. This is an incredibly fun film to watch. The flying sequences are exciting. It's a top film. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is far from the real thing that happens in the Navy.  But, it is a great movie to watch.  I've seen it about 100 times and loved every minute of it. "},{"Title":"Adrenaline Rush, please","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember watching this movie in the theater and being blown away by the sound and visual excitement of the flying scenes.  Many movies since have tried to match it (Iron Eagle anyone?), but none has come close.Since then, I've seen it countless times on video and cable, and it never gets stale.  It has everything for everybody action, romance, humor, tragedy, and a happy ending. Oh, and Tom Cruise, in the role that branded him a Superstar.If you buy a home theater system with Surround Sound, this is the first movie you should watch.  I had jets flying behind my head all night!  "},{"Title":"War & Romance","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun is the best movie ever made about loyalty, friendship, love and commitment, and of course with lots of action. What else can you ask for in just one film? "},{"Title":"Hot action, cool music.","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a thrilling jet-jock action movie with a fantastic musical score. You cannot help but turn up the volume.  But whoever chose Kelly McGillis? Big mistake.  She's too big, too old, and too plain for the part.  She and Tom Cruise are like oil and water - just don't mix.  So ignore the romance and focus on the action and music and let them take your breath away! "}{"Title":"Great Aviation movie","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  That's all I could say. Great aviation movie if you are a pilot! "},{"Title":"there is only one top gun!","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen Top Gun ten times or more, and it gets better every time! It's the ultimate feel good movie - gorgeous hunks everywhere, etc. etc. Go see it! "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top gun is awesome! This is one of Tom Cruise's best roles.  The chemistry between him and Kelly McGillis is just wonderful.  Anthony Edwards was great as Goose.  Val Kilmer also lit up the screen as the cool and unflappable Iceman. The movie is just amazing.  The whole cast was good and you had to love Tom Cruise.  The plot was outstanding and so was the flying. Great Movie. "},{"Title":"Mucho Fantastico","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps my favorite movie of all time.  Wait, it is my favorite movie of all time.  Planes, women, and more planes, what more could you possibly want??? "},{"Title":"Quaint, old fashioned movie....","Date":"1 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was made way back in the Cold War days. We knew who the enemy was, and how to do combat with them. They were Russians and Communist Chinese, who flew MIG aircraft with which we could do aerobatic battle. The Soviet Union had not collapsed and we weren't buying more from China than they were buying from us.That was then, this is now. The enemy has used our own passenger aircraft as suicidal missiles to crash into the World Trade Center. We are in 2 wars for oil where the weapons of choice are Improvised Explosive Devices (IED's) and 4000 Americans have died to protect oil company holdings. Top Gun is a quaint nostalgic look in history, the way we were, then. "},{"Title":"Eighties classic that just resonates action and sexy romance","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is an undisputed classic of the eighties starring an undisputed Hollywood King who was just a prince during this film Tom Cruise. Top Gun is really the perfect melding of key elements that make it the timeless classic that it is. Big gunning, action machines, dog fighting, cocky attractive males, sultry, sexy female, a pounding adrenaline rushing soundtrack...Highway to The Danger Zone is one of my favorite rock songs. The film (as proved on the DVD) can be advertised as a romance, an action film, a patriotism film...it has a little of everything. This was really the film that put director Tony Scott on the map and it's perfect for his style and desire of direction. I admit I'm not particularly a huge fan of Scott's direction. I have found a lot of his films very choppy and chaotic and it happens to be that his music video style of direction works very well for Top Gun. Scott certainly knows action and knows how to tell a story and has proved it with great films from the eighties in particular. He has a gritty style that makes you feel the film and a pulse pounding rhythm and he gives that style to Top Gun in every aspect of it.Tom Cruise is a heavy weight now and even then. Coming from Risky Business he was the hottest commodity in Hollywood and he further proved his stardom in Top Gun. Cruise just has a quality...I mean he is very talented which definitely helps and his performance as Maverick is quite emotional at times and he plays the cocky smart talking pilot very well. But besides all that he is just simply a star that lights up the screen. Kelly McGillis plays Cruise's love interest Charlie. McGillis does a decent job although I don't feel that she really holds her own against some of the more powerful actors in the film like Cruise. She also doesn't really fit the eighties hot girl formula. She looks kind of old actually. I mean when the film was made she was only 29 (which was still 5 years older than star Cruise) but she is over make-up'd, and kind of boring. Fortunately her scenes with Cruise work and he seems to bring out the best in the romance aspect. Anthony Edwards is really terrific as Maverick's cautious smart talking partner. His role isn't huge, it's mostly to support Cruise but he is terrific and they have great chemistry together. Val Kilmer as Ice is usually considered the nemesis. Really he isn't but more of a competitive adversary for Cruise's Maverick. Kilmer is decent but doesn't really top any acting peaks or anything. He's kind of a withdrawn quiet character but he's good for his purpose in the film. Tom Skerritt and Michael Ironside are the senior members of the cast as the Top Gun instructors. They are decent but don't really hold a flame to the younger cast. Also watch for a young Meg Ryan as Goose (Edwards') wife.Considerably Top Gun's budget wasn't much. In a way it does show with the flight effects because I think they used the same material over and over again and yet you don't care and hardly notice because there is just something really great about this film. I think it's a combination of the cast and the director and just a classic eighties mood to it. It just doesn't matter what you like out of a film Top Gun has a little of everything making it the ultimate date movie and making it a true classic!! A must see!! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Top Gun, Top Kilmer","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is a good film from the classic 80s era...in which Tom Cruise stars and plays the lead role well as usual. I love the 80s music in this film, especially Highway to the Danger Zone - how quality is that? Hollywood veterans Michael Ironside and Tom Skeritt also star as instructors at the Top Gun academy - and also the guy who played the Headmaster in Back to the Future, he one who called McFly a slacker, he's there too. So its a good cast all round, but Val Kilmer steals the show as Iceman with his wooden acting... Another plus point is the use of the word Johnson instead of penis, to add a bit of comedy as well. Its a shame there wasn't more dog fighting in the movie, if Cruise didn't spend so much time fooling around with his lady friend it would have been better. All in all though, a good 80s film - probably good enough to be labelled a classic. "},{"Title":"Non-stop Action and Homoeroticism","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I hated Top Gun before I even watched it. That doesn't sound very fair, but it's true. I hate the way that people reference it, I hate the way it's become a cult favorite among people who aren't smart or interesting. And with only a few exceptions, I hate the work of Jerry Bruckheimer (who produced this movie).Now, to be fair, I know a lot of those stupid and uninteresting people enjoy the movie ironically. But even when looking at it that way, I couldn't help but find it more annoying than silly. I mean, it's not Journey's Separate Ways video or anything.Where to begin? Should I start with the egregious and unnecessary homosexual undertones? The awkward dialogue? The intense love story that seems to appear as if from nowhere? The stereotypical and flat characters? The bad attempts at theme? The enormous plot holes? I'll just pick at the things that bugged me the most. First, the shockingly obvious and strange homosexual undercurrent that exists between nearly every male character in the movie. From the minute that Goose and Maverick enter Top Gun, there are encouraging glances, knowing looks, and even arms around each other that left me puzzled. Why was that intense scene between Iceman and Maverick shot in such a way that it looks like they may kiss at any moment? Maybe you have to fly a jet to understand it. I want some butts! one of the flight commanders yells in frustration after Maverick does a tower fly-by. And don't even get me started with the volleyball scene.If I had to create an idealized version of this movie in my mind, a version that was actually decent, it would probably involve a love story. In fact, the love story might even involve the same characters that the movie uses--but the way it's done is puzzling, and time just doesn't seem to be a factor in the way Maverick and Kelly McGillis' character get to know each other. What exactly do they have in common besides the fact that Maverick is extremely arrogant and she apparently likes arrogant men? Top Gun was one of the most financially successful films of 1986. It seems puzzling to me, because it truly is terrible, in almost every way. But if you break it down, it's easy to figure out. Does the film have - Things blowing up? Yes, lots of airplanes.- Tom Cruise with his shirt off? Yes, along with everyone else but the less-endowed Goose, in that volleyball scene.- Memorable scenes, even if they are awkwardly placed? How about where Maverick and Goose sing The Righteous Brothers' You've Lost That Lovin' Feeling? to Kelly McGillis in the bar? - A high-five that everyone will remember and attempt to perfect for the next century? Yes, in that damned volleyball scene.- A trite emotional scenario? Goose dies a never-explained death (I think he hit his head on the roof of the cockpit when they ejected); there is absolutely no depth to this occurrence, it just happens, and as a result, Tom Cruise can't fly properly. Also the whole sub-plot with Maverick's father being a pilot who crashed in 'Nam.- A feel-good triumphant climax? Of course, when it all hits the fan, Maverick is back up on top and we're happy that he blows up the bad guys and returns home.- A soundtrack that features Kenny Loggins? Yes. Oh god, yes.I get that people like this movie because it's silly. I also get that others like this movie because they look at it as the prototype for high-adrenaline action/romance movies. But the film isn't silly, and it isn't one of those so bad it's good movies, either. It's just bad. That place between bad-bad and funny-bad is where most films lie, and Top Gun is right there with them.3.40/10.00 for Top Gun. "},{"Title":"A true classic, always worth watching.","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is one of my all time favorite movies, not because the actors are exceptionally great, or the script involved. For me it's all about the cinematography of the movie, the way the jet's look in the sky, it's just plain AWESOME! For me it's not about the movie itself, it's about the things it makes me think about. It gives me a small feeling of freedom.Although I mentioned above that none of the actors performances were exceptional, I would like to give Mr. Cruise a lot of credit, I don't think anyone could have played the part like he did.Micheal Ironside is also doing a great job as Jester, unfortunately, he's not as much on screen as one could have hoped.On the weak side of performances, we have Val Kilmer, he does an absolutely horrible job, as the confident and cocky fighter-pilot Iceman. It's early in his career, sure, but a horrible performance none the less. Thankfully, he's done much good since then, loved him in the movie HEAT.If you haven't seen this movie, you ought too, and if you have, watch it just one more time.9/10 "},{"Title":"Okay, I loved the movie.","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, I loved the movie. I love flying movies. The flying scenes and the sound track are a fantastic match. The evolution of Maverick from merely a hot shot talented pilot to a responsible mature human being was nicely done without it being, as it too often the case, a startling an epiphany.Admittedly, sometimes I do watch it just for the flying scenes and zap the rest of the movie.  "}{"Title":"One of my favourite all time films, high flying, high octane, Highly recommended.","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun is a classic 80's film. Fuelled by a great soundtrack and some truly stunning aerial photography this film continues to be one of my all time favourites. The most amazing thing about this film is that it never gets boring (even after wathcing it 100,000,000 times) every viewing reignites the same feelings as the first time. It might not have the greatest plot of all time but it is and has continued to be high on many people's list of favourites. A must see, who hasn't though!?   "},{"Title":"Best of the best 80s movies","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't understand how Top Gun got a lower user rating than Mission Impossible. I say that Top Gun is the best one of the few Tom Cruse movies that were done right and make some bit of sense. I love the movie, you can pretty much call Top Gun the center of my childhood. I have probably seen this movie more than a thousand times. When I was little I used to watch it several times every week and dream day after day about taking a career in the air force. I've talked with other people that used to watch it all the time too. Of course I don't watch it that much now, but I usually watch Top Gun at least when I find it playing on TV. The best part of Top Gun is that it certainly has one of the best movie soundtracks ever made. Only if the CD they made had more of the better songs on it.The homophobic people talking about Maverick and Iceman having some secret gay relationship and whining about the volleyball game, just need to get a life. For crying out loud, this whole movie was centered around his relationship with Charlie, and Charlie is the lady! "},{"Title":"Sizzling","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun is one of those films from the 1980s that has become a pop classic. It is made by director Tony Scott kind of like a wild and crazy music video with great sounds and greater looking people. The plot is kind of thin as Tom Cruise and partner Anthony Edwards attend the U.S. Flying Top Gun Naval Flying School and try to juggle their careers and their personal lives. Kelly McGillis does her best work as Cruise's love interest. The film also sports a strong cast which includes Meg Ryan, Tom Skeritt, Michael Ironside, Val Kilmer, and a young Tim Robbins (do not blink you might miss Robbins). Good overall. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Bruckheimer's best","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went into the local electronics store yesterday and in the home theater room they were showing this film. Any film that was made over 15 years ago and is still technically good enough to show off audio/video equipment has to be good. Yes, the plot isn't exactly Braveheart, however the performances aren't bad, although some of the lines are definately a little Hollywood. (corny). Just take this film at face value... a film made to inspire patriotism and show off (justify) the billions of dollars put into hardware during the defense budget of the Reagan era. Does it glorify war? Probably a little. But humans are tribal people. And tribes will always want more. More land, more wealth, etc. So war is always inevitable at some time and place. Overall, the film has great cinematography, and the average person doesn't notice the technical inaccuracies that everyone else is complaining about. Oh, and what is with the 2.00 aspect ratio of the transfer... you can totally tell that the film was composed for 2.35, as most of the bottom quarter of the screen is full of nothingness. I can't imagine why it was transferred at 2.00.. Overall a pretty good film for what it is.  "},{"Title":"One of the best airplanes movie ever !","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun is one of the best airplane movies I have ever seen and (I think) was ever made. Tom Cruise plays very good. The movie contains drama, action, love and suspense ! It's a very good entertaining movie . See it ! If you want to see a good movie see Top Gun ! "},{"Title":"Changed the course of my life","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw the movie when it came out at age 5. It had a profound effect on my life that after I saw the movie I wanted to be a naval aviator. Well 14 years later that dream is almost a reality. I am 3 years away from being a commissioned officer in the US Marine Corps, and 4 years away from being a Marine Corps aviator(Naval Aviator). This movie taught me about love and women, and about friendship. In the second grade I was called 'Maverick' by my friends, and my best friend at the time whose name was Anthony was known by everyone as 'Goose', come to think of it he looked like a young Anthony Edwards. I will never forget the profound effect this movie has had on my life, originally wanting to be a pilot in the US Navy, and now I am so close to achieving that dream of now being a USMC pilot. I thank you Mr. Bruckheimer, the late Mr. Simpson, Mr. Scott. I would also like to thank Tom Cruise, Anthony Edwards, Tom Skerritt, Micheal Ironside, Whip Hubley, Val Kilmer, Rick Rossivich, Tim Robbins, John Stockdale, and the guy who played 'Wolfman', the characters you guys played in this movie changed my life in a way that I have to thank you. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Cliché Country.","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are three steps to prepare yourself for Top Gun Check your brain at the door. Load up on sugar and butter. Enjoy standard Bruckheimer movie fare. That's it, folks &#151; I wish there were more, but there ain't. Just two quick hours or so of Reagan-era military movie schlock featuring rock-video style editing, a cast of hunks and broads and clichés, clichés, clichés. Don't bother taking the film apart, be it for plot, technical content or entertainment value. Any idiot can do that. Infact, the film welcomes you to do it. One does wonder however, just what in the world this movie would be like had the electric guitar not been invented. Yikes.Oh yeah. I love the renegade pilots' blatent disregard for the US military's (place pinky finger to bottom lip) thirty meeeellion dollar jets.A bad movie all around. I loved it.  "},{"Title":"Rare example of...","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" ... a film that defines pop culture rather than reflecting it. Top Gun certainly epitomizes everything 1980's, and yet in certain ways it helped to define the decade rather than merely reflecting it. Probably why it's still so popular, and why such obvious trash is loved by so many (even those who were too young to see its original release).The film has an undeniable power and appeal, if you're willing to discard your brain entirely while viewing. Since it also has a great deal of 'cheese', it requires you to leave the cynicism at the door as well. Isn't that one reason why people enjoy films like this? We secretly hate carrying the burden of irony and cynicism imposed on us by post-1980s society, and movies like this require us to drop it (albeit only for two hours). In this age of terrorist threats and such, how rare is it that we can just relax and honestly enjoy something anymore? Exciting, adventurous and appealing eye candy, as well as an 80's time capsule of sorts. Without a doubt among my top 25 favorite films. "},{"Title":"Oh yeah!!!","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, what can I say, the aerial photography is something else. The story is cheesey, but it really is a great film that is a must to watch at ANY time. If you're cained it's especially good (not that I know obviously because I would never watch it cained). Still, Kelly is looking fine! and then there's Iceman, the world's coolest bad dude (well not at the end). Anyone who disagrees with me on this one must realise that they are wrong as it is a truly great film. By the way, there is a flaw that isn't on the goofs page, In one of the shots, there are only meant to be two migs, if you look at the top of the screen, you can see the wing tip of a third aircraft (mig). Still great film anyway.  "},{"Title":"I actually don't agree","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw the movie I think at least 22 times and I will watch it anytime I want to.I bought the DVD and if I had the chance I sincerely would shake the hand of the producer.It a masterpiece.It's a work of art, and the soundtrack ? Harold Faltermeyer and Steve Stevens brought the spice into the soup.The soundtrack is gorgeous and absolutely superb.Tom Cruise debuted as a serious actor in this movie, and he played his role good.Now here's what I don't understand  Why some of you who didn't understood the meaning of all say that it's crap ? It's about gaining or loosing everything, it is about belief, about friendship and the cruel fact of war at that time.Oh yeah and the MIG is the Soviets version of an F-14.It's a fighter built in Russia.You know where that is am I right ? Best Movie I ever saw, and I saw a lot believe me. "}{"Title":"The best of the best","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow! When I saw this movie I was so impressed with the special effects and the visual effects of this movie. This movie is so great and the actors in that movie have made a great performance, the music and the story is great.Ever since I saw this movie I felt in love with it, I didn't blink an eye in the movie because it was so great, it really deserved to win an oscar.My favorite songs of that movie are 'Take My Breath Away' by Berlin and the air force style song 'Mighty Wings' by Cheap Trick. Tom Cruise sang really good the song he singed for the Instructor, but the part where I cried in the movie was when Maverick's friend died during a training with his other two companions Iceman and Hollywood when they we're on a test flight with Viper and Jester. This movie is great, it makes me wanna be in the Air Force and pilot and be the best of the best like Maverick was, I absolutely give this movie a big fat 10/10 "},{"Title":"this movie is awesome","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  oh my gosh, this is one of my all time favorite action movies. i wasn't even born when it came out though (1986). i saw i when i was about 7. i love and adooooore tom cruise. it isn't in a sense what you would call your typical action (james bond), etc. its more of an acion, drama, and romance all blended into one. there are some very sad parts but it still ends up to be a feel good movie. the acting is great as well as the dialouge. i would definitely reccomend this to you if you're a fan of tom cruise or if you want a good action of military genre in it. get yourself a coke and some popcorn and it'll be great. 10 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"The most forgetable movie I've ever seen","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've watched Top Gun five of six times and no matter what I just can't remember this movie! It's not that it's bad. It's not that it's boring. It's just plain forgettable.Somewhere there flies a plain, somewhere there's Tom Berenger, Tom Cruise, Val Kilmer, a guy with no hair, a bar scene and somewhere someone dies. That's all I remember. Nothing worth telling about.Watch Hot Shots instead. The spoof is better than the proof of the pudding. This movie is a time-passer. Something to do when you're bored. There are better Tom Cruise movies out there! "},{"Title":"A fantastic thrill ride that shoots down all the bogies!","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Frankly, Top Gun is one of the finest movies of all time.  It has five elements which make it so.  Its a great action movie, its a great date movie, it has great music, and it has some of the finest movie quotes ever written.First off the actors. Tom Cruise plays Maverick, the fantastic heart throb of the film.  He pulls off the roll of a naval aviator quite well. He later appeared in the movie Days of Thunder, a version of Top Gun in race cars. Kelly Mcgillis appears in the film as Charlie, the object of Maverick's affection.  I think that back cover of the film puts it best when it says Kelly McGillis sizzles as the civilian instructor.  I say that this along with Witness were the high points of her career, she went on the star in Storm Chasers II Revenge of the Twister.  Val Kilmer pulls off the part of Ice Man better than any other actor could have done.  He is also one of the major factors that attract so many women to the movie.  This was Anthony Edwards' second major film, his first being Revenge of the Nerds, we could obviously see he was already moving up in the world.  Tom Skerritt played the part of the strict yet forgiving commanding officer very well.  Some other minor characters that greatly contributed to the film were Tim Robins as Merlin, Meg Ryan as Goose's Wife, Carole Bradshaw, and Admiral TJ Cassidy making his first and last cameo in a film.Now on to the action, the dog fighting scenes in this movie were THE best ever caught on film.  Very few special effects were used, it was all real naval aviators piloting real F-14s.  Many movies have tried to match the excellence of these scenes but none have made it, in fact Paramount regularly liscenes dog fight footage from the film to other movies so they can fill their inadequacies.  The number of spin-offs attribute to the excellent action of Top Gun, as i mentioned above Days of Thunder, Fire Birds starring Nicholas Cage was simply Top Gun in helicopters, and Hot Shots was a parody of Top Gun.Top Gun is quite obviously a great date movie.  The movie features two main parts, the dog fighting and the motorcycles for the guys and the many chick flick aspects which the girls enjoy. Throughout the movie their are scenes of half-naked men, personally I think there could have been less of this, but it is a big help when trying to convince girls to watch the movie when you tell them it features Val Kilmer and Tom Cruise walking around in towels.  One of the main attractions to girls is the pointless volley ball scene, showing sweaty Tom Cruise, Val Kilmer and Tim Robins with out shirts and Anthony Edwards fully clothed. If the film had subtracted the love aspect and added more of the dog fighting aspect I would have been happy, however it is yet another way of attracting females.  It starts off with Tom Cruise romantically singing to Kelly McGillis, she plays hard to get, they have sex, and Cruise goes off to war.A key aspect of the movie was the music.  Highway to the Dangerzone makes the dog fights much more intense.  Berlin's Take My Breath Away does the same for the love scenes. And like any good movie it has some great sing-alongs, You've lost that lovin' feeling and Great balls of fire.Topping off a great film are some of the finest lines written for film during the 80's.  I personally believe that it is possible to lead a normal life speaking only in lines from Top Gun.  Here are some of the best of the best You're everyone's problem, every time you fly you're unsafe, I don't like you because you're dangerous.  You screw up just this much and you'll be flying cargo planes full of Rubber Dog S*** out of Hong Kong. I'm hanging on too tight, I've lost the edge sir, I'm sorry. You can be my wingman anytime.  And, my personal favorite I was inverted.This hip heart-pounding combination of action, music, romance, and incredible aerial photography helped make Top Gun the blockbuster hit of 1986 and a timeless classic.  The only thing that could have possibly made this a better film was if Heratio Sanz was to have has even the smallest of parts.  "},{"Title":"Just Giving my opinion- May include information classed as a spoiler- proceed, having been warned.","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I did not see Top Gun in a cinema, but I've seen it many times on home video, and i think that it is one of the classic movies of the last 20 years.  It contains adrenaline surges, and high points, as well as superbly crafted disaster which leads to depression and confidence loss in the main character Maverick (Tom Cruise).  The film appears to be taking the line of- 2 good guys are behind for the whole film but will win in the end- but this is cut short with the death of Goose (Anthony Edwards) in a training accident.  I think that the relationship between Maverick and Goose is portraied very well, and for those who find a gay theme- your wrong.  The relationship is just one of freindship and comitment, which I have certainly felt for other men- I'm not Gay- i have a girlfriend and feel that for those who point out such themes you are finding something in nothing.It is a very fitting ending, but i feel could have been made better if Maverick died in the final battle, saving Iceman (Val Kilmer) as his father had done, a generation before.  A great film, which will carry on entertaining for generations to come. "},{"Title":"Fun, entertaining and unbelievable!","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most of the comments about this movie are more unbelievable than  the picture itself. Some are saying it's the greatest movie which is far from true. On the other side are the cinema snobs who won't let themselves enjoy this motion picture. This movie may require much more suspension of disbelief  than most  but the fact that many are still enjoying it says plenty about its entertainment value. "},{"Title":"US Navy Aerial Dogfight Soap Opera","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun was the king of cool in the 1980s thanks to the self-satisfied performance of Tom Cruise as hotshot jock pilot Peter Maverick Mitchell. The film revels in Mitchell's arrogant disregard for rules (he is a walking Section Eight), from his absurd guidance of a terrified comrade onto the deck of the USS Enterprise (this despite the fact Maverick's F-14 lacks the fuel to land itself) through the remarkably weak punishments he gets for breaking such rules as hitting on his DoD instructor (Kelly McGuiness) to getting his radar intercept officer Goose Bradshaw (ER's Anthony Edwards) killed in a thoroughly stupid contest with Tim Iceman Kazansky (Val Kilmer) over who will be first to kill the enemy plane late in the Navy's Top Gun dogfighting exercises; the film wimps out badly when, in this incident, Maverick's flying through Iceman's jetwash (thus killing his own engines and leading to the ejection punch-out where Goose slams into the cockpit canopy and severs his windpipe) is more accidental than anything; the scene should have been clearly 100% the fault of Maverick, since he practically sticks his F-14's nose into Iceman's thrusters.But if it were thus portrayed accurately, then the film comes to an end, with Maverick grounded or even dishonorably discharged, thus underlining the weakness of playing up Maverick as incapable of discipline.  Throughout the film Maverick acts in thoroughly unprofessional manner (any pilot who performed a close-in flyby on a tower would be court-martialed) and never is called on it except in the most perfunctory and insincere fashion, not even when Goose Bradshaw pleads with him early on that he, Goose, can't afford to blow the opportunity presented to him.Cruise and McGuiness are not worth investing the time needed to watch the film; the real stars are the supporting cast - Tom Skerritt, Michael Ironside, Anthony Edwards, Val Kilmer, and Rick Rossovich - and the superb aerial dogfight footage; the use of F-5s as Soviet MiGs is a bit distracting, since the F-5s don't look at all like Soviet warplanes.  Also annoying is the lack of role of the backseaters, who do more than just read radar screens in the F-14's cockpit.  Kenny Loggins' famous theme song is a treat, but not really appropriate for the film.If you can overlook the weak leads and focus on the supporting cast and the aerial footage, you're in for an entertaining dogfighting spectacle.  "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorite of all time. It's a classic. =) I mean, you have fast planes and hot guys. What could be better?? With Tom Cruise playing Maverick, Val Kilmer playing Iceman, and Anthony Edwards playing Goose, you have an all star cast but before they were stars. An all around great movie.  "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Only if you are a fighter plane freak then you will like this movie. This is one of the most boring, stupid, and tedious experiences I have had to sit through. I saw it about 4 years ago at my cousins place, because I was forced too because he loves the movie and made me watch it. I found it the most boring, dumb, and embarrasing movies I have had to undergo. I wish to take the time I spent watching it back! 2/10. "},{"Title":"This movie is a horrible impression of what life is like in the air force","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a horrible impression of what life is like in the air force. e.g. you can't just disobey a direct order or buzz a control tower without serious repercussions, a talk with your commander would be the tip of the iceberg. And since Maveric has done this more than once, it is a repeated offense. The scene where they eject out of the spinning F-14 Grumman Tomcat is also ludicrous as they would have blacked-out or red-outed in that kind of uncontrolled spin. Another thing, you cant just paint F5e- Tigers black with a red star, and say they have similar capabilities to a supersonic MiG. This is a direct insult to the MiG as well as to the Tiger. "}{"Title":"A feel-good movie.","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My feeling about Top Gun can be summed up as follows.  When I am feeling a bit out of sorts, I watch this movie and it gets me out of my funk.  The jingoism some others may hate can be a spirit-lifter if you let it.Of course, it may help that I was a design engineer on the F-14, so that may make me a bit biased.  To me the F-14 Tomcat, and not Cruise or McGillis, is the REAL star of Top Gun! "},{"Title":"Not all it's cracked up to be","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film, while technologically, and perhaps tactically accurate (there was NEVER an accurate engagement in the I.O. that was accurately depicted in the film I haven't checked yet), leaves the real Navy veteran wanting, Cruise's portrayal of Maverick is sappy, and optimistic, and should not influence any prospective Navy recruits. As a 'real' veteran of the Navy, I can confirm that the heroics portrayed in this film are not accurate. Life in the Navy is hard, and seldom glorious. Optimism & luck dominate the themes of this film. Future Navy recruits, DO NOT consider this an accurate reference to your future profession. Instead, I suggest that you contact individual Naval personnel, in the service at present, to confirm or deny your individual ideas as to the real nature of military service. Any doubts at all? Please finish your studies now and then, if still convinced, consider a career in the military. Just a word of suggestion. "},{"Title":"Daze of Thunder meets the Navy","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the least realistic, hokiest flying movies made.  Anyone who knows anything at all about naval aviation will be groaning from the outset, especially during the inverted canopy-to-canopy sequence.  Please!  Where are the *tails* of the two aircraft supposed to be during this maneuver? Tucked away for safekeeping so as to not collide with one another?Groan.............................. "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was a Navy Brat for 20 years of my life and spent a lot of time around the aircraft carrier. My father spent 31 years of his career launching and recovering aircraft. This movie, although does not depict the true life of a pilot nor the schooling, is very good because it is twisted to show a hollywood / Rock-N-Roll image of the Navy pilot. It is a good patriotic film without showing a defined enemy which means people around the world can enjoy the film no matter what country they are from. There is a lot of growing and dealing with life's problems which relates to everyone. Everyone should enjoy the music and the action without looking at it with a documentary frame of mind. This is just a movie to entertain and thought that they did an incredible job. I especially enjoyed watching the making of the movie and the cast interviews. "},{"Title":"crap-o-rama","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This fascist garbage is dragged even further into the muck by Danger Zone. This is perhaps the nadir of the mid-80s explosion of high concept moviemaking. "},{"Title":"Dumbest movie.","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely despise this movie for the following reasons1) The quote This gives me a hard on followed by Don't tease me 2)Tom Cruise and Val Kilmer showering together3) Kenny Loggins music 4)All the other music 5) The same producers as Flashdance 6) Makes super-cool fighter jets seem wimpy and soft like Tom Cruise's genitals7) Horrible misuse of Michael IronsideThis is one of the most overrated movies of all time. I hate it with a burning hot searing passion, and pray every day that its supporters (mostly trauma patients) will wake up one day and realize the error of their ways. "},{"Title":"Flies high on action sequences, but low on story.","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When the see the Jerry Bruckenheimer amongst the producers, you know within a millisecond what you will be getting. He produces movies for the mass audience, which are more indicative of the perception of coolness within the era the movie is produced. &#145;Top Gun' is a prime example of this. It is Eighties personified. The only thing missing is the big hair. We were saved this due to the fact that the movie is set within the Air Force. I am not criticising what the producers have done. It will take a lot of guts to put the elements together to create a big bucks bonanza. I just feel that movies such as these do not do full justice to the big stage that they occupy. It did not have enough story to fill the gap between action sequences. The story is inconsequential and the main focus was on the exaggerated dogfight scenes and the less than subtle courtship of Cruise and McGillis. As it turned out it was enough to achieve the big box office draw, with a little help from a mammoth soundtrack. Considering that this was the prime objective, they got the targeted success.A pulsating soundtrack supplemented the testosterone inspired action sequences. This was a prime additive and each track was used to augment the emotion of the scene. Kenny Loggins' &#145;Danger Zone' epitomised the action adventure lifestyle of the fighter pilot, which the producers wished to emulate Hollywood style. It screamed out the personality of the main character. The man who lived for the adrenaline rush, scant respect for the rules and of very few words &#150; none being too sublime. Just listening to the track alone and you can visualise the jet fighter streaking through the air, barely noticeable to the naked eye, and the opponent's aircraft exploding. I am unclear as to the sales figures of the soundtrack, but I am sure it must have been one of the best of its era.In addition, Berlins' &#145;Take My Breathe Away' song was used to accentuate the secondary storyline, that is, the courtship of Cruise and McGillis. Any blockbuster action movie must have an electric female interest for the main character. The song did the work that could not be enacted on screen. The reason being is that Kelly McGillis could not generate the mixed emotions and seemed to stick with the same routine, that of the sophisticated, no nonsense ambitious girl. Notwithstanding the fact that Cruise's character was more adrenaline charged and would have naturally exuded the raw emotions, Kelly McGillis failed to progress beyond an emotional monotone which was adequate for the start, but fell short as the relationship grew with intensity. Considering the success the movie generated, this story element can have its success attributed to the song and Cruise's acting.Sharing centre stage with Cruise were the Tomcats. Creative camera shots and angles were used to capture the speed and finesse of flight. When they are set against the majestic backgrounds of the natural surroundings, it creates a memorable scene. That is, the grandness of nature set together with the powerful machines of man. The use of two &#150; seater aircraft enabled dialogue between the characters in the cockpit. This also facilitated greater rivalry on the ground between competing teams.The acting was solid for a popcorn movie. Even the boisterous, pale lines were done with good acting. The top performer, which is not always necessary for a blockbuster production, goes to the leading man, Tom Cruise. Some of his lines were mediocre, much in line with the superficial nature of the Eighties, but he still managed to attach some credibility to them. There is no doubt that Cruise has a massive ego and he enjoys the opportunity to showcase it. A natural and necessary trait for a Hollywood leading man. The powerful aircraft, the loud jackets and the monster motorbike, all personified his delight in being the centre of attention. The role therefore suits him. But given the fact that certain aspects of the role would have come naturally to him, his emotional turmoil concerning his father's disgraced history and that of the tragic passing of his flight buddy, show how Cruise can play a flawed character and make it believable.The attention to story, as previously mentioned, was minimal. To criticise this would be an exercise in futility &#150; it was never their intention to crate a multi &#150; layered plot or to deliver a message. This was pure entertainment engineered for short &#150; term massive cash flow. The story was spoon &#150; fed and there was absolutely nothing to give serious thought to. The filmmakers know the task at hand, and the mass audience were generally not disappointed. Of credit was the fact that the main character was given an overwhelming obstacle in the form of the disgraced history of his father. It was a burden for him and bought out the extremeness within. His flying was circus &#150; like death defying antics and he was in the face of superiors by negotiating illegal fly &#150; byes. Although more than stretching believability, these antics appealed to the cavalier side of the audience always wanted to unleash. Within the Eighties where this was cool, it is well understandable why the success was achieved. The obstacle also accentuated the relationship between himself and the commanding officer of Top Gun, who had flown with his father. Despite Tom Skerritt being his usual laid &#150; back self, it did not underscore the emotional turmoil the producers wished to project. Skerritt is one of the few actors who could pull that off. It is probably due to it being a natural part of him. &#145;Top Gun' is pure popcorn entertainment. It exemplified the Eighties for which It was created. It may therefore seem a little dated for today's audiences. Notwithstanding this fact and also that the fighter aircraft are long outdated, the racy soundtrack and beautiful cinematography do enough to provide entertainment. But do not brood over the lack of story, this will only lead to disappointment. View it for what it is.    "},{"Title":"One of the Greats!!!","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film takes a beating and keeps on coming.  The critical reviews were not good, and a lot of cynical movie-goers out there will agree with them.  I am not one of those people.  I have the capability of simply going to see a movie, get some popcorn, and simply enjoy the movie for what it is ... pure, escapist entertainment.  Some people, and most critics, forget that movies were created as pure entertainment ... they never pretended to become the class-room that some people want them to be.  They have always been just entertainment.  And if one can accept a movie for being just visceral fun, then this is one of the best.  I get a thrill from this movie as soon as that beat starts as the stars align themselves around a mountain and form Paramount's logo.  And thank you to all those involved, particularly (in no particular order) to1- screenwriters Jim Cash and Jack Epps, Jr.// 2- first-time director Tony Scott// 3- stars Tom Cruise, Anthony Edwards, and Val Kilmer (plus the future Tim Robbins, Tom Skerritt, and Meg Ryan)// 4-but especially to the visionary alliance of uber-producers Jerry Bruckheimer and the late Don Simpson.  Together, this team - sharpened to a point by Bruckheimer and Simpson- has managed to create one of the most visceral, adrenaline-charged motion pictures of all time (just think ... this film is 13 years old and still looks this good and rents this well and sells this well and garners great Nielsens).  It is with deep-seated appreciation that I say Thank You to ALL of those involved, especially Mr. Simpson and Mr. Bruckheimer  -- Thank You!!!.PS - for behind the scenes action, read the book HIGH CONCEPT. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Well Done, Classic 80's film","Date":"16 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" FINALLY saw this movie on Netflix. It's just been a legend for about 30 years!Extremely well done movie. I have absolutely zero interest in fighter jets so the movie really kept my attention with the story line, pacing, acting, script, great music. Tom Cruise was amazingly handsome in this film. Val Kilmer as well. In fact, all of the stars of the film are surprisingly gorgeous on screen. The only thing I disliked is that it is basically propaganda for the military. I can't even imagine how many young men watched this movie as young boys and dreamed of becoming fighter pilots (a dream many boys share, apparently, but very hard to do. I was horrified at the very thought of trying to fly over obstacles (mountains in Nevada in the film) while trying to evade another aircraft, all while being subjected to extreme G force at over 800 miles an hour) so I must say this film did increase my respect of the men (and a couple of women) who are able to accomplish this feat. Definitely worth a watch or two. "},{"Title":"Best War Movie Ever","Date":"3 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Watched Top Gun with Tom Cruise(Legend) as Maverick , Val Kilmer(Willow) as Iceman ,Kelly McGinnis(Witness) as Charlie, Anthony Edwards(Revenge Of The Nerds) as Goose, Tom Skerritt(Alien) as Viper, Michael Ironside(The Falcon and The Snowman) as Jester ,Clarence Gilyard Jr.(Riptide) as Sundown, Meg Ryan(Amityville 3D)as Carole, Tim Robbins(Howard The Duck) as Merlin . One Of The best War Movies as well as Drama also Amazing also it would be so fun to fly and be in The Navy also compelling Story .Great Music By Harold Faltermeyer(Beverly Hills Cop), Cinematography Jeffrey Kimball(The Legend Of Billie Jean) and Direction By Tony Scott(The Hunger) Watched Top Gun with Tom Cruise(Legend) as Maverick , Val Kilmer(Willow) as Iceman ,Kelly McGinnis(Witness) as Charlie, Anthony Edwards(Revenge Of The Nerds) as Goose, Tom Skerritt(Alien) as Viper, Michael Ironside(The Falcon and The Snowman) as Jester ,Clarence Gilyard Jr.(Riptide) as Sundown, Meg Ryan(Amityville 3D)as Carole, Tim Robbins(Howard The Duck) as Merlin . One Of The best War Movies as well as Drama also Amazing also it would be so fun to fly and be in The Navy also compelling Story .Great Music By Harold Faltermeyer(Beverly Hills Cop), Cinematography Jeffrey Kimball(The Legend Of Billie Jean) and Direction By Tony Scott(The Hunger) Best War Movie Ever 8/10 "}{"Title":"If Nothing Else, Watch the Beautiful Aerial Photography!","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Broke new ground for aircraft camera mounts. Flight deck photography, catapult launches, and air- to-air cinematography are some of the best in the business. Raised the Hollywood aerial photography bar by many, many levels. This movie alone was responsible for an entirely new generation of U. S. Navy aviators and flight officers enlisting in the Navy. Top Gun made the F-14 Tomcat the king of the fight deck, compared with other aircraft. Added new slang dialogue to the American English lexicon; the Top Gun references were endless when around military people, and specifically Navy people, in the 90s. And you can still hear people say negative Ghostwriter, Goose, we're hit! around town. "},{"Title":"I am a man man man man up up in the air","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" And I run around around round act like I don't care- It's too easy to make fun of how deeply home-erotic this movie is. All I have to do is point out the beach volleyball scene, don't gotta talk about the plethora of shower scenes or how Kelly McGillis's character only get's boned by Maverick AFTER she dresses like a dude, yeah all I have to do is say the words  beach volleyball scene , and that's enough. So anyways, this movie, Top f*cking Gun. Have you seen it? Do you want to talk about it? Oh Top Gun, what were you thinking? Like what was your f*cking goal, Top Gun? When I watch this movie I am f*cking mystified, I do not understand what is going on with Top Gun. Question mark? "},{"Title":"Don't lose your money/time, with another smarmy 80's Tom Cruise Movie.(only opinions)","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Again just opinions, but don't watch this movie. It is bad. It is too repetitive, with a ton of unnecessary actions and moments done by the movie, feels like a homosexual navy ad, and blows the can off overused songs. Seriously, Danger Zone and Take my Breath Away were used so many times it feels like they're joking with the audience. Another thing the acting. Their poses and facial expressions make me feel like they're going to kiss each other, every time the 18/20 male characters put their faces 1/2 inch away from each other. And the line delivery was so cheesy and over-played, I could have made a cheese factory from the first piece of dialouge. This movie also thinks itself to be Albert Einstein with having its late 80's movie actors repeat again and again complicated aviation terms like they actually knew what they we're talking about. What amazes me, is how the movie put itself in such a homoerotic position, that if it wasn't 2/20 female characters, I would have thought this movie was in the Homosexual area of netflix. I have nothing against homosexuality, only that if the director of this movie knows this movie is over the top-homoerotic, and that the only way to fix that is instead of changing 50% of the script, adding 2 female characters and a love story to its half-assed plot. Never, under any circumstance waste any of your precious life on this movie. "},{"Title":"Playing with the boys","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" You ever had the strange sensation when watching a film so bad, that you thought at anytime Aston Kutcher will jump out from behind your sofa and shout, you have just been puncked. That's how I felt watching Top Gun, quite possibly the Godfather of long, cheesy, bore fests of bad films, actually it's an insult even to place the Godfather even the same sentence as Tony Scott's action drama, minus the action and minus the drama. Meet Maverick (Tom Cruise) a pompous air force pilot who thinks his god's gift to the world and his partner Goose, and his just, well he's just Goose. Together they compete against other pilots, mainly Ice (Val Kilmer) for the prestigious title of Top Gun. Well I guess that is pretty much all the story that's in Top Gun, they practise flying planes during the day times and then in the evening they play topless beach volley ball with each other, or yeah there is a pointless romance revolving around Maverick and a flight instructor called Charlie (Kelly mcgillis), put in place by Tony as a pitiful attempt at attracting a larger female audiences (as if that's all women want in a film!). The reason I don't like the romance is because first all Tom Cruise had to do was sing her a song and he had her , then as it progresses it adds virtually nothing to the plot, and finally it didn't change Maverick at all, so why have it?! Another problem with the film was they didn't play with the rivalry between Ice and Maverick enough, so there was never any real tension in the film to keep you hooked. I felt the flying scenes were far too long especially considering they were all simulations and weren't in real battle, so Maverick was never in any real danger, further dousing any fading glimmer of suspense. However the soundtracks complemented the scene perfectly and cinematography was beautiful, particularly during the aerial shots. But from a guy who brought your Risky Business and Born on the Fourth of July, I'm extremely disappointed in you Tom, shame on you. "},{"Title":"Does not deserve it's Classic movie title.","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK so I have been under the impression since I first heard about Top Gun that it was a classic must-watch at least once in your lifetime film. Turns out it's not. For all the accolades this film received over the years it has a shocking rating on IMDb and it does not shock me in the least. The Only thing that shocks me is the fact so many people talk about Top Gun being a great movie.The whole movie seemed like a major stretch and pointless. Just a bunch of guys who got together to play with their toys. I usually am not bothered by technical inaccuracies as I think movies do need to take artistic licence with their work, but Top Gun was ridiculous. There is no way the Navy would let it's trainees behave like this. And the characters are a bunch of arrogant conceded pigs. Everything seems pointless that the movie is an insult to everyone portrayed in it. I have seen it now and I never ever want to see it ever again. "},{"Title":"I feel the need, the need for sleep","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to admit, I was really looking forward to this. After how good I've heard this was, I went into this expecting Die Hard or Commando with jets. I couldn't have been more wrong. Top Gun is about this super cool guy named Maverick, played by Tom Cruise. He and Goose, his funny-best-friend-with-a-family-and-a-little-boy- and who's-death-you-could-predict-within-the-first-two-minutes are at the top of their class in flight school. They go to the big boy's league where Maverick meets and fall in love with his teacher, Charolette, played by Kelly McGillis, and the two of them have about as much chemistry between them as Cruise has had successful marriages. It's pretty funny how there's much more sexual tension and chemistry between Maverick and Goose and Maverick and his rival Iceman, who's the antagonist because the film tells us he is; however his only crime for ¾ of the film is being the only character who tells Maverick he puts his squad in danger without kissing his butt in the same sentence. This film basically winds up being a really dull romance between Maverick and Charolette, with the actual plot nowhere to be seen as nothing ever really happens. Finally something does, in fact, happen, and there is some drama but by then it's too little too late. Some Russians show up in the last ten minutes so some explosions can get squeezed in at the end. Questions such as did this act of aggression lead to World War 3 are never answered. I also wonder why Russia's first move would be to shoot at two jets of trainees in the middle of nowhere. Move over, Pearl Harbor. There are some bright sides to the film, to be fair. They have some beautiful shots and stunts of the planes. The soundtrack is very love it or hate it, with 'Take My Breathe Away' and the ever classic 'Danger Zone'. You're only in danger if you watch this film and expect anything more than the dull, manliest chick flick in creation. "},{"Title":"Chick flick for the girlfriend, action for the boyfriend","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, where do we start? All the clichés in every war movie ever were crammed into a single film (except the only black guy dies first thing, that was not in it, because for some reason, all the smart, top-class jet fighter pilots in the US are white). Basically, as the title portrays, the film contains a sensual romance going down between Tom Cruise (Maverick) and Kelly McGillis (Charlie), (who by the way is a civilian instructor in a top fighter pilot school in matters of strategy etc, which is kinda weird, cause the post of strategy instructor is usually reserved for majors, captains, colonels etc. as a recognition of their combat records, but enough of that), while Maverick is being trained by her to become a super awesome all powerful Rambo of the skies jet fighter pilot. We get random talks about his dad being in the Vietnam war and serving as a fighter pilot there and either making a mistake that cost a lot of lives or doing something heroic that saved a lot of lives (I'm not really sure, because it's also top secret stuff for some reason and no one is really allowed to talk about it, we only get hints).The rest of the film is filled with Tom Cruise riding his motorcycle, Tom Cruise having wild sex, Tom Cruise throwing smart lines at everyone who is not Tom Cruise, Tom Cruise smiling at the camera and flirting with anything that has a pair of boobs, Tom Cruise playing bitch-volley and winning and occasionally Tom Cruise piloting his F-14 jet fighter, which is the only good part of the film for two reasons a) we don't get to see Tom Cruise's smirk because he is wearing a breathing mask/radio and helmet and b) the flying sequences and the final dog fight are actually pretty well done and filled with action, so that the boyfriend will not get bored while his girlfriend is watching her chick flick plot. (That's why this review gets a 2/10 instead of a round 0). Oh wait, actually the flying sequences were not made by the film creators, they were actual footage from Navy and Air Force military exercises and missile tests.(btw, I have nothing against Tom Cruise, he can be a good actor sometimes, but when a film relies solely on an actor's smiling and flirting capabilities, it has to be pointed out)The American patriotism Hollywood feeling is brimming throughout every sequence and apparently the russians and the Americans are at war because the last scene is a giant dog-fight with Russian MiG28s and American F14s blasting each other. Well, I'll say that the action was very decent in that scene, but come on, 2 nuclear super powers are meeting in the weekends for aerial team-deathmatches? Was there a war? If there was, why doesn't anyone really care about it back in the US? Does Russia provide the US with real-living pilots to serve as target practice after the graduation party from the Top Gun School? Does that arrangement work both ways? Anyway, the film was partially produced by the US military (they actually changed the script from Maverick falling in love with a Navy officer, to fall in love with a civilian instructor, because of the military's policy of not allowing personnel to have relationships with each other) and that is why the propaganda is brimming through every plot hole in the movie. It was partially done to show to the American public that the secret Russian aircraft Mig28, which was considered by NATO to be the best jet fighter in the world at the time, was not a big deal and also serves as a recruiting video for the US Navy.The good parts of the film? Well, as I said, it's got awesome action in it (since most of it is real) and there's good attention to detail considering scenery, costumes etc. You might have fun with it if you just relax and go along. Also, the soundtrack is pretty solid. However, most of the people who reviewed this movie is girls. Especially, if they watched it for the first time as teenagers and at a time that Tom Cruise was considered the hottest guy in the business. Nothing against them, but please don't just like a film just because of an actor being hot. That's how we got this Justin Bieber thing in our hands (hehe i made a funny)Apparently, the film is scheduled for a 3D re-release and that's why I am writing this review. If you are a guy Action scenes are gonna satisfy you If you are a girl Romance is gonna satisfy you If you want to see a good film DON'T GO! "},{"Title":"A largely mediocre movie","Date":"8 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having recently read a book called The Game by Neil Strauss, where he makes numerous references to Top Gun, Magnolia and Jerry Maguire, I decided to watch this movie. It sure is difficult to imagine that a movie could be so polar. Without a doubt, the movie was ridden with bad acting.Tom Cruise, though not terribly bad in his portrayal of Lt. Pete Maverick Mitchell, was still largely amateurish. Kelly McGillis (Charlotte Charlie Blackwood) put on a SPECTACULARLY terrible performance through the entire 110-odd minutes. Moreover, the cinematography was quite poor, and video editing was quite appalling. And don't even get me started on characterization and plot. But diametrically, the movie was a great treat too. The music and original score was terrific (rightfully earning an Academy Award) The visual effects were amazing and Val Kilmer was his usual charismatic and professional self.Overall, the movie would have been worse than trash without the awesome dogfights and the great audio. "},{"Title":"Air-adventure cannily designed as a rock music video...a movie for its time rather than for the ages","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Naval aviation students dual it out in the air, romance the girls on the ground. It isn't any wonder why Top Gun was such a smash with audiences circa 1986 it puts to use the punchy, pulsating rhythms of the slickly-edited videos of MTV's peak era and wraps them up in Miami Vice-styled cool. It couldn't miss--especially not without the face of then-current heartthrob Tom Cruise front and center. Still, the film more often than not resembles a hearty civil service recruitment ad (underlined with smug machismo), and is photographed and scored as such. Yes, it looks great, all expensive commercials do. Cruise doesn't act so much as he does strut, however this swagger doesn't help him much in the love-department as he is partnered with Kelly McGillis, playing a leggy, brainy instructor (she's too leggy and brainy for Tom, and seems far out of his league). The movie struck a nerve with both men and women eager to indulge in the over-scaled presentation and cocky contrivances, however today it opens itself up to parody. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Tom Cruise Became a Star","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun was to the 1980s what Jerry Bruckheimer movies are now loud, dumb, uber-macho and slightly homoerotic.Risky Business had put Tom Cruise on the map, but it was probably this film that launched him into full-fledged stardom. Looking back now, he was obviously born to play this role, since it's not a far cry from his actual persona a cocky jackass.Kelly McGillis, fresh off of Witness, also stars, though her character here is quite a bit removed from the strait-laced Amish mother she played in the earlier film.There's lots of footage of hot shot guys flying big jets really fast -- it's like a ramped up commercial for Gillette razors.Grade C "}{"Title":"The danger zone","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is about a group of United States pilots that attend a school for top pilots, remarkably called the Top Gun school. The pilots engage in various training exercises and occasionally engage in combat with commie MiGs.Tom Cruise leads the cast as the pilot codenamed Maverick. Cruise is suited to playing a pilot that's brash and arrogant. Maverick's rival for top honors at the flight school, Ice, is played by Val Kilmer, who is appropriate to play a character that is, well, brash and arrogant. Kelly McGillis also gives a fine performance as Charlie, an instructor at the school and a love interest for Maverick. However, Anthony Edwards' and Meg Ryan's performances as Goose and Carole weren't notable.The officers of the film, however, are perfectly cast. The first officer we see is played by James Tolkan, who practically reprises his role as Mr. Strickland from Back to the Future (1985). The role suits him well, and I half expected him to say, Slackers! or You've got a real attitude problem! Michael Ironside and Tom Skerritt are also cast as officers and bring the right air of authority to their roles.This film appropriately features captivating aerial training and combat. The flight sequences were consistently well-paced and backed up by an appropriate rock soundtrack. Where this film isn't as consistent is when the pilots are on the ground. The film maintains a consistent pace and is never boring. There are some decent dramatic moments and the relationship between Maverick and Charlie was reasonably developed. However, quite a lot of the dialogue and situations created in this film are juvenile. I suppose this film wanted to portray immature yet driven pilots, but it becomes tiresome quickly. Scenes like the volleyball scene really weren't necessary. Overall Top Gun is primarily notable for its impressive fighter sequences. "},{"Title":"Lots Of Action With Little Story","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you like action movies simply for the sake of the action, you'll probably enjoy this movie a lot. It is full of action (and even a bit of combat). However, if you expect at least a bit of a believable story behind all the action, in the end this movie will disappoint. In essence, there are three different stories told in this movie, and all of them either lacked suspense or believability.The first takes up about the first three quarters of the film. Maverick (Tom Cruise) is a Navy Fighter Pilot sent to a special school for the Navy's elite pilots. To the extent that there's a story here it seems to revolve around whether Maverick or Iceman (Val Kilmer) will end up at the top of the class and win the Top Gun award (and essentially be declared the best of the best). The problem is that the competition really didn't interest me. The movie didn't really offer any particular reason to root for one over the other, and when Tom Skerrit (playing the commander of the school) offers a voice over (by radio to the pilots) saying that only 2 points separates Maverick and Iceman, my honest reaction was who really cares? In fairness I guess kudos have to be given to the writers for avoiding the temptation to turn Iceman into the embodiment of evil, which would have made the story even more ridiculous (even though it would have given us someone to root for.) As it is, though, watching this competition between the two was a bit like watching a World Series between the Arizona Diamondbacks and the Seattle Mariners (or substitute any two teams that you don't care a whit about.) The second storyline was about the romance between Maverick and one of his civilian instructors at the school (played by Kelly McGinnis.) The relationship wasn't sufficiently developed and just didn't strike me as believable. How did Charlie (McGillis) survive as an instructor at this school when she was so easily swept off her feet by a hot shot student (given that the only students she'd ever have at this school are hot-shots?) The final storyline was the most interesting of the three, and revolved around whether Maverick could regain his form after the accidental death of his buddy Goose (Anthony Edwards.) Again, though, there's a predictability to this. You know in the end that he'll come through. How he came around was a bit problematic to me (entertaining though it was, I admit). If the sort of thing that happened in the last little bit of the movie was really the sort of thing that might have happened during the Cold War, then it seems to me that the Cold War would have become hot pretty fast. This is clearly a plot line that worked very well in the 1980's, when Cold War-themed movies were common (think Red Dawn or even Rocky V - although Top Gun is certainly less over-the-top than those two), and that historical context might be a problem when watching such a movie almost 20 years after the end of the Cold War, when the passions just aren't there anymore.Anyway, I'd give this a 5/10. Action-lovers will love it; others might be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Fails on take off - 49%","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Few films provoke more feelings of nostalgia than this one. Arguably the film that launched Tom Cruise into the stratosphere, it is exactly what you'd expect from a Simpson/Bruckheimer production - it's loud, macho and utterly predictable but somehow, people have fallen in love with this film including my Better Half. In fact, I had to watch it by myself because she began quoting the dialogue word-for-word! Frankly, it never really appealed to me and to be honest, I feel slightly vindicated. This is not a film that is easy to take seriously (even if you hadn't seen Hot Shots) but while it does some things very well, it's far from being the polished Eighties icon I was expecting. Yes, expecting - this is the first time I'd watched it...Cruise plays Pete Mitchell, an aggressive Air Force pilot who goes by the name of Maverick. Specialising in being unconventional and rebellious, Maverick and his co-pilot Goose (Anthony ER Edwards, of all people!) find themselves dispatched to the Navy's Top Gun flight school in order to become the best. But Maverick's attitude, combined with the disgrace of his father, puts him at odds with his fellow students and especially Ice (an uncomfortable looking Val Kilmer). Distracted by civilian instructor Charlie (Kelly McGillis), can Maverick tame his inner demons and the skies in order to be the best?Almost everyone is aware of this film in some capacity, whether its due to the frequent action scenes or its undeniable homo-eroticism - it's impossible to watch the volleyball scene with a straight face! Cruise is easily the best of the actors although Tom Skerritt almost betters Cruise as the veteran Viper. But the real stars are the planes as they fly, spin and twist their way around each other. Problem I had was that once you lose track of who is in what plane, the action becomes very confusing. For example, when Maverick talks about flying in an inverse double-barrelled somersault with two twists and a tuck, I didn't know if he was flying or Olympic board diving! You can't follow the action whereas the plot is so simple, it's damn-near insulting. The only surprise for me was that there was no flash-back scene but Hell, Tony Scott has some standards. Kilmer looks very uneasy about the whole thing but the most ironic casting was vocal anti-war critic Tim Robbins as fellow fighter pilot Merlin. Made me chuckle, anyway.I'm sure that waaay back in the day, when Top Gun was cutting edge and before it was spoofed, this would have been great. Just the tonic for an America in the dying days of the Cold War. Now, post 9/11, it looks horribly dated and excessively patriotic. Cruise has gone on to bigger things, Kilmer seems to have ignored it altogether on his CV and McGillis vanished into thin air. Personally, it never really stirred me until the famous volleyball scene where I couldn't contain my laughter any more. In short, this film is excessively noisy and woefully unimaginative. It's a very basic, mass-appeal Boys-Own adventure that had about 10 seconds of though behind it and a director obsessed with filming lots of shots of planes flying past. If that's what you're looking for, or if you fancy seeing why everyone got very excited 21 years ago, then give it a try. But sometimes, nostalgia is a cruel mistress because the chances are, this film isn't as good as you remember. "},{"Title":"Don't miss it...","Date":"22 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" TOP GUN, well saw this movie on cable television for the first time, and yes it had something that got my attention. Then again, adding it to my collection was a must, after all it is one of the best movies of all time.The hype about movie being technically wrong in so many parts is not a factor when you are enjoying it. You can always understand what is going on during dogfights and where is the actual story progressing.A story of a young fighter pilot who goes on to join the fighter school for top 1% pilots in the American Navy, and during it falls for the instructor. A very well portrayed movie, great acting and even Meg Ryan did a great job. Tom Cruise in his early days made a great impact whereas Val Kilmer also gained recognition. You want love story, you want drama, you want a great movie, go ahead...watch it. A certain must for my collection, great movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Grammatical error in opening caption","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have never caught it before, but there is a definite grammatical error in the movie, Top Gun. It appears at the beginning of the movie when the story is being divulged and the stage set.In the first few minutes of the movie, there is an introductory caption that appears just before the TOP GUN title. In it the word insure should be ensure. I have seen the movie several times but only caught the error recently. I tried a search on the topic, but don't think it has been noted before.Top Gun is a great movie, and of all the blockbusters like it in its era, it is surprising that it never had a sequel. And absolutely for the best! I don't think Top Gun would be considered so great if it became a franchise. "},{"Title":"Top Gun - Not just Cruise control","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun has a fabulous sound track. Very few from the 80's generation don't get their heart racing when they hear about the danger zone. Tom Cruise delivers a good performance, but Val Kilmer's performance was more notable in my opinion. The movie blends the thrill of aviation with the challenge of military life mixed with the heated emotions of young guns. These guys are just like military guys I met when I was young; dedicated to their profession, but always ready for a thrill. The girls are always looking for these guys, and the plot is true to the drama and reality of what it is like to be a man in uniform, excuse the old-fashioned reference, but the comment embodies the spirit of the movie. "},{"Title":"Great action, excellent plot, and a well thought out film!","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun, starring Tom Cruise, Kelly McGillis, and Val Kilmer is an amazing film. Tom Cruise, and Kelly McGillis aren't legend type actors in the movie, but they are very high class. The dramatic scene in the movie, which leads to lots of movie changing events is in the perfect section of the movie, and has a great build up, which makes you really feel the drama. Though the movie seems to go by fast, every second gets trapped in my heart forever. It's also amazing, how there is more than one plot, but they all connect, and really change the movie in a certain way. Although, I wish that the movie showed more action, and special affects in battle, all the affects shown were great. If you like movies that stay in your soul and body forever, Top Gun is the one. "},{"Title":"all the redeemable qualities","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I could write about all the 'bad' things I think about the movie, but that is a bit boring. I liked seeing mustaches in their natural setting. All the motorcycle scenes are flawless especially the ones with 'take my breath away'. I think I just need to skip to the 'take my breath away' scenes to get to the meat of the film. I was never concerned with story watching this film, I always found it a distraction to the jets and motorcycles. They should use the good example of this film by having more movies with jets and motorcycles. They don't even have to use Tom Cruise--- they could find another actor--- possibly a female--- maybe even his ex-wife--- or make it a foreign film set in China--- that would make more sense. I never felt like Tom Cruise was experiencing anything that happened in the movie. It was like he was so goal oriented that he didn't care. AAAAhhhh..... the sweet smell of the 80's. "},{"Title":"Val Kilmer was a more liked person","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie, but it lacks something. It was not Tom Cruse'sbest acting performance, or I did not like Toms character. Well maybe,pilots act this way, but Tom was not a team player, and learned aboutit; Val Kilmer was a more liked person, and me with own sin should notcast the first stone because my wife tells me I got a Tom Cruse, topgun attitude so I should not judge. The cast is good you have MichaelIronside, and Tom Skeriet, and the script is good, but not accurate of what happens at top gun, and the story has a moral about growing up along with over coming life obstacles. In the end the jet footage is great, but something just lacked in this film   "},{"Title":"Not a cinematic masterpiece, but still a HIGHLY entertaining movie.","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While this may not be a masterpiece of all time, i personally still consider it quite a cult film and it includes basically every emotion a movie like this needs, it has romance, sorrow and loss, but most importantly it has the best display of winner mentality i have seen since Rocky, and that is mostly why this film WORKS, becuase it really shows what is inside almost all of us, the need to win, the need to compete and win!Also even though many may say that this is a predictable movie, i don't think that, i actually was surprised at least 2 times over twists in the plot, i'm not gonna mention it here cuz it's useless to destroy endings, but well i just think everyone should check it out. It's a cult film for these type of films, and it really makes you feel good. Also Tom Cruise is absolutely great, even back then he was an amazing actor. "}{"Title":"Candidate for a remake","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This pathetically made film is surely a candidate for a remake.  What were the Navy consultants doing during the filming, oogling Kelly McGillis?  There is no indication they provided any advice that was used.  The impossible flight maneuvers and the use of American trainer jets as MIG-28s made the whole film laughable.  If these people had made a WWII film, they would have used Sherman tanks as German Panzers and Tigers. Maybe the film was supposed to be a cartoon, but the producers decided to use real actors.  The remake should make use of Navy consultants and digital special effects to create real MIGs.   "},{"Title":"A Different Kind of Military Movie. . .","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" . . .for the mid-eighties!  Before Top Gun, most of the military movies of the time were the shoot 'em up, one-man army types, even Iron Eagle  (only the latter was done with a jet).  Were they bad movies?  No way!  I enjoyed them.  But after seeing so many of them, we were due for a new type, and here comes Top Gun at mach 2!Unlike some of the other movies released before Top Gun, this one had the full cooperation of the Department of Defense and the U. S. Navy, and as a result, more realistic military action.Of course the producers and the writers took artistic license, otherwise what we would've gotten was a plotless two hour documentary.  But the writers and producers mixed Hollywood imagination and Naval Aviation real well.I was 14 when Top Gun came out and was awestruck by it.  Now some seventeen point five years later, and a military veteran, there are things I laugh at in the film, BUT Top Gun remains one of my favorite military movies.  Why?  Because it took me away from the other aforementioned military movies released before this one.   "},{"Title":"I'd have liked to have given it a 10","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well done with fine effects and action scenes. My only three criticisms are 1.Little Tom Cruise at 5'6 romantically involved with 5'10 Kelley McGillis who is also 5 years older than Tom. ????2.A woman who has never flown instructing Top Gun pilots. In what ????3.That god-awful song Great Balls of Fire.Other than the above I enjoyed it immensely. Tom Skeritt,Michael Ironside and Val Kilmer deserve kudos as does the rest of the cast along with some mighty fancy flying.  "},{"Title":"Cute boys, anyway.","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well. This film is so unmemorable that I was 2/3 of the way through before I realized this was *not* my first viewing of it! Only the scene where Meg Ryan says He loved flying with you triggered my memory. This despite the tasty eye candy. Being a red-blooded female I'd think I'd remember that, at least! Very LOUD; annoying, inappropriately bubblegummy Loggins soundtrack; and a theme song that is decent but hardly Oscar calibre. "},{"Title":"Great action, shallow story","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun was a big seller in video when it came out on VHS because of the spectacular flight scenes. Visually it is impressive. Still, the story rings hollow. It's a war story without a war, and therein lies its fault.Every character is a stereotype. We have seen every one of them in a World War II movie, only this time we see them in 1980's glossiness. The great danger is that something might go wrong with the aircraft, and not that the Russians or Chinese are out to get the pilots.      "},{"Title":"Didn't exactly take my breath away","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A beautiful time capsule of the eighties and a hint of things to come from Jerry Bruckheimer.  Unless it is enough just to look at stars and not to watch actors act, director Tony Scott wastes a good cast.  I don't think I've ever seen Kilmer doing a worse job then he did in this one.  The movie is shot well and has some intense dogfighting action but is hardly a great cinematic achievement.  Production values are high and the simple themes, trite dialogue, and iconic characters won't tax the brain, making it an ideal action movie for the average American and a fair way to spend a couple of hours.6 of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure watching this White Boy movie","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun has always been a guilty pleasure of mine.  It's not a great movie by any means, it ain't even a good movie.  Out of 4 stars I'd give it 2. The story is cliched and weak, the acting kinda lame, but the aerial dog fights more then make up for the shortcomings of this movie.  They are simply amazing!This movie is also a guilty pleasure of mine because it has always had the rep of being a White boy movie.  I don't know why, and I don't know why all the White guys have historically loved this film.  I suppose it's because the film shows a bunch of macho White dudes struttin' their stuff in the air, I dunno.  Wait there was that one Black dude pilot, but he didn't get much air time. Obviously, you've figured out that I ain't White, so it's been embarrassing that I have such a weakness for this film.  Whenever it comes on, I watch it and I feel guilty for loving this.  I remember years ago in the early '90s when I was a teen, some friends of mine came over and saw Top Gun in my movie collection and remarked that was a White boy movie.  I felt bad, but I don't care, I still like it.  The aerial dog fights are the DA BOMB, and the '80s hard rock soundtrack kicks ass.  Kicks ass in that good old fashioned White boy way, hehe just kidding.Like I said the story is corny and kinda weak, the acting ain't that good, and the film has always had a rep of being the biggest White boy movie around.  But the dog fights are so damn fucking good that I never gived a shit what people thought.  I like Top Gun and always have since it came out in 1986 when I was just 8 years old.  Hey I guess I have a little White boy in me, but it's all good and nothing to be too ashamed of.  )  "},{"Title":"you can ride my tail anytime sweetboy","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  one stupid film, with such a dated 80's look and feel. the obvious homosexual content is funny, like a big gay in-joke besides the one line summary above, what about when kelly mcgillis tries to seduce him, he leaves her, goes riding on his bike and is later seduced when she dresses like a man! one big gay in-joke, like batman and robin. about as good as say red dawn, another pro-military 80's movie against the evil empire  "},{"Title":"The usual flyboy cliches","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film embodies a stock cliche of pilot films as old as John Wayne in Flying Tigers and even Abbott and Costello Join the Air Force.  The barnstorming, scarf flying, hot shot, gifted but irresponsible fighter pilot who only learns the meaning of teamwork and discipline when he gets a friend killed.  Or maybe as old as Achilles and Patroclus. "},{"Title":"brilliant!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a really great movie. To begin with the acting, Tom Cruise and Val Kilmer makes convincing roles as usual. Tom Cruise can do something as an actor I've never seen anyone else do. The scenes with him and Kelly McGillis makes me really nervous and stuff. It feels almost as I were in the film myself talking to Kelly... It´s real weird, and I've only felt like that in Tom Cruise-scenes. These comment weren't supposed to be about Cruise´s brilliant acting but the brilliant film. It has awesome action-scenes with the planes and so on...Tony Scott has talent for this and he's shown us that several occasions after Top Gun.I really like this movie because it is what we call a cinema-movie with great success at the cinemas throughout the world. The love-scenes with Kelly MacGillis and Tom Cruise in it are well-made, and along with Cruise´s brilliance it's real emotional too. Sure its a far way off the top movies I´ve seen but it made a great impression on me anyway. GO MAVERICK GO! "}{"Title":"TG is not as good as everyone says","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not trying to step on anyone's foot here, but I think Top Gun is over-rated.  It's not that I don't like Tom Cruise; in fact, he's one of my favorite actors.  Whenever I watch TG, I don't feel the excitement that everyone else experiences.  However, I do feel pumped up watching Days of Thunder.  Both movies have the same star, same director, and similar plots.  However, Days of Thunder adds more laughs to the thrills.  Enough about Days of Thunder; I'm here to review Top Gun.  Simply, Top Gun never met the high expectations. The MPAA mistakenly rated Top Gun PG for Parental Guidance; that is an understatement.  TG deserves a PG-13 rating in my humble opinion, because 1). there are two clear uses of obscene gestures, and 2.) the sex scene is too graphic for a PG movie.  Every time I watch this movie with my dad, he skips past the sex scene.   He doesn't do that because I'm too young; I'm old enough to drink and gamble.  It's just that the scene is too offensive, even for a middle-aged man like my father.  Don't get me wrong; I don't hate Top Gun.  It has taken me several viewings to enjoy this movie.  I like all of the cool quotes (i.e. Your ego is writing checks your body can't cash.).  The supporting cast was well-chosen.  ER's Anthony Edwards is great as Maverick's comical best friend and co-pilot.  Kelly McGillis, still fresh from Witness, plays the resisting love interest.  Future Batman Val Kilmer excels as Maverick's rival, the aptly named Iceman.  Lastly, Director Tony Scott is skilled in his trade, and producers Jerry Bruckheimer and Don Simpson make up the best producer partnership I have ever seen.I am grateful that Tom Cruise regained his stardom from Top Gun, leading the way to better films like Rain Man and Born on the Fourth of July.  Maybe I'm wrong, and TG is the best movie Cruise ever did.  I'll never believe it though.        "},{"Title":"used to like it as a kid...as a kid","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun sucks. The action couldnt be any lamer. Tom Cruise is so tough as hotshot Maverick and there's Val Kilmer as another hot shot. And everyone's big thing is being the best of the best at jets or whatever this stupid crap is. Really, I hate this movie. I cant believe I liked this as a kid. * "},{"Title":"Of the most pathetic genre","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You know the one I mean. The one that also spawned Die Hard, Speed, Iron Eagle, and The Abyss. A pseudo action movie with awful technical direction (see the goofs section, there are nearly 40 blatant errors listed) and a plot that could be used to dip nachos in. I don't really mind what many call 80s jingoism, the cold war was alluded to in nearly every action movie since the 50s. Why, however, do immature actors and out of touch story writers have to be allowed on the scene? son, your ego is writing checks your body can't cash!!! or I feel the need, the need, for speed!!!! You can find better lines in a woody woodpecker cartoon. And miscast Kelly McGillis's middle aged looking character, Freud could write volumes on her onscreen relationship with Cruise. They shouldve just shown an aerial fighting special from the discovery channel, wouldve cost alot less and probably been more realistic and satisfying. "},{"Title":"Good, yet flawed, fun movie.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Was Top Gun an exciting joyride or macho b.s.?  Whether or not you'll like Top Gun will depend entirely on rather or not you can manage to shut off your brain long enough to stand (a) an extremely predictable story, (b) a rather idiotic love story, and (c) lots of crappy Ken Loggins/mid-80's music.  The extremely predictable story is actually the easiest of the three flaws to overlook.  Why?  Because we grow to like all the characters in the movie.  Maverick (Tom Cruise) is cool.  Goose (Anthony Edwards) is the best buddy we all wish we had.  Viper (Tom Skerritt) is the tough, yet fair, instructor.  We even like Ice Man (Val Kilmer) by the end of the movie (the character's disdain for Maverick isn't because Ice Man's a jerk, but because he's concerned that Maverick is too unsafe).  The stupid love story is a little harder to swallow.  Kelly McGillis couldn't act her way out of a paper bag.  Supposedly she has a Ph.D. in astrophysics (!), but somehow I doubt it.  There's NO chemistry between the two characters.  They profess to be in love, but the way it's portrayed in the movie, you get they feeling it's just about physical attraction (but, then again, who can blame them). Oh, and yes, the music in this movie sucks.  Even the main non-Loggins score.  Horrible. So what was good about Top Gun?  Well, besides the cool characters (except Charlie), this movie has a lot of exciting flight sequences.  This movie's not boring.  Very, very fun to watch.  (Except all the scenes with Tom Cruise with his shirt off...but I guess they had to give the women of 1986 something to watch, too.)  Overall, 7 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Important film - too clever for today's filmmakers (hehe)","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers!A film that touches on 1980s scenarios, but not on Congressional or Presidential politics from the mid-80s. This film was a classic hero story, unfortunately grafted on to a completely unbelievable and unnecessary Hollywood 'romance'. It seems to have almost single-handedly destroyed Kelly M's career. On the other hand, Meg Ryan, Val Kilmer, and Anthony Edwards had been kicking around in lesser films or soaps, or something - and this was their 'big movie'. And they've all done remarkably well, since. It may have been the first 'super-hit' for Cruise, as well. It was a launching pad in more ways than one.The stunts were exceptional. The star of the film, despite the great actors, was still - just the jets. The movie was about the score, the opening song (very catchy), and the fighter jets. That was the movie. It was a hardware film, a special effects popcorn flick, where the good guys win, and the bad guys are good, but just not good enough. Once you get tired of the air combat scenes, there's nothing else to the movie. It's the kind of film that gets old, at some point, upon repeated viewing. I said to myself at the time - heck, great recruiting film for the navy, or air force. It was sort of interesting, exciting, and a little too staged, all at the same time.One thing that always grated a bit was the look of the pilots. The old WWII movies had guys that looked like they just got off the flightline. The Cougar guy just didn't look right. And Cruise looked wrong, too. They looked like Hollywood types trying to play at being American fighter pilots. Something about Edwards looked genuine. And something about Kilmer's arrogant antagonism seemed a genuine fighter jock kind of thing, too - even if Kilmer, himself, didn't look right. But, again - the movie was about the airplanes, just like Jurassic Park was about the dinosaurs.Overall, a good film, an important film, a dated film, a film like they don't like to make anymore. It was competent. There was something to it - namely a lot of jets and a catchy song. It didn't feel like a waste of ticket money when the final credits rolled - unlike so many of today's overworked, overthought, overhyped films. "},{"Title":"For the boys","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is to boys what Dirty Dancing is to girls the number one adolescence film of all time. The romance and the action in this film are both pretty lame - but there's something about it that moves it from the grotesquely inane to the absurdly interesting. I for one love to see the dogfights despite the enormous amount of factual errors that occur at every single turn. As for the romance between the two main characters, well... it's not that bad, really . Just some lines that feel tremendously corny and some bad acting here and there.I just have one question how come the F-14s, when they get hit, just lose an engine or experience lighter stability problems, while the little boogeys are blown to smithereens? "},{"Title":"Dismal, bad, a parody of itself","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Finally saw this movie on TNT last night and it was truly one of the worst films I can remember seeing - ever! Paper-thin plot, every element of it predictable (even the ending, which I did not find surprising at all), no convincing characters, silly dialog, and absurd flight scenes that were so unrealistic that I could not find them exciting at all. Punk flies jets. Punk gets chick. Punk has to deal with fathers death. Punk loses chick. Punk deals with friend's death. Punk grows up. Punk flies jets. Everyone cheers. Bad, bad, bad. "},{"Title":"It was a landmark for the 80's teens","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film when I was 12 years old. We were just entering high school and it was the talk of the year. We kept dancing the whole soundtrack (which is by far the best thing this movie has to give), the boys loved the plane scenes and Kelly McGillis and the girls loved Tom Cruise. That sums it up. The plot is of course awful and naive and if someone would like to find something deeper, it depicts the Cold War militaristic way of thought in the USA. But this is way too deep for this film. It's just a flick of 80's teenexploitation (early teens that is!). "},{"Title":"Marginally passing...","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is in desperate need to decide what it wants to be a romance? a war movie? As far as I am concerned it succeeded in none of the above and if it weren't for the great music this movie would be a piece of trash. Chaotic air battle sequences strung together by mediocre romance, I guess this film might appeal only to teenagers whose dream is to actually go the the Top Gun and who are trying to (unsuccessfully) figure out how to ask a girl on a date. I actually enjoyed the movie when I was younger, but now I realize that Top Gun is for immature audiences. I think Tom Cruise is a terrible actor and a little too over self-confident. Val Kilmer is much better, and he makes this weak-minded flick good when on screen. "},{"Title":"Time has not been kind...","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To this movie (or Anthony Edwards hairline).  There are so many superfluous scenes, if you took them all away you'd only have about 30 minutes of flying and a few good lines by Goose.  The love story is pointless, the whole living up to dad element falls short, Take My Breath Away gets old after the first scene it shows up in, and what's with that Great Balls of Fire scene?  Does *anyone* actually act that corny?  If it weren't for the great flying scenes for the guys, and of course Tom Cruise for the girls, this movie would have been a real dud.    "}{"Title":"sucked","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was terrible, it ends so unexpectedly and it's not really about anything. When this movie ended I was so shocked I thought this is it? It was just about two guys in top gun flying. Pathetic!!! "},{"Title":"Cool when I was  kid","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie when it first came out in theaters. I went with my uncle and I was so pumped afterwords it was crazy. Then again, I was 9 years old. Since then, myself and this movie have aged 20 years. I saw it again earlier this year, and was not surprised to see this movie did not hold up well through my experience, movie-going and otherwise.I think you can enjoy this movie if you take it for what it is. The standard bearer for Rah-Rah America, Reagan-era, 80's cheeze. It's from Bruckheimer, who practically invented the dumb, formula, action blockbuster. Wow was America great right? The Soviets were a threat, Gorby was still stumping, Rambo III was out, Reagan was pumping out the sunshine every day. Now the movie seems hopelessly dumb, corny, and irrelevant. The sad thing is, how many went and joined the military because of this unrealistic, phony piece of schmaltz? I shudder at the thought.The plot, well there is no plot. If there is one to be seen, it's so full of clichés it's not really worth discussing. The action scenes, though completely contrived and not all realistic, are the one saving grace. The acting is an abomination and the volleyball scene is as corny and gay as advertised.This movie was made for the standard movie growing crowd in 1986. We were high on America is the greatest propaganda patriotism. We hadn't been bogged down in Iraq yet or been force fed cheezy action blockbuster after another for two decades, although those movies still deliver at the box-office to this day. In that context, one can see why this movie was so popular. Bottom line, defining moment in 80's cinema, whether or not you think that is a good thing is up to you.. "},{"Title":"Watch an Officer and a Gentleman instead","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite the great action scenes in this film, I always feel that I have to compare it to the other Navy flight school 80s flick - An Officer and a Gentleman.====May contain spoilers==== O&G is just a better film. The characters have more depth and connect with the audience. Richard Gere is hot and Winger and Gossett and hell the entire cast are fantastic. The story line is stronger and I can watch this movie hundreds of times and it still keeps my attention.It's theme song is about ten times better than Berlin's Take My Breathe Away in Top Gun.I've never been a Tom Crusie fan and his character in this film is just annoying. The love interest has a personality of the ball point pen and the audience is suppose to buy their love story. There was about zero chemistry.It's a shame when the only character that was interesting (Goose) has to die for no other reason than to provide a plot device.Watch Top Gun for the special effects. . .watch O&G for a good film. "},{"Title":"A typical 1980's film, with decent entertainment, excellent aerial cinematography, an unnecessary romance and an uncomfortable 'macho-man' feel","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw Top Gun last year, during the June holidays. It has been described as the film that defines the 1980's. This doesn't surprise me, as it is cheesy and is covered with 80's music. Much of it is not bad - I like the song 'Danger Zone' and of course, the action scenes were plentiful and very well-shot from different angles, which is really want you want out of this sort of film. Thanks to the action scenes, it does provide decent entertainment. This doesn't make Top Gun a perfect film - far from it. The acting is a mixed bag Tom Cruise's acting varies between good and bad, depending on the scene. Val Kilmer is good as the icy villain. Unfortunately, in contrast to what the box says, Kelly McGillis does NOT 'sizzle' as the civilian instructor much of what comes out of her mouth is bulls*** (there is no such thing as a MiG-28) and her romance with Cruise is weak and pointless, feeling completely tacked on. Apparently, there are homosexual overtones and indeed, Top Gun does have a 'macho man' feel to it. In the end, Top Gun, much like Team America (see that review for more) is worth a look for it's technical attributes, in this case, it's very well-shot action cinematography sequences. As a film, it is decent; it does provide entertainment (read action scenes) but is bogged down by the aforementioned romance and 'macho' feel. If you're a casual moviegoer, it is worth seeing once or twice.I'm giving to round my overall mark from two marks, which will give you a clearer view on my overall thoughts on Top Gun Technical quality 5/5 Entertainment quality 3/5 Overall 3.5/5 stars (rounded down) "},{"Title":"Greatest movie ever made ever ever ever","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK people Movie is Top Gun, you've probably read a bazillion posts about this Great movie I have had about every version of this movie, if i get bored i pop it in and get swept away every time here, 10 reasons 1. You cry Every time Goose dies, unless you have no heart 2. Every guy tries some gay pick-up line, just like Lt. Pete Mitchell 3. goodness gracious great balls off fire! 4. Who doesn't want to see an American giving the bird to a foreigner while inverted having your co-pilot take a Polaroid? 5. they made roller-coasters about it for god's sake 6. soooo many recognizable lines 7. i'll hit the brakes and he'll fly right by 8. Everybody wants to see stuff get blown out of the sky 9. great ending, Iceman is friends with Maverick, and Maverick finally gets over Goose 10. -you, you're still dangerous; but you can be my wing-man any day -Bull-shit, you can be mine Classic! "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I like Top Gun because it's about my favorite airplane the F-14 Tomcat. The flight sequences are pretty cool. I like the music, it's so '80s. However, the movie lacks ground attack scenes, but I don't blame 'em, because at the time the F-14 was not able to do ground attacks. Also, the F-14 cannot do a dive like in the beginning of the movie because of problems with the TF-30 engine, even though it was the best part of the movie. Top Gun teaches you a lot about the training that modern US pilots have. I find it very cool that the movie has a large number of F-14s on one air-craft carrier. If you looked at air-craft carriers today you would see more F-18 Hornets rather than Tomcats. And, I thought it was cool that they had A-7s taking off. If you want to see fighter-planes, then Top Gun is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Best Pilot and Jets Movie ever!","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is a, correction, WAS a trend setting action flick not just because it launched the at the time 'nouveaux' action flick formula (e.g. yada yada rookie-training-sex interest-emotional drop-loss-fanfare ending) as well as the Scott and Bruckheimer coalition, but purely because of the fact that since 1960s' war movie, Mayday, it has etched itself in as the best fighter jet and pilots movie ever. It still holds this accolade as far as my boyfriend is concerned, and we were only six or seven when we watched it. Even though I can't pretend to be one of those millions of testosterone driven males who idolized Tom Cruise (whose career as leading man/heartthrob/icon/sex symbol in Hollywood was cemented after this film) and wanted to be fly-boy pilots of F14s that wore slick ray-bans and donned black naval patched leather jackets on a race bike (complete with chisel jawed chew down expressions), before signing up to the concept of US military glamor (the oxymoron...). Even though I can't deny this film plied no holds barred propaganda to breed interest in US Defence (aka the recruitment campaigns and the role Hollywood played in stirring up such patriotic pro-Military sentiment - such that Cruise had to cancel this role with his performance in a certain Oliver Stone film 4 years later...), nonetheless, in my opinion, even after watching it nearly 20 years on, the film still oozes X-factor sharp crispness.This kind of factor only comes from a well edited, well oiled, and well directed and generally superbly well assembled film which till today always has to have either a), a charismatically attractive cast (check- look at all the future big names like Meg Ryan, Val Kilmer and Tim Robbins who had a cameo through this film albeit the Kelly McGillis tragedy), b) powerhouse effects ahead of its time (check), or most importantly, c), that something unique. In this movie's case, that something unique that could stand as its competitive advantage (thereby also spinning a million 1980s to early 90s copycats from 'Iron Eagle' to TV Series' like 'Super Carrier') came from the Cinematography of flight sequences. R.A Rondell's stunts are amazing while the input by the actual real life pilots (all attributed accordingly in the credits) is invaluably reflected in the film somehow, and this lends it an air of class above its ensuing counterfeits. Furthermore, the film, albeit not infallible with plot holes and factual errors (e.g. non literal 'turning in of wings' by John Stockwell's Cougar character; F5 jets being touted off as MIGs), is nonetheless a great milestone in action cinematography and one of the pioneering formulaic action films that defined the genre (or perhaps even engendered one) for the 1980s onwards and set some real stylistics for the ensuing decades. "},{"Title":"Top Film","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is a rip roaring explosion of cheesy 1980s music and amazing aerial photography!! Tom Cruise plays cheeky chappie Pete 'Maverick' Mitchell, a naughty USN pilot sent to the Navy's fighter school for the best of the best. Anthony Edwards (DR Green from ER) is really good in it, the same cant be said for Val Kilmer, who just comes across as a repressed homosexual! But the action and soundtrack make up for these (and the minor continuity errors, and use of American jets as MIGs). Although the film has it's critics, mainly for its homo-erotic volleyball scene, it captures a period in time through its music, fashion and dialogue. "},{"Title":"Good Action","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was a great action flick. It had all you ever for an action film between the actors and the action - but that's all it was - action.Perhaps I have read too many Drama comments but there are many more action movies out there that are better than Topgun but it will always have its cult following. Including me sad to say.I do not agree that this is a 'chick flick' I think it is for us all. Looking back now it is interesting to see Val Kilmer and Tom Cruise when they were much younger.All in all a good film but there is better action out there. "},{"Title":"Too much cheese.","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is really a lame flick. But I understand its popularity with all the wannabees. I cannot believe I have actually seen guys walking around with a Top Gun patch from this movie on their jackets-usually blue jean jackets.Except for the opening shots of carrier operations and some of the flying sequences the story was pure grade school; full of trite one-liners (if I tell ya, I'll have ta kill ya). And I hate it when the producers always use a well known Western a/c in an attempt at DACT. The F-20s painted black just did not cut it as MiGs.the 1 V 4 ending was quite cheesy as well. Yeah it made a lot of money but the whole premise still showed the producers had their craniums up their wazoos. Check six? Check out! "}{"Title":"Babes, dudes, MiGs, planes, Tom Cruise - Top Gun","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" One could make the claim that Top Gun, released during the summer of 1986, is one of the most influential action/guy movies ever made. Its testosterone-driven story of a young hotshot navy pilot named Maverick (Tom Cruise), who is sent with his co-pilot Goose (Anthony Edwards) to Top Gun, a school for the top 1% pilots in the world, took a backseat to relentless, daring action, and a cheesy romance subplot between Maverick and his civilian instructor (Kelly McGillis) that only seemed to fuel the story.Top Gun was directed skillfully by Tony Scott (younger brother of Ridley), who threw in a number of elements that would eventually become cliché and worn out by the countless imitators over the years and up until today, in 2004.I was only a year old when Top Gun was released in 1986, and I've seen it over a hundred times since then. I wasn't really drawn in the by the bravado, but was drawn in because I, like most other easily-influenced children, loved the really cool planes and Tom Cruise, who was in one of the coolest movies ever made.I recently purchased the special edition DVD and I must say it brought back memories of my youth. Top Gun really hasn't aged at all since 1986, and I'd be highly skeptical of anyone that argues otherwise.Top Gun does of course have a lot of stuff that eventually became cliché over the years, like the heroic father, the rival - Iceman (Val Kilmer), the aforementioned romantic subplot, and a spectacular final battle that'll really get the adrenalin pumping, thus sending the film into cinema history.Top Gun utilized a lot of these worn-out elements and director Scott gave them the polish they needed. Cruise, as a result of his role in this film, was rocketed to super-stardom, and has managed to successfully shed himself of his cocky, Top Gun image in the years since this film's release.10/10 "},{"Title":"loveeee it","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top gun is a classic movie. While its not entirely accurate, especially concerning flight scenes and certain technicalities. Its a very fun film. Some may find the plot weak but i think its a wonderful movie. The top gun soundtrack is incredible. One of the best. ANd tom cruise. wow he couldn't be any hotter. I have loved this movie since the first time i watched it and it will remain as one of my favorites for ever. Kelly McGillis is great in this movie as the flight instructor TOm cruise romances. The call signs are classic and this movie is great...i ablsoluteyl loveeee it. "},{"Title":"best movie","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i was born and raised on this movie. it is the best movie in the entire world. except for one part... most of ya prolly know that part if you've seen the movie. those who haven't then go see it. i first fell in love with tom cruise during this movie (particularly when he was playing volleyball) now I'm his biggest fan, the bar scene is the best scene in any movie ever besides maybe tom's dance in risky business i actually had a dream tom cruise was singing you've lost that lovin feeling to me. anyway this movie is amazing and tom cruise is my hero. other good movies risky business, rainman, minority report, jerry maguire, vanilla sky, MI 1&2 basically anything with tom cruise in it... go see collateral (august 6)  "},{"Title":"Best Movie I've Ever Seen ...","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun is #1 on my list of favorite movies and always will be. I've been watching this movie ever since I can remember. This movie is definitely Tom Cruise's best one. Not to mention the one where he looks the best too. -p Only thing was that they used the navy and not the air force. bummer ... They had some very catchy lines in the movie that I use on my younger sister... i.e Slider ... you stink I think one of the memorable parts of the movie are when Goose and Maverick are in the bar where we see 'Charlie' for the first time. The singing is horrible but so funny. I've laughed about it a hundred times and will continue to . My friends and I like to imitate that part but always end up hysterically laughing cuz we can't get it right.  "},{"Title":"This movie rocks!","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh my gosh this is the best movie that was ever made! It may not be an exact accounting of Navy Fighter Weapons School protocol and other details, but it is a very accurate movie, and it is very well made. It's my favorite movie of all time, and it came out before I was born. I just hope more people will realize this. Not only did it have superb acting, but it also had and amazing soundtrack/score, which makes you think of he movie and want to watch it again every time you listen to it. An it isn't a completely fairy tale like story line. With the fact that Goose dies, and he goes through hell because of the circumstances of his father's death and supposed screwing up, Maverick did a hell of a job just getting to in to TOP GUN, let alone being second in his class, and he probably would have made top of the class if Goose hadn't died. He also wasn't a hugely popular guy, or everyone's idol. He had enemies, he got shot down by people, and he had his emotional problems. I just think that this movie is really great, and I hope others will be able to see it the way I do.  "},{"Title":"One of my all-time Hollywood favorites","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun has to be one of my all-time favorite Hollywood movies given that I've seen it about a million times.  I put Hollywood in parentheses because, well, the movie is just that - unrealistic, at least from a military viewpoint. For instance, the pilots are yacking their mouths off most of the time when, in reality, real pilots are methodical and full of concentration (not to mention breathing like a raging bull). But nevertheless it's a great movie with all the things a typical Hollywood movie has action, romance, drama, etc. I have to give credit because I'm interested in becoming a fighter pilot and there's not too many good movies about fighter pilots these days. Tom Cruise played his character well, but the real star here is the F-14 Tomcat. Just seeing the big jets in action is reason enough! I'd give a bit of credit to the F-5s, but I had a hard time passing them as MiGs hehe. Overall, great action movie, as well as drama and romance. Just don't be too military-minded and you'll be fine. =)  "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun has got to be one of the best movies ever made, the song Take my Breath Away is a fantastic song to listen to. All of this was made in 1986. I think Take my breath away did get to the number 1 spot in 1986. I love the song. I give the whole think, the song and the movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I feel the need...the need for speed!","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" TOP GUN (1986) *** Tom Cruise, Kelly McGillis, Anthony Edwards, Val Kilmer,Tom Skerritt, Meg Ryan, Michael Ironside, Barry Tubb, John Stockwell. Tony Scott's immensely popular military film about a hotshot Navy pilot wannabe Maverick (cocky Cruise) trying to live down his deceased father's legacy to prove to be the best there is at Mirimar's Top Gun training school while falling for statuesque astrophysicist McGillis. Oscar winner for Best Song, Berlin's Take My Breath Away. (Best line I feel the need...the need for speed!) "},{"Title":"Cool Movie","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film isn't good but it ain't bad either. It's just plain COOL! Also the action sequences are awesome! While the plot is average and the chemistry between Cruise and Edwards is amazing. I think Tom Cruise and Anthony Edwards should do another movie together. 3 1/2(***1/2) out of 4(****)stars Watching every motion In my foolish lover's game On this endless ocean Finally lovers know no shame Turning and returning To some secret place inside Watching in slow motion As you turn around and sayTake my breath away Take my breath awayWatching I keep waiting Still anticipating love Never hesitating To become the fated ones Turning and returning To some secret place to hide Watching in slow motion As you turn to me and sayTake my breath away Take my breath awayThrough the hourglass I saw you In time you slipped away When the mirror crashed I called you And turned to hear you say If only for today I am unafraidTake my breath away Take my breath awayWatching every motion In this foolish lover's game Haunted by the notion Somewhere there's a love in flames Turning and returning To some secret place inside Watching in slow motion As you turn my way and sayTake my breath away Take my breath away "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Below average feature with lots of noise and little else.  Features some good actors and good director who are not utiziled in their talents to the fullest degree.  The director, Tony Scott did much better films than this and with more compelling characters and stories.  Films like this and Days of Thunder(1990) are popcorn films with almost no interesting aspect.One positive are the aerial sequences which are very good.  Fails in its romantic area because there is absolutely no chemisty between the two leads at all.  There was more chemistry shown in other Scott films like Revenge(1989) and True Romance(1991).  Tom Cruise is average in the role that defined his career. "}{"Title":"Powerful. Macho. Action packed romantic drama.","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The top 1% of the nation's flyers gather for fighter pilot training. Outstanding maneuvers in the sky. Great soundtrack embellishes the hi-jinks, action and drama. You walk away from this one proud and pumped. This had to be a Godsend to the military recruiters! I can watch this one again and again.Tom Cruise, in probably his best role. Kelly McGillis goes by the name of Charlie, but looks all woman to me. Wow!! Val Kilmer plays a good hard ass villain type. Anthony Edwards, Tim Robbins and John Stockwell are air jockey buddies. Tom Skerritt plays the mentor. Meg Ryan has a small, but very noticeable part; cute, funny and loud.Excellent photography and sound that will not let you snooze. Don't miss one of the best of its kind. TOP GUN is tops.   "},{"Title":"This is a great movie and I love it!","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a great movie to watch with your boyfriend.  My boyfriend and I love this movie and watch it all the time.  It is romantic and funny at the same time.  It has action and romance and even sad parts.  It is a great movie and i don't know what I would do with out it. "},{"Title":"Simplistic minded drivel!","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I admit, the first time I saw the movie (I was 14) I was impressed by all the flying. When I saw it a few years later (and wiser), I realized what a cliche-ridden, simplistic minded pile of crap this movie was. I guess one excuse the producers have, is that it was made in the  chest-thumping, self-righteous, jingoistic Reagan 80s, when America's sense of right and wrong was the simplistic drivel espoused by Stallone in movies like Cobra and Rambo. My sincere suggestion to the makers of this film would be to hunt down every remaning print, start a warm fire and set fire to them. Kelly McGillis looked old enough to be Tom's mom, for crying out loud! The romance looked forced and far fetched. And what was that scene with the Tomcat flying upside-down with the Mig while our heroes take a picture of the Russian bad guys? I didn't realize F-14s and Migs had a fold-down mechanism for their tails that could be activated in mid-flight to facilitate some good photography! Probably acceptable in the 80s, when movies like Iron Eagle were made(!!), but definitely not something you'd want to see now. The saving grace was some decent flying by the pilots from Miramar. "},{"Title":"No surprises here","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Another predictable formulaic opus designed to appeal to macho whannabees. A completely unrealistic picture of Naval Aviation. While the flying scenes were compelling they were strictly Hoolywoods idea of military flying also unrealistic. The romance between Cruise and McGillis is so predictable it's painful to watch. The one high point is the performance of a very young Meg Ryan. Ryan is fresh and exciting in her small role and is the only one worth watching. Nothing new here except that it cost the life of Art School one of the worlds foremost aerobatic pilots, far to high of price for a movie much less the same old thing. "},{"Title":"Fun to watch - for all the wrong reasons","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was one of the earliest cases of the 1980s Hollywood Blockbuster. Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer (also responsible for the 1984 popular culture smash hit Beverly Hills Cop) struck gold with Top Gun and it helped define what most people remember about the era - mainly cheesy soundtracks, unbelievably good-looking people playing ordinary everyday roles, stupid romantic subplots and a lot of bad action sequences.Top Gun is a fun film to watch. Ignoring its homosexual undercurrents everybody loves to make fun of (it was humorous the first ten times I heard about the so-called blatant references) - the movie is simply so cheesy it's a win-win situation! People with no taste will think it's a brilliant film, whereas others will savor its stupidity.Kelly McGillis as a flight instructor for the NAVY is icing on the cake when it comes to utter disbelief. In reality she would be a he a 50-something retiree, balding, with a big fat beer belly, always wearing a crusty Navy baseball cap (sort of like Tom Clancy).But no, in Top Gun, everybody's beautiful - and the love scene between Maverick (Tom Cruise) and McGillis is the equivalent of a perfume commercial.Tony Scott is out of his mind. I love this movie. "},{"Title":"A terrible movie that everyone likes","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently watched this movie on TV and i never really noticed until now how bad this movie really is. The characters and dialog in it suck and Kelly McGillis who plays Charlie looks like a guy in drag, there is so much gay innuendo(scene with guys flexing there muscles playing volleyball) in it i actually saw it labeled as gay porn on a file sharing network i use which explains all the great reviews it got from places in Europe like Sweden. The only good reason I'm glad this movie was made is so we could make a spoof of it(Hot Shots actually a good movie). And I noticed in one post they said Top Gun was some advertisement for the Navy but I don't see how this movie could make you want to join, it just makes the Navy look bad. That's all I really want to say about Top Gun, because I want to stop thinking about it.  "},{"Title":"Playing with the boys","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun had never been considered a good film, but with the years passing by it has become a kind of cult movie. It's quite impressive the screenplay is filled with cliches, the actors are bad, the visual and the songs are the most memorable parts of the whole movie. So, why so many people still like it?Maybe, because it is the first major movie with the star Tom Cruise. Maybe, because it has marked its place in childhood memories of a whole generation. Maybe, because it has memorable quotes that people like to repeat, like the classic talk to me Goose or she's lost that loving feeling. Or maybe it's just because the great songs remains in our memories after all these years, like Take my breath away or You've lost that loving feeling.I don't know the exactly answer, but I guess it's because it all. Top Gun is a pop movie and, rather you like it or not, has its place in the history of the 80's movies. Remember Meet the Parents, with Ben Stiller playing volley with his fiancee and calling each other the Top Gun nicknames, and you will know what I'm talking about. "},{"Title":"Life is full of contradictions","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Position 1.  This film is wretched on many, many levels.  It's sub-cinema film-making in which machines get better dialogue than the people (yes, I'm thinking of stuff like 'beep beep beep beep beeeeeeeeep').  Actors turn up and do not act, and the aheh heh heh plot doubtless came free from a Cornflakes packet.  It's gung ho in a worryingly Goodies v. Baddies kind of way and is little more than an MTV Military Recruitment Film.Position 2.  This film is absolutely storming, because of the great big beautiful machines.  Okay, there's human beings and stuff, miming to the worn old record of Boy Meets Girl etc, but nobody buys that.  This was made in the days before CGI came along and ruined everything, the days when the footage of huge F-14 Tomcats screeching from the deck of an aircraft carrier was achieved by going to an aircraft carrier and filming F-14 Tomcats screeching away from the deck.It's the mother of Big Dumb Action Movies, but technically it's an extraordinary-looking (and sounding) piece of work.  If watched with no attempt at engaging intellecturally with it, it's kind of magnificent at times.All of which said, I do detect certain similarities in plot structure between this and Hamlet. "},{"Title":"Rather boring in 1986, unendurable today","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every time planes take off from an aircraft carrier - almost every time we step outdoors - the skies are obscured by a heavy tobacco graduated filter. Sooner or later we forget what real skies look like.  It's a Simpson/Buckheimer trademark.  It tells us, I suppose, how important it all is, how something of moment will be, is being, has been decided in this small theatre of human affairs ...  It's not just filters an air of self-conscious importance and cheap grandeur pervades their whole corpus. And, hey, sometimes it works.  It depends chiefly on whether something of moment really IS being decided.  Crimson Tide is enjoyable because we end up getting the kind of confrontation we were promised in a context where the outcome really matters.  Here, a mission simply arrives out of the blue for the Top Gun jet fighters.  The military tells us that the outcome is important, but I don't believe that for a second.  Even if the military is right it's all incidental to what the rest of the movie is about.  All the portentous hints earlier on were about Maverick's emotional life and personal skill.  Had he died and the mission been successful due to someone else's efforts, we wouldn't have thought, Well, at least the Americans prevented the Russians from doing whatever it is everyone was so worried about.  No we didn't give a toss about the Russian/American conflict. It's hard to give a toss about the emotional life of Maverick, either, but that's for other reasons the whole situation was hard to swallow, and no-one did anything to hide the fact that it was artificially sustained. It could so easily have been prevented by diverting the trillions of dollars of public money that went into the private chariot races, towards - I don't know - a better script, perhaps. "},{"Title":"Speedy planes going nowhere mighty fast","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Most movies that bore you fade quickly from memory, probably a defense mechanism of the brain. Unfortunately, every so often, somebody plays the old Take my Breath Away song, which evokes memories of this cinematic torture.The story is utterly pointless and goes nowhere; it's just a few lumped together clichés. A little bratty crybaby that throws temper tantrums somehow earns a ticket to an elite training center for top-notch pilots. The fly-boy in question is Tom Cruise with that same old obnoxious pixie grin. He looks more like he's doing a designer jeans commercial than playing a hot-shot pilot, and his lines sound like a robotic voice-mail greeting. Then there's the obligatory rivalry to be the best pilot in the group where he and others compete to come up with the most banal dialogue you'll ever hear--cornball boasting rhymes that could have been written by Barney the Dinosaur.Then that romance. We're supposed to believe a female instructor would fall for this twerpy little creep. They look ridiculous together; like two Cabbage Patch dolls, but with less chemistry. Take my Breath Away? More like Make me Lose my Lunch. The aerial dogfight scenes are pretty impressive, well devised and executed. These are the only saving graces of the movie, but to have Tom in the cockpit looking more like a Ken doll with a fixed stare than a breathing human with facial expressions somewhat ruins the effect.It's never clear why any of this is happening or why you should care. Dull stock characters acting stupid and flying planes real fast. Is the whole thing a joke? It's certainly ludicrous enough. "}{"Title":"Top crap","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boring, predictable groaner about a cocky Air Force cadet (or Navy or whatever the hell he is) who needs to learn a few life lessons before becoming a great pilot. Every single cliché is here--the close buddy that dies so Cruise can grow up; the aeronautics instructor (or whatever Kelly McGillis played) in love with him; the booming tops 40s soundtrack; the final aerial dogfight where Cruise saves his companions---YAWN!!! Also the movie has a horrendous performance by Cruise (he's always bad but he REALLY sucks here--he grins his way through the entire performance), an even worse one by McGillis (SHE has a PhD in aeronautics???? Hah! More like one in makeup!), a total lack of sexual chemistry between them, a good ol' buddy who you know is dogmeat from frame 1 (Anthony Edwards giving the only good performance), another cocky young hothead (Val Kilmer sneering away), a tough but kind leader (Tom Skerritt, looking totally lost) and a film that is, basically, little more than a recruiting poster. Also dogfights that play like video games and the film seems to make war look like kids play. There's also a totally hysterical line when McGillis (who is about 5 inches taller than Cruise) looks DOWN at him and breathes, When I first saw you you were 7 feet tall! This movie was a HUGE hit in 1986 because it was slickly made to please audiences. It was safe and predictable and made sure that the audiences didn't have to think for one second. A total waste of time. I'm giving it a three cause of the music (especially Take My Breath Away) and some really HOT homo eroticism--notice the shower scenes, the volleyball game and the lines I'm getting a hard on. Don't tease me. Otherwise this is pointless and stupid. "},{"Title":"Air Force recruitment film.","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If this film didn't make young impressionable young men want tojoin the air force, I don't know what would. Thank goodness weweren't in the midst of a war!  A silly plot, but some real fun machoposturing in this film. Lots of sexy shots of Tom Cruise and ValKilmer in the locker room, getting mad at each other! But the onlyreal standout of this film for me is Anthony Edwards, who got hisstart in my favorite film Fast Times at Ridgemont HIgh. Anthonyplays Goose, the sidekick who ****SPOILER**** of course,meets his fate in the sky, making his on (and off!) screen girlfriendMeg Ryan - and the rest of the audience! - very sad.  Silly 80's fun.          "},{"Title":"Top Gun  Blasted.","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" When it comes to Tom Cruise movies first of all,I can take them or leave them. When he's doing really good drama like Rain Man or Born On the Fourth Of July,I can take them because he's playing a role outside himself and presenting a really great story worth viewing.When it comes to the likes of this and Days Of Thunder & Cocktail,I just roll my eyes in utter disbelief! Granted,Days OF Thunder is much worse but I can't like Top Gun either. A mindless,overblown,,practically plot less film about fly-boys in the Navy and their lives. I watched and watched and could find nothing in which I could care about,in either the characters or the situations. It was sad when Cruise's buddy gets killed but the rest is just pointless to me. Then again,I know,all films are not for all people's tastes. I think he's been more entertaining lately when jumping on Oprah's sofa. At least in that moment he was real. If I were that much in love,I'd hop all over the place too!As for the movie's soundtrack and the songs included. They're just as empty as the movie. Danger Zone and Playing With The Boys are the worst Kenny Loggins songs ever. (Well,maybe Nobody's Fool from Caddyshack 2.)Take My Breath Away by Berlin is the kind of song that gets on your nerves after a few listens and is their unfortunate 80's sell-out song,that took them away from their greater earlier works. Loverboy's,Heaven In Your Eyes is just lame as an 80s love song can get. The rest is a great example of how bad 1986 was musically.To the fans of this movie,I know you like or love this film and that's cool. To each his own opinion & likes and dislikes I say. Personally,I'd rather watch Rain Man over and over than ever sit through Top Gun again. (END) "},{"Title":"Idiotic dialogue","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so overlook the fact that Tom Cruise and Kelly McGillis have no chemistry.  Just focus on the flying scenes.  Okay, fine.  But what about that idiotic dialogue?  It was so hokey it was embarrassing to watch.  I was embarrassed for the actors who had to say those corny lines.  It must have been written by a cretin.  That scene in the bar where they sing You've lost that loving feeling  was like getting teeth drilled.  This movie really sucks.  It was an insult to our collective intelligence. "},{"Title":"Final Dogfight scene","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the final dogfight scene after Ice gets hit, the CAG tells his aid to launch more aircraft. His aid reports that the CATS are broken and will be down for 15 minutes. The USS ENTERPRISE has 4 catapults and the possibility of all 4 catapults being broken at 1 time is so infinite, that as a former Navyman who served on an Aircraft carrier during the Vietnam war I find that comment to be ridiculous. No Carrier in a Situation area would be that defenseless. The Captain of that ship would NEVER make Admiral! There would have had to have been a major catastrophe aboard the ship involving the flight deck, or in the engineering spaces to have rendered all of the catapults useless, which if it did happen, was not explained. "},{"Title":"War Games or Pussy strikes the The Empires","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Someday, someone in this century (21st.) will write in history books that the USA military prowess es are mostly a myth. The US of A has lost and will loose all wars since WWII, because they are fought by boys who are making a show to impress females.This may change if a female becomes the Supreme commander in a forthcoming election. What will the boys do? Probably obey and keep chasing all other females..This may sound stupid, but this film is Totally stupid. The enemy has no name, MIG-28 is a fictional aircraft, (see Wipipedia) most of the acrobatic maneuvers of planes were, at the time, impossible.Also I do not believe that pilots (US or otherwise) are allowed to place family photos on the cockpits. They would obscure the instrumentation. In the movie they induce a case of cowardice in the pilot that does this.It was produced by Hollywood, but could have been by the Pentagon. Glamorizing War activities is criminal. Wars themselves are always crimes against humanity.The only war movies worth watching are those who condemn it like Renoir's La Grande Illusion, Kubrick's Paths of Glory and, up to a certain point, Franklyn Schaffner's PATTON, because it is true to history.How many of you know that Napoleon suffered from serious complications of venereal disease by the time of Waterloo... Even then pussy stroke the Empire... "},{"Title":"Those MIGs MUST be close; I've got a h**d on.","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  That's a direct quote from the film, and it just about sums it up. AWFUL!! This is a monumentally terrible, jingoistic piece of rubbish! I seriously reckon that if the film was dubbed into Korean and Kim Jong Il's face superimposed in the dogfight scenes it would be a HUGE hit in North Korea. It really is THAT bad. I've had the pleasure of meeting British fighter pilots and they always struck me as cool, calm, reserved & professional. I can only hope American pilots are very very different to the cartoon-characters-for-kids in this naff movie. The musical accompaniment is appaling and the 'dialogue' could have been written by a 10 year old! Top Gun has just been shown on BBC1 and I can honestly say this is the most dreadful film I've seen in several years!As IMDB is a 'family' site I really can't think of anything further that would be acceptable. "},{"Title":"100% brilliant crap","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is not there to be taken seriously, its great for a laugh or for the beginning of a night out or something like that. But I would recommend it totally, I love it and have probably seen it waaay more times than is healthy! It has some great lines, and some really moving scenes and the volleyball scene... well lets just say its worth waiting for lol. Tom Cruise may be short, but he's so right for this role, and absolutely gorgeous. I dont know anyone who hates this film, and loads that love it, so if you haven't seen it, make sure you do. "},{"Title":"Frankly, I preferred Iron Eagle","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun is one of those movies everyone's seen and everyone seems to like. Sometimes I think I'm the only person in the universe who personally likes Iron Eagle (a movie like Top Gun which has been branded a rip-off ever since it came out and made in the same year)  more than Top Gun.Top Gun had the romance, the drama, the emotion but when it comes to action, I prefer Iron Eagle, and actions what I like best but don't get me wrong, Top Gun had some great action sequences, but I think Iron Eagles action was better, slightly dumb and mindless action, but entertaining none the less.Overall, I liked Top Gun, but for fans of aircraft movies, also check out Top Gun's underrated enemy...Iron Eagle. (I don't understand how Iron Eagle was branded a rip off it was made in the same year at Top Gun.)  6/10 "},{"Title":"Not the bomb I expected","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For a few years now I have kept telling myself I'll have to watch 'Top Gun' sometime.  That is, until today, when I finally found a couple of hours to waste.  To be honest, this film really didn't work for me - by no means is it bad, just an average popcorn action movie with many obvious flaws.  My reason for seeing it in the first place was, quite simply, Val Kilmer, so you can imagine how disappointed I was to find his part cut down to a minimum.Tom Cruise is the all-American, perfect-teeth good guy who wants to prove himself.  Val Kilmer is the cocky, sometimes arrogant, win-all-the-medals bad guy (for most of the movie at least).  I may be biassed of course, but I found Kilmer's character, as the unflinching Ice Man to be much more interesting than Cruise's Maverick, who for much of the film raced about on a motorbike or smiled as cheesily as possible in Kelly McGillis' direction.  The love scenes were, for me, tedious to say the least.  I would have given the film a much higher rating if only the unnecessary and shallow romance was edited out.  I have a great deal of respect for Kelly McGillis in other films, such as the brilliant 'Witness', but every time she appeared in this I loathed the sight of her.The dogfight scenes towards the end, and other flying scenes throughout, were one of the few positive aspects for me.  I may be mistaken, but I do think it was an attempt to re-enact the climactic end to 'Star Wars', when Luke Skywalker and the rebels set up their assault on the Death Star.  Only here, I found it a major annoyance to my viewing that I could not at all tell who was flying which plane.  Once I'd figured out the colours of Cruise and Kilmer's helmets, the film was over and it was time for the corniest ending I have ever seen.I suppose if you have ever flown a jet, or take a great interest in flying schools and such like, you may find some merit in this movie.  If you want some cheap entertainment and don't mind sitting through some very amateurish humour and bad dialogue along the way, then you might as well give it a go.  It's the type of film everyone should see just once - after all, everyone's heard of Top Gun so it's good to satisfy your curiosity.I found it ironic that at the end of the day, Val Kilmer was the real Top Gun.  Tom Cruise was simply a flashy fly-boy.  It could have been excellent with two such leading actors.  But for me, the only real highlight was seeing Val Kilmer emerge from the shower with only a towel on... That and the topless volleyball are, I think, all I got out of it.  Tom Cruise fans, see 'MissionImpossible' instead.  Kilmer fans, go rent 'Tombstone'.  McGillis fans, watch 'Witness'.  That's just my advice anyway.6/10. "}{"Title":"Great movie but","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"     This is a great movie, but it lacks something.  It was not Tom Cruse's best acting performance, or I did not like Toms character.  Well maybe, pilots act this way, but Tom was not a team player, and learned about it; Val Kilmer was a more liked person, and me with own sin should not cast the first stone because my wife tells me I got a Tom Cruse, top gun attitude so I should not judge.  The cast is good you have Michael Ironside, and Tom Skeriet, and the script is good, but not accurate of what happens at top gun, and the story has a moral about growing up along with over coming life obstacles.  In the end the jet footage is great, but something just lacked in this film  "},{"Title":"lacks in original story or interest in the characters","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  1st watched 6/16/2000 - 5 out of 10(Dir-Tony Scott) Watchable and high-energy tale of Top Gun navy pilots lacks in original story or interest in the characters.Focus on the flying and effects that go along with it prevails despite capable stars who have been known to carry a story. "},{"Title":"Fun, but not as fun as it could have been","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My Age 13Lt. Pete Mitchell Maverick, played by Tom Cruise, and Goose, played by Anthony Edwards are chosen to go to Top Gun, a navy school where they teach the top 1% of aircraft aviators special skills.  Maverick wants to be top of his class, but he has some competition, most notably Iceman, played by Val Kilmer.  He is also falling in love with his instructor, played by Kelly McGillis.This film is nice and stylish, with some good aircraft training sequences, some good acting performances from Tom Cruise and most supporting roles, a lot of energy, and some fairly average romance.  It is fun throughout most of its length, and the ending is pretty good.  But it's a pity there is only one real flying scene.  The rest is all just training, therefore no explosions and not as much fun as there could have been.Australian Classification PGRating 64 out of 100 "},{"Title":"See what an 80s pop movie looked like without the quirks","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun is a 80s classic.The good. Interesting academy rivalry. Nice choice of music and score. Great footage of fighter planes. Beautiful San Diego photography. Funny scenes.The actors. Tom Cruise plays the hothead excellently. Val Kilmer as his ice cool competitor is just perfect. However, the best and smoothest work is done by Meg Ryan. On the other hand, Kelly McGillis is unfortunately performed poorly and wasn't given much to work with. The rest of the cast does a pretty solid job. I'll just mention the better ones Anthony Edwards, Tom Skerritt, and Michael Ironside. We can also see a small cameo by Tim Robbins.The bad. Easy dialogs. Poor romance plot with lots of cliché and a weak female lead. A few continuity problems. Cockpit filming, lighting conditions mainly, doesn't correspond to fighter plane footage.The ugly. Very awkward stick handling that looks ridiculous.The result. A classic, mainly for those interested in seeing what really launched Cruise's career. "},{"Title":"Da Fly-boys....","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I feel the need, the need for speed! Wow! With such powerful script writing and acting that could only be rivaled by Franco Columbu or some of the contestants on American Idol, it's no wonder this little flying-ace gem, hasn't aged well. I saw this in the theater, when it came out in 86' and had fun with it then, it was either that or Platoon and we wanted to kind of have fun too, so anyway. It had been about ten or eleven years since I had seen this one and I ended up buying it on VHS and viewing it again. Boy what a difference, I had remembered this being a more dynamic story that was faster paced with great musical accompaniment, although I had enjoyed Val Kilmer's performance a whole lot more than originally, since this man's talent (Kilmer) far exceeds Cruises, I mean, let's be real about it now. At any speed, I had sold the movie and then rented the DVD to see the clearest aspect of picture and some other special features, this was only a short time ago. Frankly speaking, I was shocked at how bad this feature had been and grown to be over the rest of the years!! Everybody was hyped about this movie when it hit the box office! I swear, I heard all different types of people quoting lines from the movie etc and now....I am watching, with a smirk on my face and an embarrassed after though. Cheeze-whiz, this is. I just marveled. I had bought the original soundtrack that was remastered to digital with extra tracks and truly it was as sharp as I recalled, with better audio sound now. From Cheap trick to Kenny Loggins, it was right on the money! The only problem was that the music had outgrown the movie. Sometimes this happens. Some do well again later, some fall tragically short.Not recommended unless there is nothing else to watch, like Clint Eastwoods, Heartbreak Ridge there's a solid military film, that is based on the conflict in the Faulklin Islands, back in 1983. At this point, I will say for me this with everything in it, receives a '4',out of ten stars, and thats really just the music and Val Kilmer's part. (**) "},{"Title":"Live the dream","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Those who profess to favor freedom and yet depreciate agitation, are people who want crops without ploughing the ground; they want rain without thunder and lightning; they want the ocean without the roar of its many waters. The struggle may be a moral one, or it may be a physical one, or it may be both. But it must be a struggle. Power concedes nothing without a demand; it never has and it never will.I rest my case... Watch the film.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cruise missile...","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (**Possible, very minor, spoilers  and pseudospoilers ahead**)This is an extremely well-executed training film for the US Navy aviation program.  Actually, it's a lot more, but it's propaganda value is such that the bet that the Department of the Navy was jumping all over themselves to provide millions of dollars worth of flying and floating for the screen. I like this movie a lot, but there's a part of me that's always been interested both in military history and in the hardware of war (must be genetic, I guess, though I'm not complaining about my generation's 'missing out' on the conflicts that dotted my progenitors' lives) and to me it's pretty plain that the true stars of this film are the aircraft, particularly the most bodacious F-14A Tomcat swing-wing fighter.Quite a few people who went on to become rather large stars got their start, or their first massive exposure, in this film -- the somewhat already-known Anthony Edwards having a major role, Meg Ryan having one that's a bit more minor, and Tim Robbins being barely visible.  Supporting actors like Tom Skerritt, Michael Ironside, and James Tolkan (Mr Strickland in charge of the USS _Enterprise_!) were great in their roles.  Kelly McGillis and Tom Cruise were pretty intense together and Mr Cruise turned in a convincing and strong performance as 'Maverick' (later it'd become more obvious that he is, in fact, a very good actor and considerably more than just another 'pretty face' from Brat Pack days).  However, in some ways Val Kilmer's 'Iceman' pilot character was more interesting than Tom Cruise's more stereotyped role, and Kilmer brought a glacial centeredness and confidence to his part that perfectly fit the character's name.  Overall, though, the entire film is a stereotyped collection of archetypes that we've seen before, over and over, in war movies and other movies in which people (including the obligatory rogue cop, soldier, pilot, or cowboy) are called upon to do extraordinary things.  That's okay, because those elements have been proven to work together and, as I said before, the real attractions here are those aircraft and the incredible flying sequences of which they are the undisputed stars.The flying sequences -- wow, to say the least.  I don't think that I've yet seen any better, even with the help of special effects.  The Top Gun and other Navy pilots that did the flying for this film sure knew how to throw their jets about, and how they managed to capture some of it in film must be a long tale unto itself.  Most of the USN hardware is authentic, of course (the same is not true for US Navy procedure as depicted in the film), though it's always a tad of a downer to see American-made F-5 'aggressor' jets masquerading as Soviet MiG 28s.  The F-5s, by the way, were chosen as 'aggressors' (surrogate Soviet jets, in the same roles occupied by A-4 Skyhawks in the film) by the Top Gun program because they have flight characteristics similar to those of the aging but ubiquitous MiG 21. There never has been a MiG 28 in Soviet service, beyond the film-makers' imaginings.  Top Gun has some classic continuity bloopers, too, both in the aerial scenes and in more down-to-earth ones.  Still, the flying's great in this film, MiG 28s, F-5s, or whatever those Tomcats are up against.And, yes, this has nostalgia value for many of us.  The sounds of Berlin's Take My Breath Away, even though I never really liked it or any other synthesizer-driven '80-s pop that much, and Kenny Loggins' Danger Zone are like touchstones to the mid-80s.  Not that this is a good thing, but those of us who more or less came of age then didn't have much say in the matter of timing.  Not only was I totally into motorcycles at the time this film was released (and therefore lusting after Maverick's Ninja, or whatever it was.Kawasaki mustn't have paid for product placement because the motorcycle's got no identifying logos on it) but I'd recently come back to my native New Zealand from my first extended trip to the US and happened to be at the NAS Miramar air show (highly recommend catching it if you can) during the movie's filming there.  Tomcats, high-performance motorcycles, leather jackets, and supercool aviators who swagger and seem irresistible to women -- had this film come out before I went to university and had I been an American, odds are terrifyingly good that my local USN recruiting station might have seen me walk through their door.  On second thought, this is a dangerous movie.  "},{"Title":"Homosexual Underlines","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think that Quentin Tarantino said it best that this film is about a homosexual club trying to recruit a new member. After I heard his speech about the movie, I went back and watched it, paying close attention to detail. That is when I realized he was right. Pay very close attention to the  last thing that Maverick and Iceman say to each other, and you'll understand. Due to this reason, I watch this movie and get a real kick out of what it is really about. It's great for a good laugh. "},{"Title":"The ultimate guys movie!","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all, this review will not contain a plot synopsis. If you need to be told what the plot of 'Top Gun' is, you really need to get out more. That being said, this is (along with 'Road House') the ultimate guys movie. Any straight man with testosterone in his body loves this movie. The aircraft fight scenes will have you clinching your fists, and the numerous quoted lines will no doubt put a smile on your face. Bottom line if you are a red-blooded American (male or female), you will love this movie. If your idea of a good time entails sipping cognac, dipping fondue, and speaking with a snobbish accent; then you'll hate this movie. So there, you have been warned. To all the reviewers who have bashed this movie, I have this to say Get a life, you aren't near as cool as you think you are, and, oh yeah; didn't anyone ever tell you that movies are there for ENTERTAINMENT??? "},{"Title":"For the uncompromising idiot","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jerry Bruckheimer and Don Simpson's blockbuster Top Gun (with its stars, music, and imagery as a singular package) is such an 80's cultural icon that calling it what it is--an idiotic and cynical tribute to mindless machismo and gloppy romance--borders on a pointless waste of ink or breath or computer space. Criticizing Top Gun is very much like spitting into an ill wind.The Tony Scott movie is so perfectly exciting and sexy and awful that it was guaranteed to be a hit of nuclear-powered aircraft carrier proportions. I remember the buzz for Top Gun. I wanted to see it myself, not for Tom Cruise, but the hardware and Kelly McGillis (remember that shot of her washing in Witness?). I enjoyed it when I saw it, but unlike the legions of folks who still go gaw-gaw over this ridiculous wallow, I walked out of the theater no smarter or better than when I went in. I felt abused, taken advantage of by the Mach 2 slickery of this trite story--arrogant naval aviator with great pecs, greater flying skills, and really deep familial baggage meets professor with great legs while attending the navy's Top Gun school.Bruckheimer and his late partner Simpson were masters of the slick and skin-deep, and Top Gun was a perfect vehicle for them to make their studio acres of money, and permission to raise a whole ranch of cash cows. Bruckheimer rules the TV airwaves to this day with twelve CSI's (the original is the only one with any emotional weight), the depressing Without a Trace, and the brilliant Cold Case. He's made what seems like a dozen theatrical blockbusters with the intellectual and emotional depth of a popcorn fart. You get to see the first in the long line of hits in Top Gun and if you have the slightest bit of taste or a shred of dignity, you'll know why I (and a very small minority) find this idiotic movie so seductively embarrassing. "}{"Title":"Super gay (spoilers)","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Quentin Tarantino says in Sleep With Me, Top Gun is a gay film. How gay? Put it this way, it's gayer than an oiled wrestler doing the worm in a bed of pink feathers with chocolate sauce smeared across his tanned buttocks. We're talking super gay.One of the few enjoyable things about watching this horrendous film is listening to the dialogue and laughing at the double entendres. Virtually every line contains some sort of gayness. Just take the classic He's on our tail, coming hard. Speaks for itself, doesn't it? But then there's, Just stay on my wing and I'll take you all the way in. Ostensibly this line is about Maverick helping a rattled comrade land his plane, but really it's about Maverick helping a colleague make a different kind of landing &#150; one that's just as delicate.However, other lines aren't so subtle. One of Maverick's commanding officers (Strickland out of Back to the Future) says, I want to bust your butt, but I can't. Obviously this individual is suffering from some sort of erectile dysfunction. But another officer doesn't suffer from this affliction because at one point the said individual roars, I want some butts! He says it loud and proud.But then there are the simmering tensions between the pilots. They obviously all fancy one another. I mean, one pilot even confesses to his colleague that all this flying jazz gives him a hard-on. But rather than quietly moving away or laughing a polite laugh, the other bloke tells his pal not to tease him. You just know that as soon as they had some privacy they had their hands all over their joysticks.But this is nothing compared to the unspoken longing between Iceman and Maverick. They start off by giving each other flirty glances and by exchanging catty comments (Iceman is such a bitch!), but soon they're talking about their privates and arguing while wearing nothing but towels. The obvious outlet, at best, would be sweet hot sex, but since they're still struggling with their feelings &#150; Maverick is loyal to the end to Goose &#150; they engage in a game of volleyball. Needless to say there are ripped torsos aplenty and everywhere you look there are high fives and slapped bums. But on top of that you have Slider flexing his muscles to a song that's called 'Playing With The Boys'. I'm sure many confused young men (and quite a few that aren't confused) have worn out their old VHS copies of this film by endlessly rewinding and pausing that scene.But this volleyball scene has other implications. Because of his homoerotic posturing on the beach, Maverick misses a date with Kelly McGillis (who actually plays a character who calls herself 'Charlie' &#150; I bet Maverick would rather choke on Iceman's joystick than call her Charlotte). But it's unclear whether he genuinely has feelings for her. He seems sort of interested, curious even, but he leaves before they can have sex. And like Tarantino says in Sleep With Me, how does she get him interested again? By dressing up like a man! After that she finally becomes Maverick's beard. And they even have sex. But Maverick can't even have straight sex in a heterosexual manner. Rather than cock his missile and fire some bombs, he probes his target tenderly while curtains billow and 'Take My Breathe Away' plays. He's yearning for the boys.And the music is another clue. Not only do you have 'Playing With the Boys' and 'Take My Breathe Away', but you have 'Danger Zone', a song that features the lyric 'Take you right into the danger zone'. On the surface the song is talking about the risks that are taken by jet pilots, but it's really an ode to anal sex.And Maverick's true feelings are revealed further when Goose dies. He reacts like he's lost a lover. He even quits his job. But when McGillis tracks him down she's disgusted at what he's become &#150; a man that has finally lost that cocky smirk. Personally, I don't know what her problem is. Before the accident Maverick is unbearably smug &#150; the 'You've Lost That Lovin' Feeling' scene is probably the most odious thing in cinema &#150; but afterwards he's close to being something like a human being.But alas the death of Goose has no emotional impact. It's just a cynical way of giving a very thin film a third act. After all, rampant gayness aside, the movie has no content. Maverick goes to Top Gun, meets a woman who resists him for about two seconds, and battles with a gay colleague in some nicely filmed but very uninvolving flying scenes. There's nothing to the film. It's as shallow as it gets.And the final action scene is pure desperation. The filmmakers finally cotton on that in the absence of a well-written film with three-dimensional characters what we want to see are planes being blown to bits. And yeah a few planes get blown up and it's well filmed, but unfortunately the wrong people die. I wanted the Russians to win. And I wanted them to win for the same reason that I wanted the Japanese to win in Pearl Harbor. In both films the Americans are portrayed as oversexed jackasses that can barely utter a single sentence without hooting and hollering. They're obnoxious. The Russians, though, are completely professional. They don't talk; they just fly. Obviously this is meant to make them seem sub-human (and the black visors are meant to make them look evil), but give me a malevolent atheist who can fly his penis extension with skill and composure over a loud-mouthed, flag waving, god fearing, freedom loving, sexually confused American any day of the week. "},{"Title":"The Mysteries of Male Bonding","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I noticed that other commentors spoke disparately about the film alternately being about and not being about flying and pilots. As I like aviation but know nothing about flying, I'll have to go with those who say it is not about flying. The movie doesn't deal with male-female relationships either.The main female interest in this movie is alternately 'more of an antagonist' and 'in the way' than she is a romantic interest. Kelly MacGillis(sic!), the supposed romantic interest, is immediately a threat to the men's egos and their interpersonal relationships. She could have not been in this movie at all and the plot would have not suffered. It seems that she was mainly put there to reassure audience members who might have thought that there was an undercurrent of homosexuality in this movie. So, she is cast as Tom Cruise's 'sex interest' to show audiences that he is interested in women. The movie is basically about male bonding and relationships which men develop when in competition with each other and at the same time having to work together as a team. 'Male bonding' is 'newspeak' for the deep love men feel for each other, which has been mystifying women for ages. Not based on sex, it is actually the 'Platonic ideal'. Not necessarily having to do with sex but a true meeting of mind and experience in a male environment. The problem with this movie is it doesn't quite know how to handle this.I did not believe that the writers and producers really wanted to make a movie about flying but more about the relationships between men.The whole concept was a bit foggy and the result is this confusing movie. The emotions are all on the most visceral level (in a good sense; no gratuitous intellectualizing.); these guys are a team and they must rely on each other. To develop trust, one must prove one's mettle to the other (often doubting) members of the group. The problem is that the film could have been about Chimpanzee society and made the same point. Of course, it would have not had the same allure with Chimps as it does with a group of young and very handsome men. The men want to be in the same club but must vie for entrance and dominance. Once this is established and everyone is 'in their niche' a sense of 'group identity' and love is the result. This is very evident in the openly sensual and almost 'I want you' looks which the male characters give each other. The pre-stardom Meg Ryan has a tiny role as Tom Cruise's flying partner's wife. She is totally unnecessary to the movie as is Kelly McGillis. Her comment upon the death of goose, 'He loved flying with you', deftly avoids the whole issue. Maverick (Tom Cruise)has been emotionally destroyed by his beloved partner's death. The scriptwriters carefully avoid having Ryan say, 'He loved you', which is obvious. The real chemistry, which is not explored at all, is that between Maverick and 'Ice' (Val Kilmer). Kilmer is the classic 'I don't need anyone' character. In the end, he and Tom Cruise, antagonists from the beginning, end up in a big hug scene. This is not saying that this is a 'gay' movie. But it is pushing buttons in people, which really have nothing to with the supposed 'substance' of the plot at all; flying. This is a vehicle on which the rather confused filmmakers hung their fragmented story of the mysteries of Platonic, yet very real love between men. See it and think about what you're really reacting to.  "},{"Title":"The Incredibly Smug & Cocky Cruise Of The '80s","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's movies like this that made me - and millions of others - dislike Tom Cruise for a long time. I have learned to appreciate some of his talents from about the early-to-mid-1990s on because of Far And Away, which was an excellent film. However, his 1980 movies all had him (effectively, I suppose) cast as this incredibly-smug, SOB that I just about made me puke every time I saw him. He was either typecast or he was good in the role, or both....but Cruise played one obnoxious pretty-boy character after another. This movie gave a perfect example of that cockiness.With almost 300 reviews already in print here, there is no sense going into the storyline. Tom is the hotshot military Top Gun fighter pilot and who shows everyone how cool a guy he is.....pretty much sums it up. Kelly McGillis plays a typical low-life woman Hollywood has loved to portray since the '70s, who has the hots for Tom Terrific. She's always as annoying as him.The only redeeming quality to this film is the audio. The sound-effects of the jets is fantastic, and this was a real demo for surround sound when it came out years ago. Unfortunately, the great sound, and some excellent action scenes, cannot make up for the silly script and obnoxious lead characters. "},{"Title":"Too Predictable But Entertaining","Date":"22 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top Gun (1986) ** 1/2 (out of 4)Blockbuster about hot shot pilot Maverick (Tom Cruise) who gets a chance to show his stuff against the best Navy pilots in the world but soon his ways are challenged by another flier (Val Kilmer) who thinks he's too dangerous to be trusted. TOP GUN contains many flaws but at the same time there's no way you can deny the fact that it's rather entertaining, features a terrific cast and of course it turned Cruise into a major Hollywood star. We'll start with the negative stuff first. The biggest problem is without question the screenplay, which is just way too predictable for its own good. I mean, there are several twists in the story but there's not a single scene that you won't see coming from a mile away. We're introduced to a hot shot, we learn about his sad past, we see him fall for a strong woman (Kelly McGillis), we see him lose strong woman, we see a tragedy, we see him give up and of course we haven't even gotten to the predictable ending. I'm not saying the story had to be something hard-hitting or ground-breaking but there's no question that something not so predictable would have been good. As for the good stuff, you certainly can't overlook the terrific action scenes that are perfectly directed by Tony Scott. The director really makes you feel as if you're on board one of these jets and there's no question that there's some tense action throughout. Another major plus is that the cast is simply terrific as there are so many future stars here. Cruise, as you'd expect, has no problem playing the hot shot who soon starts to question what everyone is saying about him. You also have Kilmer turning in a good supporting part, although you have to wonder if he really wanted to be doing this character. Anthony Edwards, Tim Robbins, Meg Ryan, Michael Ironside and Tom Skerritt add nice support as well. I thought McGillis wasn't the typical actress you'd find in a romance like this but there's no question that she's good in the part. The soundtrack is full of B summer hits that add a little camp value. TOP GUN certainly isn't a perfect film but at least it's entertaining and as I said, it's always fun see so many stars in early roles. "},{"Title":"It did not take my breath away","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, I will never ever split movies into like a Chick Flick or Guy's flick category. I hate it when people do that. But for the first time ever, it seemed like such a macho guy flick. I love romantic movies, so I asked my mom and friend what was the most romantic movie they ever saw and they said Top Gun. I knew we had it, so I watched it. The only thing I loved about it was the sexy Tom Cruise and Val Kilmer. Other than that, I'd skip it.4/10 "},{"Title":"Juvenile, inflated entertainment with large emphasis on machismo.","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The most famous (let alone parodied) movie to showcase the U.S. Air Force, `Top Gun' is a pumped-up, enjoyable tour-de-force of being cool. But when you get down to the core, it's really just an excuse for impressive air-stunts, heavy metal music and old-fashioned character names. However, it does so with lip-smacking relish. The plot follows along the `I-want-to-be-the-best' scenario to generally good effect. The film certainly is flawed and sometimes outdated in its attitudes and dialogue. It takes the `Doris Day' approach to being cool and the narrative is far from amazing. `I don't like you cause you're&#133; dangerous'- `Yes I am, very&#133; dangerous'!The overall acting standard is average at best but it's the characters themselves that are memorable in their own sense. Tom Cruise is good as the standard paint-by-numbers hero of the bunch. Ditto for Anthony Edwards (most famous for being `that guy with the glasses' on ER). Val Kilmer does a fairly good job in his part as the cocky, smarmy villain. But then again `A dwarf is good at being short'. His character is just too hammy and the kiss and make-up finale doesn't make him seem as bad as he should be. The big problem is the fact that the relationship between Kelly McGillis and Tom Cruise character seems forced and doesn't flow as naturally as expected.But maybe I'm just nit picking here. If you can put all that behind you, then `Top Gun' is an enjoyably macho movie. There's plenty of memorable scenes and rock music to pass the 1 hour 45 minute duration. My IMDb rating 6.4/10.  "},{"Title":"honest summery of Top Gun","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top Gun really is the best of the best. this film is all about a maverick(literally)fighter pilot making it at Top Gun, the best fighter school around. Tom Cruise plays an excellent character, without doubt the best character ever invented, and he does amazingly. The soundtrack is brilliant and the script is amazing, with quotes to die for eg i feel the need, the need for speed. This could be called a cheesy film, but it will, always, make the audience feel delightfully happy, and with a great ambition to become not only a fighter pilot, but also to be maverick. Amazing footage of planes. This film is perfection through and through. This is not an exaggeration. If you have not seen this film, watch it now.  "},{"Title":"MiGs?  What MiGs?","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What do these US film producers take us for? A film with an abysmal script and predictable plot enlivened by some very accomplished airborne photography and clever editing - not to mention skillful flying - is reduced to a cartoon film strip by Top Gun flyer's identifying F-5 Freedom Fighters as MiGs! Oh for heaven's sake... we had to resort to such tactics when we made Reach for the Sky back in the 50s, surely we don't have to do it now. Having flown in the Royal Air Force for forty years, I can vouch for the fact that the average USAF jock's aircraft recognition skills can be suspect at times - to say the least! But the Best of the Best (Oh Really!) shouldn't be seen splashing F-5s!! It's bad for morale. I suppose any old jet will do, as long as they look different from Tomcats, their pilots have got black bone domes and look vaguely foreign.  "},{"Title":"just about as realistic as an episode of sponge-bob","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK. so you decide to make a movie involving fighter pilots and their aircraft. well...judging from the movie and your total lack of a brain I've decided....THAT YOUR PISSING ME OFF. there has NEVER been a SINGLE good movie about combat aircraft ever. so...lets start with the most famous of them all.Top Gun.OK first mistake, your pilots act gay. second, they are flying a 50 million dollar embarrassment to aviation history. WHEN AN F-14 TOMCAT WINS A DOGFIGHT WITH ANYTHING LESS THAN A F**KING BOMBER I WILL PERSONALLY SHOVE A SPOON IN MY A**. third, when you tell me A-4 Skyhawks share the same performance with a late model MiG, i realize you must have been born on a nuclear reactor, and your brain has melted, and you are now a sack of meat WITH EYES. before the movie came out the USSR had released the MiG-29 Fulcrum. effectively able to turn the F-14 into some very expensive confetti in a dogfight. the Fulcrum can fly at the speed of 1,519 mph. 2.4 times the speed of sound, it is so maneuverable that it has rivaled the F-16 one of the most agile fighters in the world. and an A-4 developed in 1956 with a maximum effective airspeed of 642 mph CAN MEET ITS PERFORMANCE?! yes its agile but not as agile as any late model MiG in the 80s. So Tony Scott, KISS MY D*CK! oh and I'm not done. Don't TAKE F-5 TIGERS, PAINT THEM BLACK, PUT A LITTLE RED STAR ON Their TAILS AND SAY THEY'RE A F**KING MiG. c*nt. "},{"Title":"Am I the only person who hates this movie?","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Seriously, not only is this movie gayer than gay porn, its also pointless.The only discernible plot line is HAY GUYZ, I'M GOING TO JET SKOOL LOLZ!!!11!1 Then Tom seduces a manly looking woman with no tits (more homo-eroticism) Then his life-mate dies. Oh and then there's a 10 minute war so Tom can be a hero at the end.Wait.. what? Someone actually called that a plot? More like an excuse to see shirtless gay dudes listen to Kenny Loggins sing Playin with the Boyz Dangerzone.God I hate this movie. I hate it with a fiery vengeance. "}{"Title":"Soulless and empty but the flying scenes are fun","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"12 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After first choice Cougar 'bugs out', flying team Maverick and Goose are selected from their unit to attend Top Gun &#150; an elite flying school for advanced fighter pilots. They arrive full of arrogance, eager to prove themselves in a class full of the best, with Maverick only slightly distracted by falling for Charlie Blackwood, who also happens to be one of the instructors. Maverick immediately marks himself out as one of the best pilots but will his attitude problem put it all at risk?Opening with a slick opening credits sequence that has become instantly recognisable as being a Simpson/Bruckheimer product, this film continues in the same vain and also shows the strengths and weaknesses of their films pretty well. The plot is pretty empty and bases itself around a romance and the main thrust of the training. The training is enjoyable in a rather macho fashion and will appeal to those of us easily pleased by boys'n'toys style of action. It is not really that thrilling as a subject but it is still reasonably OK. The failing of the film is in not creating characters that we can care about enough and thus rendering the action scenes just glossy visuals rather than life or death situation. This also has a major impact on the romance, which pretty much fails totally. There is never any real chemistry between Charlie and Maverick and their love is far too sudden and corny to ever really get the audience on their side. However, as I said, the slick action is worth seeing this for and it is fun in a rather mindless sort of way.The really poor script is pretty much to blame for both of these problems and Scott does the best he can with what he has. Likewise the cast are all pretty wooden, but part of that is the corny macho dialogue they are dumped with. Cruise flicks between 'brooding' and 'winning smile' and does enough to become a star, just not enough to be a character. The arrogant Maverick is hard to like and it's only the fact that he is the prettiest of all these arrogant men that makes the audience like him. Edwards is much better &#150; delivering a basic character but doing it with fun and down to earth humour.Kilmer is OK and set his career off here, as did Ryan &#150; who sets out her stall as being a ditzy blonde. McGillis is pretty vacuous and uninteresting, she is a pretty big reason for the lack of chemistry between her and Maverick. The grizzly, tough support cast is good and fits the film &#150; Skerrit and Ironside being two good examples.One of the hardest things about watching this film now is that time has not been kind to it &#150; it has had two cinematic jokes at it's expense that are as memorable as the film itself. First and foremost, Hot Shots makes fun of so much of the film, it is difficult to watch this without recalling that spoof &#150; a film that is much more fun to watch than this one! Secondly, after Tarantino's speech in Sleep With Me, it is impossible not to notice all the homoerotic content in this whether it be obvious ('I've got a hardon' response 'don't tease me') or the implied (the 'you can be my wingman' stuff). For my money, the Hot Shots distraction was a bigger problem and furthered damaged the already weak foundation of the film.Overall this is a hollow, empty film with a poor plot, nonexistent characters and a central romance that never convinces or involves. The flying stuff looks good and is quite enjoyable with all the usual macho dialogue being yelled and the film is just about worth seeing for that reason alone. This is as good example of the Simpson/Bruckheimer product &#150; a pretty glossy little package that is ultimately all style and no real substance.  "},{"Title":"Hogwash","Date":"5 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" All I need to say about this film, which sure impressed a lot of teen and twenties folk, is how ridiculous it is to see the flight deck of an aircraft carrier during a warlike confrontation, covered by cheering sailors who respond to the events as if they are watching them on a big screen . . . running a carrier is a minute-by-minute life threatening business, where the slightest inattention may result in grave injury if not death. Maverick would have been axed the first time he blatantly risked his aircraft, crew, and shipmates.I realize part of cinema is suspending disbelief to some extent, but other than some nice cinematography, this movie fails on so many levels. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good","Date":"15 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't believe that people think this is cool! The music is mostly taken from the deepest deep of the sh*t-hole known as the 80's, and even the theme song sucks, considering Harold Faltermeyer made Axel F. It all begins with the credits, it's slow, I guess they wanted all the names in the beginning, since it's hard to even stay awake, and the title reveal is cheap, and laughable. The action scene in the beginning was generic, and the music made it even worse, it was so out of place. Everything is very cheezy, and the scene where they play beach volley ball is just pathetic, it's clearly to get views from women, it's like 80's Twilight. I watched this because my dad wanted to show me how bad it is, so this is all coming from someone who's not even 18, and still has better taste than you. The movie was mostly so f*cking bad, that it was FUNNY, so I guess it's still a bit entertaining, but considering what was intended, I give it 2/10, f*cking terrible, I gave it some more time, and I'm changing it from 4 to 2, it SUCKS. "},{"Title":"..... and time permitting, he even poses as a naval officer","Date":"17 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Maverick' is a hotshot pilot for the navy, that is, when he's not riding his bike or playing volleyball at the beach.Tom Cruise as 'Mav' is claimed by some to be bigger than life while the rest of us see him as he really appears -- somebody's kid brother, the squirt you don't want tagging along when you go to the movies with your significant other. Exciting flying scenes, a charged-up soundtrack, and the most unbelievable plot ever (until '50 First Dates'), made this sailor tripe a hit at the box office. Thank God Val Kilmer is around to give the chicks in the audience a good-looking guy to stare at, because shrimpy Tom Cruise ain't it.Recommended for aviation buffs and fans of military comedies. "},{"Title":"Top Gun","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are many critics that call this an ultimate gay fantasy film, in some ways I can see why. From the director of Enemy of the State, Tony Scott, this is an air navy based film set almost in a cold war. Pete Maverick Mitchell (Tom Cruise, in his star-making role) is one of many aspiring fighter pilots to become the best of the best, with the help of the Top Gun Naval Flying School. There he both tries to establish himself as one of the best, has some quarrels with other pilots, particularly Tom Ice/Iceman Kazansky (Val Kilmer), and in the process of trying to gain trust and merit, falls for civilian instructor Charlotte Charlie Blackwood (Kelly McGillis). There is a point where he quits momentarily when his co-pilot Nick Goose Bradshaw (ER's Anthony Edwards), but he does get the great merit at the ending for destroying most of the Russian enemy. Also starring Alien's Tom Skerritt as Commander Mike Viper Metcalf, Total Recall's Michael Ironside as Dick Jester Wetherly, Tim Robbins as Sam Merlin Wills and Meg Ryan as Carole. It won the Oscar Best Song for Take My Breath Away (also won the Golden Globe), and it was nominated for Best Sound Effects Editing, Best Film Editing and Best Sound, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score for Harold Faltermeyer. Tom Cruise was number 32 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was number 25 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and he was number 81 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, the film was number 94 on 100 Years, 100 Quotes (I feel the need - the need for speed!), and it was number 18 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments. Good! "}]