[{"Title":"So many memories","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie brought back so many memories of Ocean City, Maryland. My husband and I met there and we had so many fond memories.....we were together 33 years years and since his passing two years ago, I find myself traveling to the ocean to recapture that peace and tranquility we both had there. The movie lets me see and remember those things that young people experience in a small resort town. We lived there during the late 60's early 70's and the movie pinpointed one of the buildings we had lived in during that time, what a pleasure it was to watch the actors walk through places that my husband and I had shared many years ago......thank you! "},{"Title":"Such a beautiful film!","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've watched this movie at least 30 times, and I never get over how amazing it is.  Sissy Spacek, Kevin Kline, and Bonnie Bedelia are so compelling, and I pine for Ocean City over and over again!  This movie will take you back to every what if you ever had.  A classic! "},{"Title":"A Simple Yet Engaging Drama","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie doesn't have a lot of great visuals (with the exception of a quick shot of Kevin Kline's cute, naked butt). It doesn't have fast-paced action.....But the story and the acting make it a great film. Kline, Spacek, and Bedelia put in some great performances, and they make this film an intense drama, with their subtle and realistic portrayals. It's certainly not the best film any of those actors ever did, but it is truly a joy to watch them in. "},{"Title":"I love Kevin Kline.","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Kline is one of my very favorites.  He's quite sexy in this film. Sissy Spacek is beautiful.  When the two looked at each other, they made the screen melt.  This is one time I was rooting for the 'other woman.'  It makes us all think about the one that got away.   "},{"Title":"Violets Are Blue","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen the movie so many times and still love it. I think the Theme Song is great (as well as being a tearjerker). If you have ever let a girl get away or lost her to someone else, this movie really hits home. If you know Ocean City, Md.; it will make you long for a vacation. Sissy Spacek, Kevin Kline and Bonnie Bedelia give excellent performances. This movie gives a great impression of Ocean City and the scenes on Assateague are excellent. If you haven't seen this film I would recommend that you try to find it or at least watch for it on TV, (though, I haven't seen it listed lately, on TV). If you are a Sissy Spacek fan or have visited Ocean City, I recommend this film, you'll love it. "},{"Title":"A great film!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this when I was 8 years old. Since I live in Maryland, I was so excited to find out that a movie was being filmed in Ocean City. Its definitely one to see if you enjoy a good tear-jerker. Sissy Spacek is wonderful as Gussy Sawyer, the former girlfriend of Henry Squier (Kevin Kline). There are some scenes with the Boardwalk of Ocean City that makes me homesick every time I see it. "},{"Title":"Good. Specially if you like Sissy Spacek","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Have you ever imagined yourself going back to your birthplace after many years away? Well, imagine so. There you are, meeting your love from old times, now married. Would all that flame come back? What would happen? This film is about this. A very good option for a rainy Sunday afternoon. And Sissy Spacek, like always, shines. "},{"Title":"A Little Known, And Vastly Underrated Romance","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was vacationing in Ocean City, Maryland when this film was being made. I remember hearing on the radio that the production crew was looking for background extras for some early scenes in the film. I wish I had tried out for one! I have always had a soft spot in my heart for this film, not simply because I love Ocean City, but because this movie is proof that a simple story, told with honest sincerity, can rise head and shoulders above flashy production values and overblown dramatics. Spacek and Klein do quite well with their lead roles. Low-key dramas like this seem more down to Earth because this is how real people such as ourselves would act in similar situations. By wisely omitting any shots of the many high rise condominiums of northern Ocean City, the filmmakers have done an excellent job of portraying this as a small coastal town. If romantic sentimentality is not your thing, you'll probably yawn through this movie. But if you're the type of person to often look back and wonder what if, then Violets Are Blue is certainly worth your time. "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking...","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A movie everyone can relate to. Lost love, a chance to go back and relive the past. I think everyone would like to try it just once. Kevin Kline is the sensitive leading man, and Sissy Spacek plays a great 'other woman'.  Set in Ocean City, this movie will leave you remembering The Good Times. "},{"Title":"Handsome, but dull, vapid example of the Woman's Picture...","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In a picturesque coastal town in Maryland, a married family man is reunited with an old sweetheart, a pretty photographer who's been traveling the world for the last fifteen years. Putting freshly-scrubbed Sissy Spacek in the role as 'the other woman' doesn't really sit right with us because, basically, it's tough to swallow Spacek as the proverbial homewrecker. Sissy's real-life husband Jack Fisk directed the film, and although he sets up some good-looking shots, he doesn't feel the need to involve us in this character's thoughts does she have a selfish agenda or is she removed from all the confusion and heartache she causes? The screenplay is a limp, squashy mess--a compendium of Woman's Picture clichés--and Kevin Kline doesn't have much to do but stare at others thoughtfully or look conflicted. *1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"Bonnie's Best","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There is something intoxicating about being young and in love. Most of us never got to experience that. The couple in this film had it once, and got a brief chance to relive it once. That makes twice. Unfortunately the second one was at the expense of others.I thoroughly believed the plot. Some people stay in a small town and some go. Some of those who stay, wonder what would have happened if they left, and some of those who left, wonder the opposite. Ocean City is a real place, not a fictional one. That added to the real feel of the movie.Another reviewer mentioned that Kevin Kline mainly had to look at people with a thoughtful expression. But I say he did that exceptionally well. I'm not sure I buy the character's lack of emotion, in terms of guilt. I would think that a real person would break down at some point. He was so caught up in the euphoria of renewed youth.You don't see Sissy Spacek's character show any signs of guilt. That was disturbing and made me feel less sympathy for her. Maybe she was just a bit self-centered. I think the picture was trying to make the point that she had based her whole life on trying to get what she wanted. In this case, she was not going to let anyone get in her way, or make her feel guilty.Bonnie Bedelia was the quiet quarterback of this one. Her small time on screen was sublime. I did believe her character. She wasn't the temper tantrum type, and she absolutely adored her husband. Yet the pain her facial expressions and tone of voice conveyed was heart-wrenching.The man who plays Spacek's father was simply great. He delivers a great line about how we choose our fate by letting things happen, but it was the way he said it, that I loved.The boy character was quite good too. I think he had a bit of a crush on Spacek's character. Like father, like son. I believed the boy. A nice, semi-nerdy kid, at an awkward age. He played it perfectly.So, some really solid acting, a pleasant setting, a good closing tune sung by a star of the period, who has since passed away, and only a little obligatory Hollywood liberalism thrown in. (Evil developers, earnest conservationists.) "},{"Title":"So sad I cried","Date":"21 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was the worst film I have ever seen. Married man meets ex-college-girlfriend after 15 years. Married man sleeps with ex-girlfriend upon first meeting, after inviting her to dinner (which his wife cooks) with his family. Married man and ex-girlfriend rekindle long lost love. Ex-girlfriend goes back to her 'cosmopolitan' life, that married man always wanted. Married man decides to stay with wife and child. Implicitly denotes patriarchal superiority. Ex-girlfriend = sex object. Wife = cook, home-maker and child-minder. Is wife supposed to be lucky that she got her husband back? Does she have another choice? This is a reification of stereotypical feminine roles which serves to perpetuate masculine hegemony and inequality. Blatant abuse of women. I'd like to believe that contemporary society would reject a film like this, but I may be a minority. So sad. "},{"Title":"A well crafted sailing movie","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An endearing and well-crafted love story set in a small town on Maryland's eastern shore.  This movie has some excellent small boat sailing sequences, including a pretty exciting Hobie cat race.  Sissy Spacek is portrayed as a competent sailor, with sailing as an important element in both the plot and in the relationships between the characters.  This movie is particularly appealing to me because the characters approach sailing the way most of us do; it's their recreation, it's what they do for fun.  "}]