[{"Title":"Ninjas here, ninjas there, ninjas EVERYWHERE!","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"36 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" American Ninja 2 The Confrontation is the best movie in the whole series and one of the best action movies I have ever seen. It has everything and what's more important it has NINJAS! Tons of ninjas. In fact, there are so many ninjas in this movie that people got used to them. Ninjas wander around freely, shopping in supermarkets, hiding on roofs, driving cars, taking the sun on secluded beaches. This movie taught me one important lesson ninjas are one of us and we should respect them. After seeing this great movie I say hello to ninjas on the street and I'm not afraid anymore to look under my bed in case a ninja is hiding there. We shouldn't be afraid of ninjas, ninjas are our friends! But back to the movie. It has three elements that make it so great it has Michael Dudikoff, an exotic location, and a truck load of ninjas. The plot is simple, Dudikoff (himself being an invincible ninja) kicks some ninja ass then kicks some more and finally destroys the villain's master plan (sell clone-ninjas to other villains). But what makes this movie great is the unbelievable amount of action ninja fights on a beach, bar fights, car chases, explosions, more explosions, sword fights. And if you think that ninjas perform only two basic functions spying and killing, you're wrong. Because ninjas in American ninja 2 evolved, now they are also bodyguards, sentinels, inept killers, car drivers, butlers, guards, human statues, decorations, extras, stunts, martial artists, masters of disguise and masters in ridiculing themselves. But why would a villain hire them instead of a conventional army? Because ninjas look cool and have three main characteristics that common soldiers don't have they are FAST (the quickness with which their ass gets kicked is just amazing), they are SILENT (maybe they're silent, but that doesn't help them when they wander around in their black suits in broad daylight!) and they are DEADLY (I don't think they managed to kill anyone in the movie let alone even scratching Dudikoff). And the potential buyers are all a brilliant assortment of stereotyped villains from the street pimp and the drug lord to the south-American dictator and the Arabian prince. And the main base of the villain is even more stereotyped, it has everything a villain dreams of a representative logo (a lion with a shuriken in his head), a lab (with scientists and all), an arena (where ninjas can perform) and an office (from where the villain can dominate the world). And the most amazing thing is that if you are dressed like a ninja you can easily enter this heavily guarded complex and wander around freely. Ninjas walk the halls, buy coffees, take the elevators, go on cigarette breaks. They are just like us, but dressed like ninjas! Black ones, blue ones, red ones, it doesn't matter. The more the merrier. I learned the lesson and I'm sure you'll all learn it too after seeing this movie ninjas are one of us. And remember, ninjas are EVERYWHERE! "},{"Title":"The Citizen Kane, or crappy 80's ninja movies.","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Crapped out of the minds of the people who brought us NINJA III THE DOMINATION, CYBORG COP II, SPIDERS II BREEDING GROUND, and +sigh+ the amazing BREAKIN' II ELECTRIC BOOGALOO comes American NINJA III...I mean II. Whatever...Joe Armstrong and Joe Jackson go to some island paradise, which of course in infested with ninjas. Good guys meet bad guys. Bad guys go dead. All is well in the land. But THANK YOU GOLAN/GLOBUS for bringing us this trash...it might surpass DEATH WISH III as the funniest film of all time. It is perhaps one of those rare instances where every single person involved in any way with this film, was doing the most mediocre job possible. Truly some events like this only come along once in a lifetime. The fight choreography in this film is beyond comparison to anything in the modern world. It took three people to write this script, they probably thought it was clever that the first name of the bad guy THE LION, is actually LEO. HMMMMMM FORESHADOWING. Remember this word class....FORE SHA DOW ING.One day I will buy the rights to this movie and re-dub it to my taste. If you play with GI JOES and eat PASTE, this is probably you're favorite movie. If you're a 10 year old boy, you are forgiven. The rest of you FOR SHAME.Steal this movie if you have to...it's worth it. American NINJA II **** stars.comedy.1987 "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films of all time","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I first saw this movie when i was 13 on the wgn movie of the week. This was the showcase for numerous jean claude movies and Bronson Death wish flix. But this movie stands out on its own. When I first saw it I had never laughed at a movie so much in my life, and immediately I knew I needed to own it. SO i waited around and found out when it was on next and taped it off TV. Then the studying of greatness started.There are numerous Flaws and items of interest that one should look for to help them through this classic. First and foremost is dudikoff ( the American ninja)'s delivery. Everything is said in the same monotone intense voice. For example, He would say the line I want to kill you! the same way he would say, I love you or The president has been kidnapped. And also his giant package that my girlfriend noticed last viewing of the movie which is ridiculous and pertruding.Now for individual scenes; When Dudikoff and James are meeting with Wild Bill for the first time, look at Dudikoff at the end of the scene and you will see that it isn't dudikoff at all but a stunt double. Next the scene on the beach with the first conflict with the ninjas. Not only are the ninjas super bumbling but at the end of the scene James and Dudikoff are shown jumping off a 100 foot cliff, but in the cut away they gingerly land on the back of a speed boat without injury.There are other scenes and memorable items but I must mention one more. 'THE SUPER NINJA' - There is a ninja in the movie that really isn't a character in the movie but a random ninja that is somehow immortal compared to the rest of the ninjas that dudikoff kills with a punch. This ninja flips onto a truck, gets knocked off, pulls out a grappling hook, holds on while being dragged, causes a motorcycle accident, flips back onto the front of the truck, still alive crawls up the front right before the truck that he's on flies into what appears to be a gasoline plant of some sort and into a giant fireball. Kudos.THank you golan globus. I love you. "},{"Title":"Cheap and cheerful Ninja fun!.","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Don't go into this expecting a Steven Seagal or Van Damme type movie.  This was made when the Ninja was big on the small screen.  I've seen countless Videos of Ninja movies, but this one, with Ninja IIIThe Domination, stuck in the mind. Looking back on it, this movie somewhat tacky now but it's about entertainment more than anything.  The story is feeble, but you want to see this for the action above anything else.  Steve James is about the only one in the film that acts really, I really can't see how he never made top billing around all the cardboard actors on screen.  I saw this movie many years ago and thought it was an excellent movie back in my Ninja phase, it's bad in places and fun in others.  Don't go into this with a straight face, try and enjoy it as a fun straight to video movie. "},{"Title":"American Ninja II is a likable action romp that rises above it's low budget and entertains","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Even better than the original. This one provides some true fun as Dudikoff and James go undercover to Probe  the mystery why marines are being kidnapped turns out it involves ninjas (Like you didn't know that!) American Ninja II is a best bet for a late night action movie festival. Dudikoff and James last movie together (before Steve James sadly died in 1996) . American Ninja II is a must see for fans of the genre thanks to some humor and excellent action scenes. Steve James really steals the show as the sidekick who can handle dialog as well as action scenes. The film feels low rent but you can do a lot worse when it comes to this genre. American Ninja II is a likable action romp that rises above it's low budget and entertains. "},{"Title":"Much better than the first","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  The 2nd in the series FAR exceeds the first and most likely is the best in the series. If you buy the dvd of the 2nd film the 3rd comes on it, in the 3rd there is no michael dudioff, and I'm not sure even if jackson is in the 3rd. I just had to put my two cents in and say THIS IS BETTER THAN THE FIRST...and does not deserve close to the score it has here..I am giving this 10/10. "},{"Title":"Another great ninja film!","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Here's another great martial arts action film. Prior to the first AN, American Ninja 2, provide lots of action and suspense just like the first one. This time taking on superninjas they weren't so super to me there. Both Armstrong and Jackson(Michael Dudikoff and Steve James) were always on top of things. The Marines weren't so warm to the Army Rangers at first, but when it was getting the job done Armstrong and Jackson don't play around. Armstrong was all techniques, Jackson was all power, that's why he is later named Powerhouse Jackson. He was the martial artist with attitude. Especially when he stomped on the ninja and he said, STAY DOWN! You don't play with Powerhouse Jackson. The outside fight scene with Joe and the ninjas were memorable as well. I liked the part where Joe catches the dart with his hand and took out that ninja with the shuriken(throwing star). These characters were outrageous, they'll make any brawler run home to mama. This movie is just as good as first, however it does have more action though, which I like the best. Rating 3.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"An improvement over the first movie","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Steve James originally didn't want to appear in this first sequel, since it was to be shot in South Africa (which was still under apartheid). He later admitted that he had a lot of fun making the movie, which is evident onscreen. Like the first movie, James steals the show from Dudikoff, both in his martial arts skills and with a bouncy performance that makes him a treat to watch. The best that can be said about Dudikoff's performance is that he seems to be a lot more comfortable in front of the camera than he was the first time around. He's still very unemotional, has almost no dialogue, and it's still clear he knows little to nothing about martial arts, seeing how he does pretty simple moves (when not being doubled.)Despite the movie being weighed down by Dudikoff's presence, it's still a fun movie, certainly better than the first movie. The locations are eye-catching, giving the movie a nice backdrop. The pace is quicker, giving us little chance to be bored between the action sequences. And there's certainly plenty of action, with dozens of ninjas popping up everywhere at any time. Yes, there is a cheesiness to the entire enterprise, from George Clinton's synthesizer score to the ludicrous scheme of the villain... but hey, it's a *fun* kind of cheese, one that makes you smile instead of grit your teeth. Sometimes a little silliness is what the doctor ordered, and it's also a nostalgic blast for those into '80s actioners.  "},{"Title":"Classic Bad Ninja Flick","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Yeah if your a true movie fan and like only fine cinema it does suck but if you love bad action movies for the sheer comedic value this is it.  This is by far the best AN movie in this god awful series.  You get some classic one liners out of Steve James (who is the real star of this movie), The Dude (Mikael Dudikoff) kicking people half way across the screen.  What makes this movie is the bar room scene nearing the end of the film, this is where James shines he combines a bad-a$$ fighting technique and great one liners at the same time. Granted he was fighting petty thugs but its a gem.  If your planning a bad movie night i do suggest getting this.  "},{"Title":"One of the BeSt NinJa MovIes EVER!","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  When watching American Ninja 2 we must keep in mind this is a movie made in 1987 and most of all that it is&#133;well a ninja movie. There was a huge boom in this kind of flicks at the time and its elements were well defined. A lot of bad ninjas, a hero, cool action scenes and some of the worst dialog to ever appear on film. However I must admit that I was and in a way still am a big fan of the genre. Lets face it, these movies were fun. American Ninja 2 is one of the best examples. Part of a series of five films this is without a doubt the highlight of the saga.Michael Dudikoff had the looks to be the star. But unfortunately not the talent. Thus the small dialog he has. He still does an OK job as the hero and doesn't disappoint in the fight scenes but in total Steve James steals the movie with his charisma and style.  This guy was great. He was having fun and made us enjoy it as much as he did. He also had some acting skills, which helped a lot since everybody else were close to amateurs. Steve James was the man!I also have to mention   Jeff Weston who was very funny as Wild Bill. Good job.The story is weak but still its not embarrassingly bad. Anyway what matters is the action and while some fights didn't work very well, there were a lot of scenes so we still get loads of punching, kicking and swordplay.The music also helps. Its very 80´s of course and sets the atmosphere and the rhythm for the action very successfully.We also have some nice locations, a lot of beach and sun and even some pretty girls sunbathing. Of course the movie is cheesy but if you try not to notice all its flaws and just enjoy it for what it is you'll have a lot of fun.There's lots of action, some really bad dialog that will make you laugh really hard and of course in the end everybody´s happy.An entertaining movie even today and one of the best ninja flicks ever.RIP Steve James I still remember you!     "}{"Title":"improvement over the first","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  It's cheesy as all hell, but I actually prefer AMERICAN NINJA 2 to the original. The story moves quicker and there's more action. Dudikoff and Steve James return as karate-kicking Army soldiers, this time investigating a mysterious Caribbean island where soldiers have been disappearing. The bad guy there is creating genetically-enhanced super Ninjas or something like that, using the work of a kidnapped doctor, who's daughter informs Dudikoff about his abduction and imprisonment on the island. There's a wild truck chase and a fun bar fight, and an all-out action-packed climax on the island between an army of Ninja and the Army. Another typical chop socky flick, but a slight improvement over first, and my favorite of the series. "},{"Title":"He still possess great skill.","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  American Ninja 2 Ninjas in Paradise--I can't quite endorse it as much as the original.  It's still a solid bit of fun though.  The American Ninja films are notorious for movie mistakes, but this one takes the cake.  Michael Dudikoff is onscreen aside Steve James as they meet the C.O. of the base, then cut to behind as they leave the room and it's a completely different dude.  It's not Dudikoff at all!!  It's the most blatantly obvious goof I've ever seen.  But it also made me laugh out loud so they score points there.  Other mistakes include rubber swords, dead guys that get up and continue fighting, and guys that are supposedly stabbed in the stomach but are really just holding the sword to their side.  No matter how dumb the director may be, Michael Dudikoff and Steve James still kick ass and that's what the first two movies are all about.  American Ninja 2, or Episode II as I like to call it, is about Joe Armstrong's encounter with genetically enhanced clones.  Hum...sound familiar?  Ninjas basically are Jedis, right?  I could be wrong, but then again maybe George Lucas owes a bit of credibility to the genius behind American Ninja 2 The Confrontation.  Dudikoff isn't in the third film so you can skip it; after all, he IS the American Ninja. "},{"Title":"worth watching","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  American Ninja 2 The Confrontation was a fairly good B film. The action was non-stop but far-fetched and the choreography was sometimes quite unrealistic. Michael Dudkioff and Steve James played pretty good roles and their acting was substantial.  One cool aspect of the film was where the fightings took place,for example, at the beach and in the bar. The ring scene was also interesting but the choreography somewhat ruined these scenes. The choreography was only good in about the first-half of the film. The plot was also very plain which also brings the film status down a little bit. Basically the fight scenes were unrealistic for the fact that the Ninjas were just plain stupid. Also in the bar scene,Steve James has about twelve or thirteen guys on top of him and he throws them all off with one single burst of power. In my opinion this movie is worth watching even though some of it was a little phony. The acting was fair and the fight scenes for the most part were pretty good. On a scale of 1-10 I would rank this film about a 5 just for the effort. As for my advice I would rent this film whenever you get the chance because you just might enjoy it. Thank you. "},{"Title":"i liked it a bit more than the first one","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" to me,this sequel had a more developed plot line than the first movie.it a fairly preposterous one,but it is semblance of a story nonetheless.and besides,reality doesn't necessarily factor into these movies in a big way,so that's not surprising.there are many more fight sequences in this one as well.and to me,the fight scenes seemed better executed,much more exciting.the acting is no better or worse than in the first one.i actually think as a whole the movie is slightly better due to the improved fight sequences.again you just have to remember that it's not high art you're in for when you sit down to view this film,or it's prequel/sequels.it basically a disposable(but enjoyable)ninety +/-minutes.for me,American Ninja 2 The Confrontation is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"More fun than the original","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" OK maybe the plot wasn't that good as in the first part. But this part is more entertaining. Here is a lot more of ninja combats so the ninja fans should be left satisfied. The movie itself wasn't supposed to be very serious so it was really fun to watch it. This time Steve James get more of the show. He was really funny and his fighting scenes were really better than in the first part. This movie is full of action from the beginning to the end. Fighting scenes were more impressive than in the first part although it sometimes wasn't in a very good quality. The main bad guy ninja is played by the Mike Stone the brother of Sharon Stone who's famous for his karate skills and an affair with Elvis Presley's wife. He was also a Martial arts coordinator in the first four American ninja films. So if you liked the first part you will probably like this one too. "},{"Title":"Just like the first one it's not Lucas or Kubrick it's b action movie take for what it is!","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  American Ninja 2 The Confrontation  is more of the same as in the first film. The smooth pimps Armstrong and Jackson to do more ass whuppin in this ok sequel. This time around the fight scenes are better and so is the plot. All in all a decent film. "},{"Title":"The time flies by as you watch American Ninja 2 because it satisfies all your action needs!","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" It's easy to see why people have such fond memories of the American Ninja series after watching this enjoyable movie.Sgt. Joe Armstrong (The Dude) and Sgt. Curtis Jackson (James) return, this time sent to a Caribbean island to find some missing Marines. What they find defies all their expectations, as the super-evil villain known as The Lion (Conway) is breeding a new race of genetically-modified superninjas. Now Armstrong and Jackson must fight their way through them to save the day, and shut down the nefarious operation. Can they do it? Because it takes place in a sun-drenched location, the visuals are bright and appealing. When our two heroes fight the evil ninjas, they don't need a lot of fancy tools and tricks - just, in the case of Jackson, red shorts, and Armstrong, a Body Glove wetsuit. This REAL sequel (as opposed to the miserable American Ninja 5, 1993 thankfully Cannon didn't decide to go all 30% new footage on us) delivers the goods, as it doesn't retread the first film, but still provides all the best elements that fans want to see cool stunts, well-timed moves, barfights, chases, blow-ups, tasteful humor, and Dudikoff's cool hair. It certainly goes in the right direction, as the alley fight sequence about 48 minutes in proves.It was the 80's, and the idea to set the movie in paradise (supposedly The Lion owns a place called Blackbeard Island) was a natural one. You have to remember, this was at the height of party-animalism. People were cutting loose. Now add to that some out-and-out ninja fighting, and the chemistry between Dudikoff and James and you have a winner. The icing on the cake is the violence, which is brutal at times, but it's FUN brutality. The whole movie has a sense of fun to it, which is refreshing, and due in large part to the underrated Steve James. He looks like he's having a blast. James should be more well-known by the general public.While the movie is highly entertaining, the worst thing you can say about it is that it hits a bit of a slump pre-climax. It's a fairly common problem, but the sawdust-covered arena where the final battle takes place is an ideal location for the inevitable Confrontation we were promised in the movie's subtitle.The time flies by as you watch American Ninja 2 because it satisfies all your action needs. If you haven't already, pick it up today! For more action insanity, please visit www.comeuppancereviews.com "},{"Title":"Side-splitting action comedy","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  This is a must see comedy action movie. I have never laughed so hard than when watching the hilarious fight scenes (which I'm sure they must have slowed the cameras down for), and the brilliantly bad plot (given to us after a thrilling high speed chase and fight, with our hero (played with no great sense of irony by Michael Dudikoff)and his lady taking a break to watch the sun set and fill us in on the background details.This is a must-see bad film classic.  I cannot wait to see the first one!!! "},{"Title":"Macho bulls*** returns with, yes, more ninjas...","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  On a distant Caribbean island, the corrupt local enforcers are kidnapping newly transferred US marines and using them to create a cult of genetically modified super Ninjas, masterminded by a textbook millionaire meanie forerunning in the drug trade. It's a good job, then, that new recruits to the island are Joe Armstrong (Dudikoff) and Curtis Jackson (James), hard-hitting army boys with PhDs in Macho and becoming slightly used to this kind of thing by now. The whole affair's a charade, comic-book action at its relentless best that seems to retain a certain charm and good nature despite its B-movie faults - and the returning duo do well; Dudikoff playing it straight and stern while James supplies crucial comic relief.  "},{"Title":"Go Ninja Go Ninja (Man I'm a lame-o)","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  There was once a day when non-ironic movies about a ninja battling an army of genetically altered, cyberneticly enhanced super ninja's, who were really brain washed marines controlled by an evil drug king pin could still get into theater.  Seeing as how that last sentence was sloppy and made next to no sense I shall endeavor to explain the plot.  The American Ninja and his commando friend Curtis The Power House Jackson show up on an island where marines are disappearing.  I turns out an evil drug lord has commissioned a scientist to turn these marines into a force of mindless super ninjas.  The American Ninja and Curt must end this cavalcade of evil by... you guessed it Kicking Ass!!  The American Ninja series is famous (wait don't laugh let me finish the sentence) for employing sword slashing that is so fake looking it seems realistic... go figure that out.  It is a real shame Steve James (Curt) passed away because the American Ninja series really suffered after he left.  His absence is really what stopped American Ninja 4 the best.  Taking in mind I haven't seen number 5.Note I have abandoned my short lived system of movie reviewing because I am lazy. "}{"Title":"Slightly better than Part 1","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" MICHAEL DUDIKOFF & STEVE JAMES return to kick more ninja butt, this time on a Caribbean island, where a nasty drug lord is turning his ninja warriors into psychotic killers, that won't stop coming for our hero's until their dead. I liked American Ninja 2 just a tad more than Part 1, at least in this one Dudikoff was able to display more emotion & not act like a traumatized youth like he did in the original, he's more likable here & there is some pretty exciting & entertaining action scenes on display here, the direction is better & there's slightly more story than before, with that said, despite the entertaining fight scenes, we again get another series of bad guys & another almost indestructible ninja that barely prompts our hero to break a sweat, which is kind of disappointing, because I was expecting much more from the lead ninja baddie much like the last one in the final fight scene between him & Dudikoff, it's just to short & tad disappointing, still it's an entertaining & fun B movie, especially for fans who enjoyed the original. Followed by American Ninja 3 Blood Hunt ***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Stay down!!!!","Date":"12 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" The second installment of the American Ninja series isn't very good, but is made watchable thanks tho Steve James. Besides from his awesome hair, he spouts out one-liners and is the person in the film who can do that thing where lots of people jumps on him and he can throw them all off at once and get them to sound like someone has just got a strike bowling. The premise is pure comic book and this may be a Cannon movie, but the production values seem pretty good and I think non-martial artist Dudikoff's fighting is a bit better than it was in the jokey original.This isn't actually a bad effort for a film of this genre. I know the acting is shocking, the script is full of gaping holes and the plot is bordering on farcial. A mad bloke has built a lab on a tropical island (why not) to grow his own super ninjas from American soldiers, so the American Government send more American soldiers to try to stop him. The movie itself is 80's corny. As a stand alone film, it is passe. "},{"Title":"The cheesy ninja onslaught continues...","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This 1987 sequel to the 1985 American Ninja movie is essentially the same as the first movie, just with a different villain and location. But the rest of the story and movie was pretty much the same.So is that a good thing or a bad thing? Well, that depends on if you liked the first movie or not. If you did like it, then you will like part two as well. And if you didn't like part one, then you will not like part two either.Again, you got all the campy ingredients; cheesy storyline, generic characters, stereotypical villain, worthless henchmen, wonderful dialogue (you see the irony here, right?), action, martial arts, explosions and, of course, ninjas! Lots and lots of ninjas.The acting was every bit as strained and wooden as in part one, but isn't that just part of the charm of these movies? One of my favorite things in American Ninja 2 The Confrontation was this particular piece of dialogue delivered by the commanding officer who requested the help of the US rangers I don't know who you are, what you are, or why you are here. Wait, what? Didn't he himself request the help?Story-wise, well with little deviation from part one, it is about American ninja Joe Armstrong who is on a Caribbean island to solve the mysterious disappearances of US marine personnel, when he is confronted by a ninja syndicate.While not a masterpiece, American Ninja 2 The Confrontation is as enjoyable as the previous movie. Equally campy, cheesy and requires little brain activity from the audience. "},{"Title":"Bad gets worse and still watchable","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" If you read my review on the first American Ninja, most of that can be applied again to this. American Ninja is horrible cheese at its best and American Ninja 2 only continues this and actually ups the cheese ante. I think the budget got even lower which means the special effects, action, actors, story and locations are all more cheesy than the original. And yet somehow just like the first one it is watchable and fun and has this bizarre likable quality to the stars who try so hard and act so serious in such a cheesy movie. The plot is even more cheesy and fun than the first film and adds in a beach quality to the story as Joe and Curtis are brought to a Caribbean Island where marines are disappearing. As if we needed more reason to be a cheese-fest, an evil villain is building an army of super-ninjas (who really aren't that super at all and Joe Armstrong still manages to beat up bunches of them.) Its dumb, brainless, takes itself way too seriously and is fun and simple and you'll laugh and cheer despite yourself at the sheer 80's silliness. It is as bad as the first one which makes this sequel as good as the first one too.Michael Dudikoff returns to do what he does best...or worst. The guy has terrible chemistry on screen and is trying to be a superstar in the worst possible way. He is even more drab than he was in the first one and yet he is the star and somehow he makes it work even if his martial arts are a downright joke. Steve James is awesome in all the worst ways. He is so serious in his role, and he has this B-Movie quality that just works for him. He probably should have been the star but he definitely gets plenty of screen time and somehow he and Dudikoff work as a team, better than the first film actually. The film this time gets a definitive evil villain in the form of Gary Conway as The Lion. He is appropriate bad and Bond-villain like and ridiculous all at once. He works for the movie. Larry Poindexter, Jeff Celentano and Michelle Botes are supporting cast members and they are decent but certainly don't stand out.Sam Firstenberg is really a B-Movie king when you look at his credits. He did the first film and he's obviously passionate at making bad...fun. The fight scenes are hilarious and not exactly choreographed with any great style or noticeable talent. Most of the punches are wide and the martial arts are loosely realistic at best. Still some people live for this kind of cheese. 80's Cheese buries the so called cheese they make nowadays because its movies like this that were inadvertently bad. They honestly believed they were making a great action flick and its anything but. However, turn your brain off, sit back, relax and enjoy the fun and you'll enjoy this just fine. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This film is worthy of all the hopes you have. I really wanted to like this film. Ain't no such thing as too much Michael Dudikoff, baby! The real centerpiece of the film is its acting, mainly that of Dudikoff. This is a story about a place most people might not be able to conceive. All the characters struggle against a system that has perpetuated falsehoods. Against this backdrop, our ninja hero must fight on in a sequel that is on par with the original. Great performances help to enhance this amazing story of ninja warfare and violence. I give it a rating of 7 out of 10 because it's flawed but good. "},{"Title":"More Dumb Fun","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Sequel to the classic American Ninja sees Michael Dudikoff and Steve James tackling a villain named The Lion. The Lion has an army of super ninjas. This would terrify most mortals but not the American Ninja! Not as much fun as the original but still good for some laughs and fist pumps. Dudikoff acts his best, which usually means squinting a lot and looking as though he's trying to figure out complex math equations. James outshines him in this one. He knows he's in crap and has a great deal of fun with it. As with the first movie, it's very low-budget and proudly wears a badge of inauthenticity surrounding anything military or martial arts related. "},{"Title":"If you like porn , you will like this movie","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" There is as much story in American ninja 2 as in a porn movie . The story is simple &#x96; bad guy wants to conquer the world with his army of ninjas . Michael Dudikoff and Steve James must stop him. That's it. It makes the first movie look like Chinatown by comparison. At least there was some attempt at story there.The non-fight scenes are short , too short . AN2 quickly becomes a marathon of non stop fights . If you're in a mood for action movie with lot of action and little of story , this one is for you. For me it was too mind numbing .I've enjoyed the first one for it's trash quality . It was cheesy and full of mistakes , but enjoyable . This sequel lacks the charm of original . The love story was much more believable in the first one. Here it seems like let's put some romance , because people like it.Michael Dudikoff is in it (he will appear once more in the forth movie). The music is nice , but overused. The chase scene with car and ninja is pure comedy gold. There are some moments that will make you laugh .I give it 3/10 . Still , it's better than third one and the rest of sequels. "},{"Title":"late-night uncle creepy","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" The kindest thing that can be said of this movie is that they did not intend for American Ninja 2 to be so homo-erotic. Not since Top Gun has as much man-chest and man-thigh been so wantonly on display in an action movie. Clearly the producers were hoping to make a much different sort of action film, and when you watch it you see two visions at war with each other, one force wanting to make a ninja movie and the other force wanting to make gay porn. Whatever children through-out history whom have seen this movie hoping for just a ninja related action movie must have been sorely mistaken, oh God the hilarity, I mean man those kids must have really thought 'hey yeah a ninja movie this can't go wrong' then they watch this oddity play out. Yeah good luck kids! "},{"Title":"Hugely enjoyable 80's action tosh","Date":"16 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Joe Armstrong (the likable Michael Dudikoff) and Curtis Jackson (the equally engaging Steve James) battle a legion of genetically engineered ninja assassins on a Caribbean island. Director Sam Firstenberg, working from a blithely inane script by Gary Conway and James Booth, relates the delightfully ludicrous story at a swift pace, makes the most out of the exotic locale, and stages the wall-to-wall action set pieces with rip-roaring brio. James and Dudikoff make for a charming duo, Conway snarls it up with wicked aplomb as nefarious drug lord Leo The Lion Burke, and the fetching Michelle Botes provides plenty of spark (and tasty eye candy) as the foxy'n'feisty Alicia Sanborn. Moreover, the gut-busting array of hopelessly incompetent ninjas (they run around in broad daylight clad in hilariously conspicuous black garb!), continuity gaffes galore, and an inspired sense of giddy absurdity further enhance the infectiously campy merriment. Gideon Porath's slick score gives the picture a pleasing glossy look. George S. Clinton's bouncy score hits the stirring spot. Good cheesy fun. "},{"Title":"Best of the American Ninja Series","Date":"20 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This to me is the best out of American Ninja series movies. The story flows much better than the first movie, and everything is better integrated in this movie than the first installment.Another great thing about this movie is that the scenery is beautiful. This really added to its atmosphere.Michael Dudikoff and Steven Jones looked great in the Marine's uniform, and the cast of girls they collected (even as extras) were notches above the other movies from this series.If there's one American Ninja series movie to watch, this one is highly recommended. "}{"Title":"He Still Possesses Great Skills","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" After watching the first American Ninja, I had high hopes for the second one and in the end, I got exactly what I wanted from this film. It had everything (well almost everything) that I expected, more ninjas, more action, more silliness and more Michael Dudikoff kicking some ninja butt compared to the first oneMichael is as cool as ever, had more lines in this movie compared to the first one (although still not that much) and as usual likes to let his hands do the talking most of the time for him. However, minor complains that I would come up with again would have to be Joe's (Michael) indestructible character. I thought that he would have been given a more challenging situation in this film seeing that the organization that he fighting up against are producing super ninja soldiers but once again he made look like he was just going up against a bunch of kindergarden ninjas who weren't even worthy of challenging him at all. Even the main head ninja in the end was also just out of Dudikoff's league and how he managed to stuff a shotgun under his ninja gear, I have no ideaI didn't really like Steve Jame's character much in this second film since I felt like he was too cocky in when he fights (especially the part where he, Dudikoff and one of their marine friends had that brawl at the bar) but he still does a solid job in this one I still like the part where he finished last ninja just simply shouting 'STAY DOWN' at himHowever, these are just minor complaints that I could come out with since overall, the movie was still mindlessly fun to watch for two hours. I would recommend this to anyone out there who would love to get spend two or three hours of their time watching some mindless but yet still fun ninja buttkicking action film "},{"Title":"Stay down!!!","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Plotwise, this film hasn't really got much going for it. Dudikoff and James become involved with some problems when a few marines in Bermuda shorts get kidnapped by......ninjas.Someones dad has been kidnapped too, because the bad guy in the white suit wants to create the perfect specimen. And he must be dangerous, because one of his henchmen has a lazy eye, and kills other ninjas for a laugh.The guy with the lazy eye is the toughest ninja because on the beach, he stands on a rock and makes threatening hand gestures to Dudikoff.The second installment of the series isn't very good, but is made watchable thanks tho Steve James. Besides from his awesome hair, he spouts out one-liners and is the person in the film who can do that thing where lots of people jumps on him and he can throw them all off at once and get them to sound like someone has just got a strike bowling.Dudikoff doesn't fare as well though. he spends the majority of the film pouting, but you know he is the American ninja because he gently slides a sword across a bad guy and they die.It's typical 80's fodder from Cannon, so you know what to expect.Light on plotSilly fight scenessillier bad guyand even sillier music which plays when ever there is an impending fight scene.It's forgettable stuff, but worth watching if your a fan of the franchise. "},{"Title":"Fun loving criminals","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Ninja's are elusive, tricky and often found in the middle of nowhere. Michael Dudikoff and Steve James reprise their roles as ninja exterminators in this classic sequel to one of the best black masked franchise's of all times. There's a comfy tropical island with a military base mainly guarded by Marines, but since they keep going missing the United States Government went ahead and employed the best tag team of ninja sweepers out there. You should know what to expect by now, hidden ninja fortress's, super evil bosses, high eyebrows. Watching the Koff and Steve James snuff out the enemy has all the rock and roll you might imagine. There's a scene in the beginning where the duo are being set up, an attack ensues. The Koff is catching arrows and throwing them back, block and punch combos are thrown, and in one scene he brakes a stick in half and throws part of it like a disc at a cliff ninja who folds like a sun chair and falls to his doom. It's action like this that makes the series magical, i only wish they could have kept Dudikoff and James in all of them. Great sequel, great flicks, R.I.P Steve James. "},{"Title":"The tough Rangers go into action to rescue Marines kidnapped  at a Caribbean island","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This violent art-martial film is the second entry about our heroes, the Rangers duo, Sergeant Armstrong(Michel Dudikoff)along with his proficient sidekick, Sergeant Jackson(Steve James) who are assigned a difficult mission at Caribbean Island( at the original film was Philipines). Five marines have disappeared and must investigate their location, being helped by marines captain(Jeff Weston). The prime suspect is a villain, drugs dealer named Lion(Gary Conway, also screenwriter), he has abducted a scientific who manufactures mass-produced an army of violent Ninjas by means of genetic engineering. The super-Nijas dressed in black, hooded, a blade on the back and using Shinkaisen, a metallized star they throw. Our protagonist go to Barbarroja island where take on the heinous nasty, the biggest heroin dealer of the planet. There they'll wipe out a passel of violent Ninjas.This is plenty of action,adventures, fights,suspense in a comic book style. Dudikoff who is beefy as ever plays a two-fisted ranger utilizing efficiently his deadly skills. The movie is co-starred by Steve James(1952-1993), a corpulent fighter, he usually acted partner to tough stars, Michael Dudikoff(three times), Chuck Norris and David Carradine, but sadly he early deceased.Besides appear a flashbacks scenes with John Fujioka, the coach who trained Dudikoff on the art-martial world. Atmospheric musical score composed by synthesizer is made by George S Clinton. As always the film is produced in middling budget by Yoran Globus and Menahem Golan, Cannon Productions.The film is professionally directed by Sam Firstemberg, he's a low-grade expert about art-martial and Ninjas sub-genre and in Delta Force rip-offs. Followed by several sequels, starred by Dudikoff substituted by David Bradley and Steve James and mostly directed by Firstemberg and Cedric Sundstrom; such as ¨American Ninja 3 Blood Hunt¨, 'American Ninja Annihilation¨ and American Ninja V. "},{"Title":"Comical action film","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  ** Warning Spoilers **This was a horrendous attempt at an action film, to say the least. It seems as though common sense escaped the production crew and the plotline is, rather hilariously, dubious, unrealistic and very, very thin.People do expect to see some poor production values in low budget movies, especially low budget action thrillers, but this film did take the biscuit.Take the evil guy's HQ, for example. The immaculate condition of the building is impeccable, especially for an evil man, hell bent on genetic engineering ninjas. Infact, he even passes all fire safety tests note the fire hose and warning signs on the wall in one fight scene. Similarly, just in the case the audience are in two, there's one scene where our hero and his female companion followed a tour group into a laboratory, the door to which is earmarked by a bright pink illuminous sign saying Testing Laboratories or something like that. Worst of all, though, is the fact that no-one is suspicious when two ninjas, one of which is suspiciously small (for a guy), are standing there, listening to the evil guy explaining his plan. What makes matters worse is the fact that these two ninjas are swathed in black robes, with just their eyes showing.The fight scenes are poor, as well. Just a couples of swipes over the chest with a sword and these super ninjas die.... plus, when the army storms the HQ at the end of the film, weapons seem to appear from nowhere.I would say American Ninja 2 is an example of how not to make movies. I understand that they didn't have much money to spend, but continuality errors, more suitable choice of locations and realistically choreographed fight scenes aren't solution which really cost much. The acting is unsurprisingly gung-ho and very clichéd, but the plot does let the film down. Although, with every other aspect equally as bad, you probably wouldn't be able to let due to the amount of laughing. "},{"Title":"I wonder about this......","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Okay here's the deal.  You are either gonna expect one or two things from this.  1.)A solid action movie about an American fighting ninjas or 2.)You're gonna laugh till you hurt.  Well this movie definitely falls into #2.  You see its quite ridiculous.  Ninjas with bones made of metal and feel no pain?  Yet, when they're attacked you hear bones crack and them yell out in pain?  Or the fact that these superninja's are taken down by a Vanilla Ice/Guile look alike who needs a serious fashion update.  Its comedic relief for all!  Or the fact that this bad to the bone lazy eyed Asian man pulls out a shotgun from out of nowhere.  Or the black man, named Jackson, pulls out knifes from no where.  I think to really sum up this movie its one of those things that'll either end up on Mystery Science 3000 or be in the $3 bin at Wal-mart to buy.  Which is how i got my copy!  Regardless this is more of a cartoon than a action movie.....sad.  It is funny to watch ninjas get shot down by Marines in hawaiian shirts!  Oh the fun! "},{"Title":"Looks like I'm not going to like it here buddy.","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Michael Dudikoff is back as Joe Armstrong. So is his pal Steve James (taking every opportunity to go about the action topless). And let's not forget about the black clad ninjas in Cannon Group's just as cheap follow up to the 1985 American Ninja. Although these are not your ordinary ninjas. These are super ninjas! How's that? Well genetic engineering my friend. A once well regarded scientist is conned out of his life work to help out a prominent drug lord. From this super ninjas are born. However are they any match for the American ninja? You should know the answer to that. However the duo don't know that at first, as they are there to investigate the disappearance of American marines. Its comic book plotting that moves by fast enough. Dudikoff's performance is slightly better (gaining an extra one or two expressions), but the martial arts is well choreographed. It's an alertly smooth display, but it feels like Dudikoff is holding back, not going all the way. Jeff Celentano appears as the unorthodox Capt. 'Wild Bill' Woodward and reminds me off Robert Duvall's Lieutenant Colonel Bill Kilgore from Apocalypse Now. Especially in appearance during the climatic island assault. Don't shoot unless shot at. Well that goes out the window. Gary Conway (who wrote the screenplay) sees himself good enough to portray the bad ninja - The Lion. He might look lethal, as you can't go wrong with a scar near the eye but his final confrontation was nothing short than disappointing. So where to stage it&#x85; in the Caribbean. Nice. The Caribbean? When Dudikoff and James get off the plane they seem to be bemused too (although it's hard to tell with Dudikoff), but it had Dudikoff pulling out a paper from his pocket. What do you think?. After studying the paper This is it. Heaven behold if it wasn't the place. So what we get is rough and tumble ninja action&#x85; and beautiful tropical scenery with local flavour to go with it. But add to that is James' grimacing wisecracks and Dudikoff's mostly poker face (who also goes about catching arrows, flinging nets, jumping off cliffs into a boat, taking a hit&#x85; by a dart and using his graceful skills in getting out of the way of bullets) &#x85; now what a formula. Well it might have worked in the original, but I didn't find the sequel to be as fun or magical. What no use of random lasers. Still American Ninja 2 The Confrontation is cheesy and daft hokum with plenty of comical (intentional or not -- like stupidly investigating a sound to only cop a spear in the chest, ouch!) moments to wet your appetite. "},{"Title":"A ninja movie with a confrontation?","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This time our two heroes from #1 are in paradise where there they fight ninjas sent by a drug-lord. Seems the drug-lord is looking to build a super ninja army and are kidnapping marines to do it. I actually watched this in theaters and I remember loving it. However years later the movie qualifies as strictly guilty pleasure. The fight sequences are better in this entry but the movie contains less goofiness and more intentional humor. That's not to say this isn't watchable, it certainly is, the production values are better but it just doesn't have as high a watchability factor as Ninja # 1. Although it's hard not to enjoy Gary Conway's villain who in the climax goes so over the top he reminded me of William Shatner. The first two American Ninja films were of Cannon's more enjoyable output.* * out of 4-(Fair) "},{"Title":"More of the same","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" American Ninja 2 continues exactly in the same way the first movie ended. It's the same thing all over again Cheesy story, tons of ninjas, fighting scenes and standard mediocre b-action movie acting. I'll have to criticize the plot this time, because it was much worse than the plot in the first movie (and that wasn't a particularly good plot, either). They try to flirt with science-fiction elements in this one, and that is just so stupid. Steve James does a terrific job in this one. The bar-fight and the last scene are especially great, he shows that he is THE KING himself in this movie-series. Dudikoff also does what he's paid to do, and that means fight scenes who are OK at the best. "},{"Title":"* * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Michael Dudikoff and Steve James return as Joe Armstrong and Curtis Jackson two martial arts experts who hunt a drug lord who is geneticly altering soldiers in this slightly improved yet still ultimately mediocre sequel. Michael Dudikoff still remains the strong and silent type, but his sidekick Steve James is the one who really provides the fun here, some creative actionscenes, but that's about it. "}{"Title":"A powerful drugs baron kidnaps US Marines.","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  The movie centers around a small caribbean island where US Marines are 'becoming lost' - kidnapped by men in black suits.  Fortunately, two american military men are there to help (Dudikoff and James), they find out that Ninja's are kidnapping these marines to an unknown island, and soon try to go to the island, only to be double-crossed by some US Marines.When they return Dudikoff and James befriend a lady whose father (a brilliant scientist) has also been kidnapped to the same island.  Soon they find out that a powerful drugs baron who's rollin' in money decides to extend his power by making gentically engineered super ninjas.By this point, I lost what was happening to the film, it became far too stupid - ninjas aren't born, they are taught the art.  Which genes are the ninja ones?  It gets even sillier when we are told that they are going to use metal instead of bones.Every ninja you see gets their butt kicked in one way or another, even the drug baron's henchman gets his ass kicked - and very easily....why did they even bother with this crappy film I have no idea.The ninjas employed by drugs barons could have been better done as well as the overall plot line.The end is of course a massive explosion on the island. "},{"Title":"Quite simply the worst movie I've ever seen.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Forget Leonard part 6, forget Air Bud 2.  This is the worst. I must admit I did laugh out loud at some of the ridiculous fight stunts and scenes (which would be good if it was a comedy).  They are so badly done. A 2 year old could have done just as well. I almost want people to see this just to witness such an awful movie.  "},{"Title":"One word, HORRIBLE!!!","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  From the breaky action scenes, to the terribly stupid plot, to the god awful actors who all look they came from muscle beach, and the one sentimental scene that tries to put some drama in this non stop laugh your ass off because its just that bad.  MST3K should have added this to their list of movies.  Dont even see this movie if its late at night and you have nothing else to do.  Trust me, doing nothing would be better then seeing this piece of crap.  Actually i take that back, watch if you love to critize the hell out of this and want a good laugh from a really bad movie. "},{"Title":"Chop-socky piece of garbage","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Ninja films are probably the lowest kind of subgenre within the genre of martial arts flicks, and AMERICAN NINJA 2 THE CONFRONTATION isit's biggest example. The quiet hero Joe Armstrong (Joe?? Kind of an unlikely name for a Ninja, even if he's American) returns as the U.S. Army Ranger whose secret talent as a trained ninja warrior returns to battle an evil warlord on some island. With mostly punches and kicks as the main ingredients for this piece of celluloid, nothing elsecould have saved AMERICAN NINJA 2 from becoming the turkey that it is. Only Steve James was the only saving grace for this flick, having atleast a higher par ability to act than the annoyingly laconic Michael Dudikoff.  "},{"Title":"Lots of action, but not as good as the original","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  American Ninja 2 has plenty of action, but still can't match the entertainment of the original. The plot is a bit stupid and the fighting scenes are not as cool, but still pretty cool. This is the last pretty good movie in the American Ninja series.  I give American Ninja 2 The Confrontation **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"The Confrontation","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Second-rate wannabe ninjas(actually American stunt guys who could've really benefited from an Asian martial arts consultant)are genetically engineered by a scientist forced into it because Leo The Lion Burke(Gary Conway, blonde hair, white suit and all)threatens the life of his daughter. The lion's crew had been successful at kidnapping marines for further testing so two Army Rangers, Joe & Curtis(Michael Dudikoff & Steve James)are brought in to find their whereabouts. On an island called Blackbeard(I'm not joking), The Lion, along with his right hand man, one-eyed(one eye is scarred for proper menacing effect) ninja-master Tojo Ken(Mike Stone), will use a compound built on Blackbeard as his major drug empire along with his massive growing ninja army. Will Joe and Curtis be able to infiltrate this massive compound while also dodging The Lion's cohorts in the city across from Blackbeard? If you like corny 80's ninja actioners where bad guys wait to be punched and couldn't hurt Dudikoff if they wanted to, this is right up your alley. It's a programmer like many that came out in the 80's and early 90's which fed starving martial arts chop-socky fans with absurd plots and plenty of broken bones. This film, itself, merely serves as an excuse for Dudikoff to snap a lot of necks, limbs & bones..and he does so with a great endless supply of these ninjas who keep coming in droves to be slaughtered in a bevy of ways. It's fun to see James playing the muscular bad ass for it seems he's having a blast. The film provides those who like this sort of thing a small plot, with little acting, and a lot of people getting kicked and thrown in the air. A bar serves as a major source for the body throwing. A lot of the fight sequences are badly choreographed so that Dudikoff could come off unstoppable as ninjas seem to fall right into their demise. "}]