[{"Title":"Either tap in or get lost. You'll be missing a great film if you don't though.","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"124 out of 147 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm biased. There's no two ways about it. They could have gotten two six years olds to draw the cels, a troop of monkeys to write the dialogue and then printed the film upside down and full of static and I'd still have loved it (if anybody out there says 'Didn't they do that anyway?', I'll thump them.) I am one of a dying but suprisingly populous breed the Tranformers fan, and to me this film is like the Holy grail.If you think I'm going to get all gooey and teary-eyed then go into nostalgia overload then forget it because I'm not. I say this with a straight face and a critic's eyes this is a good film. It may be a two hour toy commercial. It may have made zip at the box offce. It may get bad press from idiotic fossils that just aren't prepared to make the effort to tap into the universe the film is set in. But the fact remains that to anybody that's grown up with Transformers, this film is marvelous. Why? Because it does it right! The characters act right. The style is right. It's all done so perfectly that no right minded Transfan could possibly complain. How many Batman fans (and I mean real Batman fans) can honestly say the same thing about their film franchise.It's easy to get preachy about the violence in a film aimed at kids. It gives the moral majority something to do other than examine each Disney film for subliminal messages. I found it refreshing to actually see this kind of film refuse to pull its punches. It's an action film without tapping into the over-sentimental gushy stuff that usually turns kids off anyway. This is a war. Death and violence are part of it. Will it effect the children that watch it. Maybe, but I don't know which way. I saw first saw the film when I was 7. I saw all of my favourites get blown apart. I saw my absolute, total, complete and utter hero, the person that personified all that was good and noble to me (you know who I mean) get killed saving his friends in an ultimate display of bravery and courage. I cried. My mum cried. I still do. I think that one moment made me more afraid and ashamed of death and destruction than a dozen Private Ryans.The animation is top notch, there's an amazing soundtrack and the voice talent is good too. Not perfect, but Nimoy's portrayal of Galvatron is incredible. Espicially when you consider that it was probably done as a 'For the money not the art' job. The script isn't bad either. It has a host of sharp, quotable one-liners that would put Bruce Willis to shame (I've got better things to do tonight than die.) The story is a rip off of Star Wars but what isn't and who cares? It's cool. The animation is superb. I said that earlier but I really do believe that it's better than Disney at some points. Certainly better than the average output at the time. It doesn't compare with today's graphics but it hasn't aged badly at all. The sountrack can sound a little too cheesy at times but the energy and verve of the film is there and it backs up the visuals with ease.In the end it won't matter. This film won't mean a thing to anybody that doesn't know who Jazz, Bumblebee and Soundwave were to begin with. They won't watch it. They won't like it. And you know what? We don't care. Those of us that can name all five mebers of the Stunticons know better. They gave us what we wanted. And we remain eternally grateful. "},{"Title":"Great to the last frame.","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"72 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Transformers the movie is a retro 80's cult classic that not only took the original series forward in the animation department but also took the story forward in to the future with the next generation of Transformers. The plot is a recreation of the King Arthur legend of a young man trying to find his way with out knowing that he is destine to rule his tribe one day. All the fan favorites are here with new ones to be cherishing, and the soundtrack to this movie is probably one of the best sounding albums to come out of the 80's. This movie still holds up as one of the best TV to Movie translations of all time, and it still kicks major league butt as well. The only drawback that it has that they did not make a sequel to this classic in animation.a must own for all animation fans.  "},{"Title":"Not just for fans","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"65 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Well, I agree that the appeal of this movie is mostly to fans, but I was never a big fan of the series, and I loved it. It's definitely not mainstream, but for anyone who can appreciate robots voiced by some big names (even Orson Welles!) thrashing each other with a very cool, hugely 80s soundtrack, this is where it's at. The main plot, although not exactly inspired, is at least compelling. Any of the scenes with Unicron (Welles) or Galvatron (Leonard Nimoy) easily make the movie worth watching, and there are a few scenes that actually have heart. If you don't like 80s cartoon action, stay away. But if you'll always be a Megaman-playing, Ninja-Turtle-watching kid at heart, check it out. "},{"Title":"All cartoons should translate so well","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"58 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Transformers, the animated cartoon from the 1980's, was a typical cartoon cheesy and childish, things we would not recognize until we were grown.  But when Transformers The Movie was released in 1986, when I was 11, the movie scared the hell out of me. But so did Superman and Star Wars, which was exactly its intention.As when Batman came to the big screen in 1989, the filmmakers took something old and made it new again.  In the case of the Transformers, the movie was dark, loud, and very adult considering the fact that it springs from what was another silly fad the children of the 80's latched onto.I don't know how people older and younger than I will perceive it, but the film is Shakespearean in its beauty. The 1980's soundtrack works surprisingly well, even now, unlike other 80's attempts, like, say Heavy Metal.The movie picks up in 2005, or about 20 years after the cartoon supposedly took place. Young Spike is now older and has a child of his own, and all the Autobots and Decepticons are back, with some new faces. In the opening moments, Unicron (Orson Welles), destroyer of worlds, eats a planet of peace-loving people (supposdely robots, but still eerily reminiscent of our Earth populi), killing millions. Decepticons don't just plot against the Autobots-- they murder them in cold blood (er, oil?)This is the equivalent of the X-Files movie getting made, and Cigarette Smoking Man getting to use dirty words. It is a true expansion to the big screen, an intelligent version of the TV show, made not to pander to their audience, but to elevate it.This movie is impossible to find in the States, but if you ever watched the TV show, it will bring you to a new level. If you've never heard of the TV show... it's still a great Anime-yarn, and a helluva lot better than that X-Files flick. "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"34 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Transformers the movie is a brilliant animation with an epic storyline, great cast and great characters. War is shown as it is with death, despair and hope. Some memorable quotes and decent soundtrack. Transformers is indeed a great film, but under rated unfairly by many due to it's toy connections. Those that watch the cartoon series will appreciate it more as characters are well developed in the series, although the film is of much better quality. The fact it is still on sale today, shows clearly, that class will eventually come through in the end, as it's box office record was surprisingly poor. Well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Awesomely cool","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"39 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" In 2005, years after series 2, the Decepticons rule Cybertron. The Autobots are limited to bases on Cybertron's moons and Autobot City on Earth. Optimus Prime is planning a massive assault on Cybertron, but Megatron has similar ideas, and launches an attack on Autobot City, nearly decimating the entire Autbot force before retreating. Of course, this being a movie, things get complicated Unicron, the devourer of worlds turns up, and is heading for Cybertron. Now the Autobots have to reclaim a relic from the Decepticons while defending Cybertron from a giant transforming planet that eats other planets. Simple, no? Couldn't follow that? Stop reading now, this movie is only for fans.Essentially, this a feature-length toy commercial. The story is cool. After all, its about giant robots that transform into cars. Awesome. The movie just follows these robots along as they spend most of the 84-minutes fighting. All the new characters are introduced by having an established character say to the new character Hey! (new guy) Blow up that thing! or, Hey! (new guy), attack those bad guys!. Awesome. I love movies where fights aren't disrupted by petty things such as plot details or character introductions, it makes things much more fun.The animation is generally better than it was in the TV series. Add to that an 80s soundtrack, consisting of only 80s pop and hair-metal. Awesome. Of course, not everyone is going to like the soundtrack. In fact, I'm willing the bet that a majority of people would loathe the soundtrack, but that is not important, because the soundtrack is awesome. Plus there are some really cool quotes. Yay.9/10 - Only for fans (of either Transformers or 80s music) "},{"Title":"Stan Bush, the best Steve Perry in rock and roll","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"48 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Dig I have just seen this movie for the first time tonight, at the age of 23.  Yessum, I'm an old man....too old to watch this kind of smeg.  I'll tell y'all, this blew my hair back.  I don't know why I loved this so, but the six pack of Mickey's certainly didn't hurt.  I picked up the DVD version, unedited, as a comparison to Bride of Frankenstein in a paper I'm writing.  I was expected some sort of cheesy mid-eighties esoteric nostalgia circle jerk.  I actually found this to be a great time. Fun conceit, entertaining pop music, brilliant catchphrases, and even wonderful animation.  Now I'm not into sci-fi, the thought of robots battling each other does not really warm me over.  But, my God, every second of this movie made me happy.  I'll be damned if that isn't all that matters.  If you care I gave it a 10/10.   "},{"Title":"Great Movie - perfect for the time","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought it was perfect for its time. I recently acquired a VHS and enjoyed the movie all over again. The over rocked song, extra dramatic statements, the whole bit sent chills up my spine when I first saw it in 1986 and again in 2004. The animation wasn't the best, even for then, but that was not important. At the time I was a teenager and I enjoyed every bit of it. Transformers was my favorite cartoon, right after Voltron (the lion one). I liked the new characters, it didn't matter. It was a perfect 80's over sentimental, over rock tracked, bravado of a male ego movie aimed at little boys, even down to the vehicles, Semis, race cars, dump trucks, construction vehicles. Nowadays it wouldn't wash, with the violence and destruction (Unicron) but those were the 80's. Now everything is sanitized.They should, however do a 2004 or 05 version revisiting OptPrime and MegaT - Imagine Pixar or whoever doing this movie it would look serious. Dinobots forever, (I dislike with a passion that stupid animal transformer series where Optimus Primal has to twist his whole body to transform. He looks rather stupid.  "},{"Title":"All bow to Transformers","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"42 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" First of all, anyone who has left a negative comment on this movie has   something wrong with them, seriously.    I have no idea when I first saw this movie but I was about 6-ish. I'm   now 22 and this is still a bloody awesome film. I have always been a   big Transformers fan and I know I might seem a bit bias, but I own the   movie on DVD and have shown it to a number of transformer illiterates,   male and female, young and old and still the only people I know who   have ever got a bit sick of it are my parents, as they have seen it   about as many times as myself.    Everything about this movie is excellent, from the new characters, to   the fact that the autobots seem to suck at shooting anything ( as   opposed to the usual 'bad guys can't shoot for doit'.) even down to   what would be, if not for the movie it's in, one of the crappiest songs   ever 'the touch', by the Loins I think. THE Battle, Primes death, the   creation of Galvatron, the Junkbots, Sharkticons, Unicron, IT IS ALL   GOLD!!!!    Anyone who liked 80's cartoons should love this movie, and so should   all your Kids, if not, I think it's time to go and get checked out by   your G.P.     "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Battle of the Transformers is one of the best animated movies ever made.","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"38 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" If you love techno-anime, certainly you need to see Transformers the movie, this classic is a epic tale of death, the eternal battle of good and evil, an many things more tell in a bombastic way. If you are a fan of the character-construction of Superheroes (Marvel-Dc) you need to see Transformers. The mix of American storytellers and Japanese animators in the original 80's Transformers series turned out to be one of the most successful and remembered cartoons of that era. And the colossal movie that worked as introduction to a whole new cast of characters is a magic piece of cinema. Many will ask if these words are true, after all we are talking about a piece of animation. Yes, this is a cartoon conceived for kids, but it has all the drama and solid storytelling that is vital to all good movies.The movie starts with a roll-down resume of the entire story (a la Star Wars) and seconds later, the well-known tunes the title song of this robots pounds the air. But this time is different, this is a heavy-metal version that song. It is not only fitting the mix of Heavy Metal and Transformers, these songs are used adequately as a composer uses his variations to call the attentions on certain moments. The unfairly forgotten composer is the responsible for the rest of the soundtrack he used all kind of synthesizers to create a futuristic and emotional score.Every sequence is a masterpiece by itself. There are no weak points, even comic relief moments like the introduction of the junk-ions is something big and great. If there were not enough reasons to give T The Movie a chance, think about the famous actors that are part of this mega-event using their voices to give life to some of the new robots (besides the cast of voices of the original series). "}{"Title":"Bah weep granah weep ninni bong","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I remember watching the commercials for this movie and thinking There is no way Prime is going to die.Then I saw it. And for the first time, a ten-year-old boy cried during a movie. Of course, it was also the first time I ever cursed, as I immediately told someone behind me who was snickering that he could Go @%#$ himself. But to the movie. I loved it. I spent months once getting a copy of the soundtrack on CD, and later(before the Rhino release) attempting to get good copies on VHS and DVD. Definitely a good lesson for the children it was mainly meant for. Fight for what you believe in, never give up, and don't just count on someone/something else to Light your darkest hour, make it happen. Also, the message of greatness can come from anywhere is something else I loved. And one can't forget what I thought was a commentary on the justice system with the Quintesson court. Guilty or innocent? Innocent Feed him to the Sharkticons "},{"Title":"Transformers the Movie","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" An awesome soundtrack and a cool plot, complete with new villains and heroes, Transformers the Movie will delight any fan. Fans of the cartoon will be sad to learn that Optimus Prime and Megatron both 'die'. But both won't stay down for long, as there are two sequels, in one of which Optimus Prime returns. Megatron is also rebuilt as Galvatron by the new villain, Unicron, a gigantic planet-sized Transformer.There are several new things we meet. The Decepticons have taken over Cybertron, but the Autobots plot from Autobot City on Earth, and two secret moon bases, to retake the planet. An early attack on Autobot City leads to the final battle in which Prime fights past the bulk of the Decepticons to Megatron. Megatron 'wins', but Prime gets in his hits and leave Megatron barely alive. The Decepticons retreat, and Prime is taken for care.Prime then tells of the Autobot Matrix of Leadership, a new item most fans have probably never heard of. With his last breaths, he passes the Matrix to the new leader, Ultra Magnus, and tells him the the Matrix shall one day light the Autobot's darkest hour.Meanwhile on a shuttle back to Cybertron, the shuttle Astrotrain is too weak to complete the trip. Cargo is jettisoned, and the Decepticons loyal to Megatron are thrown into space, along with Megatron himself who still clings to life.They are found by Unicron, the main villain. Unicron offers Megatron a new life in exchange for loyalty and the destruction of the Matrix of Leadership, the only thing Unicron fears. Megatron, faced with death as the alternative, bitterly accepts. Unicron then turns him into Galvatron, and his other minions into Galvatron's warriors. Blessed with a new body, name, and ship, Galvatron heads for Cybertron. Interrupting the coronation of Starscream as the new leader, Galvatron kills him with one shot. The Decepticons swear loyalty.Unicron devours (yes, he EATS) the two Autobot moon bases. An outraged Galvatron whines that Cybertron and its moons belong to him. But then Galvatron gets the bad end of Unicron's deal should Galvatron disobey him, Unicron can cause him pain. Unable to rebel, Galvatron leads the Decepticons to Earth to complete his mission.The Autobots are rebuilding their city when Galvatron attacks. They flee to the shuttles. One shuttle with Hot Rod, Kup and the Dinobots crashes on the planet of the Quintessons. The other crashes on the planet Junk. Galvatron follows and confronts Ultra Magnus. Killing him, Galvatron claim the Matrix, claiming that with it, he can command Unicron instead of the other way around. Unicron is naturally livid, roaring out into the depths of space.On the Quintessons' planet, Hot Rod and Kup are captured by the Quintessons, who play a bigger role in the grand scheme of things then this movie shows (we later find out they created all Transformers, and are the vanguards of Unicron). The Dinobots break in and rescue them. With a new mini-Transformer named Wheelie on their side, they escape.The Autobots mourn for Ultra Magnus when a whole bunch of Junk Transformers rise from the rubble (as it's name should imply, the Junk planet is a giant trash yard of scrap metal). After a chase, the shuttle with Hot Rob and the others land. Peace is negotiated (along with some freaky dancing), and the Junkions rebuild Ultra Magnus- complete with 90 day warranty! (all Junkions quote television.) Also unearthing their own shuttle, the Junkions and the Autobots blast off for Cybertron.Galvatron confronts Unicron, and yells that Unicron will obey him or die. But upon attempting to use the Matrix, Galvatron cannot. Even more angry, Unicron transforms to a winged human-like robot with fists the size of moons. He then decides his choice to spare Cybertron was incorrect, and attacks the planet. The Decepticons fight back. Galvatron tries to rebel again, but Unicron promptly eats him.The Autobots crash into Unicron's eyes and try to destroy him. While they fight off his inner defenses, Hot Rod falls into a pit. He finds Galvatron, who appears passive. But with an order and another jolt of pain from Unicron, he attacks Hot Rod. Overpowering him and almost killing him, Galvatron gloats about how easy it is to kill Autobots. Hot Rod grab the Matrix around Galvatron's neck, and transforms to Rodimus Prime. He throws Galvatron into space and uses the Matrix to destroy Unicron. As the Autobots escape, Unicron explodes, his head flying away from the debris. With the Decepticons weakened, the Autobots easily retake Cybertron.However, there are, as mentioned, sequels. Galvatron lives, and orbiting Cybertron is the disembodied head of Unicron. Also, it appears Starscream has a ghost, and Optimus Prime may live again. 'The Return of Optimus Prime' and 'Fives Faces of Darkness' round out an excellent trilogy. But even on its own, this movie is excellent. "},{"Title":"92 viewings and counting.","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this in the theaters in '86 at the wondrous age of 9.  I can't even convey the experience to you, so I won't bother.  It's been a long time coming for a DVD version, and now that I have it (ALL swearing intact, at long last!), I can deposit my faded, scratchy-sounding VHS copy on the shelf to rest in peace.  Watching anything 92+ times will do that (next to wither is my copy of 'Aliens Special Edition').  VHS just doesn't hold up the way DVD does (sans scratches).  This is a great movie for all, though mostly Gen X-ers (born 1965-1980) will like this more than the older or younger crowds. My new joy beyond simply watching it is tormenting my girlfriend by speaking every line of the movie aloud as it is spoken on-screen.  Get a big-screen, Dolby 5.1, a tub o' the buttery stuff, and prepare for both a nostagic episode and some of the finest Japanese animation to NOT be dubbed (it's all originally in English!).  Until that day, till all are one... "},{"Title":"The Best Transformers Movie Ever...","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I used to be a hardcore Transformers fan when I was 10 years old, I have hundreds of Transformers toys and I even watched the movie so many times that I remember almost all the scenes. But now, since I'm already a teen, I could say that I'm no longer a hardcore Transformers fan. Enough of that little history, I would now comment about the movie. The visual is excellent, better than the TV series due to some neat visual effects. The soundtrack is awesome, it is more on heavy metal, so it's sounds modern and it fits the movie so well because most of the setting are almost industrial-like, not just that, but robots are made of metal y'know! Some of the characters are new, and they're all interesting, the voice quality is excellent. The story itself, however, can be both good and bad. The good part is that, for the first time in the series, the story is dark and very mature, unlike the TV series. The bad part is that most of your favorite transformers will face such untimely fate. This movie does makes me cry for some part which I will not tell. While some makes me happy, as you can see the theme of the series is the same, no matter how powerful evil can be, there is hope to overcome it. I recommend it if you're a Transformers fan or if you're interested in watching it. "},{"Title":"A film that defined my childhood","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD**I grew up in the 80s and Transformers were the best toy ever. To build on the Transformers empire, after various waves of toys, cartoon series and comics, came this movie.Some people have their gripes with this film, but at the end of the day it's aimed at Transformers fans, not for someone outside that world. Characters don't need to be introduced, as anyone worth their salt will know who they are. And it doesn't matter if said characters are killed off within 5 minutes of their first appearance either.Kudos to the awesome idea of having a Transformer who is a planet, who is seemingly indestructible. His name is Unicron. It's still jaw-dropping to see him transform even today.The only thing that can stop Unicron is a power called The Matrix. Obviously it all comes to a head between the two.The soundtrack is pure 80s cheese, but who cares. It goes very well with the film and is still memorable even today.Thank god this film was issued onto DVD.  "},{"Title":"Brings a tear to the eye!","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was a huge fan of Transformers as a kid, along with Star Wars and I hate myself for selling all my toys at car-boot sales (yard sales to those who think it means selling car parts) because it severed a conn between the me now and the me then.This film though makes me feel like an 8 year old again and it does bring a tear to my eye!I have now got the original 1st series on DVD special edition also and it all is still damned fine! "},{"Title":"bloody brilliant","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great movie with lots of errors both animation, continuity, etc, etc. Even though the movie was great, nobody wants the hero Optimus Prime to die, and be replaced by some punk kid, no matter how pretty he may be in car mode...Classic film that will never be forgotten by all the kids of the eighties. "},{"Title":"The ULTIMATE movie","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the greatest movie in the history of filmmaking. If you check my other reviews, most of them are negative. However I'm not some snotty critic (who would want to be that). It doesn't take a lot for me to be happy with a movie.As long as it is well built, has a structure, and keeps me excited and entertained the whole time. A series of explosions with no storyline can get boring, but when it is built around interesting characters and the ultimate soundtrack, you've got something.I have heard many negative comments about this ULTIMATE movie. First people say you have to be a long time fan to enjoy it. FOOLISH! Such an ultimate movie can be enjoyed by anyone! Of course us older guys remember the great cartoon, but once some young kids came over for a family gathering and LOVED the movie. They had no idea who Optimus Prime was, but came out of their seats when he launched himself into the sky destroying all who dare to attack his people and stand in his path! They were shocked just as many of us were when Prowl was shot down. Transformers the movie is a movie of the ages. It shouldn't get an Oscar. An Oscar is not worthy to be placed with such greatness. Long before Julia Roberts was famous, and long after she leaves fame, Transformers will have ALWAYS be loved and cherished by it's millions of fans around the world. Can a movie like Erin Brockovich do that? NO.Another foolish complaint, in my opinion, is the hard rock soundtrack. This is the GREATEST soundtrack of ALL TIME! Every single song on the disc is a masterpiece that brings tears to one's eye due to it's greatness. Outdated? What do you want, the music from the cartoon series? That's even more outdated! What did you want, the New Kids on the Block to sing the songs? They sound more like the new material from the kid bands that dominate the airwaves today. To complain about the greatest soundtrack of all time is to look at gold and say it's too shiny. Please think about what you are doing.This movie is one for the ages. It can be appreciated by everyone, except maybe some snotty newspaper writers. Do you remember watching your parent's old favorite movies and saying this looks so old? They would then reply that it's a classic and perhaps name all the awards it has won. Did that increase your enjoyment of the grainy oldness? No. Transformers the movie came out in 1985/1986. Years from now people, especially younger people, won't give a darn about most of those old, out-of-date movies that won awards in 1985/1986. They might as well be Teen Wolf. But they WILL care for Transformers, because it is the ultimate movie. Show a 20 year old guy Transformers and he will cheer. Show a 10 year old kid the movie for the first time and he will cheer. Show an old man the film and he will fall asleep. But that's just because he is tired. He does that with every movie. And Transformers is the ULIMATE movie! "},{"Title":"A Rebirth to my Soul","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok so the summary sounds weird.  At first I liked Transformers a whole lot and after a few years of unaired Transformers shows and lost TF toys, I almost abandoned them.But recently I was able to buy several TF episodes (including the original pilot) at a local Blockbuster store and I was able to retrieve a copy of the Transformers movie from a Dillons store.I was amazed.  Truly!  The moment I saw the episodes and the movie I began having tears come down my face because I had forgotten what these shows and the movie were like.  (Although I did cringe at the sight of deaths of my favorite characters in the movie)As a Trek fan I loved hearing Leonard Nimoy(Spock on Star Trek) as the voice of Galvatron.  I also enjoyed hearing Monty Python's Eric Idle as Wreck-Gar.  (Robert Stack, who played Ultra Magnus, also played an FBI agent in Beavis & ButtHead Do America)IN LOVING MEMORY TO THESE TRANSFORMERS ACTORS, WHO ARE NO LONGER ALIVEORSON WELLES(Unicron) CHRIS LATTA a.k.a. CHRIS COLLINS(Starscream) SCATMAN CROTHERS(Jazz) ROGER C. CARMEL(Cyclonus, Bruticus, Motormaster) LIONEL STANDER(Kup)If your friend happens to have it, see it! "},{"Title":"A kids film made by adults for adults","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" You need to see this movie, just put the fact that its a cartoon and their talking walking robots behind you and just be captivated by the amazing story, cheesy 80's music and brilliant 1 liners.This is a film that you should not show your children until they're at least 10, its far to violent for youngsters, because this film is made buy adults, adults who really, really want to make a great film that they, and their kids, would want to watch. it has brutal fight scenes, robots dyeing and even swear words.You can tell the amount of hard work that has gone into making this film, from the detailed fight scenes, the lush scenery to the interrogate 'eating planet' scenes. A brilliantly directed film, please please take in the way its 'animationly' shot, if the live action film thats being made at the moment is half of what this film is, it will be a success and a miracle, i guaranty we will not see a film like this again for a very long time.watch it! "}{"Title":"the best dam 80's cartoon movie ever.","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I just saw this movie for the first time since I was 11 and it's still the best dam 80's cartoon ever. The movie had a killer soundtrack and and very good plot outline. It was good way to introduce the people to the new transformer's that were coming out and another way to say good bye to the old transformers. It star's young Judd Nelson as the voice of Hot Rod. Spock from Star Trek as Galvatron and the late great Orson Wells as Unicron the planet eating robot. Seeing this movie for the first time in 14 years made me realize how much I loved watch the show and the T.V. show. I do recommend watching this movie if your a fan it'll be worth it. "},{"Title":"Much better than the live action movie","Date":"14 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I haven't been able to successfully watch this film all the way through in a long time, like since I was a little kid. And I've got such fond memories of it that I've bought it on DVD twice! Once way back, and once again when that awesome remastered special edition came out before the first new Michael Bay Transformers movie came out. And I still haven't watched it all the way through in a long time. I always put it on with a giddy fanaticism, ready to watch it again, and then promptly pass out about thirty-forty minutes in. Generally, after Prime's death and sometimes after Megatron is turned into Galvatron. I guess maybe I just lose interest or maybe I should stop deciding to pull it out to watch in times where I know I'm about to fall asleep. However, it is still much better than the horrible live action movie directed by Michael Bay. "},{"Title":"Awesome film, like the Starwars trilogy I can watch it again and again.","Date":"20 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" OK, yes I'm a child of the 80's, I was 6 years old when I watched this but even now dammit I can't help but flick it on whenever I'm feeling nostalgic. For me watching my favourite Transformer characters in this awesome full length movie was the best thing ever. I loved the TV series, when I was younger I would get out bed and watch Transformers in my jammies on WAC A DAY (Jeeze I'm really showing my age there!). The dialogue in this movie was considerably better than the TV series, with heaps of memorable quotes some of which have been used in the recent Transformers movie by Michael Bay which I loved as well.One shall stand, one shall fall! Why do you throw away your life so recklessly Prime? That's a question you should ask yourself Megatron! No! I'll crush you with my bare hands!The soundtrack is also awesome, the rocked up version of the Transformers theme tune is kick ass, and all through out the movie the soundtrack is good 'Instruments of Destruction', 'Touch' and 'Dance' which I can't help but sing along to every time I watch it.I really hope that Transformers fandom does not die out and continues to live on through our children and share with them the experience of watching this awesome series (it'll give me an excuse to keep watching it over and over again).Till all are one!Jumana Pearl "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The t.v. cartoon movie.","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Transformers The Movie (1986) was a feature length film bridging the first series with the new batch of toys. The Transfomers were a line-up of Japanese toys that were marketed to the young consumers through an animation series. In the United States, the show was re-dubbed and edited in English. Even Marvel Comics launched a comic book series that went beyond the storyline that was featured in the t.v. show. Enough of the background story, let's get to the movie.Several years into the future, near the turn-of-the-century the Autobots and the Decepticons finally had enough of each other and wage a giant battle against one another. Optimus Primes gets his boys ready to clash with the evil Megatron and his crew. When the dust settles, there are heavy casualties on both sides. Quite a few are fatal. But that's only the start of it. Unknown to both sides, a dark and evil entity is coming near the Transfomers home planet. It's negative energy can destroy everything in the solar system. Who'll stand up to this threat? Will Optimus Prime and Megatron finally get the hate out of their systems? To find out you'll have to watch TRANSFORMERS THE MOVIE.Highly recommended for fans of the t.v. series. "},{"Title":"Excellent, but why'd the classic characters all die?!","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Contains spoilers!Okay, you had to have heard about the Transformers somehow, let it be back in the 1980's, or even now, with the new stuff like Armada, Beast Wars, and Robots in Disguise.  Now, like I said in my review for the TV series, I got into the original robots in the early 90's after seeing some commercials for the Generation 2, stuff and getting intrigued.  Some time later at a locale video store, I happened to find some old G1 videos, and easily fell in love with this series, with its excellent tale of good vs. evil, with robots!  After seeing, I don't know, about 20 or so episodes of the series, I was hooked, and later, at the same video rental store, my mom found something that easily excited me  Transformers the Movie.  An actual movie of the robots!  It was too good to be true!  I did wonder why I didn't recognize any of the robots shown on the cover.  Sadly, I would soon find out.When I first watched it, I thought it would be an all-new movie-length plot in which the Optimus Prime and the Autobots would once again battle the Decepticons in another riveting adventure.  My hopes widened during the opening scene, with an excellent rendition of the theme song by the band, LION, following with a nice scene with Optimus Prime and Ironhide discussing the Decepticon situation, along with Ironhide's orders to take a small Autobot group to Earth to get enough energon to prepare for an assault on Megatron's forces.  Also nice were the appearances by Jazz, Bumblebee, Cliffjumper, and a now-adult Spike Witwicky, who now has a son(BTW, I never saw Carly until after viewing this, so I didn't now she was the mom)!  The film got even better, as we see that Megatron and his usual group of Decepticons, including the always-traitorous Starscream, overly loyal Soundwave, and the emotionless Shockwave, learning of Prime's plan, plot to once again attack the Autobots.  This well-scripted scene made me wondering what would happen next.Too bad what did happen next scarred me for life.In less than a minute, to the tune of NRG's Instruments of Destruction(which fit the scene, I might add), Megatron and the Decepticons easily KILL Ironhide and the other Autobots in only a few shots.  Yes, not injure.  Not capture.  They killed them.  Unlike in the TV series, where characters took some powerful hits head on, the shots fired here are 100% fatal.  What really scars the mind is when Prowl, fatally hit from a well-placed shot from Scavenger, falls to the ground, as his optics lose all their color and smoke starts emitting from his mouth.  I was shocked at the time of this scene, and I couldn't believe what had happened.  I actually rewound the video at least once just to make sure I had not imagined the scene before me.Things did not get better.  Many of the original Autobots and Decepticons were killed in the film, and I must admit I was tramuatized when Optimus Prime died, the flicker in his eyes going out, and his color fading away from red and blue to a deep black and gray.  It is easy to realize that even though the characters are the same, the film is very different from the television series.  It is much darker, and does not have as much of a clear view of victory as the TV series did.  On the TV show, you always knew that the Autobots would pull through.  In this, however, you begin to wonder if the Autobots will ever get out of their current predicament.  In fact, the deaths of the Autobots in this movie also affected the G.I.Joe film. Originally, Duke was supposed to be killed by Serpentor, but due to the upset children over seeing the deaths of their favorite Transformers, it was changed for him to be wounded and fall into a coma instead.The movie definitely exceeds the series in many points.  The voice-acting is topnotch.  The animation was ahead of its time, and it really helps when you see how well the deaths of your favorite characters were animated.  The music is another plus, as the techno soundtrack raves in the background, creating an absolutely haunting atmosphere.My only problem, of course, is that the originals don't get much screen time, except for the Dinobots and Perceptor.  Most of the Autobots only appear in small cameos, and quite a few of them die, but the only ones besides Prime to really have any roles are Jazz, Cliffjumper, Bumblebee, Blaster, and the late Ironhide.  Ironically, although Micheal Bell had lines in the film, he did not have any as Prowl.  Also, the late Don Messick, though listed in the credits as doing the voice of Gears(who briefly appears in the movie--- you REALLY have to look hard to spot him!), does not speak as either him or the equally late Ratchet, who also gets killed in this. Meanwhile, most of the newbies get most/all of the screentime, and although a few characters like Kup can be somewhat interesting, characters like Blurr and Wheelie make you wonder, Why WEREN'T these guys killed too?But still, despite its flaws, Transformers the Movie is an excellent animated feature.  It is still worth viewing, especially for hardcore fans of those robots in disguise.BOTTOM LINE  I for one am waiting for the Transformers Live Action movie recently announced.  Hopefully it will be as entertaining as this one, but not as depressing. "},{"Title":"The Most Exciting Movie Ever","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This has got to be one of the best animated movies ever made, it has all the hallmarks of great movies (STAR WARS, LORD OF THE RINGS) it has the ultimate battle between good and evil, and a story about how we must join together at any hard times in life. This Film amazed me when i saw it, it made me laugh, it made me cry and got me on the edge of my seat with the action. Not to mention the Soundtrack which is superb with two tracks that amaze u (the touch & dare) with out doubt this is my favorite movie and if you get a chance watch it....  "},{"Title":"The memories.","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm 18 now, but back in the 80's I admit I was a Transformers nut. I watched Transformers The Movie recently and the memories just flooded back.Even today Transformers seems just as awesome as it was back in it's glory days. There was Optimus Prime (who was idiolised by millions of kids at the time) who was leader of the Autobots. Then there was Megatron (or Glavatron) who lead the evil Decepticons. My personal favourites were the sadistic Quentissons, who created the Transformers in the first place.Transformers the movie is a golden classic. I usually get tired easily of cartoons which are turned into movies but not Transformers. Transformers the movie takes itself very seriously, but still has some hilerious moments.Certainly more than meets the eye.8/10 "},{"Title":"Good action cartoon with a story and some memorable lines","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I am not what you call a fan of cartoons and this is a boys cartoon really. But my girlfriend Sara's brother is a a huge fan and still is today. I happened to watch it and for a cartoon I was very impressed, the story was good, and shocking with the deaths of several main characters.Its a very violent film to if you watch just how many get shot, dismember or just generally crunched. The death of the Autobot leader Optimus Prime was very sad and did bring a tear to my eye. If you like action cartoons and a good story this movie wont let you down. This is one girl who gives Transformers the Movie a big thumbs up.Its nearly 20 years old but to be honest it still looks pretty good and the animation is smooth and holds up well.Soundtrack well a few good tracks, but nothing too special. Best thing about this movie, the lines some of them really stick in your mind and are very funny at times. Confess that this is the first cartoon I've seen that has some pretty fun quotes.Ive got better things to do tonight than die.Tara "},{"Title":"A real triumph of 80's animation","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" As a transformers collector, I am a little biased in my opinions, but this is the best 80's animation available. A working, intelligent plot, well placed humor, and good animation set this miles away from any animation of the time. This is one movie I recommend seeing. This movie is about the transformers, a group of intelligent, living machines with the ability to change into other machines by rearanging their external parts. The transformers are divided into two groups, the power hungry decepticons, and the goodwilling autobots. They are both faced with the same problem, a planet sized robot, unicron, appears and threatens their homeworld just as the autobot's leader, Optimus Prime, Is shot to death by the decepticons' leader, megatron. Then, as all hope is lost, the autobot's matrix of leadership surfaces, and is in the control of the famed Ultra Magnus, who is promptly killed. The matrix is passed onto Hot Rod, who is unwilling to use it, even if it means that Cybertron will be destroyed. As all of this is happening, several of the Decepticons are upgraded by unicron, and are much more powerful. "},{"Title":"Truly Cool","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie is definitely one that fans of the original G1, (Generation 1), Transformers series will enjoy. Fans of similar types of animated TV shows and movies should enjoy this movie also, but it is easy to be a little lost if you haven't seen the series before. Unlike a lot of modern day remakes that have attempted to recapture the magic of Transformers, this movie was done during the prime of the series and the peak of its popularity. Overall I found the movie to be very well done. However, as mentioned by a few others, in ways this movie comes across like a giant advertisement.It seems an interesting coincidence that shortly after the movie the line of toys got shaken up with several changes. After watching the movie, I'm sure you can guess which character's toys got canceled and which ones were being pushed on consumers at the time. It is still an enjoyable movie, with a few notable differences not seen in the TV series prior to the movie. One rather large difference being that in the movie it is quite possible for the robots to sustain such injuries as to actually die, whereas in the entire series leading up to the movie, the exact opposite was true...they could sustain near body destroying damage, and just have parts swapped out and replaced and be good as new. This was one change that was received well by some fans and poorly by others.The movie has a surprising cast of some high profile actors doing the voices of the characters, and has a soundtrack that really fits each scene very well. Although the music is very 80s sounding, it is fitting as the movie was released during that time frame. In particular, the score written for the infamous scene involving Optimus Prime, was quite moving. I've seen adults watch that scene and get choked up by it.This was also what many fans feel to be the reason for the decline of the original series. Optimus Prime was the heart of the show, being the leader of the Autobots, (the good robots).... a lot of fans lost interest in the series when they killed him off in the movie. They brought him back at a later point, but it was really too little too late for it to save the series.The series, and the movie, is very enjoyable and still one of my favorites, despite all the obvious goof ups by its creators. However, much like is the case with Star Trek fans. If you are going to nit pick and focus on the mistakes, then you obviously aren't a fan and shouldn't be spending your time watching it.This movie stands well on its own, but I'd highly recommend renting the DVDs for the first couple of seasons of the TV series before watching this movie, or you can end up quite lost with a lot of things not making sense. "}{"Title":"Autobots battles Decepticons again!!!","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is far the best animation action movie I have ever seen. I mean what more do you want, giant robots that transforms into cars, jets, trucks, dinosaurs and a planet, Yes a giant robot that transforms to a huge planet that devours other planets. This movie is definitely a must see movie for all Transformers fans and any fans of animation.The heroic Autobots lead by their courageous leader Optimus Prime battles the evil Decepticons lead by their maniacal leader Megatron. The Autobots main purpose is to protect and save lives in their home planet of Cybertron, their adopted home Earth and most of all the whole entire universe against the Decepticons that just wants to rule and destroy the entire universe.If you love the TV series I'm so sure you'll love the movie as well. "},{"Title":"Good for its time, but yet to be released in full versions","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I saw this movie when I was about 12 and back then I thought it was great.Now of course it's a bit dated and some of the subject matter is a little simple for me but it still holds the nostalgia factor for me as well as many of my transformer loving friends. I do wish how ever that not all the older transformers had meet with there untimely demise in such a crude fashion.Another thing I have noticed is that the special addition of the movie is actually the edited for time version of the movie, it even has parts that fade to black and in the special features you can see story boards that show scenes that aren't in the final film. I hope that at some point Hasbro will release a full version of the movie, with some digital restoration. "},{"Title":"Much, much more than meets the eye","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is not just one of my favorite animated movies, but it is one of my favorite movies of all time. It is spun off from one of my favorite animated series of all time. I saw it first run in the theaters, and it was an unforgettable experience.It is a PG rated, violent, strongly language movie that starred the Transformers, for crying out loud! Many of the Autobots that I had come to love had been wiped out in the first ten minutes. And Optimus Prime had kicked serious ass, wiping out his share of Decepticons. It was a perfect stage for the final battle between Megatron and Optimus, turning out to be an awesome slugfest. Too bad Optimus had to die as well.With the introduction of all the new characters, this could easily have been just a feature length commercial for the Hasbro toys. However, we are treated to a wonderful American anime, with very likable characters, witty dialogue, and action scenes that draw you in.Also being way ahead of it's time, was the casting of big name actors, at least, for 1986. Judd Nelson, Robert Stack, Leonard freakin' Nimoy as Galvatron and Orson freakin' Welles as planet-eating Unicron! Very cool! This movie has enough entertainment, and visual enticement in its short running time to entertain even the most snobby movie-goer. It is a lot more than meets the eye. "},{"Title":"Defining yet Deafening","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Transformers The Movie is a loud attempt to reboot the series, but destroyed the originality and spirit of the original show. SPOILERS The Transformers Movie manages to kill off almost every notable character from the show in the first 30 minutes. Actually, the Death count in this children's movie is so enormously high, it's insane. To top things off, Optimus Prime (The Flagship Character of the Franchise)is killed before the plot really gets going, a choice that haunted the franchise for years to come. It's completely obvious that the filmmakers and studio execs wanted to eliminate as many characters as possible so that they could sell new ones for new toys. In this way the film is defining, as it shaped the series for better or worse, but at the same time completely destroyed it. "},{"Title":"Shameless attempt to make more money","Date":"25 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" At the height of the Transformers popularity, the Makers, Habro, decided that their demographic, had already bought most of the toys in the line. So in order to make parents shell out even more cash, they decided to release this deeply disturbing movie/ marketing ploy. How do you ask? Well simply put, by killing every single recognisable character from the original series, and replacing them with all new ones. If corporate America, ever had reason to hold its head in shame this was it. Not only was this series one of the worst offenders in the selling kids crap with 20 minute adverts thinly clothed as cartoons, but here a new low by making all those toys already bought, redundant, at least from the cartoon's perspective. The cartoon's sole purpose was to advertise pointless toys in the most consumer unfriendly way imaginable, it is quite an achievement in its self. Think about how often the Transformers actually transformed into anything, and how often transforming was a benefit. This film however, doesn't even try to attempt to tell an interesting story. In fact subsequent games based on the films and cartoons, did a much better job of telling a story and progressing the universe. Never really understanding the attraction of the original series, and having only a passing interest in the toys, I suppose I can't fully appreciate the nostalgia for many adults. However, that said there was nothing creative or in the least bit laudable about this film, or the cartoon franchise that spawned it. The sooner it realised for the marketing sham it was the better. "},{"Title":"80's classic to a classic 80's series Transformers Robots in Disguise","Date":"17 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie was made for the purpose of selling toys. Epic 80's hit the Autobots aided by the Dinobots duel it out with the Decepticons in their final battle. For all familiar with the series this is a dark film with major death of leading characters from beginning to end. Cyberton is the enemy of the Transformers, a planet eater seeking to destroy the Matrix of the Autobots by enlisting Megatron.This is another fine example of 80's film. Without knowing the series this film would be confusing and hard to understand. Could not remember any of the personalities from the series as it is so long ago. Transformers is but a memory. This film still stands as one of my all-time favourites. I my opinion this film did justice to the series. "},{"Title":"Me Grimlock love this movie!","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" With the release of the explosive Michael Bay trilogy, any newcomers to the shape-shifting franchise should be aware of the original 1986 animated feature because that's where it all started (sort of). Hasbro's Transformers became such a huge hit thanks to a combination of both the toys and the original G1 TV series of the same name. Robots changing into vehicles, guns, and even animals was such an incredible and original concept that it's hard to ignore. After running for two seasons at the time, Hasbro decided to make a full-length movie starring the Autobots and Decepticons.Plot The year is 2005 (imagine that) as the Autobots, led by the heroic Optimus Prime, prepare to retake their home world Cybertron from the clutches of the evil Megatron and his Decepticons. However, a terrifying intergalactic force has arrived on the scene that's proved to be literally bigger than their petty war, the planet-sized Unicron (Orsen Welles). With the power of this new foe greater than anything imagined, it will take a new generation of heroes to stop this menace. Time to transform and role out! Next to Revenge of the Fallen, this is by far my favorite film of the franchise. Seeing how the Transformers were before their live-action release was a real pleasure to see. Many of the famous characters, Autobot and Decepticon alike, get to have there little moments of action and glory, especially the Dinobots, who are my all-time favorite characters. The action scenes are just spectacular and it's pretty much non-stop. Call me old-fashioned, but I love the music, which is typical 80s soundtrack and it fits perfectly with this movie, such as Stan Bush's The Touch which is made famous because of this movie. The animation is also worth noting, definitely superior to the animation of the TV series.The film also became famous by taking risky moves with the old characters while introducing new ones. Optimus Prime and Megatron (Peter Cullen and Frank Welker) are still going at it as their rivalry never seems to end, though both go through some major changes. The Dinobots are fun to watch and bad to the bone. The other classic Autobots and Decepticons are cool in their own unique ways. Hot Rod makes for a good hero and Kup is a fun old robot who likes to think about the old days of the war. Orson Welles was great as Unicron and we're talking about his final role before he passed away. He provided true menace to his character with his voice; forget Citizen Kane, Transformers man!There are very few things to nitpick around here, but overall, this movie is definitely worth buying, partly because of the nostalgia factor. With a great story, stellar voice cast, lovable and diverse cast of characters, great action scenes, and fun music, The Transformers The Movie is sure to please any fan. Nine out of ten, so check it out! "},{"Title":"Much Better Than Micheal Bay","Date":"23 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Transformers the movie. What can I say about this movie? Well I guess I can start by saying that it is the most action packed animated film I have ever seen! That's technically what this movie is. It's just 1hr and 20min of non-stop shooting, explosion, fighting,and adventure. Well of course there's more to the plot. The film opens with a giant planet named Unicron that looks like the Death Star eating another planet. Then it shifts to the Autobots who're about to lead a shuttle to search for more energon cubes. Unfortunately for them, The evil Decepticons raids their ship and kill all the members. This really got a lot of fans angry because they saw a lot of their favorite characters die 10 minutes into the movie. The only reason they killed so many characters is so they can add new characters and release more toys. They were taking a big risk killing off so many characters. Anyway, the Decepticons takes over the ship and they are spotted by the Autobot Hot Rod. Hot Rod and some other Autobots attacks the ship, and an all out battle rages. During the battle, Optimus Prime (the leader of the Autobots)confronts Megatron(the leader of the Decepticons). They engage in an all out battles that left all fans cheering because they waited so long to see these two rivals fight to the death. After a while, It seemed that Optimus won, but Megatron played a dirty trick and wounded Optimus pretty badly. But Optimus with all the strength he had left gave Megatron one last punch that left him crippled. The Decepticons escape, and optimus with his last breath, gave the Matrix and his leadership to Ultra Magnus. Mean while, an injured Megatron gets betrayed by his minion Starscream and gets pushed off into space. There, he meets Unicron who makes Megatron one of his minions. In exchange, he gives Megatron a new and more powerful body and rename him Galvatron. He also gives Megatron 3 robots named Relector. With his new power, he kills Starscream and takes over the decepticons again. Now Unicron is forcing him to kill the Autobots and destroy the All Sparks. Now the Autobots have to face Galvatron and Unicron at the same time. I'm not gonna spoil the rest because this is where the movie gets really good. I'm a casual fan of Transformers, and I must say, this film really impressed me. Some people hate it because it had to much violent action, some random music use, and there's to many references to Star Wars. Yes there is a whole bunch of action, but that's what's awesome about it. How many movies have you seen where something blows up every 5 seconds? Yeah, sometimes the action can be a little uneven, and the animation might be laggy from time to time, but this was made in the 80s so give it some slack. There are many references to Star Wars however. Like the character Hot rod is related to Luke, Unicron looks like the Death Star, Arcee has the princess Leah hairstyle, Optimus Prime talks to Hot Rod in his ghost form much like how Ben Kenobi talks to Luke. But i didn't really mind that. So many movies copied things from Star wars up to the point that you don't care anymore. As for the music however, it is completely random. Like when Hot Rod opens the Matrix and the song The Touch starts playing in the background. It also has the most random use of Weird Al Yankovic's Dare to be Stupid. They played that song when the Autobots where fighting some other random robots in some random planet. And after they made peace with those robots, they started dancing to the exact same song! Despite all these negative feature to this film, it's awesome and anyone will love it. I give it~3.5/5 stars! "},{"Title":"Great animation, good story, and not much else.","Date":"5 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" First off, there is one flaw i discovered before the movie came out, and that was that while the series was on t.v. the movie was being made.Here's the problem I knew characters were gonna die but the way they did it was dumb! you seriously expect kids to watch the series for three years and see the autobots take some incredible punishment and believe that in the movie a single laser pistol blast would easily take down an autobot and only one decepticon dies in the whole film. FYI Megatron, Skywarp, Thundercracker, and the Incecticons to name a few were only altered. Second Optimus suffers major damage and they can't fix him and Ultramagnus is blown to pieces and they put him back together like a jigsaw puzzle as if nothing happened to him. How about applying that tactic to all the fallen autobots.Word to the toy companies......get to know which characters are the most popular and try not to kill all of them off!Regardles of that horrible flaw......the story was good, the animation was top notch. Very watchable. I still recommend it. "},{"Title":"The movie that got me hooked on transformers franchise","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Now I'm a third generation transformers fan. So I grew up with the Unicron trilogy and the live action movies. After my disappointment of Revenge of the Fallen, my uncle who grew up with the original series showed me the Transformers movie of his generation. And all I have to say after watching it was wow. This movie got me back into Transformers and I it made me stayed attached to the entire franchise. This movie is awesome! The action is awesome, the character are awesome, and the music is awesome! Vince DiCola who also did the music for Rocky IV, does a wonderful job with the music in this movie. While some the songs such as Dare and Dare to be stupid may sound outdated now, but for me it works well in this movie and it still works well for this generation.My only complaint is that they had to kill off characters that a lot people loved which was the biggest fault in season 3, bur I still love Season 3 of transformers G1. Anyway the scene I love the most is with the decepticons when they are trying to decide who should be leader, when Megatron turns into Galvatron, and Starscream's coronation. Orson Welles a great job with Unicron, however many sources say he didn't care about the part, which is sad because this was his last role and he should've seen his performance. The saddest scene has to be when Optimus Prime dies, bu I must say there should've been more autobots in the room who were in season 1 and 2 or maybe they died as well in the battle of autobot city. Well I pretty much said a lot of things about this movie and I really wish a lot live action movie adaptations would do this. Make it a cartoon instead of live action, but add your own stories. "}{"Title":"The animation is top notch","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It's easy to get preachy about the violence in a film aimed at kids. It gives the moral majority something to do other than examine each Disney film for subliminal messages. I found it refreshing to actually see this kind of film refuse to pull its punches. It's an action film without tapping into the over-sentimental gushy stuff that usually turns kids off anyway. This is a war. Death and violence are part of it. Will it effect the children that watch it. Maybe, but I don't know which way. I saw first saw the film when I was 7. I saw all of my favourites get blown apart. I saw my absolute, total, complete and utter hero, the person that personified all that was good and noble to me (you know who I mean) get killed saving his friends in an ultimate display of bravery and courage. I cried. My mum cried. I still do. I think that one moment made me more afraid and ashamed of death and destruction than a dozen Private Ryans.The animation is top notch, there's an amazing soundtrack and the voice talent is good too. Not perfect, but Nimoy's portrayal of Galvatron is incredible. Especially when you consider that it was probably done as a 'For the money not the art' job. The script isn't bad either. It has a host of sharp, quotable one-liners that would put Bruce Willis to shame (I've got better things to do tonight than die.) The story is a rip off of Star Wars but what isn't and who cares? It's cool. The animation is superb. I said that earlier but I really do believe that it's better than Disney at some points. Certainly better than the average output at the time. It doesn't compare with today's graphics but it hasn't aged badly at all. The soundtrack can sound a little too cheesy at times but the energy and verve of the film is there and it backs up the visuals with ease. "},{"Title":"Possibly the best anime movie ever!","Date":"12 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" First of all this movie actually came out before I was born, but I love it!What I liked about it It wasn't just for kids, people of all ages can enjoy it. The story is actually really good, there's never a dull moment. Everyone who does voice overs did fantastic! I love Peter Cullen as Optimus Prime, as well as Leonard Nimoy as Galvitron, and Orson Welles is phenomenal as Unicron not to mention Eric Idle's small appearance.What I didn't like about it The music feels really outdated.This movie will always have a place on my DVD shelf, it's thoroughly entertaining with several good animated action scenes!A definite must-see!(Suggestion for rating description PG for sequences of animated sci-fi action, and for some brief language.) "},{"Title":"One shall stand and one shall fall!","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Having never fully understood the original cartoons as a kid, this is probably the most dabbling I've done in the classic Transformers lore. Even to a noob like me, this film is pretty darn special. With an epic planet-sized transformer eating planets, a major Autobot-vs-Decepticon battle on Earth, an adventure across other planets, and a handful of significant character moments, I can easily see how this film could provide the ultimate experience for an 80s Transformers fan. It's about as significant as comparing the Star Trek movies to the original series.The story for this is pretty darn grand. For a casual viewer like myself, it takes on pretty silly proportions, especially with the inclusion of the Dinobots, some bizarre tribal robots who like to kill other robots for no reason, a trash planet filled with samurai-style robots who shout TV slogans, and God-knows-what-else. I could also criticize the movie for having only a few moments worth of human-based drama. And of course, the film deals so heavily with the established mythos of the cartoon series that it may alienate the uninitiated. Regardless, the story does have its bright moments, and is a good excuse to have a bunch of robots zapping each other.The animation quality for this is fairly strong. It does show its limitations in regards to movements and designs, but the drawings are quite detailed and show phenomenal shadows, textures, and coloring. Voice-acting can be pretty dated and cheesy, but it does feature a surprisingly strong cast, with the likes of Robert Stack, Leonard Nimoy, Orson Welles, and Eric Idle in the mix. Writing is simple and straightforward. Music is very retro, for better or for worse.Recommended for fans of the classic canon.4/5 (entertainment 4/5, story 3.5/5, film 3.5/5) "},{"Title":"Thankfully, this movie was made way before Michael Bay's time.","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When it comes to Transformers movies, now we are talking! After the disastrous handling of the live action Transformers movies, all thanks to the schlockiest director working in Hollywood, Michael Bay, my faith in the franchise was severely tested. But going back and watching this 1986 cartoon movie, reaffirmed my faith in the Transformers. This movie rocks! The animation is crisp and first rate, the story is engrossing, the directing is spot on, and as for the voice cast...WHOA! Who was the casting genius that complied this elite group of actors! Think about it you have Leonard Nimoy, Robert Stack, Judd Hirsh, and if thats not enough to be able to wrangle non other than Orson Wells! First time I saw the credits, my jaw must have dropped through the floor. What really surprised me about this film was how much guts it had. I mean this movie didn't play around, when it came to violence. These robots not only got hurt they got dead. It blew me away how one by one these characters where slaughtering each other. Now, I know people complain that this was a gimmick to get kids to by the newly introduced Transformers by killing off the old ones. Maybe they have a point but I still have to commend the filmmakers for showing that in a war, even robots, get killed. Of course the death of Optimus Prime is heartbreaking to this day but he went out in a blaze of glory. The only thing that prevents me from giving this movie 10/10 is kind of a pet peeve. This may sound nit-picky but i cant help it. Unicron is supposed to be the size of a giant planet. They show him attacking worlds and devouring them. Yet the proportions are all wrong when he deals with the Autobots and Decepticons. Think about it. If this thing is as big as say our own world, the Transformers would be microscopic in comparison. Yet here they are inside Unicron and looking like kenner dolls on his shoulders. Furthermore, when they drive out of his body through one of his eyes they make it seem like they just smashed through a glass wall. If this thing is the size of a planet it would be like a trillion sized micro-germ slamming through your eyeball and knocking it out. Just ain't gonna happen. Aside from that, Fantastic Film! "},{"Title":"Terrific movie","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I do prefer the 1984 TV series, but I still thoroughly enjoy this movie. I have such fond memories of it as a child, and nothing is done to ruin that as far as I am concerned. My only complaint is the character of Wheelie, I personally do find him very annoying. But there are also some great compelling characters such as Galvatron, Megatron and Optimus Prime which benefits hugely, not only because they still look great(in fact all the robots do) but the voice acting of Leonard Nimoy, Frank Welker and Peter Cullen is incredible. The writing is top notch too, the action is cool and the story is gripping and keeps you like that until the wholly satisfying ending. The animation with some darker shades and even more impressive effects in the action sequences improves on the quality of the 80s series I feel, which is still good, but the animation is top-drawer here, and the music score is superb and fits perfectly. Overall, a terrific movie. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Well Worth Your Time","Date":"14 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Autobots and Decepticons battle for the future way of life of the Transformers. All the while,a planet eating robot threatens to tip the balance of the struggle. All for the Matrix Of Leadership. Cool 80's soundtrack. The 20th Anniversary Edition DVD has a history of Transformers all the way to Bays' first movie.Peter Cullen is the voice of the 18 wheeler(Optimus Prime)Peter Cullen is a permanent A List actor.Leonard Nimoys' performance is outstanding!!Susan Blu is hot!!---One Truck Drivers Opinion---erldwgstruckermovies.com "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"4 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" My kids grew up with the video of this movie. They loved it and I love it.We all took it as a standalone film - the TV series slightly predated the kids, so we missed that.And, as a standalone film, it is non-stop action and enjoyment. It is exciting, funny, moving, with great visuals, brilliant voice casting I never thought I would encounter a film where Orson Wells stood side by side with Leonard Nimoy and Eric Idle), and some excellent songs. Really effective songs.The science fiction is strong. but the humanity is strong too.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"You are not a Transformers Fan until you see this film!","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Let me just get something out of the way, I love TRANSFORMERS, and this movie is pretty good. First let's address the acting. Unfourtudentally there is not much to say. Peter Cullen (as always) is great as Optimus Prime, and Orsen Wells if freaking fantastic as the main villain Unicron.The Plot to the movie is this The Autobots must stop a colossal planet consuming robot, named Unicron, who is after the Autobot Matrix, which symbolizes leadership. To be honest it's a pretty nice and simple plot.The animation in this film is great.............well maybe not exactly great, but definitely pretty good.So in the end, this movie is worth checking out for any Transformers fan, or really any fan of movies in general. I only wish I had more to say about it. "},{"Title":"One Shall Stand.....","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" .....And this 1986 animated movie stands toe to toe with many modern anime movies and beats the living daylights out of them, hands down.The problem with so many anime movies that are spun off from a TV series is that the movie looks, feels and essentially IS, just an extra long episode of the TV series. Transformers The Movie does none of that. Not content on just making a 84 minute long episode, the producers decided to up the show's status quo and take its action, animation, story and characters to new heights of excellence.I would caution though, that viewers unfamiliar with Transformers characters should go and watch the original TV series before watching this movie. If you cannot tell the difference between Starscream and Skywarp, go refresh your memory before watching this. There is little introduction to the characters as we jump straight into the thick of the action even before the opening credits flash across the screen. Before you know it, a whole bunch of old characters pass on and another bunch of new characters take their place. Now, if one were to not be familiar with the old characters, then their deaths in this movie would be quite meaningless, hence my recommendation to watch the series beforehand.Did i say deaths? Yes i did. A rarity among animated shows of the 80s was deaths of main characters. And in the tradition of this movie taking what was to a whole new level, the deaths are actually quite graphic and violent. Thankfully, those are robots getting their guts blown out.The story is upgraded from the down to earth TV series style to an intense, action packed, sprawling space epic. The threat is larger than anything the Transformers have ever faced(literally). Sure it may share some elements of Star Wars but it is a huge notch up from the TV series it is based. One of the most epic stories in an animated movie based on a cartoon series.As usual of Transformers, the characters are the main stars. The new characters introduced are extremely likable from their very first uttered line, thanks to a great mix of an engaging script and professional acting. A good measure of Character development, that usually takes at least a couple of episodes in the TV series, is present here and very well handled with none of the characters seeming bland or uninteresting. The script is as emotionally charged as ever, especially the Death of Optimus Prime which was so realistically ad heart wrenching-ly played out that it would bring a tear to anyone's eye. The most obvious jump in quality would be in the art and animation department. Battle damage, metallic sheen, complex shadows, vivid colours and other little details make this movie very spectacular to look at. Such art detail stands the test of time and would even be able to measure up to the art standards of today's TV series derived anime movies. Despite the sky high levels of the art detail, the animation does not suffer one bit. Every scene is fully animated with hardly any short cuts used, characters are always in motion and so are some of the backgrounds; again a rarity among anime TV-series-to-movie films. The fight scenes are superbly storyboarded utilizing all the right shot angles, close-ups or wide pans, and lighting effects to add to the impact and cinematic feel of each battle. Unfortunately there are a number of animation goofs here and there, hence why i did not give it a near perfect score. Those mistakes however are not easily spotted until repeated viewings. They are not jarring and does not distract from the film at all.The soundtrack is really up to personal preference. In my opinion, i love the 80s rock soundtrack the rousing score. It is a huge improvement over the bland musical cues of the original series and really complements each scene very well; truly the icing on a great tasting cake.On a whole, this movie is a real treat for all transformers fans, and an entertaining(though maybe slightly confusing) watch for the casual anime fan. Highly recommended; Transformers the movie is truly a legend and a classic in its own right. "},{"Title":"As extended commercials go, it's a winner!","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The release of Bay and Spielberg's megablockbuster is the ideal time to look back on Transformers the movie, the original (and animated) big-screen adventure of the famous toy. This feature was commissioned to revamp the product, and kill off many of the original characters in order to introduce new ones. It sees the Autobot/Decepticon war take a backseat to a global war of survival against planet eater Unicorn (voiced by Orson Welles).Surprisingly enough, there is a lot worth mentioning in this film, both good and bad.On the minus side, of course, the predominantly 80s soundtrack has aged quite horrendously and some new characters are less appealing than they should be, chiefly the dinobots whose comic relief is neither comical nor relieving. The ending also feels rushed, which is a shame since such a fast-paced and action-packed film as this could have used a calmer denouement.On the plus side, though you can fault the film's purely commercial objective, you can only admire its inventiveness. Unicorn is a beauty, both in design and in how the creature is used. The opening planet destroying scene is abrupt, savage and hugely impressive, even 20 years later. Optimus Prime is used to maximum effect, as is the whole Megatron/Galvatron storyline. The fast pacing and varied locals are the real strength though, since our heroes run from planet to planet and bump into intriguing (and often disturbing) creations, such as the genocidal Quintessons. The film's laudable level of violence is probably a key component of its enduring appeal.All in all, one can only hope that at least a few of the many neat ideas explored here will find their way into the sequel to 2007's live action version.This may not be Shakespeare, but to an extent, it is worthy of its minor cult following. A more than adequate 85 minutes with touches of bizarre genius. "}{"Title":"you pathetic fools! there's no escape!","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" like everybody else in these user comments, i too used too play with transformers action figures. it's too bad they don't make cartoons like they used to. i sometimes see my little cousin (4 years old) watch cartoons and they're so soft nowadays! no action, no humor just educational cartoons... what the hell happened in all those years? ren & stimpy, beavis and butt-head, G.I. JOE, the transformers where have they gone? well anyway... back to this movie. i've watched a lot of movies in my days, but i can tell you... if there is one movie i've watched over and over till the tape freaking caught fire, it's this one. to this day i still watch this movie from time to time (on DVD now of course) but to say i could recommend it to everybody would be out of the question, because for some of us (including me) this movie has a special place in our hearts because we grew up with it. younger people wouldn't understand.one scene really was burned into my brain... the death of starscream my most favorite character in the series. I still get choked up when i watch the movie today. even the person who was behind the voice of starscream has past away. therefore we will never get the REAL starscream back, so when the new movie comes out, they have a lot to live up to! "},{"Title":"give this one a break","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It was 1984. I was a young lad of 8. Transformers had long been my favorite afternoon cartoon, then I went and seen the movie. Itwas friggan great. It was actually the first movie I can recall that I got to experience an on screen death of a character that I cared about. I remember almost shedding a tear at the death scene of Optimist prime, then the nail in the coffin. I heard one of the characters (brain fart, cant remember name.) say Dammit. A tame word by todays standard, but enough back then to get a PG rating, and for a character in a cartoon that I had only known as squeaky clean to swear, made them seem more human to me than ever. great movie, the animation is dated, and the plot is alittle shaky by todays standard, but for its time, it was the most amazing thing American kids had ever seen. "},{"Title":"Great fun to watch,","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Saw this movie when I was about 8 years old in the local cinema, now I'm 27 and I recently watched it again on DVD. Must admit that there is a massive injection of nostalgia when you start hearing the theme tune, hearing the voices of the Transformers etc.....but to be perfectly honest the film ROCKS! The Drawings are fantastic, the score is mighty ( Some of the tunes really are GOOD if TOTALLY EIGHTIES ). The script is even quality with a cracking all round story. First act is none stop with a fantastic Battle where.........Optimus Prime DIES!!!!!! Surely not true...but YES ( I must have been in tears as a 8 year old?? ). Then the movie just goes on from strength to strength with many different fun situations from meeting the Junkbots, Sharkticons, Unicron, the creation of Galvatron the list just goes on and on. WHAT a cast as well Leonard Nimoy, Orson Wells, Eric Idle, Casey Kasem, Scatman Crothers.....Fantastic. Also the film really has been ripped off by The Matrix movie. In Transformers the Movie, only the ONE can unlock the matrix and receive amazing powers to kill off/beat all the evil robots and bring peace to the universe, with Optimus Prime being the wise one telling of light our darkest hour when Hot Rod becomes Rodimus Prime. Kind of like Morp, Neo and the whole Matrix thing to be honest?! So now I know where the Wachowski brothers got their inspiration....it was Transformers the Movie....an Excellent film even in 2006. 9/10 FAB! "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films of all time","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I'm biased, I grew up watching the cartoon in the 1980's, and when this movie came out it did something no other movie/cartoon had ever done killed the main character 20 minutes into the show. Talk about gonads, that was risky! If you didn't grow up in the Transformer universe, I'm not sure how this movie will strike you. It was precisely what a theatrical release of a series should be  true to the characters, but better in budget and quality. Folks, it doesn't get better than this for Transformer fans, and since most of us own a copy of this anyway, and since I already stated how my opinion is so heavily influenced by the fact that I was avid TF fan, I don't know why I'm commenting on this other than to give respect where it's due. The animation can still be enjoyed today, and the voices are excellent. A big nod to this film and everyone who was involved. "},{"Title":"Cracking good fun","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It remains a mystery to me that Transformers The Movie was not a success when launched. I remember pleading with my parents to let me watch it (I think I was about 8 at the time)to no avail. Perhaps it was in the middle of a rash of movie versions. Who can tell.The reason this amazes me is that it is, quite simply, excellent. Great animation, lots of action, an interesting plot, drama, tragedy, comic relief and romance, excellent voice artists and sound effects, and a kicking high energy soundtrack. What more could one ask from any animated movie.The only downside to it was that one or two bits were a bit scary for very young children.I highly recommend anyone, whether fans of Transformers or not, to watch it. It is easily accessible and a thoroughly entertaining, rip-roaring adventure classic. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"a defining moment in a young boy's life","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I could go over all the raves that everyone else has posted, but I don't need to. If you searched for this movie here, chances are you agree with them, as do I. This movie was one of the quintessential moments of my childhood. I didn't get lucky enough to see it in the cinema, though I'd pay a pretty penny to do so now. I saw it at my cousin's birthday party. It was the centerpiece of the action, followed immediately by a repeat viewing and then a re-enactment of most of the events outside afterward. And the next penultimate moment came on my birthday when that same cousin presented me with my very own VHS copy of this movie, which I still have in good condition (though very played) till this day.It was great. It was different. It was all I ever hoped for. It forgot the absurd moments of some of the cartoon series. It encapsulated some of the best. Not till long after in some of the Japanese series such as Headmasters and Masterforce would we even glimpse the brilliance of this chapter in Transformers history. We'd never see such great characterizations until Beast Wars. This movie emphasizes what a mockery these new Transformers CGI series such as Armada and R.I.D. are.Prime's death. Defining moment. They couldn't have scripted it better.Acting couldn't be better. I loved Judd Nelson as Hot Rod. Bender from The Breakfast Club as the hero was something I had not pictured. (Though it would have been cool if he'd said Screws fall out, the world's not perfect as Hot Rod.) Orson Welles, Leonard Nimoy, Robert Stack...I don't need to say anything more. The surprising part is how well the regular cartoon voice-actors stand up to the other more seasoned actors. Peter Cullen as Optimus Prime is just fantastic, and the others hold up just as well.And I'm left with nothing else to say...so I think I'll go watch the movie for what must be the millionth time and quote the lines just to annoy my friends ) "},{"Title":"Astonishing","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is by far the best animated movie I have ever seen. I'm still visually impressed by the wonderful non CGI animation that fills the screen from beginning to end. This film also features one of the best voice casts ever for an animated film. Eric Idle is hilarious as the junkyard robot, Leonard Nimoy is awesome as Galvatron, and Judd Nelson shines as Hot Rod, not to mention the amazing final performance of Orson Welles. This film also has a hilarious 80s-Heavy Metal soundtrack. It also features one of the most touching scenes in a cartoon, with the death of Optimus Prime. I highly recommend this to any one who enjoyed the series, or just animation and Sci-Fi in general "},{"Title":"Nostolgic","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This was a childhood favorite of mine, and has stood the test of time a little better than some of its counterparts. With the new interest in all things TF, and new cartoons, the movie still holds up.The animation is much better than the newer cartoons. The characters are interesting, and the story is fine - if you are used to cartoon stories, then you'll be fine. If you can't stand cartoons, then you probably won't like it.There are many a great quotes in the movie, and I still pop it in the DVD player and watch it, in all it's unedited glory.I would love to say that this movie is perfect, but that's my opinion. There is 'cartoon stylized violence' and lots of destruction. The fact of the matter is, it is a movie based on an 80's cartoon (and toy line). The two sides are at war with each other. Violence should be expected. "},{"Title":"My #1 favorite movie!","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I remember when I first saw this movie. I didn't know anything about transformers. I was about 15. My best friend Nate was showing it to me. I thought the music was especially cheesy. At first I didn't know what to think. I didn't really like the movie. When the movie had ended I didn't know what to think. Then I said Let's watch it again! Now I own the movie, the soundtrack, over one hundred transformer toys, and am a huge fan.This movie has everything you'll need. It is great fun to watch, has excellent actors, awesome 80's soundtrack, amazing animation quality, non-stop adventure, and an epic story. "},{"Title":"Greatest movie ever.","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Transformers The Movie has got to be one of the best movies made. EVER. Sure, as a kid i was obsessed with these giant robots that turned into cars, guns, stereos, etc. But it wasn't till years later that i found an old beaten up version of the movie on VHS that it came to my attention how good this movie is! It's got everything, death, rebirth, love (kinda...), planet sized robots, the works. Oh, and it was Orson Wells' last movie. Bit of trivia there. Yeah, fair enough, it doesn't look as good as some of the new movies like The Incredibles, Toy Story and all that, but when you see the animation of Optimus Prime transforming mid jump and plugging five Decepticons mid fall, you ain't seen ANYTHING! "}{"Title":"It has still got the touch for this former fan of the series!","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Ahh, the good old days of buying Transformer toys, watching the TV series on Saturday mornings, and seeing this film on the big screen! What can I say? I am as biased as any other former Transformer fan. Sure, in the film, they killed off my favourite in Starscream, but damn, this movie rocked back then, and you know what, it still rocks now. I watched it recently, and I must admit, I liked Unicron a lot better (especially considering Orson Welles is the voice) and he certainly was an excellent choice for the main villain. Best scenes Mega-nasty Megatron invading an Autobot ship, and killing the Autobot occupants-including Ironhide; the battle at Autobot city (still great to watch- especially when Optimus Prime enters the fray); the Megatron and Optimus fight; Megatron being betrayed to become Galvatron later; and Unicron transforming from planet to robot. Plus the 80s soundtrack is not-to-bad, and You've got the touch! still works in my book. Now, I could definitely do without the rhyming Wheelie bantering with Grimlock scenes, or the annoyingly fast-talking Blurr- but back in the day, I guess it wasn't that bad! The late Chris Latta was always one of my favourite voice actors, and he was the voice of my favourite character in Starscream! And FrankWelker is simply a voice-god, and seeing his resume is mega-impressive from the voice I associate primarily with Megatron. 'Transformers The Movie' may not stand the test of time, as naturally, some people will view with disdain, or simply cannot relate to it because they never grew up with the series, or were too old when the series started. I do think this a cult film for the fans, and curious sci-fi cartoon lovers as well as fans of the new series, and comics. I don't know when I'll get sick of watching the movie, or too old and supposedly sophisticated enough to enjoy it, so I might as well get in my reminiscent two cents! Great film for the fans, and while not defining my childhood, this film and the series was certainly a part of it! **** out of *****! "},{"Title":"More than meets the eye indeed!","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  *May Contain SPOILERS*There are so many positive things that could be said about not only the Transformers movie, but also about the series. I always relate Transformers to everything that was good about my childhood. No matter how bad things were, I could always count on words of wisdom from Optimus Prime, some cynical remarks from Springer, and of course the usual self-serving antics from everybody's favorite backstabber Starscream. Each day I would come home from elementary school (I was probably 6 years old when the series debuted) turn on the television and be whisked away to the far off reaches of the galaxy.I regret that I wasn't able to see Transformers The Movie at the theater. Being from rural Kentucky we only had one cinema and unfortunately Transformers didn't draw enough interest to be shown on the big screen. I saw it several months later on VHS, but it was definitely worth the wait. The plot is fairly rudimentary (good vs. evil), but there is so much more to Transformers. It was definitely the cartoon for intelligent children. I never truly appreciated the complexity of the series until I got older. How many shows of this genre have dealt with topics such as death? The concept of death is sometimes difficult for an adult to fully grasp, let alone the children who were the target audience. In the movie we witness the demise of some of the most popular characters in the franchise (although this was likely done to usher in the season 3 bots). I do believe that the death scenes hurt the overall success of the movie and the subsequent Season 3, but we're very necessary elements to the film. I mean c'mon the Autobots and Decepticons were AT WAR! How many wars have ended without casualties? The series wasn't quite as graphic, but often times Optimus Prime was faced with very difficult decisions (Watch The Ultimate Doom for instance).The animation in the film is superb...as is the soundtrack. With the exception of Dare to Be Stupid there isn't a weak song in the movie. Leonard Nimoy pulls off an amazing voice characterization as Galvatron and I was also pleased as usual with Peter Cullen as Prime, the late Chris Latta as Starscream, and the legendary Frank Welker as Megatron (among others).The only quarrels I have with the movie would be the dance scene with the Junkions (while their friends are being gobbled up by a gigantic moon-gobbling planet), and the introduction of Blurr and Wheelie. In a perfect world they would have been fed to the Sharkticons ). The introduction of the matrix of leadership seemed to come out of thin air. It was never mentioned in the series, but seemed to be the Autobot Ark of the Covenant. I suppose it was always understood to be there and was just never mentioned.My Transformer biased nature aside, I think this movie is one that everybody should check out at least once. Whether or not you're a transfan it's still rather entertaining. 10/10  "},{"Title":"Leonard Maltin has no sense of our generation's nostalgia","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Leonard Maltin gives Transformers a rating of bomb?! Please. This movie brings back so many fond memories of perhaps the greatest toy/cartoon craze ever that I can't imagine anyone not understanding.Then again, Maltin wasn't exactly a kid when the movie came out, and I was.Then again, Maltin also likes Gorgo.  Go figure. "},{"Title":"Epic struggle between good and evil","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Only for the avid of the cartoon series on TV, this movie is the crescendo of the storyline, giving the viewer a bit more graphic battles, with even the death of some characters, charged with action and great one-liners, this is worth a purchase. If you find a copy, buy it.  "},{"Title":"Too many new characters.","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I loved this movie as a kid, but looking back at it...it was more just one big toy commercial.  As all the transformers we knew and loved are killed off are never seen again after the highlight of this movie the decepticon surprise attack on the autobots.  After this the movie basically focuses on the many new transformers we have never seen before.  The only transformer from the series that really has any screen time after the attack is Grimlock.  And how the heck were the transformers killed so easily in this one?  They were shot up all the time in the series, and didn't even blink...here they get shot once and die.  The plot with the planet was ok, and the scene with the shark robots was pretty cool, but the junk planet was lame and some of the new characters just plain sucked.  What was with the female transformer?  Was she really necessary considering mainly boys were interested in this film?  All in all it was great as a kid, but looking at it now it loses its luster.  It also looks bad by today's standards.  Heck, it looks bad when you compare to Dragonball an anime that was out around that time. "},{"Title":"Number 2 in my list of animated films","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie takes me back to my childhood, I remember being 6 and my stepfather took my brother and I to see it. My brother and I shared popcorn and watched the movie in awe. I even recall getting teary eyed when one of the main characters died. Check this movie out for nostalgic sake. "},{"Title":"80s cult classic animated nostalgia kick in the head!","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" If you were a kid in the 80s, you likely heard about this film even if you didn't ever see it. It's definitely a nostalgic 80s cult classic. I can't say enough good things about it. I loved it as a kid. My kids love it today, and I can appreciate the level of story telling and animation on a whole new level now as an adult. The soundtrack isn't for everyone,(mainly 80s rock and roll) but when I hear it, I'm instantly transported back to my childhood with a warm fuzzy nostalgia rush. Seriously, Stan Bush is a genius. You don't need to have a strong working understanding of the Transformers universe to enjoy this film; the story can stand on it's own. A small appreciation for sci-fi, explosions, rock 'n' roll and the 80s will be an asset to your enjoyment of the classic. "},{"Title":"Brainless Action and Death With a Rockin' Soundtrack","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I really wanted to rate this one higher, really, I did, but there are just one too many things holding this movie back for me to call it anything more than above average.The first main issue with this movie is how it mistakes kill a whole bunch of people off for dark. There's a lot of character deaths in this film, most of them happening to characters that aren't established well enough for them to have much emotional meaning. I know, this was made for fans of the show, but this is also a feature film. It needs to stand or fall on its own, and fall this film does. Kinda hard.For the main problem with the film, you see, is tone. This movie goes from mess-your-drawers planet-eating monstrosity to kick-ass 1980s opening song in an instant, and the tonal whiplash HURTS, man. Then there's the moment where Galvatron walks in and he doesn't just MURDER, Starscream, he turns the dude into ash and then crushes the crown he was wearing, all from a blast with that Hanna-Barbara shyoomp sound effect attached to it. I get that it was something on the show, but this goofy sound instantly sucked all the menace out of Galvatron. Tell a good story first, appease raging fanboys like myself LAST. Finally, the story itself plays more like a three-part episode from the show than a movie. After Optimus's death, the movie just meanders from scene to scene with the Autobots trying to evade Galvatron while working their way towards their home planet Cybertron in order to stop Unicron from eating it. There's a lot of popcorn action, but roughly half of it involves. Shoot, the good guys only learn Unicron's name by sheer coincidence, in a subplot that's completely disconnected from the main one, on some planet with some kind of weird law system where the innocent are put to death and... I have no idea what happens to guilty, nor can I fathom it. Point is, that whole detour, again, comes off like the plot to a filler episode rather than a plot beat of a movie. Oh, and Unicron's defeat is a complete deus ex machina. His opponent never even fights him proper, he just opens this Matrix of Leadership thing and then Unicron blows up. Makes you wonder why previous Autobot leaders didn't go out and do that, you know, BEFORE Unicron set his sights on Cybertron.On top of that, Unicron himself manages to get progressively less threatening as the film goes on. When he starts, I was genuinely frightened of him as I watched him devour the screaming inhabitants of a planet and grind them up into primordial soup to power his veins. And then he wet himself when he realized he'd sent a tyrant off to collect the one thing that could destroy him, and then he transformed into his robot form and proceeded to get his eyes blown out and his head blow off, all while systematically shrinking as the animation severely downsized his scale in contrast to the normal sized Transformers. He had his moments, and he was certainly a threat worthy of a feature film, but overall I felt he was squandered in the end.By all rights, I should find this movie pretty forgettable. Outside of Galvatron icing Starscream, the death of Optimus Prime, and the sheer pants-darkening terror that was Unicron's first scene in the movie, there's nothing to this for me to really keep. I'm not a G1 Transformers fan. I grew up watching Armada and later checked out Transformers Prime, and this movie banks pretty heavily on its audience already being fans.That is, except for one thing THE MUSIC. Holy crap, this movie has a soundtrack to rival the likes of Star Wars and Highlander in its sheer, magnanimous badassitude. As Team Four Star proved in their Bardock Abridged special, you could stick some of these kick-ass hair metal tunes over any kind of action scene and they would fit like a glove. Unicron's medley as he prowls across space and eats a planet is equally frightening as the scene itself is, and Optimus Prime's death is sold almost entirely on the music. Prior to that, Prime had maybe 2 scenes and no substantial character moments to speak of, so there's nothing to get attached to in the movie itself.I'd rate this movie as merely above average, but this soundtrack is so awesome that I can't in good conscience rate it any lower than I did. If you're not a Transformers fan, just skip the movie and put on the soundtrack. I wasn't lying when I implied that it's one of the best movie soundtracks I'd ever heard. "},{"Title":"THE animated film of the 80s.","Date":"16 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" SPOILERS AHEAD!I'm going to go through the most common criticisms for this film1) They killed off the main cast.This is more something that angered 80's fans. Most people today would call it bold. There's a gravity to it... that later seasons of the cartoon decided to contradict that by bringing them back to like. However, they still managed to respect Optimus' death. Sort of life Gandalf the Grey coming back as Gandalf the White, his death in this movie was a setup for a victorious return.2) The animation is cheap.Computer-animating those shots to such detail would have already been a nightmare, so imagine how much manpower was put to bringing them to life by hand?3) There is no plot.The purpose of this film isn't to confuse little children with complex twists. The purpose was to expand The Transformers universe with an intergalactic adventure, depicting the fictional societies, politics, and technologies of several alien races, obviously including the titular Transformers.4) There is no character growth.Hot Rod was a young, innocent, but impulsive soldier who got Optimus killed. Optimus left the Matrix with Ultra Magnus, whose tactical leadership style is invaluable to the Autobot cause, but he would later find that the Matrix was never his to use. Meanwhile, Starscream usurps the Decepticon leadership from his injured commander, but Megatron is reborn as Galvatron, an almighty warrior who gradually admits to himself that he is only a pathetic slave to Unicron. The prodigy Hot Rod returns as Rodimus Prime and redeems himself by unleashing the light of the Matrix and destroying Unicron. That growth is pretty philosophical.5) There is no dramatic tone.If you didn't react when the movie opened with Unicron devouring a planet, when Optimus died, when Galvatron finally executed Starscream, when Daniel thought his father died, when Unicron transformed into a giant robot, when Galvatron failed to use the Matrix to escape Unicron's control, or when Hot Rod became Rodimus Prime and blew up Unicron, you must be no fun to talk to.Obviously, I'm also going to praise the excellent voice cast, the spunky rock soundtrack, some of the best one-liners I've ever heard, and the overall fun of the movie. "},{"Title":"Really for fans who followed the TV show","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" For the toy company of Hasbro, one of their most successful cartoon TV adaptations and iconic staples among many children are the transformers robots. Who knew that such a simple idea of a robot that could transform into item that we are familiar with everyday could be so entertaining? To many, the TV series is what made the toy line even more fun for people because at that point, they had characters with personalities and backstories that made them somewhat relatable to their viewing counterparts. Twenty years later or so action director Michael Bay got a hold of the rights turned it into even more of a phenomenon, spawning sequel after sequel. While seeing how popular the concept had become it's important to take note that the robots in disguise characters originally had their own animated movie two years after its official TV airing. With that said, expectations should be different for this viewing. The problem is even with a different set of expectations; the end result is disappointing. There is effort here, but it lies among a pile of questions.The story takes place in the midst of war between the Autobots lead by Optimus Prime (Peter Cullen) and the Decepticons lead by Megatron (Frank Welker). During this period they are interrupted by a massive alien planet known as Unicron (Orson Welles) looking to destroy anything with life and can only be stopped by the matrix of leadership. The premise at first is acceptable but once immersed into the conflict all buildup is lost. Penned by Ron Friedman (who wrote for a lot of other TV shows), this feature length film was actually a connecting point between seasons 2 and 3 of The Transformers TV show. This is the immediate problem for several viewers. For those who never saw the TV show, are now required to see seasons 1 and 2 before even thinking about viewing this movie. On top of that, there are numerous characters listed and seen throughout the run time but yet are not mentioned, given backstories to or even speak dialog. This makes it all the more difficult for a viewer who is not familiar with the TV show.Then there's the whole plot, which originally stated seemed easy to follow. However as the viewer watches, they will notice that for Unicron's motivations and background go untouched. Why does Unicron want to destroy all life and where did he come from? Why does he destroy his own kind? Even the plot point of the matrix of leadership isn't very clear. How does it keep Unicron from doing its business? All these questions go unanswered in the form of convenient contrivances. Perhaps this information was given prior in the TV show? Again though, how would this win over new viewers if they've never seen the show? This lack of exposition can make the viewing feel quite empty. Nonetheless there are still some elements that provide enough saving grace to keep this movie at an average level. One of the more noticeable things is for anyone who saw Michael Bay's live-action franchise before this, they will at least be able to point out any of the characters they've seen before but in their 80s version.Another positive is the voice-actors cast for the characters. Of the most popular you can't go wrong with is Peter Cullen who will always be Prime and Frank Welker who is practically anybody and anything else. There are also vocal appearances for Grimlock, one of the dinobots (Gregg Berger), Shockwave (Corey Burton), Jazz (Scatman Crothers), Bumblebee (Dan Gilvezan), Starscream (Chris Latta), Blurr (John Moschitta Jr.), Hot Rod (Judd Nelson), Galvatron (Leonard Nimoy), Ultra Magnus (Robert Stack) and Kup (Lionel Stander). But the voice that stands out the most of this bunch is none other than the voice of the late Orson Welles. Although it was reported that Welles hated his role, the magnitude of his voice-work at which it is used for the massive planet destroyer is gleefully astounding. Welles voice is so deep and booming that it matches the look and presence of this memorable character with ease. Imagine if Welles voiced a character today? Holy cow.Helping at least make what's left of this product somewhat enjoyable is the overall visual design and animation. Directing this movie was Nelson Shin whose main expertise is being an animation director. So although he wasn't heavily involved in the actual steps of animation, his supervision was still critical. Other animators like Satoshi Urushihara (Akira (1988)) also worked on this project and most of the animation looks great. The entire look of the film has a very anime inspired feel to it, making the detailing on a lot of the backgrounds and close up shots look very intricate. Lastly, the musical score composed by Vince DiCola is actually well put together. Although he tried his best to score Rocky IV (1985) as his first attempt, his style just didn't match. Here however, DiCola feels like a better fit because of his reliance on synth musical instruments. It centers on robots so why not? Also Stan Bush's Touch single is quite the catchy song. It rings all the more 1980s to anyone looking for a blast from the past.It's not the movie some fans of the newer films may expect it to be. If you never followed the TV show then it will be confusing to understand much of the plot devices, extra characters and their motivations. This is where it fails. Yet even with that, it's hard not to enjoy the anime-style detailed animation, appropriate electronic musical score and respectable voice cast, including a final stoic performance from the late Orson Welles. "}{"Title":"a guilty pleasure at its best it's like HEAVY METAL for kids","Date":"4 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Perhaps it's due to time and perspective, but the Transformers 1986 animated movie is a big breath of fresh air - compared to the Michael Bay films, of course. Yes, this film is noisy and busy and it has a bunch of characters who, if you're not previously familiarized with them, may go by at times in a blur. And actually, no not kidding, there is a Transformer named Blurr by the way, who of course is the fast-talking robot. But besides the point, this is a movie that is very naked about it being from a TV show, itself taken from a line of toys. It's not there to be very deep and doesn't pretend to be, though it has a couple of oddly ballsy moves that I'll get to in a moment. It's there to entertain boys ages 5 to 10. And that isn't one of those trivial points; the age distinction should be listed on the side of the tape like on the side of an action figure or video game console.The plot... oh sheesh. So the Autobots have to fight the Decepticons (duh), and this time there's a, also no kidding, a giant Transformer that is basically a giant, spherical AI that eats planets. Or maybe Unicron IS a planet, or a planet made of artificial intelligence, I don't know, but this thing is coming after, well, everything, and it becomes a thing where even Megatron, the ostensible villain, is groveling at Unicron's, uh, not-feet. So the movie becomes a series of action scenes to string along this thin story, also involving a Transformer named Hot-Rod, who we can kind of distinguish because there's a little boy (the only human I think in the film) who is by its side when an attack happens on Earth.This is thin stuff, but it shouldn't be about the plot, right? The downside of course is that there IS a lot of exposition to get through, not at all times but frequent enough, and while, unlike in the Bay films, I can tell the robots apart visually I got lost when it sometimes came to just remember such-and-such's name. Of course the gaggle of celebrity voices does help things, and some of them are character actors (very memorable ones to boot) Leonard Nimoy, Eric Idle, Judd Nelson, Lionel Stander (ever seen Cul de Sac?), Scatman Crothers and, wait, Casey Kasem was in this too(!) You can remember who some are since they are so distinctive, and Nimoy actually does a really memorable job as Galvatron, the upgrade for Megatron. I think, anyway.The one that makes the film almost notorious in a weird way is Orson Welles. This was the end of the line for the man who started in movies as Charles Foster Effing Kane. It's been said that it's the sort of bottom low for someone of his stature to hit by the (what wasn't known as) the end of his career at the time. And yet, call me crazy, but Unicron was one of the most fascinating parts about the whole movie. Yes, it's a kids movie involving fighting robots in space - and all the better that it barely takes place on Earth - but the concept of a gigantic robot, so massive that it has the impending doom of the Death Star from Star Wars, is a cool and curious piece of intelligent 'what-if'-ness.Though it's ultimately put to use for a 'Transformation' by the climax, I liked the idea that other robots, all robots, and worlds, would have to submit to this giant force, or what's called in psychology and philosophy as the Big Other. It also just looks cool in the movie, and has depths and dimensions and designed parts that make it wholly stand out from most of the Transformer characters, who all have blank faces. At least Unicron, for as much as you might mock the name or its purpose to just consume, is distinctive and fits that out-there, science fiction cum comic book ideal. And Welles, albeit with an added post-production growl to his voice, does the character a deadly kind of presence that works as a performance.If only I could actually care about some of these situations, or if the script was just a little more focused; the section with Optimus Prime early on is the exception, which seems to come as a big 'Oh Wow' moment story-wise - taking out one of your main characters for what one almost assumes could be the end of the movie (all scored to You Got the Touch in epic fashion). It should be noted this was a 'bridge' between seasons 2 and 3 of the show, so this might have been an even bigger deal if one was attached to the cartoon. Just taking the movie on its own terms, it's a fairly bold move - maybe too bold considering the scope of the rest of the production.What else does one remember after the fire and fury of a movie like Transformers? Maybe the Sharktocons (sic) who have an appearance that brings out chuckles? Or how it's unmistakably Eric Idle as the one Transformer with a mustache and, of course, doing improv? Or the soundtrack (80's hair metal glory). A lot of this story is so light that it just barely makes up like three or four episodes connected of what the show would be, and the quality of the animation varies between having genuinely impressive and creative designs and effects, and looking just on level with all the other 80's animation of the period (Ninja Turtles and, to an extent, X-Men come to mind). But here, again, because of how the Transformers are designed, you can't exactly get too wrapped up in any of their features, just their voices. It is what it is, though it carries a certain charm I can never say the new Paramount productions carry. "},{"Title":"I wish is would TRANSFORM into a better film...","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" You know those movie posters full of quotes from 'reputable sources' extolling the virtues of the final product?Well, here's a few for 'Transformers, The Movie'.'A junkyard of creativity''A rusty relic of a bygone era''Destined for the (s)crapheap'The ONE good thing about this merchandise-driven mess is, it's easy to form analogies when you're trying to accurately describe just how bad it is.Here's some less subtle pointers Terrible, dated animation. Non- stop, awful, believe-in-yourself, bilge 'music'. The mind-numbingly tedious, incoherent robo combat. The attempts at 'jokes' which are so bad you'd assume they were satirising awful one-liners. The colour-coded gender divide, so the one and only female Transformer... Is pink. The stone-cold fact that the late, great Orson Welles gave his last performance in it... As a living planet. Yes, really.I confess, I couldn't make it all the way to the end... It was like trying to swim through treacle. No fun, just hard work and increasingly tiresome. But if you want to join the implausible fandom that exists for this tripe, then go ahead. Just count me out.I'd crush, and melt down the thing, meself... 3/10 "},{"Title":"Will always retain a place in the hearts of us children of the 80's","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I was enticed into watching Transformers The Movie after watching an episode of the surprisingly funny The Goldbergs, currently airing for the first time in the UK. In the episode, the physically underdeveloped nerd of the family watches in awe as the movie version of his favourite weekend cartoon plays out across the cinema screen. His face soon turns to sheer horror when his beloved heroes are routinely blown away by the evil Decepticons, and I was immediately transported back in time. Not only does the bespectacled Adam Goldberg (played by Sean Giambrone) remind me of my older brother, but I instantly recalled my own horror at seeing the likes of Ratchet, Ironhide and Prowl being casually blown to pieces.Your enjoyment of Transformers The Movie really depends on whether you roll your eyes or clap your hands like a child at the sound of un-ironic 80's cheese blaring over sketchy animation of giant robots. No will claim that this is a work of high art or even narratively consistent, but if you're even remotely invested in the ensemble of Autobots, the ensuing blood-bath (oil-bath?) will still no doubt be shocking. Characters are dismembered, decapitated and shot execution-style. Casual viewers or newcomers may have trouble distinguishing one Transformer from the next (something that the live-action Michael Bay movies struggle with), but the relentless carnage at least makes for a refreshing experience to the usual child-friendly fare.It also has Unicron, the big bad guy who is so huge he transforms into a planet. Voiced by Orson Welles in one of his last feature films, his operatic, ham-fisted growl combined with that opening tune still has the ability to give me chills. While Unicron commits planetary genocide in the opening moments, Optimus Prime (Peter Cullen) plans an all- out assault on the Decepticons. Prime's opposite number Megatron (Frank Welker) hears of the plans and attacks first, leaving the Autobots scattered and on the defensive. Following an attack on Autobot City, the Autbots flee with Megatron wounded and blasted into outer space. But Unicron wants the Matrix, a talisman of great power currently in the hands of Autobot Ultra Magnus (Robert Stack), and so re-creates Megatron as Galvatron (Leonard Nimoy) to recover it.The narrative consists of little more than one action scene after the next, full of explosions, gun-play, and fan-favourites the Dinobots cracking-wise. While these moments are generally entertaining and lovingly realised, they soon become quite tiresome. When good guy Hot Rod (Judd Nelson) lands on planet Junk and is attacked by the motorcycle-riding natives led by Wreck-Gar (Eric Idle), I just longed for some of them to sit down and have a conversation. This leads to a disappointingly underwhelming climax as Hot Rod, Galvatron and Unicron finally face-off. The animation is rather jittery but incredibly stylish, in a style seemingly lost with modern-day cartoons. I may be nit-picking, but it's only because I believe that Transformers The Movie deserves to be taken seriously, and although it's far from perfect, it will always retain a place in the hearts of us children of the 80's. "},{"Title":"A Golden Age for Cartoons?","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Autobots must stop a colossal planet consuming robot who goes after the Autobot Matrix of Leadership. At the same time, they must defend themselves against an all-out attack from the Decepticons.Yeah, I grew up in the 1980s. I recall the Transformers before Michael bay got his grubby little hands on them. Sure, I was more into Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, He-Man and the Ghost Busters, but I knew the Transformers... especially the big names (like Bumblebee).These were great cartoons and a great time for them. No computer animation, nothing fancy, just great artwork and a story. For some reason this film also has rocking music (and a Weird Al song called Dare to be Stupid that makes no sense in the movie or anywhere else). "},{"Title":"Still the Best Transformers movie","Date":"24 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Transformers The Movie is not only the best Transformers film made still to this day, its also one of the best animated films ever made as well. The animation, voice acting, effects and everything are all top notch, and despite being animated it has something the Michael Bay films do not; heart, soul and a killer soundtrack. Many times during this film I got chills down my spine (which the soundtrack helped with immensely), something that never happened to me in any of the live action films; this has emotional scenes, epic battles, great script despite the sometimes cheesy dialogue, and a very intense main bad guy in Unicron, voiced by the late, great Orson Welles. He makes Unicron completely menacing, and nobody could have done it better in my honest opinion. If you're gonna watch a Transformer film and you can find this one, don't miss out on it, cause you won't regret it! Till All Are One! "},{"Title":"important but only for fans","Date":"28 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It's 2005. Unicron is a planet-sized robot devouring robot planets. The evil Decepticons are in control of their home planet Cybertron while the Autobots try to mount an attack. The Decepticons ambush an Autobot shuttle. The Autobots are drawn into an all-out fight from the Autobot City. Optimus Prime and the Dinobots arrive. Optimus is killed in an ultimate battle with Decepticon leader Megatron. Megatron is severely damaged and Starscream takes over command of the Decepticons. Optimus passes the Autobot Matrix of Leadership to the new leader Ultra Magnus. Megatron is casted off and found by Unicron which transforms him into Galvatron. Galvatron travels back to Cybertron where he destroys Starscream and takes back command of the Decepticons.This is basically the Saturday morning cartoon extended into an hour and a half while killing off a lot of the Autobots. I'm going to be a little bit cynical and a lot realistic. They wanted to get rid of the old characters so that the kids could buy the new toy figures. The story is a mess with very specific goals. It's out with the old and in with the new. The story doesn't flow as much as rambles on and on introducing new characters or new forms of old characters. It's an important film but only for fans of the show. "},{"Title":"Good old-fashioned cheesy '80s fun","Date":"2 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" If the argument can be made that the original Transformers cartoon is about as commercialistic as they come (it surely can), then TRANSFORMERS THE MOVIE is that notion taken to an extreme. To remedy the drop in sales of some of the action figures, Hasbro decided to just kill off those characters on the big screen and make room for new ones. That is some cutthroat boardroom strategy, right there. In any event, we got a decent movie out of it. Or at least a peculiar one. The voice cast is an eyebrow-raiser (Judd Nelson, Leonard Nimoy, Robert Stack, Orson Welles, the Micro Machines guy), but there's at least the heightened production values that are an improvement over the quality of the TV show. And I've grown oddly fond of the movie's soundtrack - awful metal and all &#x96; but it's also got one of my favorite Weird Al songs on it . . . seemingly at random! That tickles me. It's pretty cool, taps into the whole childhood thing pretty well (even with the slaughter of all those non-selling characters) and it doesn't induce nausea like the Bay movies do.7/10 "},{"Title":"...I saw a neon light show with robots clubbing the crap out of each other...","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" And I was a dumb jackass to hurl myself into watching this without seeing any of the Transformers TV series, so what ever I dislike in here story-wise, or whatever ties in to the genre, is only because I'm a stupid bone-head that should have prepared myself in advance.If there is anything I can complain about with out making Grimlock sound like Charles Darwin, it's the voices of some of the more obnoxious characters, in this case, three, two debuting in this film and I think one of them recurring from the TV show. The one I'm guessing is from the TV show, and correct me if I'm wrong, is an auto-bot who's voice box is on fast forward. The other two is some kind of mustachio Australian cowboy road hog bot and a mini bot that thinks he's an imp or a red Leprechaun that rides on Grimlock like a horse. These three are an annoyance to listen to, but fortunately that's the only thing I don't like about them and none of them get on my nerves over anything they do.With my only reasonable complaint out of the way, let me explain the complaints I have that will completely backfire at me; One, Optimus Prime dies even though he has suffered worse in the TV series and could have been regenerated as easily as Ultramagnis by that mustachio Australian cowboy road hog bot and his medics. That backfires on me because then there won't be so much anticipation for Optimus'es resurrection later on in the TV series.Two, some five-headed alien Easter egg randomly tosses other robots into a robot-shark pit that seemed to have no connection with the film. That backfires on me because you are taught more about this five-headed alien robot as being one of the creators of the transformers later on in the TV series.Three, Unicron is a Galactis rip-off. That backfires on me because I am neither familiar with Marvel's Silver Surfer villain and I don't know if Galactis was an original character either.Four, the upgraded Megatron, Galvitron, is Unicron's little pawn. That backfires on me because it's better to be a pawn to a galactic near omnipotent overlord and actually do something than, from what I heard about in Michael Bay's Transformers 4, being a pawn to humans.Fifth and finally, WAY TOO MUCH ACTION for me! You thought Michael Bay's Transformers films were action eye candy, this 80s film alone puts it Them to complete shame! I mean 90% of this entire film is nothing but lasers, explosions, butt chomping, obliterating and socking each other in the face! Even that backfires on me because I am aware that there was also a lot of breaks and buildups in the few episodes I saw in the TV series and if I were to combine the TV series and this film into a one week long mega-film, it would have been evenly balanced. You see, that's what I mean when I say any complaint I have with this film is complete trash! It's as pointless as me saying its soundtrack is an 80s product of the time... Which is why the entire Transformers cartoons exists, for PRODUCTS! In short, I am really stupid to complain about the soundtrack being an ad when that is the entire goal of this feature presentation! Done right, mined you, unlike Space Jam!The only reasons I personally give this flick a 6/10 stars is because of my first impressions, my age of outgrowing this type of mindless mauling and my complete stupidity for biting into this before double checking. If I were a genuine Transformers fan and have seen every series and interpretation, I would have given this a 10/10.For anyone else, this is a film to put on you're TV and place on the wall so the kids and teenagers that dig this trend can go bouncing up and Down on pogo sticks and trampolines while guzzling down Red Bull. "},{"Title":"'One shall stand, one shall fall..'","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This film simply blew me away the first time I saw it. And still does today 20 years later. Right from The opening sequence, to the level of violence between the Decepticons and Autobots (which is totally justified) is spot on. They didn't hold back or try and soften the conflict and it was portrayed superbly. Everything from the soundtrack to the characters, and the dialogue works perfectly. Especially the dialogue which you just wouldn't get in a kids film nowadays. So many good one liners. The speech between Megatron and Prime is just pure brilliance with a fight scene that follows animated to perfection. The voice casting is exceptional and every action sequence is pulled off with such style and finesse. It even has one of the saddest scenes of any film that still makes me teary today. Once very rarely something comes along that just works in every single way...even more. Transformers the movie 1986 is an example of this. I feel privileged to have seen this as a child. Til all are one! ) "},{"Title":"The definition of nostalgia . . .","Date":"21 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I have no way to objectively review this film. It was my absolute favorite movie as a kid and I wore out my VHS copy. Seeing it now as an adult, I cannot see it through anything but child- like eyes and with overwhelming feelings of happy, sweet, nostalgia.Is it a great movie? I am not sure. Is the soundtrack cheesy 80's rock? Maybe. Is it my favorite Transformers movie? Absolutely. Will it always bring a smile to my face? I have one right now just thinking about it.Sure, the animation is wildly inconsistent, going from pretty amazing to laughably bad Sunday Morning cartoon fare from scene to scene. Sure, it can be seen as one big commercial for the future toy products of the series. But none of that matters when you are 8 years old. The Optimus Prime death scene was borderline traumatizing. The film is surprisingly violent by today's standards and outright gutsy in its willingness to kill off series regulars. It held no punches and if you were a kid in the 80's there is no way you can hear You Got the Touch and not smile, picturing Optimus Prime going to town on the Decepticons. This will always be in my top favorites. "}{"Title":"A movie with Transformers that has real emotion","Date":"1 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I recently watched the first of the new Transformers movies and I can honestly say that the best thing in that film was Bernie Mac. 2 and a quarter hours of blowing stuff up isn't a movie.This is a movie. This is a movie that has real heart, real emotion, real themes at its core and one of the best film soundtracks ever. Sure there a bits where it drags a little and you want it to get back to the main action but it all makes sense in the end. This film probably won't make a massive amount of sense to the average 12 year old I must say, but to the 30 somethings amongst us it carries a great deal of our childhoods with it and along with that I feel a massive emotional attachment to it. The film deals with themes such as loyalty, friendship, the transition from youth to adulthood, the acceptance of responsibility, respect for elders, working toward a common goal and much else all backed by a superb 80's soft metal soundtrack composed by the much underrated Stan Bush. The soundtrack is the driving force behind much of the emotion of the movie, watch the scene where Hot Rod becomes Rodimus Prime without The Touch and its nowhere near as effective. Watch Optimus take out the decepticons without The Touch and you won't pull for him. Watch Hot Rod and Kup escape the Sharkticons without Dare playing and it doesn't work as well. This is a movie worth seeing. If only to compare it to the newer rebooted films which are technically superior and have had more spent on the catering for the cast than this movie probably cost to make but don't have the plot lines, heart, story or sheer entertainment value that this 80's throwback does. "},{"Title":"Truly more that meets the Eye","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Even though, i was born in 89, i still somehow grew to love transformers. I used to watch the old cartoons on reruns (now you can watch it on Toonamiaftermath.com) and I loved every bit of it. Now, 13 or so years later, I was able to finally get a copy of this movie and got a chance to watch it. OH MY GOD! This is the best transformers movie (better than the live action ones). The story was awesome, the voice cast was phenomenal. Peter Cullen, Casey Kasem, Judd Nelson, Leonard Nimoy and Orson Welles did a great job. Of course, i'm happy that all my favorites were featured (Cliffjumper and Hot Rod). This was definitely a defining moment for the transformers. In addition, the music was awesome. Stan Bush is freaking amazing. The song, The Touch will never get old. This is definitely one for any fans of the franchise. "},{"Title":"The best Transformer movie","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Including this animated movie and the 3 live action Michael Bay movies from the Transformers universe this is by far the best version of a story about TF. The movie has its cheesy moments but it's what I enjoyed about the TF TV show and toy line of the 1980's when I was a kid. If I knew that Bay would bastardize the series like he has with a bunch of penis, fart jokes, racism and Shia LaBeouf I don't think I would've ever bothered to watch any of his movies about TF.The movie is basically TF trying to transition from their early toy lines with the Optimus Prime and MMegatron eras as the respective leaders of the Autobots and Decepticons to the more updated version with Rodimus Prime and Galvatron being the leaders.They even were able to woo Orson Welles into playing the voice of Unicron. "},{"Title":"The Pros and Cons of this film","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Well I must admit to you all that yes it was interesting and that it was nice to watch. But I'm not here to tell you all a normal review, rather, I'm here to discuss the Pros and Cons of this film, so here goes Pros First thing that I should note is the Production values that went into the making of this film. The Animation, Voices and Music were top notch. The Animation itself is among of, if not, the best Non Disney films from the 80's that I have seen (the only films that I can think of with better animation would be Akira and The Land Before Time) In fact, these three movies surpass Disney quality at times too.Next, Unicron is introduced. That giant, planet-eating robot is introduced here. Along with Galvatron, Cyclonus and Scurge (forgive me if I spelled that wrong). The Villains are much more powerful. Oh and the Quintasons are introduced here too (again, I know I misspelled it).Third of all is the script. It has some good character development in it.And finally, we all knew that Megatron would kill Starscream sooner or Later. Although I'm not saying he's a bad character though.Cons Despite the high quality of the Animation in this film (trust me, I'm not lying when I say it, it moves smoothly and almost surpasses Disney at times). It's loaded with errors like the series. Some aren't that noticeable unless you play the movie frame by frame. While others are incredibly noticeable (Devastator's green chest plate, Hot Rod's two different Transformations and the Credits are most noticeable among them).Blurr and Wheelie were the most annoying characters ever introduced. While the former is tolerable to a point (he'll leave you wondering when will he ever shut up) Wheelie should be burned with Holy water. He makes Robin the Boy wonder look like a cool character (Thank god that Wheelie was changed for RoTF) The Death of Optimus Prime could give kids nightmare and possibly traumatize them for most of their young lives.And the infamous oh Sh*t line said by Spike. Need I say more.Conclusion Good points- Unicron and new Decepticons, High production values, good plot and Starscream dying. Bad points- Blurr & Wheelie, numerous animation errors despite the excellent animation, Optimus dying and Oh Sh*t line.Score 8/10. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest toy commercials ever","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" OK, perhaps one of the greatest U.S. produced animated films of all time... but still a great toy ad.The basic premise behind making the film was to kill off the '84-'85 toy-line and introduce new characters for kids to buy. Deemed 'too violent' a storyline, only a few of the characters were herded and slaughtered, but hard hitting none the less.Parents groups were outraged following the release of the film for it's violence and animated death, to such a degree it even changed the face of it's cousin film 'G.I.JoeThe Movie'. Duke was originally slated an Optimus Prime fate, but later was re-dubbed into a coma.The opening 20 minutes is simply one of the best cartoon battle sequences ever, taking 'JoeTM' opening title sequence into thought as that good too. So much so quickly, you really don't have time to get the perspective the first time.With some great voice work by rather respected actors at the time (including Orson Welles final film credit), the script gets past the grind and keeps pretty brisk. Even if your not a die-hard TF fan, this is still an old school retro kick ass 80's film. Reaching cartoon epic, bring the popcorn and no bathroom breaks. "},{"Title":"Commercial or Movie?","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Transformers movie was made following the second season of the original Transformers series. THis movie is the transition to the third season. Also in a way this film was a great platform to advertise the new toy line that came out.Much of the original cast of characters appear in this film. Optimus Prime, Ratchet, Braun, Prowl, Ironhide, Jazz, Bumblebee, Blaster, Perceptor, CLiffjumper, and Spike are all there to make up the autobot ranks. Megatron, Starscream, Soundwave, Devastator, Blitzwing, Insecticons, and Astrotrain are there as well. However it is somewhat disappointing as many of the autobots and decepticons die in the first half hour of the film. The deaths of many prominent characters (Prime, Ironhide, Ratchet, Prowl, Braun, Starscream, etc) leads to new characters appearing. The only season one and two characters to appear throughout the film are the dinobots.Hot Rod becomes the new key autobot and he is somewhat different than prime in that he is much younger acting, the polar opposite of the mature and experienced prime. Also starring in this film are the war tested Ultra Magnus and Kup. I am all for new characters appearing, but this would have been a greater movie if it was all of the original characters throughout the film, not just in the first half hour.Other new characters that are not favorites of mine are Blurr and Wheelie. BOth are extremely annoying, BLurr talks faster than a guy hosting an auction and Wheelie has to talk in annoying rhyme schemes. (FRIEND FIND, LOOK BEHIND!) Overall the story is pretty good. Cyclonius (Giant planet sized transformer who eats planets to gain energy) is the main protagonist. Cyclonius is a really good villain for this film. He is also responsible for turning Megatron into Galvatron. The story is very similar to Star Wars in lots of ways, not a complete rip off, but there are a lot of parts similar. Cyclonius is like the Death Star going around destroying planets, Hot Rod is like Luke Skywalker going through training gaining experience, Arcee(another new character I forgot to mention) has princess Leia's hair, and Megatron uses a lightsaber like weopon to fight Prime.The music is great. Stan Bush has great songs in The TOuch and Dare playing a great times. Most of the music in the background sounds like music from Rocky Four (Not a coincidence because the same composer worked on both films.) Also there is great action, especially the fight between Prime and Megatron and a great squabble scene involving the decepticons on Astrotrain. Being a Soundwave Fan I was hoping that he would become the new leader.I really feel that the film dies off after the first half hour and most of the original characters are gone. It is not bad, but it does go slightly down hill. Also Galvatron voiced by Leonard Nimoy is not as evil sounding as Frank Welker as Megatron.I do recommend this film though. It is a good animated movie. It is disappointing that so many original character are not seen throughout but whatever. See this movie if you can. "},{"Title":"more than meets the eye","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" well i have to open by saying that this movie is probably the first movie i really remember from my childhood and probably the only one i still love with a passion,it's just that amazing,i mean you have the introduction of some great new characters,the sad deaths of many greats(my heart still breaks every time optimus passes on) and on top of that a great story and a wild adventure.well let's get started on a proper comment about this movie,i'll start with how top notch the animation is,for it's time and even now it's stunning really,i mean obviously some bit's look a little silly now but you kinda forgive it for that seeing how old it is. so really it's a nice movie to look at but not just that,it sounds great! the sound track is a little cheesy in places(you got the touch comes to mind)but the voice acting is excellent and so are the general effects are awesome.the story is fantastic with unicron being the coolest bad guy ever and orson wells really brings him to life and coming in with a close second a revamped megatron as galvatron(with Leonard nimoy doing a fantastically chilling voice for him and right from the get go you get sucked right in and you'll find yourself sad it's over.this is a movie that will never stop being great and if you are a fan of the series i recommend it,i could go on more but i won't,watch it love and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Transformers The Movie... enough said.","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" 21 years later, Transformers The Movie resides in the lists of cult favorites everywhere. Personally, I am one of the biggest G1 Transformers fans out there. Therefore my point of view is probably quite biased. But the fact is this movie has a huge cast of characters and an equally big list of famous actors portraying these characters. Michael Bay's Transformers, as good as it is still does not stack up to the classic film from 1986. If you're any kind of a Transformers fan, you'll find yourself smiling, getting goose bumps and even crying. What makes this movie so good is not just the intensely beautiful animation, great characters but also the dark tone and Vince Dicolas amazing musical score. There are some great lines in this movie and some new characters introduced. These plot details were interwoven to be introduced in episodes in season 3 of the original Transformers series. Nevertheless, the movie never stops being exciting, fun and incredibly enjoyable. This is a very fast 90 minutes and even if you're not a Transformers fan, you'll still enjoy this movie. The movie still has at least as big an emotional impact on me today as it did 21 years ago. It's one film that stands the test of time. As a Transformers fan, it's one of the best movies ever. As a movie critic, it's one hell of a great animated movie. Either way, you must see it at least once. "},{"Title":"You've Got the Touch!","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Many of the official Hollywood critics call this movie, and the cartoon series that complemented it, nothing but a crass commercial for the Hasbro toy line. While that is definitely true, this movie is actually a very decent animated adventure story as well, with superb animation and an excellent voice cast that made the characters come to life.The colors and shades, as well as the character designs, are first rate, which is pretty surprising for an American cartoon movie that is not a part of the following Disney, Don Bluth, or Warner Brothers. The animators realized this film would be a step-up from the syndicated weekday cartoon on TV, and put their best effort into making the richness of the animation cells come alive. The individual frames alone are a work of art. For this alone, the movie deserves praise.The voice actors, a mix of professional voice-over artists and Hollywood actors, also inject significant life into this movie. Veteran cartoon voice-overs, such as Peter Cullen, Frank Welker, and Chris Latta do excellent work as the main characters Optimus Prime, Megatron, and Starscream, respectively. Their energy and emotion imparts clear personalities and color into cartoon characters that would otherwise be moving ads for cheap plastic toys. Many fans fondly remember Cullen's booming, noble, magisterial voice as the heroic Prime; Welker's sinister and raspy tones as Megatron; and, of course, perhaps the most fondly remembered Transformer of them all, the duplicitous, cowardly, sniveling, and crafty Decepticon with the whiny, high-pitched, raspy voice, Latta's inimitable Starscream. Welker also does the voice of one of Soundwave's cassette minions, whose gangster-style accent sounds like a later Welker classic, Bankjob Beagle from Duck Tales. The professional movie actors do well as well. Leonard Nimoy is superb as the reincarnated Megatron, Galvatron, and Robert Stack, of TV's Unsolved Mysteries, is delightful as the noble Autobot lieutenant Ultra Magnus. Legendary Brat Packer Judd Nelson, best known as the annoying record producer with the ugly goatee in Airheads, is actually quite good as the reluctant hero of the film, Rodimus Prime. I cannot be as kind to film giant Orson Welles, in large part because he was extremely reluctant to be a part of this movie, and was very ill when he recorded his voices. Still, the film makers filter his voice through some electronic machine, which transforms Charles Foster Kane into the evil robot-god Unicron. Monty Python fans will love Eric Idle's turn as the goofy, ad-spouting hero Wreck-Gar.On top of the animation and voices, you have a great '80s hair metal soundtrack, with such classics as You've Got the Touch, and Weird Al's Dare to be Stupid. Gen Y-ers nostalgic for their childhood, and possibly a new generation of young children, will adore this gem of cartoon art. This is the first movie I remember watching in theaters, and having seen it twenty-one years later, it still holds up. If you can find it at the video rental store, I highly recommend you watch it. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Transformers was a highly popular TV series in 1984 that had a lot of merchandise like Transformers action figures. In 1986 they decided to do a film of Transformers. Transformers The Movie is a great animated movie, the film does have a lot of guts to kill off some of the main characters. I was kind of surprised when they killed off Optimus Prime since he was the leader of the Autobots. Transformers The Movie does have a nice soundtrack, the Unicron music theme was cool and the song You got the touch is catchy plus you get the Transformers theme song. Orson Welles does the voice of Unicron and Leonard Nimoy does the voice of Galvatron. Transformers The Movie is a nice piece of nostalgia and is a great movie. Check it out. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Still Rocks!","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Transformers was dominating my early school TV cartoons,It was the everyday cartoon cosplay in the breaks between the classes.It helped us boys grow our voice and figure.Everybosy loves the Transforming pulses. and after about 20 years as I started my PhD study I watched the new Transformer movie but I didn't get enough from that because it is a little away the point. And today I get this DVD and I am just in the feeling of a little fuzzy with the staring eyes.It still rocks! I love the pointless shooting, rounded lasers, colorful cubics and the crystal matrix. I love the pointless smiling of the autos after the Prime died and I love the whole thing. do you want to be forever young? take this "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When I was younger (5-8) I loved Transformers, I saw this film for the first time and I totally loved it. For years I could never find it until I found in the basement, I watched it again and this totally re-lite my love for transformers.I liked the music first time I watched it as it was catchy and went well with the scenes. Now every time I listen to music it reminds of those scenes.OK the storyline isn't too great but who says it has to be, it's for the young generation. It's little parts of the storyline what makes the film great, like Starscream being so arrogant and how particular speeches fit the characters so well.I'll continue to love this film until I'm grey and old. "},{"Title":"A true classic; one of the greatest films ever made","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Many people think this movie is terrible because it is a full-length toy commercial or because the lines are over the top and corny. These things are true, but these qualities make this movie great. The lines may be campy and corny, but somehow they fit into the movie. It is a very quotable movie since there are so many one-liners. When a 45 foot tall robot that transforms into a gun says I will crush you with my bare hands! or when Hot Rod says I have nothing but contempt for this court and the shot zooms in on him you can't help but believe that they're serious. Sometimes it seemed like the introduction of new characters would almost be proceeded by ....now on sale for $9.99, but this actually gave a good opportunity to learn each characters name and introduce them.The soundtrack is superb and a tribute to the talents of 1980's musicians. Most of the songs are feel good/pump-up rock music chock full of wailing guitars. The song The Touch was reused in Boogey Nights where it rose to popularity. A little known factoid is that Stan Bush wrote the song specifically for Transformers The Movie. A Weird Al song even makes an appearance, and somehow it fits flawlessly into the movie.The voice acting was excellent as would be expected from the all-star cast (Leonard Nimoy, Orson Welles, Robert Stack, etc...). Leonard Nimoy's voicing of Galvatron is quite memorable, he brings life and charisma to the character that was missing when they brought back the man who voiced Megatron to do Galvatron for Season 3 of the TV show. The voice actors worked with the script and delivered almost every line in a memorable way.Transformers the Movie defies the usual pattern of TV show to movie transfers. Perhaps this is because these kind of movies are just about cashing in, but heck, Transformers the Movie was about a show cashing in on a Hasbro toy line of robots that transform into cars and jets. If a movie about robots fighting to 80's rock music sounds awesome then this movie will not disappoint you. If you're looking for an hour and a half of entertaining one-liners then you will not be disappointed. If you want a movie will good voice acting and character development, then you will not be disappointed. See this movie, you will not be disappointed. You will find, as I have that great movies can be found in places you would never think to look.10/10 stars "},{"Title":"Pretty effective animation that is good for fans and older children despite the obvious weaknesses","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" There's an evil new force in the universe. A monster planet that devours everything in its path&#133;and it's heading for the small planet of Cybertron where a unique race of transforming robots continue to fight a civil war&#133;a war between good and evil that has raged for millions of years. The evil Decepticon Transformers, led by the maniacal Megatron, have sworn to crush their enemies, the Autobots. To this end they have relentlessly pursued them across the galaxy to planet Cybertron to planet Earth and back again. But the heroic Autobot Transformers and their courageous leader Optimus Prime are not easily defeated. By 2005 the Decepticons have conquered the planet of Cybertron but, unknown to them, the Autobots are hidden on two of Cybertron's moons preparing to retake the planet.Years ago I used to read the weekly comic book (and did so until it finished in issue 330 or whatever) and also had a box of the toys. As I got older I forgot all about it and sadly all the comics and toys went the way of the jumble sale &#150; a charitable type of sale before E-Bay made shopkeepers of us all. With the news of a big budget version due next year I decided to revisit this one to remind myself what it was all about. I surprised myself by how much I remembered and how hearing the names of the characters brought back a lot of the old stories to me (specifically Soundwave, Blaster, Bumblebee and others). To some degree these waves of memory and nostalgia helped me get into the story despite, after a powerful opening, an ambling establishing approach. The plot was also familiar to me so I assume that it was from the comic series or the movie was just coming back to me.Assuming familiarity with the characters to be a given to some degree, the plot is actually pretty engaging, with plenty of deaths, action and good (for the time) animation. Although it does not have a real depth or complexity for adults it is very good for children &#150; colourful and engaging but with a real dark edge. Fans of the Transformers will lap it up of course but it isn't solid enough for the casual adult viewer to get into &#150; although maybe the remake could change all that? The voice cast is quite impressive and it is a shame that the material doesn't give them a lot to work with in regards characterisation. It is a shame in a way that this was Welles' and Scatman Crothers' final film but it does make it a curiosity if nothing else. Some of the voices annoyed me (the Dinobots were far too simple) but people like Nimoy, Stack and Kasem all have the sort of voices that suit the metallic delivery. Conversely Idle doesn't work at all while Welker is mixed (good in some roles but irritating as Wheelie). The animation is impressive throughout even if it does feel rather quaint now.Overall then a reasonably effective film for children and Transformer fans. The plot sees plenty going on while the animation is mostly very good. The pop music has dated it and takes away from the dark edge that it has. Not perfect then but considering some of the sh1t that benefits from 80's nostalgia cool, this is actually worth a look. "},{"Title":"fantastic to watch despite inconsistencies","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" In one word, the movie is fantastic. It is enjoyable to watch over and over. My only regrets are as follows. There is no transition from the series into the movie. How were the Decepticons able to finally take control of Cybertron (in the introduction), since in the series the Autobots prevailed in every episode? The movie opens with the valiant Autobots planning to retake Cybertron from the treacherous Decepticons. The series showed that the Autobots severed almost all ties with Cybertron and only the Decepticons sought to return with their energon fuel to revitalize the planet; that is why Shockwave remained as the sole Decepticon on Cybertron. Hence the question - Who is the aggressor here as the Decepticons' attack on the Autobots was preemptive to prevent the Autobots in their mission? (It was, however, sad to see some of these Autobots actually die, since in the episodes they would only get injured, but in the movie...., but this was symbolic, especially when evolution and change needs to be explained to a younger audience.) The fight between Megatron and Optimus could have been better. Megatron's wounds would not truly reflect the damage inflicted upon him. Furthermore, I never understood why the Decepticons retreated following the fight between Megatron and Optimus. I also never understood why the Decepticons alone never had the capability of eliminating Unicron; why only the Autobots, especially, since the Decepticons were willing to combine forces to overcome a common foe? If you can put some of these inconsistencies or intangibles aside (there are others), the movie is fantastic and I still enjoy watching it today. "},{"Title":"What a voice over cast!!!","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Transformers were the in thing when I was growing up. Always had intelligent story lines and great characters. The action was always there too. I remember waiting eagerly for the movie to come out on video When it did I got my copy and watched it endlessly. No change in the characters. This is one show that never produced silly out of this world stories, and was usually about the Transformers themselves. This film was brave, killing off the number one Autobot in the first half hour of the film!! The movie was superb animation and the guest voices were worth the price of the DVD alone. Introducing all new likable characters was pleasing too. Anyone slating this film must be mad!! The follow up TV series was pretty good. But it just couldn't compare to the original show. I'm eagerly awaiting the 2007 cinema release of Transformers "},{"Title":"Long Live TF!","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Having been a while since last watching Transformers (about 11 years), finding that my friend had the movie on DVD (the cleaned up, remastered US version) was just one excuse to revive memories of Saturday morning TV with a huge bowl of dry cereal. Watching the movie really made my week; the arrogance of Starscream, the harshness of Megatron's voice,and of course Prime! What a bot! A love was rekindled as Blurr hyper-talked his way through his lines, and as for the finale Wow, i tell you what, wow! The memorable quotes are great, the soundtrack fantastic, and any self-respecting TF fan should add this to their collection, unless you already have it, of course! "},{"Title":"Transformers the MOVIE indeed.","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" One of the advantages that a movie has over a TV show (especially one that takes place 20 years into the future in 2005 AKA last year.), is that you are able to get away with things more. Like I don't know... The Death of Optimus Prime!!!!(Which by the way was a slow death, least compared to the others.)In fact, a bunch of characters from the original transformers series die in this movie (Ironhide, Starscream,Etc.). Another surprise in this film is the amount of celebrity(Judd Nelson, Eric Idle, and Leonard Nimoy are some.) lending their voices, or at least what's left of that's still recognizable. Who would predict this would be Orson Welles' last film? As a Planet-sized robot which eats other planets (cooler than it sounds.) And to top it off, one of the characters said the S word. Strangely enough, the plot of this movie sounds a bit like when the fantastic4 first meet the Silver Surfer and Galactus (You comic nerds should know what I'm talking about.). But it doesn't matter, since I found the movie quite enjoyable. It's a matine for regular viewers, but for the fans, It's GREAT! Unfortunately, I'm more of a regular, so I say 7/10. Can't wait for the Live action one, though. "},{"Title":"More than meets the eye indeed!","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" There are so many positive things that could be said about not only the Transformers movie, but about the series. I relate Transformers to everything that was good about my childhood. No matter how bad things were, I could always count on words of wisdom from Optimus Prime, some cynical remarks from Springer, and of course the usual self-serving antics from everybody's favorite backstabber Starscream. Each day I would come home from elementary school (I was probably 6 years old when the series debuted) turn on the television and be whisked away to the far off reaches of the galaxy.I regret that I wasn't able to see Transformers The Movie at the theater. Being from rural Kentucky we only had one cinema and unfortunately Transformers didn't draw enough interest to be shown on the big screen. I saw it several months later on VHS, but it was definitely worth the wait. The plot is fairly rudimentary (good vs. evil), but there is so much more to Transformers. It was definitely the cartoon for intelligent children. I never truly appreciated the complexity of the series until I got older. How many shows of this genre have dealt with topics such as death? The concept of death is sometimes difficult for an adult to fully grasp, let alone the children who were the target audience. In the movie we witness the demise of some of the most popular characters in the franchise (although this was likely done to usher in the season 3 bots). I do believe that the death scenes hurt the overall success of the movie and the subsequent Season 3, but were very necessary elements to the film. I mean c'mon the Autobots and Decepticons were AT WAR! How many wars have ended without casualties? The series wasn't quite as graphic, but often times Optimus Prime was faced with very difficult decisions (Watch The Ultimate Doom for instance).The animation in the film is superb...as is the soundtrack. With the exception of Dare to Be Stupid there isn't a weak song in the movie. Leonard Nimoy pulls off an amazing voice characterization as Galvatron and I was also pleased as usual with Peter Cullen as Prime, the late Chris Latta as Starscream, and the legendary Frank Welker as Megatron (among others).The only quarrels I have with the movie would be the dance scene with the Junkions (while their friends are being gobbled up by a gigantic moon-gobbling planet), and the introduction of Blurr and Wheelie. In a perfect world they would have been fed to the Sharkticons ). The introduction of the matrix of leadership seemed to come out of thin air. It was never mentioned in the series, but seemed to be the Autobot Ark of the Covenant. I suppose it was always understood to be there and was just never mentioned.My Transformer biased nature aside, I think this movie is one that everybody should check out at least once. Whether or not you're a transfan it's still rather entertaining. I only hope the big budget live action version due out next summer will be half as good. 10/10 and worth owning on DVD! "},{"Title":"New movie and sound FX....","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Does anyone know how they made the sound fx for this show? Vocal patches and some cool stuff I am sure, but does anyone know exactly what was used? Also, I have noticed that a lot of the Sound FX were ports from the Star Wars sound bank. Did they get permission to use those, or were they purchased? Thanks! Hope the new movie rocks!BTW, watching the old show on DVD really brings back some memories of my youth. I only had one toy, but the TV show was entertaining enough.The theme song still makes me excited. Ahh...The good old days. "}{"Title":"Epic tale of good and evil","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie changed my life, having seen it at first at the age of 8 or something, I have now easily seen it over a 1000 times.The animation on a cartoon has never been better this beats Manga time and time again. The voices are like in the series awesome. The music is mind blowing, I've never heard a better soundtrack, Rock's gonna last for ever!!! And of course you have the epic battles of Optimus vs Megatron and Hotrod vs Galvatron. Everything you want from Transformers is in there...lets hope the upcoming real life movie lives up to this one.The only two reasons I give the movie a nine are because of the Death of Optimus Prime and the missing of a lot of 2nd Season characters like the Combaticons.For the rest A+ "},{"Title":"I still love it","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I always remembered this movie took place in 2005, so now that it is 2005, I had to buy it and watch it again. The story and characters hold up well, and the animation is very well done. This was before computer animation took hold, so the fact that everything looks so good is saying a lot. What really struck me watching it today is the colors, the very bright 1980's colors that are stunning to look at, and the mechanical world of the backgrounds is stunning as well.Watching it now I can really pick out Judd Nelson's voice. Lionel Stander, the voice of Kup, has a very familiar voice, but I have not seen any other movies he's done. I suppose I recognize him from childhood as the voice of Kup. I can kind of pick out Orson Welles as Unicron, although it is not as clean as his voice usually is. Maybe the technology changed it or his age affected it. But who else could voice the larger-than-life figure of a monster planet. (insert your own Orson Welles weight joke here) I used to worship the soundtrack. Today the songs are cheesy even by 80's standards, but I still like them. The sound effects of the movie stand out as well. Mechanical robots, lasers, explosions, almost as detailed as sound for animation today. This is all more than a nostalgia trip, this movie is really good. Now suddenly I'm hungering for the DVD's of the TV show. "},{"Title":"Megatron? Is that you?... Here's a hint! BLAM!","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Make no mistake. This movie traumatized me. I mean, I must've been about eleven when this came out in the theaters and they start the movie off with an unflinching slaughter of many of the robots who were there at the beginning of the series. To top it off, Optimus Prime, beloved leader of the Autobots, gets murdered by his arch nemesis as well! I left the theater in a state of shock and while I didn't sob hysterically like others have admitted, I did have to hold the tears back.Watching the movie again recently, I was surprised at how much of the film still holds up, in terms of its sheer savagery. I mean, just having that slaughter of the Autobots at the beginning with Megatron shooting Ironhide point blank in the face with his bazooka is enough to make any 80's kid wince. I remember watching this and thinking, They didn't kill each other in the cartoons! What the hell is this? There are a few great moments in the film and the first half of the film is classic material with loads of action and some great fights between both factions. The voice over work is very well done with lots of celebrities contributing like Leonard Nimoy, Judd Nelson and Robert Stack, among others. The music is actually OK, considering that most of it is 80's hair metal. Lion's reworking of the Transformers theme is a nice rendition. I think the best thing I could say about the movie is that they really took advantage of the PG rating to deliver as much sadistic behavior between these robots as possible than they could with the TV series. They even said the word s**t at one point! Sadly, the movie has also become pretty dated and some of it is actually unbearable (The whole thing with the Junkicons dancing to Weird Al Yankovic's Dare to be Stupid is mind-boggling in how awful it is). The animation is clunky and several of the new characters (mainly the Autobots, though I loved Galvatron and his new cronies) that are introduced aren't terribly interesting, save for Unicron who I always found absolutely terrifying. Also, and this complaint goes back to when I first viewed it, we don't get to spend enough time with the old Autobots. The new guys were like I said before, not all that interesting.After the movie, I never really enjoyed Transformers as much as I did before then. Yeah, Optimus Prime came back at one point to retake leadership of the Autobots but I guess I just outgrew the whole thing. One thing I can say is that Starscream's death in the film made for an interesting little episode afterward where his ghost returned to possess a few of the Decepticons. My memory is a little hazy on that one but I remember it being pretty creepy.Naturally, I'd recommend this movie more for the kids than I would the adults. I think anyone over the age of eleven watching this for the first time would find this to be pretty cheesy. This one is definitely for the younger audience and I think it'd be a good idea to let the youth of today in on what classic after school entertainment was like twenty (has it already been that long?) years ago. For me, it's a nice throwback to my youth. Like I mentioned earlier, the movie hasn't aged very well but there are still plenty of things to enjoy about it.After all is said and done (and it makes me laugh to admit it), the scene where The Touch starts playing and Optimus Prime flies up into the sky, transforms into his robot self and proceeds to shoot down all the Decepticons in his way still gives me the chills.RATING ***1/2 out of *****.PS We might as well enjoy this before the live action version directed by Michael Bay comes out. After Pearl Harbor, who knows if it'll be even watchable? "},{"Title":"Have a go","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I must admit, I don't remember much of the series from my childhood - but this feature length movie has always stuck with me.Why? Well, the good guys get such a battering, and things are really bad. I suppose it was the first time I saw a cartoon that not everthing goes the good guys way!Watching it recently, the animation is now quite dated, the the quirky and dark essence still remains, making it a must watch for anyone with more than a passing interest in those robots in disguise!Alex "},{"Title":"A little space rock nostalgia","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I recently bought this film on DVD, and it's just as awesome to me as it was when I saw it in the theatre back in the 80's.  Admittedly, the dialogue seems cheesy now that I am older, but still it's not exactly the Transformers that younger children would expect.  It's level of violence is way over the top for a children's franchise, and there are some quite disturbing scenes, such as smoke pouring out of Ironhide's face as he gets killed and Transformers being digested inside Unicron.Speaking of Unicron, Orson Welles was perfect!  Unicron easily made me pee in my pants and tremble when I first saw him.The animation is typical 80's era, and at times spacecraft move around a little jerky (like in the introduction when Unicron approaches the first planet).  The music and atmosphere is reminiscent of Heavy Metal, which makes me wonder if the writers were inspired in some way by that film. The computer-like effects are really trippy, like the warp hole sequence near the beginning and the sequence when Megatron becomes Galvatron.The most surprising feature of this movie is the inclusion of two words of profanity.  The first occurrence is Spike saying Oh, Sh**!  What do we do now?, and the second is Ultra Magnus saying Open!  Dammit, open!!This is definitely Transformers the way I want to remember them.  A brutal all out no holds barred cage match as opposed to the goofy watered down Transformers of today. "},{"Title":"Basically just the best animated movie based on a tv series to make it to the big screen!","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie at the time was practically perfect.  Although their were some flaws, the movie itself was way ahead of it's time.  Since there is not much for me to say good that has not already been said , i'll try and focus on the little things I thought otherwise dissapointing.  First i think i'd like to list the flaws.1.)Why is devastator the only giant(gestalt) robot in the  film.  By the time the movie came out, the series had produced several other more popular giant(gestalt) robotsSuperion,bruticus,Menasor are just examples but there were more albeit powerful gestalts at that time.  Not to say I don't like devastator, because he was the first, and my alltime favorite so it's good to see him get credit in the movie, but for him to be the only gestalt in the movie was ridicoulous.  They could have at least thrown in his main rival Omega supreme(non-gestalt i think).  But instead we get to see him pick apart the dino-bots.  Like we have not seen that one before in the cartoon series.  Gestalts were the second coolest thing about the caroon series in general up to that point after Optimus Prime himself.  So for fans to get only the one gestalt who gets pummeled by rumble and frenzy later on in the movie is just retarded, and makes the movie look inconsistent just a tad bit.2.)The end of the movie was rushed.  I'll tell you why I know this. Unicron in his robot mode is a hell of a lot smaller than in his planet eating form. Several autobots are seen propelling themselves out of his right eye in the end.  A good comparison would be myself jumping out of the statue of liberty's right eye.  Mind you the statue of liberty is a giant statue standing on a very big planet earth.  If unicron is planetary(earth/cybertron) size why then can we see the autobots crashing through his eye?  They should big like microsized nothings to his eye.  At least that's what I think. Another problem is with the autobots in general attacking unicron from the outside.  The dinots breathe fire/laser beams on his butt, and he feels it, and tries to swat them in that area.  It's just not feasable to think a planetary sized unicron would feel anything like this at all.  Even at the age of 11 when I first saw the movie I was questioning this stuff.  The only explanation I can think of is that unicron like megatron can make himself larger in his non robot mode.  You notice in the cartoon series megatron could transform into a gun which could be big enough for a transformer to use, or if he wanted small enough for a human to use also.  This would clear things up about the whole unicron size issue for me at least.Well all in all it was a great great great animated film.  The best ever released in america to date.  Yes Yes it was even better than the lion king. I can say that with confidence since the animation at the time TTM came out was way ahead of it's time.  Lion king's animation was right on time for when it came out, but not wayyyy ahead.   "},{"Title":"The greatest  cartoon spin off movie ever made!","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  From the opening scene of Unicron devouring a planet of robots similar to that of cybertron home of the transformers to the cheesy (but awesome) soundtrack Transformers is everything that made eighties films so kickass the threat Of Unicron  genuinely seemed scary to a seven year old and I still enjoy watching it today. Who can forget the song the touch if you've seen the film? 10/10 AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  (contains spoilers)I've loved this movie since I first saw it over a decade ago; the fact that I hadn't seen it in at least nine years until I bought the DVD made the movie even more memorable.  The voice acting is incredible (Orson Welles, Leonard Nimoy, Lionel Stander,etc.), the soundtrack is great, and the animation is better than a lot of stuff today, imho.Despite the animation errors, deaths of the original characters (Optimus Prime, Starscream, Megatron, etc.), and any other gripes, this movie will always be a classic to me. "},{"Title":"One of my beloved Childhood films.","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This has to be one of my most favorite childhood movies of all time.  I am 21 and I still enjoy this film.  I have it on DVD.  The music was top notch. The battles were great.  Spike even said. Oh s***!  What are we gonna do now?I loved it!I remember seing this film in the threaters as child.  I still have my Transformers move sound track also.  The Classic Transformers shall never die...Mr. Stander was a great voice actor for Kup, as well for Orsen Wells doing Unicron.Too bad that Optimus Prime died.  That was one of the most tratic deaths of a hero in a film I have seen.  This ranks up with the Gi Joe Movie.My nephews love this movie also.  I hope they release a 20th anniversery edtion of this great film.Planet Eaters will steal your souls! "},{"Title":"One of the best animated films of all time.","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I loved this as a kid, and still love it now. My 5 year old son even loves it. It featured new characters at the time it came out, as well as the death of one the greatest. A rocking soundtrack to boot. Great cast of vioces in this one to. I highly recommend it to any animation fan out there. "}{"Title":"Some Spoilers Ahead","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's hard to really picture who thought up this movie.  What adult decides to make a movie that kills off a bunch of robots?  I mean, since when can robots die?  However, in case somebody criticizes the creation of the matrix they should remember or be reminded that there was a being called Vector Sigma that created all the Transformers.   It was a big sphere that spoke.  Unicron is one of the best creations in the series, a meglomaniac transformer planet.  I like all the transformers that were created in this, except I don't know why they didn't stretch the first version of the show out 3-4 years before making a movie.  I guess it was all about the toy revenue.  And yet they come out with these new ones on their own for one year only before they made the headmasters and targetmasters that they hardly used on TV.  Transformers are the neatest toys ever and they have always brought a smile to my face.  They remind me of the happiest moments in my life.  As for this movie, rent it but I can't promise that you'll want to keep it, even for kids.  It will seem very absurd to alot of people that robots could die. "},{"Title":"Robots, rock & roll, and destruction","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What more could you want?When you look at the Transformers movie, it's astounding how many barriers it broke.  An all-star cast with the likes of Robert Stack, Leonard Nimoy, and the legendary Orson Welles.But it's not only that.  The Transformers actually had the guts to take a wildly succcessful franchise and throw a total monkeywrench into it by killing many of the favorite characters and introducing all new ones.  It didn't prove to be a wildly successful strategy, but you've got to admire them for going for it instead of letting the whole thing go stale.The movie also had the courage to use profanity, feature fairly graphic deaths (for a kid's movie), and introduce one of the most terrifying and evil characters in animated history  Unicron.The Transformers movie surpasses the series in every way.  More colors, better animation, deeper story, more plot twists, and better voice acting.  In a world of ultra politically correct animation out there, Transformers is a perfect movie for 10-13 year old boys who are too old for Disney but not quite ready for rated R.  Since I have such a fondness for the characters, it's difficult for me to say if this is really a quality movie if you don't care about Transformers.  All I know is I still love watching it to this day and am convinced it's the best feature length animated film in existence.  Even if you don't take it that far, you have to appreciate the risks it takes and how it writes its own rules instead of following convention.  Awesome, awesome movie. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Autobot of them all Optimus Prime Will Return!","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What can I say about this movie that hasn't already been said, I saw the movie back in 1986 when I was around about 6 or 7 and I remember seeing the adverts on the TV about it an being really excited about going to see it, and I was not disappointed at all.Along with G.I. Joe The Movie this is probably my favorite cartoon movie of all time, don't listen to what the critics of 1986 said about this film, it is not a star wars rip off, it was conceived in the epic tradition of Star Wars but did not steal the plot of it, it's a great movie to show your kids or watch with friends of the same time period as you that remember the series.If only Transformers Armada's pilot episode had been written as well and animated as good as this movie was.You have great voice actors such as Michale Bell, Frank Welker, Peter Cullen who all have great performances in the movie and then you have big stars like Leonard Mr Spock Nimoy as Galvatron and the man himself Orson Welles as Unicron, and other great actors like Judd Nelson as Hot Rod, Lionel Stander as Kup and Eric Idle as Wreck Gar.10/10 for this movie, I can't wait for the new live action movie to come out, I just hope it's a good as this one was. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  movie was great, had lots of action, new characters, great ending.  This movie has some sadness for kids who watched the cartoon episodes, that eventually made transformers lose their appeal to there audience. I could watch this over and over again  i would recommend it to anyone who has watched robot cartoons in the past and present  or to any kids who like cartoons in general, Plus i am trans fan. Hope fully they will come out with a new movie  or the rumors about a live action movie will be true.  "},{"Title":"oh sh**, what're we gonna do now?!","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  great characters. great one-liners. great soundtrack/score. great movie.still watchable after almost 20 years...through 80's consumerism tinted glasses.and yes, the title above is actually a line from a kid's movie. "},{"Title":"thoroughly enjoyable full-length toy-commercial, now a cult classic.","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Aaahh, that Transformers Movie. Considering I own 2 versions of The Movie on DVD, and with a new, 2-disc edition in the works, it must have something going for it, right?Sure it has. Although it bombed faster than a fundamentalist plane-hijacker on speed when it was released in cinemas, it was actually quite a succes on video. An odd 17 years later, the DVD's keep flying off the shelves. The fact that the Transformers franchise is once again enjoying big-time popularity nowadays has nothing to do with the some new kind of 1980's 'revival' going on(in fact, ever since 'Beast Wars' revitalised the whole franchise in oh.. 1996?) Transformers has enjoyed ever- increasing success as a toyline with a fine anime series to support it. The comics continue to sell through the roof.Anyway, on with the review. I've seen a lot of anime, and that includes most Miyazaki films, epics like 'Wings of Honneamise' and 'Grave of the Fireflies', and the 'Evangelion' series, all of which I consider cutting edge animation classics, regardless of genre (be it live- action or animation). This movie cannot seriously be considered a 'classic' film, it's somewhat silly in places, has some blatant animation errors, but more importantly it is too confined because of its content (in essence it's a 90- minute toy commercial). But, it's undeniable that this is an absolute cult- favorite.The Generation 1 cartoon series was certainly groundbreaking in that it revolutionised the storytelling for production-line animation (despite the occasional silly episode, a lot of serious themes were tackled, something pretty new to American network animation at that time..), and it had the most wonderful voicecast one could possibly hope for. So in that respect, the series was professionally handled, and thankfully this was carried over to The Movie. Yes, it leaves a lot to be desired in terms of plot, but the animation was top-notch at the time, and still holds up pretty well. The instrumental score by keyboard wiz Vince DiCola is great too, and fits the action/packed scenes like a glove. The acting is, as always, fantastic.The story is basically just a re-hash of the original StarWars movie, and somewhat weak, but there's so much going on that it does not really matter anyway. Character development is rather poorely handled, but for people familiar with the tv-series that shouldn't be too big of a problem. And, while some scenes are pretty neatly directed, like the Optimus/Megatron shredfest, which has a lot of pace, other scenes are less well-handled. But still, despite all the flaws and plotholes, it is one of the most rewatchtable movies I have ever seen, and has tons of memorable one-liners. Highly recommended for anime and sci/fi fans in need of a solid and nostalgic, though somewhat superficial animation fix.score 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Before Transformers Armada, before Robots In Disguise (yuk!), before Beast Machines, before all four versions of Beast Wars (Beast Wars Neo, Beast Wars Metals, Beast Wars Metals, and Beast Wars), and before Genreration 2, there was Generation 1. This story is classic, sure there are some errors and plot holes, but the story and it's classic moments are...classic. This is the ORIGINAL Optimus Prime. If you like the recent TF shows, you'll love this.Rated PG for animated violence and for Ultra Magnus's yell of Open....d*mmit open! "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Before Transformers Armada, before Robots In Disguise (yuk!), before Beast Machines, before all four versions of Beast Wars (Beast Wars Neo, Beast Wars Metals, Beast Wars Metals, and Beast Wars), and before Genreration 2, there was Generation 1. This story is classic, sure there are some errors and plot holes, but the story and it's classic moments are...classic. This is the ORIGINAL Optimus Prime. If you like the recent TF shows, you'll love this.Rated PG for animated violence and for Ultra Magnus's yell of Open....d*ammit open! "},{"Title":"Great music, story and the best Transformers Movie","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is really cool like the series. I downloaded it from my KaZaA a couple of months ago and this movie has knocked my feet down. I was so excited by such a great movie, drinking soda and eating popcorn like if I was in the movies, I was really crying when my favorite character died.My brother saw it in the movies and he was also teart eyed when the best character died. I say the best character because I don't wanna spoil the movie for those people who haven't seen the movie yet.It's a great movie. "},{"Title":"This movie lacked something","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great movie.  All the way through, awesome movie - but it just needed ten more minutes of explanation.  The biggest problem?  The complete and total lack of the mention of Primus.  That's where the biggest plot hole is Who is Unicron, where does he come from and why does he want to destroy Cybertron and the Matrix so badly?  The comic book deals with this better than the series ever did.  In fact, the comic book is best in most respects, as it didn't kill off mass quantities of transformers, although some seemed to just show up at random.  (Like Goldbug)  Anywho, for anyone who watches the movie, learn this about Unicron In the beginning of time, there were a whole bunch of Gods, and a lot of the weaker ones got killed.  Unicron lingered, though, and like most other gods, he was able to transform into a planet.  Well, he and Primus (another God) got into a huge fight until something momentous happened and they were torn apart.  At this point Primus transformed into his planet and Unicron into his.  Primus' planet? Cybertron.  (Makes it a whole lot easier to understand why Unicron is so angry at Cybertron, doesn't it?)  Anywho, Primus created the matrix and the autobots as a defense, while Unicron created the Decpeticons to do his bidding, which was to destroy the autobots so that Primus' defenses would be destroyed.  And instead of killing off all the cool autobots, they could have merely sent them to the center of Cybertron (where Primus' head lives) and made the autobots upgrade as Megatron did into Galvatron.  A lot easier, simpler to understand, and Ratchet and Windcharger don't just whirl off into space forever.  But, really, that's just how I wanted to see it done. Otherwise, this movie was possibly the greatest animated film of all time. Hell, it was.  Even if you dont love Transformers, give it a watch. You'll enjoy it, from the voices to the music to the cryptic messages that are just so rampant in movies that continue a series. "}{"Title":"Great animation flick...Too many errors","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Let me start by saying this is a great film from the eighties.  I remember being a huge fan of Transformers, Voltron, and G.I. Joe as a kid.  I had all the toys.  I remember going with a friend, Michael Cochran in Mississippi, to the theater to see it.  I remember being horrified as the characters were knocked off one by one.  That was 1986.Now it is 2003, and I am 27 years old.  Yes I just bought the DVD.  I couldn't believe all the mistakes!  How can you leave a dinobot, who had big parts in the film, out of it except for a brief second. Thats has to be the biggest mistake in the film.  There are many others, but this is the biggest injustice of all.Another thing, I do not think Ultra Magnus should have been revived. Prime was killed off, so why was this soldier brought back?Back to my thoughts on the film.  I really, really still like it overall. I do not like that style of music, but it fits the film.  Regardless of the errors, this is a great film to see for the whole family.  I would like to see a more modern remake with all the mistakes corrected.  How can one of the more successful cartoon series of the mid eighties have so many mishaps in their big movie debut?  One can only wonder, but one thing is for certain.  Killing off all those characters spelled doom for the series later on.  I remember it starting off ok, but eventually, I lost interest.  I think killing all the good characters off had something to do with it.  It could have lasted a lot longer. "},{"Title":"A classic film, the birth of Anime..","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I first got a copy of this film in 1987 when I was 5 years old.  I now own it on dvd and it's still a brilliant film, an impressive voice cast, an excellent script backed by some 80s metal music.  You can't get any better, it's a pity the Transformers tv series couldn't have been this good.In my view Transformers was the original Anime and is still a great film even if you're not an Anime nut.  A must see! 9/10. "},{"Title":"Best Movie EVER!  For Real.","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  No fooling around here, no lying or facetious commentary --THIS IS THE BEST MOVIE EVER.Well, one of them, at least, right up there with Conan and Hellraiser 2 and Star Trek 2 The Wrath of Khan (yeah, that's right) -- movies that kick a## and don't bother to worry about whiny questions like 'why did that happen?', or 'that's just a two hour excuse for a toy commercial' . . . Well, it IS actually that last one, but what a  Commercial!  I saw this when I was seven and I don't remember blinking through the entire thing.  I doremember crying a lot, though.  And when I discussed it with my second grade friends later, the only word we could come up with to describe it was 'massive'.  Yes.  Massive indeed.  That word was never again used by my 'posse' after that, a sign of dignified respect.  Ask any male age 18-27 maybe (women to a lesser extent, but sure, lots too) about the movie and they'll probably sum it up with one word -- Sweet.Now, I tend to get very angry when I see these 'new' transformers the kids have nowadays . . . so lame.  And why did they have to cross-breed such greatness with the crapulence known as Pokemon?  Now, really, would you ever hear a Pokemon ever say any of the following lines to one another?I've got better things to do today than die! Why throw away your life so recklessly? -- That's a question you should ask yourself, Megatron! Spare me this mockery of justice! Let the slaughter commence! Die, Autobots! I'll tear out your optics!All right, so Megatron has the lion's share of good lines in the film, but . . . all of them are good!  Like when Prime says, Megatron must be stopped.  No matter the cost. And then proceeds to dispose of several decepticons straight vehicular-manslaughter style (to the wonderful accompaniment of 'The Touch'!), and then leaps into the air and dispenses mighty  . . . well, I tend to get too excited about this film.  As you can see.And there are so many great scenes, played out perfectly as kids wanted to see them (and the scenes don't age), such as when Starscream says How does it feel, mighty Megatron? and then proceeds to kick his dying body and leave him to rot!  That's so excellent!  And it has Citizen Kane himself, yo, as Unicron!  How much better can you get?And the music?  It's absolutely perfect.  I own the soundtrack.  Yes, that's right.  I own it.  And love it -- except for one song, which most people probably skip too . . . too emotional.  This music out-metals Heavy Metal and Heavy Metal 2000 combined and heaped together with, well, almost any other movie soundtrack.Yeah, sure, maybe the animation isn't all that good, for the eighties or beyond, but who cares?  And sure there are plot holes aplenty, but, wha? Who cares?!  If you focus on these it's either in retrospect, and easily dismissed, or beacuse by hating the movie because of them you believe you can prove how cool you are.  And the violence -- well, life is violent, yo. And who doesn't love, somewhere in their soul, seeing Starscream take Megatron straight gangsta style and cap all those autobots?  Sure, maybe that whole 'execution' scene was a little much, but it sure left me knowing what to expect from the rest of the film. And the Sharkticon scenes (Guilty - or - innocent?  Innocent!)? And the entry of the Dinobots - who knew that the simple utterance of 'Excuse me' could be so thrilling?Know this -- though it might be a toy commercial, and an excuse to introduce a whole new line of toys, it never once treats kids as too dumb (look at recent movies, yo!  How do they treat their 'adult' audiences? Like the Core?  Come on now.) and if it has a fault in that, it sometimes treats them as too adult. And remember . . . Prime does come back in the series and does something almost unspeakably cool to a certain lamewad 'new' transformer . . . but nuff said.Pan Cakes give it his full 40-shots of Jagermeister seal of approval! "},{"Title":"I'ts a great film, just watch it.","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Following on from the popular children's television series, Transformers has been re-released and is back by popular demand and on DVD.  Featuring the star voices of such legends as Eric Idle of Monty Pythons Flying Circus, Orson Welles,director and star of Citizen Kane and Leonard Nimoy who plays Spock  Star Trek (TOS).  The movie has been re-released to coincide with the release of the television series now on DVD and the new television series that is being broadcast. Speaking as a fan of the television show, its about time!People who were there when it was first released and have been wanting the film can now get hold of it easily and people who don't know about the greatest of Transformers are now made aware.  And maybe I'm slightly biased towards this film because I'm a big fan of anime and cartoon series' but I think its great.It begins with the decepticons (bad guys) planning an all out attack on the autobots (good guys).  They battle and the leader of the autobots Optimus Prime is badly damaged but before he dies or shuts down, I'm not sure, his gives to his second in command the matrix, it is said that the matrix will light their darkest hour. But the decepticons are not the only force to be dealt with there is a planet sized enemy which devours all that stands in its way and its heading towards Cybertron, but with Megatron also under its power the planet is a force to be reckoned with. Transformers has a fantastic soundtrack, its cheesy but its good because of this it fits in with with the film and the themes of the film, (which is basically goodies have more heart and are better than baddies) perfectly, most of the songs are performed by Stan Bush whose vocal stlye again is perfect for the film. The animation is smooth and is the same as in the television series, more characters are introduced and the older characters developed or evolved, its a good length and offers everything you could ask for in a movie made of this now cult television series. If you remember the televion series from when you were a kid and you want to revisit your childhood its excellent or if you have kids and think that kids television shows were better when you were a nipper get it for your kids.  Also if you love big mechs or just want to watch a fun movie its all there for you, enjoy.  "},{"Title":"You Got the Touch.","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The whole purpose of this film was to push a line of toys for kids to buy, hence the decision to kill off a bunch of old characters and introduce a bunch of new ones.  So, Optimus Prime and all the other OG transformers go to the big junkyard in the sky in this film, to make way for a new line of characters to fill toy store shelves at Christmas time.  G.I. Joe did the same thing around 1987, or so, when they introduced Serpentor and all the `Cobra-la' B.S.  Neither show, sadly, was really the same afterwards. Or, maybe I just got older and stopped watching cartoons.As for the plot, there really isn't one.  What story there is revolves around control of the Transformers' Matrix (What is the Matrix?  The movie never really explains.  It just looks like a big disco ball that rises up out of Optimus Prime's chest after he dies).  The movie mostly 90 minutes of non-stop action, set to a bunch of 80s background music, reminiscent of the rock music accompaniment in the classic animated movie `Heavy Metal.' However, Heavy Metal's soundtrack actually enhanced the film, while in the Transformers, the music just sucks.  Songs are included by Weird Al Yankovic and the classic `The Touch' (the original, however, not Dirk Diggler's version, although in some ways that would actually sound better).Overall, it's worth watching if you saw it as a kid.  The DVD is good quality, but doesn't have any extras worth noting.  "},{"Title":"wow","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The DVD brought back a lot of memories, first animated movie I cried for -and the last one too ... reminds me off how incredibly sad I was when my mother erased the VHS the movie was on. Optimus Prime dying was such a sad moment, and it was represented very touchingly (the color fading, the music, daniel weeping on his dead body, ...) + the seemingly easy slaughter of key figures like Ratchet, Brawn, Prowl, Windcharger, ... was quite shocking (like the scene in the ark where Starscream pretty much blasts them so shreds with Megatron in gun-mode, and then seeing the smoke coming out of their mouths and eyes like with Ratchet). It's like a lot of people say the movie was pretty dark and tragic on some moments (what also 'got me' were the lines of transformers going over the boiling 'kettle' of some kind of plasma inside Unicron and then mercilessly being dropped in to feed Unicron's enormous hunger for energy). Apart from that the music was amazing ... makes you want to sing (or scream) along, just so rocking. Animation was superb (for its time) and definitely superior to all previous animated movies, and even to a lot of later animated movies. Unicron looked sooo cool, and the scenes where he eats planets like the moonbases, w00t! I give this movie a straight 10 ... not a doubt about that, it was 1 of my favorite movies of all times, and it still is. Transform and roll out! "},{"Title":"Until All are One.","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First off, I'd like to begin with saying that I am a collector of the Transformers toys and they've always been a very big part of my life. That being said.. it's true, I'm partial.. but, hey, I'm also somewhat of an expert. Anyways, I'll try to keep my review as factual as I possibly can. But I'm not guaranteeing anything. The Transformers movie was unique in many ways. It had a major impact on toy-to-movie lines. More directly on the GI Joe movie, but also, for a movie based on a toy line, it stayed true to the idea that a movie about war is going to have some violence in it. So, the movie scores realism points. The movie also had very good animation for a mid eighties movie. Most assuredly superior to that of the Transformers cartoon. So that was a plus as well. Also, the movie featured a great caliber of actors. Leonard Nimoy, Judd Nelson, Robert Stack, Orson Welles, and the Not-quite-as-brave as Sir Lancelot, Eric Idle. All performed exceptionally, in my opinion. Another high point of this movie was that it stayed true to the Transformer toys... Many characters were included, and not so many were left out. However, one may wonder why there are characters from the 1984-85, and 1987 series of Transformers... what about the ArialBots and Predacons?! The reason behind this is that the 1987 characters in the Trans Movie were made for the movie, and the toys modeled after them. Like Blurr, HotRod, Kup and Galvatron. Since the movie was in production during 1985 to 1986, the majority of '86 characters were not included. Aside from leaving out the 1986 figures, much to the regret of many fans, lots of Decepticons and Autobots meet their fates in the movie. There is, however, a reason behind this. Hasbro.. the toy company who made both lines, had a major say in what characters to use(what toys to make) and what characters to kill off (i.e. older figures not available anymore, that's why Starscream gets it, Chris). It is also why Optimus Prime dies in the movie, which in itself made changes in the GI Joe movie. Duke, a main character in GI Joe, was supposed to be killed in their movie; however the Death of Optimus Prime had such a negative impact on the Transformer movie turnout that Hasbro and the movie producers quickly changed the end of GI Joe to make Duke live. Doesn't sound good that they killed off the characters for toys, I know, but the movies plot makes up for it. They're covered up and play into the realism of the war based movie. All and all the Transformers Movie is a great movie to take a look at. And between myself and all the other big screen + surround sound owners, buy the DVD. Go ahead... splurge, it's worth it... besides, you get to hear the human character Spike say a naughty word. Heck, if I were about to get eaten up by a giant monster planet, I'd probably say worse. "},{"Title":"The series compared to the movie","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  **Contains spoilers**My mom took me to see this movie when I was 8. And seeing this movie now on DVD 16yrs later brings back a lot of memories. First I just want to say that this is one of the best animated movies I have ever seen. There was not one dull moment in this movie. From beginning to end, nothing but action. This movie had a lot of surprises and really deviated from the television series. The Decepticons were really powerful in this movie. The series usually portrayed them as weak but here in the movie they were a force to be reckoned with. Like wise with the Autobots in this movie, they seemed pretty weak. I found it interesting how Optimus Prime single handedly defeated all the Decepticons during the battle on the Autobot base on Earth. However, him dying was the biggest surprise of the the movie. It did occur to me that the Junkions could have repaired him just like they did Ultra magnus. Nevertheless, the scene was quite sad.I really would have liked to have known the origins of Unicron. I mean, he was never mentioned in the series. It was obvious that he himself was a transformer created by someone. Where did he come from? Why did he want to destroy the autobot matrix of leadership all of a sudden? I must say, him transforming was one of the high points in the movie. Later in the series they try to bring Unicron back with the floating head begging any drifters to get him a body. I think he even brought back Starscream who turns on him.Anyway, I enjoyed the movie. The soundtrack was awesome and I highly reccomend this movie. "},{"Title":"First of it's kind","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the first animated movie that was based on a popular animated TV show and the first film that tapped the subject of death. WE know that in the TV screen the Autobots and The Decepticons get hit by intense firepower but they're alright and manage to stand up but in this film we see them blown to bits like Starscream or Ironhide.Although the film has flaws on the technical side but the plot is way excellent. I hope someone should produce a Special improved edition of this animated film, it deserves an overhaul and remastered in THX and DTS surround. The critics are wrong about this film maybe it's way ahead of it's time, Stan Bush and Vince DiCola's music really fits the film it gives the heroes and the viewers a sense of hope especially when the most darkest hours are present, Orson Welles did a good job in his final performance as Unicron despite not completed entirely.Lastly this is the first animated film that made me cry. "},{"Title":"They're cars, but they turn into robots!!","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My lord, what an absolutely brilliant idea. The main characters in this film actually look like various kinds of automobiles that were popular in the eighties, but wait - there is more to it! These seemingly ordinary vehicles can actually transform themselves into sentient robots, and powerful ones too. That's why they call themselves Transormers you see, because they trans-form.Leaving aside the relevant merits of this film for just one moment, it occured to me that this is a brilliant idea for a child's toy. Assuming it were technically possible, imagine being able to purchase a toy for your young male child that could trans-form from a car to a heavily armed robot and back again. And for the girlies? We could have a pony/bear/mobile kitchen/hairbrush that trans-forms into a robot - with lasers. Two toys in one - brilliant! And a surefire money spinner for a forward thinking toy manufacturer.Oh the film? Yes it was very good but I wouldn't recommend it for children. Too dark and tragic you see. But with some clever marketing, a toned-down TV series perhaps, I can easily see this trans-former thing turning into a cult. "}{"Title":"Very good. Excellent music.","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm a huge fan of animated movies. And this was a true highlight of all my years of moviewatching. The animation is exceptional, the story is wellwritten and stays true to the legend of the transformers. The casting of voiceactors is equally good, with just a few dragdowns.And the music. Wow. Pompous hair metal at it's best. Stan Bush and his associates prove that they were the era's absolute no.1's.This gets a 8,5/10. "},{"Title":"Childhood favourite...","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Hmmm - so hard to be objective.SPOILER****My brothers and I would rent this movie on a WEEKLY basis for a period of around two years and would literally know it off by heart.  I well remember that when we first saw Optimus Prime pass on that my little brother had to leave the room, he was sobbing so hard...THE GOOD  The back and forth between some of the characters - especially Kup and Hot Rod; the soundtrack ('Dare' and 'The Touch' were MADE to be in movies like this); Orson Welles, in his last screen role; the guts to show kids that in real life heroes get hurt and die;THE BAD  Well, Wheelie gets REALLY annoying, REALLY quickly; there are plotholes that even an 8-year-old (ie. a younger me) could drive a truck through; losing everyone's favourite sneaky henchman in Starscream.Really, this review is moderately pointless - if you weren't a child of that era, you won't be hunting down bargain bins for this movie.  If it provokes a warm glow in you, like it does me, more power to you! "},{"Title":"Male bonding without the weeping","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A friend once commented that all his male friends love TtM, but no women did. Duh! So what if it's a 90-minute toy commercial with a deafening rock score?  This is a GUY movie. The horrors of war contrasted with the importance of fighting for freedom, the power of courage and integrity, an ancient relic you carry as a heart, a villain that EATS PLANETS (!), and let's not forget ...when all Hell's breaking loose, you'll be right in the eye of the storm. This is one big, bad, manly movie.  "},{"Title":"Kick Ass!!!!!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Transformers The Movie is the best animated movie ever. All I have to say to all Transformers fans out there Keep doing what you are doing, 80's cartoons still kick ass. I will give this classic cartoon a 10 out of 10.Cheers AncientHydra "},{"Title":"Too sad.","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"     I don't remember much of this movie except that lots of the great characters from the show got killed in it and I was pretty upset about that, and still am!  I am a girl (born in '77) and I loved Transformers almost as much as my brother did.. we used to watch the show together and enjoyed it immensely.. and then one time they aired this movie, and I <hated> it!   I cried a lot when Optimus Prime and the others died-- they were the main characters and the heart of the show, and I was never able to get into the new generation of transformers that came afterward.  It's a shame they decided to kill them-- I think it contributed to the end of the Transformers' Dynasty in the 80s.. because nobody likes to have their heart ripped out and trampled like that.  And then I vaguely remember this weird part where their disembodied heads were floating around through space, and there were some little bitty robots living inside them... And that just added insult to injury.  I would like to meet these writers who decide to kill off beloved characters... maybe all of them had their father die or something when they were little and they want to revisit that pain on other people-- Whatever the reason, it is <not> cool and usually does nothing but detract from the viewing experience of a movie or TV show.  Optimus Prime was the BEST.. he was like the ultimate father figure.. Very smart and caring but also brave and dedicated to goodness and defeating evil-- he was the embodiment of the autobots' cause.  Real Life is tough enough, y' know?  Kids have enough to cope with, what with homework, parents and everyone else telling them what to do, never having enough money for candy and having no means to earn more, fighting with siblings over toys and clothes and everything else because there's never enough to go around, and then one day their  parents will divorce or their dog or cat will get hit by a car and that will scar them for life... Really, the last thing they need is a bunch of avant garde cartoon writers to decide that their favorite Transformer character has to die.  And <I> don't need it NOW, either!  What, it's not sufficient that I have to worry about bills, car accidents, wrinkles and cancer?  I mean isn't life hard enough without having optional tragedies like Optimus Prime's death befalling us?  movies should be just realistic enough to be taken seriously, but happy enough to give us hope that our own lives could end so well.  This movie really depressed me.  I'll stick to the TV show. "},{"Title":"Too sad.","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"     I don't remember much of this movie except that lots of the great characters from the show got killed in it and I was pretty upset about that, and still am!  I am a girl (born in '77) and I loved Transformers almost as much as my brother did.. we used to watch the show together and enjoyed it immensely.. and then one time they aired this movie, and I <hated> it!   I cried a lot when Optimus Prime and the others died-- they were the main characters and the heart of the show, and I was never able to get into the new generation of transformers that came afterward.  It's a shame they decided to kill them-- I think it contributed to the end of the Transformers' Dynasty in the 80s.. because nobody likes to have their heart ripped out and trampled like that.  And then I vaguely remember this weird part where their disembodied heads were floating around through space, and there were some little bitty robots living inside them... And that just added insult to injury.  I would like to meet these writers who decide to kill off beloved characters... maybe all of them had their father die or something when they were little and they want to revisit that pain on other people-- Whatever the reason, it is <not> cool and usually does nothing but detract from the viewing experience of a movie or TV show.  Optimus Prime was the BEST.. he was like the ultimate father figure.. Very smart and caring but also brave and dedicated to goodness and defeating evil-- he was the embodiment of the autobots' cause.  Real Life is tough enough, y' know?  Kids have enough to cope with, what with homework, parents and everyone else telling them what to do, never having enough money for candy and having no means to earn more, fighting with siblings over toys and clothes and everything else because there's never enough to go around, and then one day their  parents will divorce or their dog or cat will get hit by a car and that will scar them for life... Really, the last thing they need is a bunch of avant garde cartoon writers to decide that their favorite Transformer character has to die.  And <I> don't need it NOW, either!  What, it's not sufficient that I have to worry about bills, car accidents, wrinkles and cancer?  I mean isn't life hard enough without having optional tragedies like Optimus Prime's death befalling us?  movies should be just realistic enough to be taken seriously, but happy enough to give us hope that our own lives could end so well.  This Movie really depressed me.  I'll stick to the TV show. "},{"Title":"A diamond in the rough","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'll admit, there were a lot of crappy kids shows in the 80's. The Transformers was not one of them. The intensity and adventure of the movie only reinforced the fact that Transformers, along with Dennis Miller and U2, is the best thing the 80's gave us. The story is pretty straight forward, and maybe even a little predictable, but dammit, you believe in it despite that. The fact that this movie holds up over 15 years after its release is a testament to what kind of a breakthrough for American animation it SHOULD have been. "},{"Title":"More Than Meets the Eye indeed!","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  *May Contain SPOILERS*     There are so many positive things that could be said about not only the Transformers movie, but also about the series. I always relate Transformers to everything that was good about my childhood. No matter how bad things were, I could always count on words of wisdom from Optimus Prime, some cynical remarks from Springer, and of course the usual self-serving antics from everybody's favorite backstabber Starscream. Each day I would come home from elementary school (I was probably 6 years old when the series debuted) turn on the television and be whisked away to the far off reaches of the galaxy.      I regret that I wasn't able to see Transformers The Movie at the theater. Being from rural Kentucky we only had one cinema and unfortunately Transformers didn't draw enough interest to be shown on the big screen. I saw it several months later on VHS, but it was definitely worth the wait. The plot is fairly rudimentary (good vs. evil), but there is so much more to Transformers. It was definitely the cartoon for intelligent children. I never truly appreciated the complexity of the series until I got older. How many shows of this genre have dealt with topics such as death? The concept of death is sometimes difficult for an adult to fully grasp, let alone the children who were the target audience. In the movie we witness the demise of some of the most popular characters in the franchise (although this was likely done to usher in the season 3 bots). I do believe that the death scenes hurt the overall success of the movie and the subsequent Season 3, but we're very necessary elements to the film. I mean c'mon the Autobots and Decepticons were AT WAR! How many wars have ended without casulties? The series wasn't quite as graphic, but often times Optimus Prime was faced with very difficult decisions (Watch The Ultimate Doom for instance).     The animation in the film is superb...as is the soundtrack. With the exception of Dare to Be Stupid there isn't a weak song in the movie. Leonard Nimoy pulls off an amazing voice charactrization as Galvatron and I was also pleased as usual with Peter Cullen as Prime, the late Chris Latta as Starscream, and the legendary Frank Welker as Megatron (among others).     The only quarrels I have with the movie would be the dance scene with the Junkions (while their friends are being gobbled up by a gigantic moon-gobbling planet), and the introduction of Blurr and Wheelie. In a perfect world they would have been fed to the Sharkticons ). The introduction of the matrix of leadership seemed to come out of thin air. It was never mentioned in the series, but seemed to be the Autobot Ark of the Covenant. I suppose it was always understood to be there and was just never mentioned.     My Transformer biased nature aside, I think this movie is one that everybody should check out at least once. Whether or not you're a transfan or not, it's still rather entertaining. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Nostalgia can be really quite deceptive","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Like many overgrown kids with too much disposable income I have found myself drawn back in a minor way towards the Pokemon of my youth. And what an underwhelming experience it has turned out to be. Of the many irritating aspects of this film the most grating is the constant use of transition breaks which flash up the transformers logo. (Talk about overt product placement). Although the inclusion of the naff 80's song You've got the Touch provided some unintentional hilarity, as it reminded me of how Boogie Nights used the same tune to send up the 80's. If there's anything I've learned from Transformers the Movie its that sometimes the fondly remembered past really is best left forgotten. "},{"Title":"For A True Fan","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Before you read this review, be forewarned that there are some spoilers in here, but if you don't know much of anything about the original TV series, then it really won't matter, and they aren't that big of spoilers.Anyhow, on with the review.  First thing I have to say is that this is an odd movie.  I say this because it was obviously made for Transformer fans, yet they kill off most of the major characters in the TV show.  Although, in some cases this is a good thing (I was happy to see Starscream go).This movie isn't any kind of major animation feat, but it's still cool, and a bit better than the TV show.  I kind of doubt anyone is watching this movie for animation value anyway.  Even so, there are some really cool things to see in the film, and some really detailed scenes that have some awesome animation.As for story-line, it is actually pretty good.  A little bizarre with the whole Matrix of Leadership deal, and it really isn't explained very well, but c'mon, it's Transformers.  The characters are well done as well.  I was very glad to see Grimlock and most of the other dino-bots in the film. ...And while I'm talking about Dino-bots...Where was Snarl (Stegosaurus)?  They had Grimlock, Slag, Sludge, and Swoop, but no Snarl!  What was the deal with that?One major problem I had with the film is the soundtrack.  I'm sure it was cool at the time, but I think it would have been better if they just had some original score.  Also, why oh why did they put a Weird Al Yankovic song in there (Dare To Be Stupid)?  I like Weird Al, he's got some really funny music, and I think he's very talented, but that song just doesn't belong in there.There really isn't a whole lot else to say about the movie.  It's a great movie for a true fan of the Transformers.  Hopefully even a non-fan would appreciate it.  I have a dream that some day someone will make a live-action/CG Transformers Movie, but I'm not going to hold my breath.  I hope you enjoy the film as much as I do.  Thanks for reading.-Chris "}{"Title":"Best animated film EVER.","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Over fifteen years after I went to see this movie in the theater as a young man, it still stands as my favorite animated movie. The animation was way beyond it's time, and the soundtrack was so cool I still listen to it on a monthly basis.Transformers the movie took the story and characters onto a whole new level, unafraid of drastic change and extreme revamping. This Epic film launched Transformers from one of the greatest Saturday morning cartoons to one of the greatest things to come out of the 1980's.If you are a new fan of these robots in disguise do not miss this consummate piece of Transformer history. "},{"Title":"Not much to say except....","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was eight years old and loved it. Sixteen years later, I've bought the DVD and still share the same passion each time I watch it. The Autobots were my all time heros when I was a kid. This film is definitely recommended to all fans of the G1 Transformers series. 10/10.Arise, Rodimus Prime. - Optimus Prime "},{"Title":"SUPER MOVIE WITH EXCELLENT ANIMATION","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really do think the 1980's were the best period ever for cartoons. Today's cartoon series are not very good in my opinion but in the 80's we had classics such as Transformers, G.I. Joe, He-Man, Thundercats etc.You just had to love Transformers the Movie. What's not to like about robots that can change into all sorts of things? This was a very serious film but it was still a film that could be enjoyed by kids as well.The action was superb, the animation was top notch and the script was just fantastic. And I believe that Transformers the Movie is a film that could probably be enjoyed by today's audiences without looking dated.Classic action-they don't make them like this any more. "},{"Title":"Even after 16 years, it still rocks!","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I first saw this movie in theaters opening night 16 years ago, as a 13 year old. I immediately fell in love with it. Not hard to do considering how much I loved the toys and original series. Now, I still have toys and the special edition video of the movie, and still love it very much. And it's just not about me anymore, because I've gotten my three-year-old DAUGHTER hooked on Transformers now! Anyone who tries to trash talk this movie has no clue what being a kid or having a great sense of imagination were ever about! Seeing it again with my daughter gave a rebirth to another part of my childhood long ago forgotten. "},{"Title":"A classic...","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I sat down to watch this film, I wasn't expecting it to be any good, and I didn't have a a clear memory of the series- only that I liked it when I was young. However, once the film started I was pleasantly surprised. There is a definite influence from Star Wars, (the opening sequence with a scrolling blue script moving backwards into 'space', the ship that looks surprisingly like the 'Death Star', and Unicron's deep breaths between some speeches- ie. Darth Vader). The plot is almost non-existent, but this is essentially a kids film, so who needs one. All the Transformers was ever about was Autobots vs. Deceptacons. And this film delivers some fantastic action scenes, many set to a brilliant '80s sound-track. An important character dies in one such spectacular battle, but the shock is soon compensated by yet more action scenes, and some very funny characters. Eric Idle's Wreck-Gar is hilarious, always reciting lines from adverts that he's seen on Earth-TV Yes friends, act now, destroy Unicron. Kill the Grand Poobah. Eliminate even the toughest stain! Big surprises on the cast list are Orson Welles as Unicron, and Leonard Nimoy as Galvatron. If you love Transformers, then you'll love this film. A Classic. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"what a classic!","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is for all intents and purposes the pinnacle of the transformers series.It had the edge that the series itself sorely needed anyone who doesn't like this probably didnt like transformers the series either.The animation is top-notch the story is excellent,if you like or have ever liked the transformers then you should love transformers the movie if not then you shouldnt be watching it in the first place.  10/10 "},{"Title":"A Real American Hero!","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Boo hoo hoo, why can't the robots just get along!Everyone knows that GI Joe is the REAL 80s money cartoon show. I tried to watch the Transformers movie all the way through, but... yeesh! You can almost feel your brain turning into pudding just sitting there.Hey, Autobots! I know how to beat these mean ol' decepticons! Let's TRANSFORM into cars! That'll show 'em!Forget Orson Welles and Leonard Nimoy. Transformer fans, I have two words for you Sgt Slaughter. If that ramblin' man-beast isn't around to yell a lot and whomp some COBRA kiester, then I'm not interested.Plus, GI Joe had all the babes! Lady Jane, Scarlett, and the Baroness. Meee-ow! What do the Transformers have? That yellow VW bug robot that just ACTS like a girl. Phooey.Transformers the cartoon and the movie were just made to sell toys. GI Joe was about the bond between soldiers and the horrors of war on the human spirit. And water safety, don't forget about that. Knowing's half the battle! Yo Joe!I still gave this movie a 6, though. I don't want any of you angry Transformer fans to get out of your mom's basement and bludgeon me to death with a fire truck robot made out of cheap Chinese plastic.Oh yeah... and if Optimus Prime is still looking for his matrix, you can tell him that Duke and the other boys over at Joe headquarters are playing racketball with it! YO JOE! "},{"Title":"Transform & Roll OUT!","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This for me was a real treat for me to watch again for old times sake.It was great to re-visit this movie after a long period of absence from not being able to watch the movie at all till now. Since watching X-men back in summer 2000 I began to recall a lot of classic sci-fi films from the 80's. I'm just glad this was one of them.  . .It was great to remember most of the characters from the series, however some PLONKER had already spoilt it that the Great Optimus Prime unfortunately gets killed by one Megatron (bastard) during there epic fight. And yes I'll admit it, I did burst into tears seeing such a great character dissapear before us. It's no wonder it left many youngsters feeling rather traumatised, my only concern was to who would take his place?The slight dissapointment for me about the movie though was a sing and dance routine with the autobots and Junkions during Ultra Magnus's restoration. Put on the plus side, the movie was also slightly tragic seeing most of the original characters making a breif appearance or otherwise being killed off (i.e. Starscream, Ironhide) in order for newer characters to merge.Hats off to Orson Welles' performance as the menacing Unicron and Judd Nelson's voicing of of Hotrod. It was a shame that Megatron was left alive only to be reformed as Galavatron. But I feel was left rather haunted since Prime's demise on;y to have him pass his powers to another young autobot.Overall, a brilliant film with a couple of minor flaws.8/10 "},{"Title":"Transform & Roll OUT!","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This for me was a real treat for me to watch again for old times sake.It was great to re-visit this movie after a long period of absence from not being able to watch the movie at all till now. Since watching X-men back in summer 2000 I began to recall a lot of classic sci-fi films from the 80's. I'm just glad this was one of them.  . .It was great to remember most of the characters from the series, however some PLONKER had already spoilt it that the Great Optimus Prime unfortunately gets killed by one Megatron (b**tard) during there epic fight. And yes I'll admit it, I did burst into tears seeing such a great character dissapear before us. It's no wonder it left many youngsters feeling rather traumatised, my only concern was to who would take his place?The slight dissapointment for me about the movie though was a sing and dance routine with the autobots and Junkions during Ultra Magnus's restoration. Put on the plus side, the movie was also slightly tragic seeing most of the original characters making a breif appearance or otherwise being killed off (i.e. Starscream, Ironhide) in order for newer characters to merge.Hats off to Orson Welles' performance as the menacing Unicron and Judd Nelson's voicing of of Hotrod. It was a shame that Megatron was left alive only to be reformed as Galavatron. But I feel was left rather haunted since Prime's demise on;y to have him pass his powers to another young autobot.Overall, a brilliant film with a couple of minor flaws.8/10 "},{"Title":"Transformers is an awesome movie!","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie really beats the series, in my opinion. Being a movie, they can be more free to what they show. The movie is much darker, complex, and sinister than the series. ***SPOILERS*** Many Autobots are killed, showing the evil of the Decepticons. Starscream (my fav character) shows his true hatred for Megatron, and dumps him out into space. As someone else mentioned, it contains many quotable lines. First we crack the shell-- then we crack the nuts inside! Sure they use profanity, but tastefully. The animation is top-notch, in my opinion.This movie is rather violent compared to the series, as so many Autobots die, and Starscream even shoots his foot to get out of a serious predicament.Also, the Chinese-like gang of robots the Autobots meet up with are neat. They learned to speak English through television, and their speech is cluttered with advertisement-like jumbo. ie- We repair your friends good as new! 90 day warantee! or We destroy Unicron, removes all toughest stains!10/10. "}{"Title":"The series was a lot better","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was a big fan of the series back in the day. I just recently saw the movie for the first time, and boy was it lame! All the classic transformers we love get killed or pushed to the side in favor of the newer ones that weren't that great.  The Soundtrack is wall to wall cheesy 80s pop songs. Weird Al Yankovich's Dare To Be Stupid is even used for one scene! Seriously, a Weird Al song! The story was a little weak. Little hard to follow at times. Skip this, and watch the original series! "},{"Title":"Only the BEST animated film of all time.","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Okay.  I am not going to give any spoilers.  I am only going to talk about the way this movie makes me feel. Back in the early to mid eighties, I was the biggest Transformers fan there was.  I still am.  I watched the series. I collected what toys I could, (being very poor). And I lived Transformers.  Every episode, I was there, glued to the tv.  Optimus Prime was always my favorite.Well, I regret not being able to see this in theaters(because of the aforementioned poverty) and for many years I had all but forgotten about Transformers.  When I was in college however, one of my friends brought it over, and there we were, about seven college guys, glued to the screen, talking and reminiscing about being little kids again.  Since then, I have fallen in love with the Transformers all over again. Sure, the movie had it's flaws, but they were endearing ones. ^Alert! Possible spoiler here^ (guess I will give one, but if you have read any of the previous comments, you probably know this already)  When Optimus Prime dies, I cry.  Every time.  I don't personally think that he should have died, but maybe that's cause I'm biased. Other people have said this, but it bear repeating.  This is better than anything today.  I don't consider this Anime.  I have nothing against anime, but it gets really stupid when people fall over if someone says something to them.  And huge sweatdrops?  c'mon.  But this movie doesn't have that.  This is just action, humor, and amazing things in it.  This is one of only a handful of movies that I consider magic.  That may sound weird, but try to follow me.  I think that if a movie elicits as much feeling and emotion as this one does for me, then it can qualify as magic. Every time I see the movie, I am living in the Transformers universe, and I am a six year-old again.  Today's cartoons, with all their anime elements, and focus on less violence/more childish things, just can't hold a candle to the Transformers.  GI Joe came close, but nothing beats the Transformers. I get shivers when Optimus Prime says Autobots, Transform, and roll out!.Anyway, I doubt that anyone will read this, but If so, Transformers the Movie is my favorite movie of all time.  If you haven't seen it, do so. Now.  If you have, I think you know what I mean.  "},{"Title":"Better than one might think...","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I watched the original series on television when I was younger and it was undoubtedly one of my favorite TV shows, but I had never seen the movie until recently when I got the chance to see it on DVD. And I must say that it surprised me.The animation in the series wasn't all that good, but here the animation almost equals Manga. The characters were nicely drawn and so were the backgrounds and the explosions. All in all you can't fault this movie for it's visuals. The plot wasn't all that good, but who really expects this kind of movie to have a good plot anyway.If you liked the television series then this movie is a must see, not only because it fills in some of the gaps in the series (like what happened to Optimus Prime and Megatron), but because it's non-stop action all the way. And it also has a great soundtrack. "},{"Title":"A true classic!!! (contains spoilers)","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  To be honest, as a kid I was never really into Transformers, I liked it but I was never really into it.  After reading numerous reviews of the movie, I became interested in seeing it.  When I bought a DVD Player, this was the first movie I popped in.  Let me say, I was not dissapointed.  This was a terrific movie. The movie itself focuses on the never-ending battle between the Autobots and the Deceptacons with a new menace thown in.  The movie starts out with Unicron (the new menace) eating up a nearby planet.  After the movies credits end, we see Laserbeak flying by into the autobots headquarters. Then were introduced to ole Optimus Prime himself.  He has a couple of Autobots make a run to earth to get som energon.  Cut to the Decepacons who find out about the plan.  After that, Megatron and the other Deceptacons begin an all-out attack.  This is where were're introduced to many of the new 'bots, like Ultra Magnus, Hot Rod, and the annoying Wheelie (who shows up later).  Things get so bad they call Prime for help.  He finnaly arrives, mows down a couple of Deceptacons and has a kick-a** one on one deul with Megatron.  Both warriors are severly wounded and the deceptacons retreat. Meanwhile Optimus is on his death bed and passes the Matrix of leadership to Ultra Magnus.  Then Prime tearfully passes away.  Meanwhile Starscream gets rid of Megatron along with some other wounded Deceptacons.  Soon after Unicron finds Megatron and Co. and gives them new bodies.  Now called Galvatron, he Immediatly goes back to Cyberton and destroys Starscream. Unicron proceeds to swollow up the Moon Bases along with Jazz (my favorite Transformer), Cliffjmper, Bumblebee, and Spike (using the famous S word). Back on Earth the other Autobots decide to go after Unicron while being chased by Galvatron and the oter Deceptacons.  The rest is all history. Let me just say although I liked the movie what I didn't like was how they killed off a lot of the original Autobots (Ironhide, Brawn, ect.).  The New Autobots aren't as good as the originals.  Plus Megatron was a much better leader than Galvatron.  I also din't like Spike's annoying son Daniel. Aside from the flaws, this is still one of my favorite movies and I have no regrets buying it. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies of all time!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I dearly remember watching Transformers on tv when I was young. Sadly I never saw the movie on the big screen. I saw later when i bought a VHS copy in the late 80's. When I learned that they were re-releasing it on DVD i went out and purchased it immediately. As I watched I began to remember lines from the movie and before I knew it I was able to quote almost everyline in the movie. I agree that in any other movie killing off the main characters in the beginning would have been dumb but in this movie it works well. And the fact that it stuck so religiously to the story line of the whole TF universe is an added plus. Of course if you've never seen Transformers before you'll get confused. But for those die hard fans out there it's great. One other thing I'd like to add. Any of you remember the 2 part Return of Optimus Prime episode they did? Well originally that was slated to be a second Transfomers movie. Do you think they should have done it as a movie or does it work better as a 2 parter? "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was never much of a Transformers fan when I was younger, so I never thought this movie would be anything special. I was completely wrong.This movie has everything a good animated picture needs. An excellent story, good animation, fitting music and impressive voice actors. I was especially satisfied with Orson Welles as Unicron, and Eric Idle really takes his role seriously.Although this is your typical tale of a group of heroes who have to save the universe, it does a lot better, thanks to all its good sides. 8/10, and, as mentioned, I'm not even a fan. This is a movie for everyone. "},{"Title":"A nice finish for Transformers.","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I enjoyed how Megatron finally met his match. Something else bigger and more destructive than the Decepticons was bound to arrive.Which makes this movie a legend for the Transformers series.Although it wasn't the end of the series (which I believe it would have been fine had it been), it jumped up to the level of any sci-fi thriller movie that is popular today. Nothing can beat animated robots fighting in anime style. This movie reaches up with the new Gundam Wing series.I used to watch Transformers whenever I could, but I hardly got the chance to see the original. I saw some of Beast Wars, which was kind of a step backward in Transformers, and I've seen enough of Transformers 2000 to know that it is entirely focused on entertaining little kids.Not this movie. It focuses on all ages. It does not refrain from killing off major characters who were tough in the series. Even some main characters are pushed back to make way for other, lesser characters.The soundtrack to the movie isn't bad. Then again, all I can remember is the song Dare to be Stupid by Weird Al Yankovic, which is a masterpiece in itself.This movie is great and I recommend it to anyone who enjoys anime and, ultimately, Transformers. This one should not be passed by as a kiddy movie. "},{"Title":"Transformers Awesome movie","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Transformers is tied in with Robotech they are the best 80's cartoons out there. The movie rules but I enjoy the series better because they have the original cast but half of the original autobots get destroyedand new robots take their place. I would aim this for older kids the movie anyway because it may scare younger kids. I saw it when I was 5 and I really liked it. Out of 10 it's a  big 10!!!!!!!!!! If your an anime freak like me this is a must. "},{"Title":"When science fiction parallels religion","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've commented previously on how this movie was a dream come true for a generation of Transformers fans.  This time I'm not writing about superb battles to the death, the awesome sound track or beautiful animation (for 1986).  It struck me recently how much this movie parallels the story of Jesus Christ.  Most movies have such a parallel (i.e. Neo as the prophecied saviour who returns from the dead in The Matrix or Qui-Gon Jinn as John the Baptist who paved the way for young Anakin as Jesus as Roger Ebert noted about Star Wars The Phantom Menace) but this movie takes it farther than most.The Autobots believe that when they die they go to a sort of robot heaven inside a device known as the Matrix.  Throughout the movie they repeat the phrase, Til all are one, referring to the day when they will all be together, though whether it will be in a corporeal paradise or the spiritual plane of the Matrix is unclear.Optimus Prime represents Jesus.  He is the perfect soul who dies for the Autobots' salvation.  Following his death he transforms Hot Rod into Rodimus Prime who will serve as the Holy Spirit he leaves behind.  Unicron's arrival represents the final battle between the heavenly hosts and the servants of the Devil.  Even the theme song calls it the Judgement Day.  Eventually, as must always be the case, good triumphs over evil thanks to the supernatural (divine) intervention of Optimus Prime who now exists only as a spirit rather than in a physical body.As I say, you can usually draw this sort of parallel with movies because Christianity has the greatest influence on our thinking when it comes to stories about good vs. evil in Western society, but the spiritual parallels to Heaven and even the Holy Spirit take this parallel farther than I have noticed in any other work of science fiction.Just food for thought.  This really isn't a religious movie despite what I've said.  It's a guy movie.  If you like Battle Bots and Robot Wars then get this movie, sit back and have a blast watching living robots blast each other to kingdom come in the original and timeless classic The Transformers. "},{"Title":"If you grew up with the Transformers, you probably already love this movie.","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  So it's not the greatest film of all time. It's not the greatest animated movie of all time. It's full of plot holes. Yet, I've watched this movie over 100 times. I have it on DVD. I got to watch it in the theaters a couple of years ago at a convention. It brought tears to my eyes to relive that memory of being 8 and seeing my favorite characters on the big screen again. The score is great...I am a life-long Vince DiCola fan. The man is a brilliant composer/keyboardist and quite a nice guy as well. Even if you have no interest in the movie, check out his music ;-) Unfortunately, you also must stomach the likes of Stan Bush and some cheesy 80's metal bands.However, I digress.Transformers The Movie is fun. But I don't recommend it to someone who has no familiarity to the Transformers. Sorry, you just won't get it. You either like this stuff or you don't. Maybe I'm wrong, I honestly can't say because I don't know what it's like to be on the other side of the looking glass on this one.The plot is basically this It begins with the Autobots(the good guys) planning to retake their home planet of Cybertron from the evil Decepticons. Meanwhile, the 'Cons are planning to attach Autobot city on Earth and destroy them forever. So ensues a enormous battle, with fatal results to the leaders of both sides. Optimus dies and passes the matrix of leadership to Ultra Magnus. But is he the chosen one? It couldn't be that impulsive little twerp Hot Rod, could it? hmm..Anyway, little do they know at the time that a huge planet called Unicron is scouring the galaxy, eating other planets to sustain itself. We don't know where it comes from (unless you watched the post-movie cartoon episode Call of the Primitives), but apparently the only thing that can stand in his way is the Autobot matrix of leadership. He recruits the near-death Decepticon leader Megatron to seek and destroy the matrix (not to mention gives him a brand-spanking new body and calls him Galvatron...New toy promotion for Hasbro, woohoo!) Does this interest you? if yes, and you haven't seen it, go rent it, I won't tell you anymore. If no, then I need not say anymore )The characters, voiced by famous actors such as Judd Nelson (Hot Rod), Leonard Nimoy(Galvatron), Robert Stack(Ultra Magnus), Orson Wells(Unicron) and Eric Idle (Wreck-Gar) are fairly well defined and rather charismatic. It would be nice to have an extra hour or so to explain some stuff, like why the heck do the Quintessons execute people even though they find them innocent? What were their crimes? We never do find out exactly, until the post-movie cartoons(sort of). Then there's the sad fact that the definitive Autobot leader Optimus Prime dies early on in the movie. I've always thought that was a bad idea in the long run. But it worked for the movie at the time.I give it a generous 7/10. Mostly for the great electronic-progressive score. ) "}{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film is quite frankly the Daddy! It puts modern day equivalents to shame, the animation is fantastic, and even the voice acting is brilliant, they should re-release it to coincide with the release of the next pokemon movie it will really put that crap to shame. The decision to kill off Prime would have marred a weaker film but in this its a work of genius. With a soundtrack that is as classic as the film itself this is quite simply unmissable. "},{"Title":"The most fun marketing scheme ever!","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I used to watch Transformers religiously as a child of the 80's.  It blew the pants off every other cartoon with regards to character development, storyline, and good clean gun-fighting action.  Yes, you know you're watching an 80's-era cartoon when you see guns, guns, and more guns! Yippee!The movie itself was a blast when I first saw it.  I couldn't believe my eyes--most of the autobots actually died!  In retrospect, this was probably a clever marketing ploy in order to introduce a whole new and completely different line of products for kids to buy...but I didn't think about those things back then.  Instead, what I noticed were the deep emotions this movie brought out of me.  I mean, who else got that warm feeling when underdog Hot Rod proved himself a hero against the mighty Galvatron?  Who else felt no sympathy for that stuck-up Optimus-matrix-designate loser Ultra Magnus? I'm sure I'm not alone. "},{"Title":"I'm Not Worthy!","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Having seen the original series I was quite pleased in 1986 when a movie was released. I am excited now as I was back then and must say that my love of the film and series has not changed. It is a shame I cannot view this movie on DVD at the moment because it is constantly delayed in the UK for release, but it does not change a thing. The cartoons of today are too patronizing, and compared to the eighties, they have nothing. So I would suggest you see this film now - because it is something that will last forever! "},{"Title":"Bish, Bash, Bosh - Why don't they make em like this any more?","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I bought the Special Edition of this film (only an unseen Japanese episode is included) on a pure nostalgia trip and to relieve one of my favourite childhood films.I was actually surprised to see the film was just as spectacular as I remember it, actually even more spectacular than I ever remember it. Scenes from the Autobot City fight are breathtaking in places because SO much is going on, the animation and artwork is also great. Compared to today's efforts, namely Pokmon, The Transformers is better in every way. It is clearly visible that unlike the Pocket Monsters generation of today, some real effort has been put into animating this film creating some truly wonderful sequences. If only some quality CGI was available then...Another thing this film has which today's pitiful, lazy animation (except CGI)lacks is pure, good old un adulterated violence. That's right, just as I remember, good old Cold War programming for children made for some insanely violent sequences and the deaths of more than one of the robots is particularly heinous if you consider they represent humans. This only makes the film better though because what can be better than some good Robot Wars?Ok, so the film is virtually like Star Wars, right from the tongue in cheek references Unicron (Welles) being the Death Star right to the downright blatant The opening narrative introduction text which is exactly the same as the Star Wars style! Also the Movie's entire narrative is pretty much based on the whole young successor story of Luke Skywalker, in this film Skywalker is clearly Hot Rod.So no matter what you want - a nostalgic look back on youth, some good ol' robot beatings or to introduce your kids to REAL cartoons...This is your film!  "},{"Title":"Still Awesome!","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Growing up in the 80's, there were a lot of cartoons that one could watch and be entertained.  And now, as adults, we can still go back and watch those same cartoons for nostalgia, but realize the the shows seem to talk down to kids by over-flexing a sense of drama, like Thundercats did.  He-Man cartoons do the same to a degree, and so does cartoons from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.But Transformers cartoons never did such a thing.  They presented a story in a way that now, as adults, we can still watch and enjoy with the same vigor that we watched with in our youth, and that's because that Transformers isn't a cartoon that has dated itself to the point that it screams 1980's, and it doesn't talk down to its audience.  The characters are multi-dimensional, and they react to each other in intelligent ways.And the movie itself goes beyond anything that the cartoon ever did.  It introduced new characters in a reasonable manner, and it even included the reality of death and rebirth, coupled with a need for facing responsibility, factors so often left out of children's entertainment.  These characters were presented so realistically, that I did feel a sense of loss when Optimus Prime died, and my sister even cried a little (and she's older than I am).It doesn't happen often that a cartoon becomes presented on the big screen, and it works as its own entity, rather than a ninety minute episode of its source.  Absolutely worth watching at any age. "},{"Title":"For die hard fans only","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of my boyfriend's all time favorite movies. I've seen it about three times. I loved the transformers the toys. They are probably one of the most creative toys ever made. But the movie is very confusing if one didn't watch every single episode of the TV show. Characters came and go for no reason. The plot a mess. Every time I've seen this movie the wordHuh? runs through my head. But for boys who grew up in the 80's seem to look at this movie as a masterpiece. I did enjoy the great cast they got to voice the movie. I loved Eric Idle as the TV addicted robot. But overall only for Transformers fanatics. The rest of us will be scratching our heads in confusion. "},{"Title":"For die hard fans only","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of my boyfriend's all time favorite movies. I've seen it about three times. I loved the transformers the toys. They are probably one of the most creative toys ever made. But the movie is very confusing if one didn't watch every single episode of the TV show. Characters came and go for no reason. The plot a mess. Every time I've seen this movie the wordHuh? runs through my head. But for boys who grew up in the 80's seem to look at this movie as a masterpiece. I did enjoy the great cast they got to voice the movie. I loved Eric Idle as the TV addicted robot. But overall only for Transformers fanatics. The rest of us will be scratching our heads in confusion. "},{"Title":"Transformers, more than meets the eye, the movie, not exactly pie","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  THE TRANSFORMERS THE MOVIE is a very good and interesting film, but not exactly my idea of pie.  If you don't understand what's going on, this movie may seem crap, but if you do, it's really a good movie.  I mean, could YOU do any better?  THE TRANSFORMERS seems like it's one TV show that's almost impossible to put into a movie!  Great voices by everyone, especially Leonard Nimoy as Galvatron and Judd Nelson as Hot Rod and Rodimus Prime. Featuring some very memorable scenes, including the sad (hey, didn't you cry, hmmm?  Tell the truth...) death of Optimus Prime and Megatron's demise.The movie also introduces some new characters, such as Galvatron, Roduimus Prime, Wreck-Gar, Ratbat, and the almighty Unicron.  The music, by Vince DiCola, goes along perfectly with film, featuring a great soundtrack and excellent voices.  A very good movie, the best animated one I've ever seen.  Not as crappy as some make it sound. "},{"Title":"Instruments of destruction!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I grew up watching the transformers TV series. I loved every single minute of it, I still love watching it and I'm 21 years old now. I don't know what catches me with the transformers, cuz I mean I grew up watching He-Man, Mask and all that but still... Transformers is the only cartoon series I can still watch old episodes of and enjoy it... more than from the nostalgia.Well that leads us to this movie... I think I saw it back in 89 or something... I was totally blown away! I sat there glued to the screen... never have I been more spellbound by a movie. Well now don't think I've just seen it back then... oh no! It took about 10 years until I could get my hands on it again, it turned out a guy I was playing in the same band with had it recorded! I borrowed it from him and I was spellbound once again!I mean everytime I watch the movie I just fall in love with it all over. I remember trying to get my girlfriend to watch it... finally she did... she actually enjoyed it... well not as much as I did... but she liked it nontheless.Now some complain about the old characters dying. Well I like that in the movie... I mean... can you hate Megatron more than you do after his attack on the landing shuttle? With the song Instruments Of Destruction pumping in the background! And Starscream is great in this movie, too bad he's in it too little, but we all know he made his return!And all the complaints about the soundtrack I don't get either... I own it on CD, heh, and I love it, Vince DiCola's instrumental songs are great and the other songs rock as well! I mean when you hear the first notes on The Touch you're just jumping up and down in your seat smiling, knowing that Optimus is going to kick ass!!!A must see for every transformers fan! A must see!!! "},{"Title":"Destiny, you can not destroy my DESTINEY!!!","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  In the late 60's there was a sci-fi show that had a small but devoted following.  After three seasons, the show ended.  By popular demand that same mythos was turned into a successful film series.  Im speaking of the series Star Trek.This is the same concept with The Transformers.  This ,much like Star Trek, was a sci-fi show that was influneced by the cold war.  Most non-fans dont understand this.  The the concept was ripe for a film, unfortunately, there should have been a extra six months to a year for promotion and post-production.WARNING MAJOR SOPILER ALARTThe film takes off where the show leaves behind.  It's the year 2005.  The Decepticons reclaim Cybertron and the Autobots have warmed up their welcome with the human population on earth.  The biggest battle in the civil war between Autobots and Decepticons is underway when the unstoppable ,planet eating robot Unicron makes his way through the galaxy.  Unicron is a physical representation of all the original sin, namly greed, pride, gluttony, sloth, wrath ,envy and lust.  He is just this relentless eating machine.  There is only one thing that can stop Unicron, and the Autobots have it.  So Unicron manipulates the leader of the Decepticons to seek out and destory this mysterious force.This is probably the only film that neatly blends Japannamie art with American style story telling and voicing.  The action sequences are exciting, the musical score is ahead of it's time and the story (in light of it's weak plot structure and lifted themes) is good. The cast is top notch.  Judd Nelson (Hot Rod)plays his most heroic character to date.  Leonard Nimoy (Galvatron) out-does himself at the antonym of Mr.Spock and Orsen Welles (Unicron) is perfect in his final performance.This film suffers from some fatal mistakes.  All the original characters are killed off in the first 10 mins of the movie. The producers were making it obvious that they wanted to sell new toys. The film lost touch with it's fan-base, being too violent for the under 13 and to kidy for the over 13.  Much of the film plays a little too loud at times.  I will say that carrying a continuing story from a current series to the big screen (EX. The X-files) is the most difficult to do.  You have to update the new fan in a brief crash course while you please the die-hard fans by going the next level.I had the honor of seeing this film on the big screen.  I was an under-rated experience seeing all the dazzaling animated specticals on the screen.All in all I give this film a good rating, being a worth attempt at a movie experience.  The film is much more enjoyable to be seen on the big screen though, rather then on DVD. "}{"Title":"Not the best, but far from the worst.","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"      Probably the only movie I still watch from when I was two (I'm 14 now) as well as show my friends while not feeling embarrassed. Transformers The Movie is NOT a cinematic masterpiece, but is still a damn good movie at that. The voice acting consists of stars from the 70's and 80's (Judd Nelson, Leonard Nimoy, Robert Stack (Eliot Ness from The Untouchables), Orsen Welles (his last movie, I hope he died content), the ultimate Pythonite Eric Idle, John Mischitta, among others.). The music is quirky but manages to match the scene well, in the fact that it's a mix of techno-synthesized instrumentals and 80's rock music. The animation is actually high quality and goes pretty deep in detail.WARNING!! SPOILERS DOWN HERE!!! DON'T READ IF YOU WANT TO STILL ENJOY THE MOVIE!!!!     Transformers The Movie has two low points that I can think of. The first being that most (if not all) of the classic Autobots, such as Ironhide, Wheeljack, Ratchet, Prowl, Brawn, and Optimus Prime, and are replaced by new characters. Unfortunately, the writers didn't think they the fans would MISS the Autobots. The other low point sticking out in my mind is how bland the newer characters are. Ultra Magnus (Magnus is Latin for great. Ultra Great???? What were they thinking?) is the Optimus wannabe, Kup is the veteran who is more intent on telling war stories than fighting for his cause (I thought all the Transformers were created around the same time.), Arcee is the only female Transformer (do robots have gender?), Blur is funny, albeit annoying as you can't understand a word he says, Wreck-Gar speaks only in messed up television quotes, Hot Rod is the only Autobot I've seen that acts like a teenager. Perceptor is a nerd. And Blaster is the only decent one.          Actually, my complaints seem to have taken up more room than my plusses for the movie, but that was because I was reiterating my points. The movie, overall is real good, despite the problems with the new characters, and I suggest this for fans of the Transformers, or people with weird interests.  "},{"Title":"The most inspirational film I've ever seen","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie it totally blew me away (and I was only 10 at the time) This was for a couple of reasons. 1.) The battle of Autobot City culminating in the death of Optimus Prime and 2.) The introduction of a whole new generation of characters. The producers have done an excellent job of taking the TV series and making a full length feature out of it, and when I say it is inspirational, I mean just that. It's just simple good vs. evil, two absolutes. You're on one side, or the other. The animation is brilliant, and the music just fits in so well its amazing. Vince Dicola's instrumental pieces really capture the feeling of the scene, and Stan Bush's The Touch & Dare really do inspire.Back to the movie, and I think the best thing about it, which is also its only downfall, was the death of so many well-known characters - Ironhide, Wheeljack etc. and of course Optimus Prime. This lead the way for a whole new generation, which I personally loved. Suddenly the series got so much darker, more serious and definately more cooler. But it wasn't what people wanted, and the series was cancelled. The movie does an excellent job of integrating the newcomers- Hot Rod, Kup, Ultramagnus, Galvatron, Cyclonus- and the whole thing is just fun besides. I mean the idea of battling a monster planet which transformers into an absolutely monstrous robot is so cool!Top scenes would include the Battle at Autobot city (5 mins into the film) Galvatron and Hot Rod's battle inside Unicron (when Hot Rod opens the Matrix!) and Hot Rod and Kup before the Quintesson judges.An excellent movie, and definately one of my all time favourites! "},{"Title":"Why throw away your life your life so recklessly?","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Because this movie is simply dazzling! It's fun to watch! It's fun to look at! And it's just a grand old time in your tv! This movie was hated by every sinlge critic in the world, but you know what? Screw Them! They don't know doodly squat about what a classic is! And beside's, all you stupid critic's take note! This is the last film with Orsen Welle's!!!!!! Mr. Citizine Kane! There greatest movie! I can't even remember th first time I saw this movie it was so long ago! But I loved it then, and I love it now! Get the Special Edition DVD! IT put's back the infamous Oh ****! What are we going to do know!? line back in! How's that for a PG-rated kid film! And no! Optimous Prime doe's not turn to dust and blow away! "},{"Title":"Why throw away your life your life so recklessly?","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Because this movie is simply dazzling! It's fun to watch! It's fun to look at! And it's just a grand old time in your tv! This movie was hated by every sinlge critic in the world, but you know what? Screw Them! They don't know doodly squat about what a classic is! And beside's, all you stupid critic's take note! This is the last film with Orsen Welle's!!!!!! Mr. Citizine Kane! There greatest movie! I can't even remember th first time I saw this movie it was so long ago! But I loved it then, and I love it now! Get the Special Edition DVD! IT put's back the infamous Oh ****! What are we going to do know!? line back in! How's that for a PG-rated kid film! And no! Optimous Prime doe's not turn to dust and blow away! "},{"Title":"AHEAD OF ITS TIME!","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had been recently been trying to buy this video for about 4 years now and i finally found it on E-bay couple of weeks ago. I couldnt wait to watch this film again i think i was about 7 or 8 but i remember it being one of my favorite films at that time! I was at the time going through transformers mania phase at the time mind! I was going to veiw it again and prey that it was just as good as i remember it! (previously being disapointed in my return veiw of action force the movie) Quite frankly this film rocks! its unbelieveable! should go down as one of the greatest full length cartoons ever! The animation is fantastic for its time,it may look out of place compared to your toy storys or shreks, but for mid 80s animation didnt get any better than this! For a cartoon its quite violent though where some of my fave charecters even die which for a kid of 6-7 at the time i found quite desturbing, Especially the death of optimus prime which at that time i think my childhood actually died! Overall this film as i said rocks and highly recommend 2 anyone who is a kid at heart! people who enjoyed this film as a kid watch it again! u will love it   4 1/2 out of 5  "},{"Title":"(Silence)","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was a fan of the Transformers TV show in the 80's and I fell for it like a sucker.  I was also into the cold war attitude that was going around at the time.  While our society had good guys and bad guys (us good; Soviets bad), it became easier to get into the series for reasons like seeing good triumph over evil.  I didn't get to see the movie until ten years after it came out and I had seen the series take it's final bows long before.  I had heard that all of the characters that I had taken great pains to know for those years had all been blown apart in a few short minutes of air time. Upon seeing the movie, I wept inside as a long past era of television joy came to a shattering end in those few short minutes.  The great thing about the old characters is that they had a connection with Earth and people.  It made them transforming into Earth vehicles all that much more fun too because we could relate to playing with cars, jets, etc. or seeing animals. The new show was just too spacey (for obvious reasons).  The connection was lost.  The only thing I liked about the new show was the introduction of female autobots.  All women should be allowed to fight and autobots needed girlfriends anyway.  But, in the end, a sad way to see all of my old TV friends go which completely spoiled what was an underwhelming movie in my opinion anyway.   "},{"Title":"One of, if not THE, best movie of a cartoon series.","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Anyone who even had a remote interest in Transformers should love thi flick.  For one thing, the animation is excellent...highly detailed and just generally cool.  The movie has a killer soundtrack, and most of the popular favorites appear in addition to the new group of characters introduced for the first time. This movie made Hot Rod and Kup instant fan favorites.  Yes, the movie does kill a few of the characters (which never would happen in the series), but the sacrifices are done in a manner befitting any movie hero or villain, as well as a cartoon.Action-packed, funny, exciting and just overall cool, Transformers the >Movie is the ultimate high point  "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I grew up on Transformers, I can name them all!  This film not only sent my emotions into orbit when I first saw it at the tender age of 8 but still does!!!!!!!!  The animation is top notch and the progression from the series was a good one.  It needed to break new ground and break from the norm and it did.  There's courageous new characters that became household names and believable plot twists to excite any die hard Transfan.  10/10 all the way baby yeh!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Till all are one!.","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I loved the TRANSFORMERS TV show when I was a kid, but I didn't actually see the film until 1995, when I was in high school.  But the film really appealed to me.  SPOILER ALERT! I had seen the episode of the TV show where Optimus Prime is resurrected before I saw the film, so I wasn't really too shocked when he kicks the bucket here.  But I am sure that if I had seen the film before that, I would have been in tears. I wish that they had kept Leonard Nimoy on to do Galvatron's voice in the TV show because he's excellent here!  No offence intended towards Frank Welker who voiced Galvatron in the TV show (who is one of the hardest working voice artists in the world), but Nimoy is really menacing.  MONTY PYTHON's Eric Idle is very funny as the TV-jargon spouting Wreck-Gar.  The voices are all very well done.  Even better is the music score, especially the songs.  My favourites are THE TOUCH by Stan Bush (which was used again in the TV show in the aforementioned resurrection episode) and DARE TO BE STUPID by Weird Al Yankovic.  See this film and you'll rediscover what FUN means! "},{"Title":"Superb cartoon movie based on the toy of the 80's","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Transformers was without a doubt, one of the most popular children's cartoon and toy adventure epic of the 80's and the movie of the franchise was superb. The cartoon series was bright and full of friendly characters and no deaths ever occured, the movie however was very different. In the first half hour, we witness most of the main heroes and villans killed and introduced to new characters to set up a base for the new cartoon series set after the movie. In a nutshell, this is a dark, action packed cartoon that has excellent animation and superb fight sequences that should not be taken to seriously after all, it's only a movie. "}{"Title":"This is an all time classic","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Transformers the movie takes the cartoon, that we all grew up watching to another level. This has to be one of my all-time favourites, no animated movie will ever surpass this movie to me.(Spoils the first half of the movie for some readers, so dont read on if you havent seen the movie)The movie starts off quick with a few cartoon regulars flashing up here and there and the intro to Unicron - the planet sized transformer. Then for probably the first time you see ironhide and other autobots get blown to bits, I couldn't beleive the shock I got when I saw this as a kid, totally awesome. Then with a war brewing between the autobots and the decepticons on Earth, the ultimate show-down between Megatron and Optimus Prime was an over whelming scene, starting with the classic song The touch by Stan Bush, which really captures the moment, then as the battle duels on both men fall to which I still cant beleive happens.Then the matrix - life force for the autobots has been passed on to Ultra magnus and the autobots flee. You see many autobots that have fallen during the battle, original characters such as wheeljack and cliffjumper. For the decepticons megatron is left for dead and starscream takes control (something he has always wanted to do since the first episode).from there the movie introduces many new characters for the series to continue with, my favourite being Rodimus Prime who has the matrix passed on to him by Galvatron and shows the Optimus Prime like courage, also Judd Nelson who plays Rodimus' voice to perfection and really makes a change when Hot Rod makes the change.The story and production of the movie is great, and leaves the series for dead, and also changes the tv series forever.So if you havent seen this movie then I suggest you take a look because most animated movies  made these days dont even compete. "},{"Title":"Greatest Animated Movie Ever!","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is quite possibly the greatest animated film ever made. It ranks right up there with G.I. Joes The Movie and Princess Mononoke. If you have never seen this film you haven't lived! Nobody who grew up in the 80's should miss this. It typifies the quality cartoons produced during the 80's and early 90's. If you are sick of all the crappy cartoons produced these days this one will be sure to remind you of the good ol' days. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My short review-This is one of my earliest films I can remember and it has great acting,animation,writing and soundtrack.Fans of animai or transformers will love this film.See it today! 10/10 "},{"Title":"One for people with a eighties child hidden them","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I first saw this excellent piece of scifi at the cinema when it first came out. I was a big fan at he time and thought it was the greatest film ever. For some reason I never bought it on video and so eventually forgot about Transformers altogether.When my mate showed me a .mov version downloaded form a website, I was blown away by the nostalgic feeling of excitement I felt when I went to see it that Saturday afternoon in 1986.The slightly anime-styling, great action and quality script completely overwhelmed me once more. Only the 80's feelgood music moments date the film slightly but this adds to the atmosphere and with the great acting talent involved in the project I can only see it as a 10-star movie. "},{"Title":"Superior film-making at work.","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I took a film critique course in the fall of 1999 and used Transformers The Movie as one of my subjects.  I argued that it was drama on an almost Shakespearean/Mythic level.  My professor disagreed...until she watched the movie.This is, to put it simply, Classics for Kids.  You can take a child to see MacBeth, Hamlet...almost any of the great plays.  Odds are they will not get as much out of them as they will in this movie.  The betrayal in MacBeth is seen in here as the betrayal of Megatron by Starscream, or by Megatron/Galvatron's betrayal of Unicron.There was very little that was disappointing to me in this...and most of what was disappointing was on the DVD and not having to do with the movie. I would have liked to see the scenes that were cut put in as extras on the DVD for one.  Another extra I would have liked to see on the DVD is the addition of the biographies of the Autobots and Decepticons who were killed.  With the Power Graphs (remember those?) that showed how strong, smart, fast, etc. a particular Transformer was.About the only complaint about the movie I have is that we never got to see...Kuptimus Prime! "},{"Title":"Good Old Fashioned '80's Nostalgia.","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Y'Know, it's a funny thing about Transformers The Movie.  I broke down and picked up the DVD version, and this time around, I found something that I hadn't noticed before....The movie has no plot.Other than a need for the Autobots to reclaim Cybertron from the Decepticons (which was the recurring theme in the television series), this movie was nothing more than a fight scene, then a breather, then a fight scene, and then another breather.  Repeat until credits roll, sprinkle in some '80's big hair metal.But the movie's a great ride to watch.Call me sentimental, but it's like visiting old friends again.  The numerous fight scenes had some cool visual tricks, and the music (especially the two main theme songs) fit the movie well.  I think the biggest shock of the movie was the fact that, after numerous episodes where both Autobot and Decepticon could blow each other to pieces, and then be standing by the end of the episode, this film actually had the characters die (or go off line, or whatever it is robots do.)  By far, the scene that carried the most impact (and surprisingly still does), is *minor spoiler, but if you don't know this one, where have you been?* the death of Optimus Prime.  The scene was handled well, with the characters focusing on the loss of their friend and leader, and not some overdramatic stomping around swearing revenge on their enemies.  It kept a respectful credibility to what Optimus Prime meant to kids who watched that show.  Too bad the reality of the situation was to just clear out the old characters to make way for the new toys.The DVD version is great, with a lot of crisp visuals.  I wish the audio had been better, and I would have liked to have seen it letterboxed and with more special features, such as deleted scenes.  It's not really so much of a kids movie.  They only know Beast Wars now.  This should have given more to the fans, which are in the 20+ crowd, and would have appreciated all the extras.All in all, the movie, despite it's lack of an in-depth or original story, is entertaining, and definitely worth the price for the nostalgia trip that kicks in as you watch it.  A cult classic. "},{"Title":"Definitely in my top 5 favorite movies of all time","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was 6 years old when the Transformers came out so naturally I grew up with them, had my favorite characters and saw the movie of course! I am now 22 and I love this film just as much as I did when I first saw it in the movies years ago. The film takes place in 2005, where the Decepticons, led by Megatron have taken over Cybertron, the home planet of the Transformers. Optimus Prime and the Autobots plans to take back Cybertron but little do they know a planet eating machine named Unicron is heading their way which might force them to put aside their differences and fight together to save the galaxy. That is pretty much the main plot. There is not one single boring moment in this film. It's action from start to finish. Granted, this movie is violent. There are deaths. In the first 10 minutes we see several of our favorite characters get blasted away. Now to a 6 year old, this is kind of traumatic, but for all intensive purposes, this was to make way for the new toys being developed. Also, the death of a certain autobot (I won't give it away just in case people have not seen the movie) definitely disturbed me when I was younger! I actually cried the the movies. I could understand why this movie was rated PG. Anyway, we have a talented cast who gave the robots life such as Eric Idle, Judd Nelson, Leonard Nimoy and Orson Wells and some great moments in the film the attack on Autobot City, the creation of Galvatron and his troops and the transformation of Unicron/attack on Cybertron. This might not be a film for non-Trans fans but nevertheless, it is an excellent film, not only for the animation of the time but for the cast and the action it has. If you have not seen it, rent it. You won't regret it! "},{"Title":"Why you should listen to what I say...","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Possibly the greatest animation feature of all time, Transformers will be loved by anyone who grew up watching the show and buying all the cool toys(I had the best ones). To quickly summarize giant robot planet confronts smaller robots; all robots transform into vehicles. Okay it doesn't sound so great if you haven't watched the TV series, but if you had you had better see this movie. It features the greatest cast of actors doing the voices of robots(Orson Welles, Leonard Nimoy etc.) and an awesome 80's soundtrack. Buy it. "},{"Title":"Have you ever wondered what would happen if America AND Japan worked together on an animated film?","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had always wondered what would happen if America and Japan got together an did a serious animated film.... I just never realized I had already seen the results TRANSFORMERS THE MOVIE!!  I saw this movie when I was 7 or 8, it blew my mind..Recently while at college, I noticed that one of my friends had Transformers The Movie on tape.  I had to watch some of it... WOW! It brought back lot's of memories, but more so I was taken aback by the animation... I realized that this movie was NOT animated in America, though the story written was American. I just rented this movie, and let me say that I am still stunned, even though it's been around fourteen years since I had seen it last.  This movie ranks up there with ALL of the best Anime that I have ever seen (Akira, GITS, Ninja Scroll, FOTNS, and many many others).  Also, a little side note... The animation company that worked on Transformers had previously worked on Fist of the North Star (Toei Animation).. Impressive to say the least.Again I want to say that this film ROCKED... This is a prime example of what American animation COULD be, if they would just take their animation more seriously. So if you want some good Sci-Fi (American/Japan)Anime then watch Transformers The Movie.Peace Out, A-Extreme.  "},{"Title":"A hopefully objective comment","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Now I was only 4 years old when this movie was made, and its probably one of the first I ever saw. The Transformers were a huge part of my life and early development, and this movie was the largest chunk by far. Even when, about 5 years ago, i handed down a load of videos and toys to some 6 year old kid, i held onto the movie. At a point when i was trying to leave all the old kiddie stuff behind, i actively kept the movie in my possession because i knew how much i loved it.OK, lets gloss over the cheesy 80s music (Dare to keep all your dreams alive/The power is there at your command - see what i mean), forget that Star Wars ever existed and just immerse ourselves in the MovieIts an action movie, a war movie to be precise. There is killing and death. I remember gasping in horror while Arcee mourned for Wheeljack. Wheeljack, Ironhide, Prowl? No More?! They were cool! Then - horror upon horror - Prime dies! He may have been a goody-two-shoes but come on! Prime was the man! Had i known what the word meant, i would have called it blasphemy. There he lay, all monochrome and wet from Daniel's tears. Then, something remarkable happened. I got a sense, a vague idea even, of what someone you know dying was like. No more. Finito. The movie then hit home with the idea that revenge wasnt necessary. No one shook their fists or vowed to slaughter every last Decepticreep. Now thats what i call moral values.It is possible to complain about too much violence in this movie but i dont see how. Violence is only bad in movies when you dont see the consequences. Prime got seven shades of something-i'm-not-allowed-to-mention out of him. He dies in hospital. Action and consequence.The characterisations are perfect (being a cartoon film based on a cartoon that's not surprising) and everyone acts the way you reckon they should. The actual action sequences are very good too, and i still smile every time Hot Rod demolishes Kup's roadblock, just as Stan Bush yells Dare in the soundtrack.Basically if it wasn't for the Transformers, I wouldn't like Sci-Fi and i wouldn't be doing a degree in Computer Animation. Many thanks to whoever came up with the idea for Robots in Disguise.... Peace. Out. "}{"Title":"the good old days","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was first introduced to the world of transformers in 1990 at the age of 6, this was when i got my first transformer action figure, i loved it, whenever my nan took me to the shops i was always begging her to buy me the newest transformer action figures. Around 2 years later i read in the t.v guide that the tranformers movie was on, i wasnt even aware that a transformer movie existed so i was extremely psyched.The movie was excellent, i remember it being the best movie i had ever seen next to the terminator. After around 3 years it was playing again, i didnt think much of it at first because at that time i was 11 and it had been 3 years since i last saw the movie, i thought it would be the kind of movie that only a child would like but when i watched it, i actually enjoyed it more then i did the last time, i had alot more appreciation for the violence and death it contains. The last time i saw the movie was around 2 years ago and i still remember loving it, so i'll finish this by saying, if your a fan of the series and you havent seen the movie WAKE UP, the movie is so much better and if you dont agree, well... not everyone's perfect. "},{"Title":"very pro transformers","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  great movie, this was one of the first movies i saw in theatres without my parents when it came out. i love transformers. robert stack has an awesome voice and played ultra magnus well. it was cool hearing all the big name actors in the movie do their parts. dissaponting that most all the originals had small parts. but overall loved the film. i own it on video and so should you. "},{"Title":"Excellent (for fans anyway)","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you are a fan of the original Transformers show, I don't know how you could not like this movie, regardless of your age.  If you didn't watch the show though...I saw this movie in the theatre when I was eleven and I thought it was incredible.  It certainly has an epic feel and the characters were faithfully recreated on the big screen.  There was plenty of action and humor to keep me entertained then and I still enjoy it now.However, in retrospect it doesn't hold up quite as well as I might have hoped.  After the movie, the show went downhill.  It got darker, the new characters pushed the old favorites out of the way and weren't quite as interesting.  And Grimlock NEVER transformed anymore.  Weird.  The movie also bounces around to A LOT of different places and they are able to somehow do things like fly from Cybertron to Earth overnight(?!!).  I sort of miss the days when Megatron just wanted a bunch of Energon cubes but the Autobots would blow them up and chase them away.Anyhow, for the new viewers - the animation is very good, the voice work is excellent and there is enough action to distract you from the plot holes. Also, Hot Rod/Rodimus Prime is jackass. "},{"Title":"Incredible film","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I completely missed the whole Transformers fad as a kid (none of the channels I got showed it) but I know all along what they were, at least. Nowadays I've been catching up (I love it now, I would have been completely obsessed if I saw this as a child) with the re-released episodes that my friend buys. One day he lucked out and found the movie (he's a much bigger TransFan than I am). We got a bunch of people together at my place and watched it. Nobody left unimpressed. The animation and voice acting are top-notch. Sure it was disturbing at times and the soundtrack really needed work in some spots (Dare To Be Stupid? What were they thinking?!) but overall it ranks wayy up there with the rest of my favorite movies. 9/10 on My Personal Scale. "},{"Title":"Not an epic treatment of the Saga (contains Spoilers)","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I never got to see the film when it was initially released back in 1986. It had a very brief run in Irish cinemas. Only the excellent Marvel Comic gave me little snippets of the movie plot (such as Megatron's demise, Starscream's execution) ---- interwined with their big Story  they had developed in order to promote the movie. If only the producers of the Film  had allowed Marvel comics (not Marvel Animation!) to draft the script. I only managed to see the film in 1997 after being told by many people of it's excellence.Unfortunately I did not get the Epic film that the Comics had hinted at but rather an extended TV special. Firstly the bad points1) The annoying Narration during the STAR WARSesque intro. (Sounds like Popeye the sailor trying to impersonate the bogey man)2) The fairly irrelevant and over the top  soundtrack that seems to pop up (with singing) during the fight scenes.3) No apparent plot just over extended fight scenes.4) Just when you thought Spike was annoying along comes Spike Junior.5) Eric Idle's character was very hard to understand.6) We are treated to Optimus Prime's death and funeral only to be told by the Narrator at the end of the film that He will return.7) Not enough time was given to the old  characters. Only the new characters seem to get  all the dialogue. (At least Hound and Jazz did not get killed off like the others)And the good points1) The Animation and sound FX are excellent.2) The Fight scenes (although numerous) are very well staged.3) The Death of Prime adds an overtone of tragedy to the film.4) Some great scenes of violence and horror such as Megatron's execution of Ironhide. Decepticons killing their wounded in their bid to escape. Apparently one of the wounded (Thundercracker)  reappears later on in the film. strange!! 5) The cast are very good particularly Leonard Nimoy as Galvatron who denotes the complexity of the  character.Overall the film would have been better if more time was spent explaining Unicron. (It would have been interesting if they scripted him as some mechanical God who created  the transformers but who now wants to destroy his creation).It would also have been better if Unicron  had an army of his own that the Autobots  and Decepticons could unite and fight against.  This would have added an interesting twist  to the movie's plotThey should not have bothered with the Conversion of  Hot Rod to Rodimus Prime plot device. They should have just let Ultra Magnus lead the Autobots full stop. Magnus's lack of self confidence seems to add an interesting dimension to his character.After reading some of the other passionate reviews of this film it might be a good idea if the Transfans lobby Lucasfilm and Industrial & magic to  try make a big budget Live action Transformers film  (with CGI Autobots & Decepticons). ILM would see it as a chance to further develop their CGI effects since George Lucas runs the company as a non profit organisation. It wouldn't too hard for ILM to do this as George Lucas seemed to have based the  Trade Federation Droid Army from Episode 1 on the Transformers. (Such as Robot ships that walk around, Giant wheels that transform into robot killing machines) What does anyone else think of this idea? "},{"Title":"Best Animated Series To Make To The Big Screen.","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was a very good movie.  Especially in the eyes of ten year old child. Even today I still have to admit to liking the movie although some scenes in the middle of the movie do tend to get childish, but with actors like Orson Wells, Eric Idle, Leonard Nimoy and Robert Stack providing voices, it made the movie more enjoyable.  If your looking for some fun and want to reflect back to your younger days, this is the movie to see. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The best film I have ever seen.I am lucky enough to have this movie on tape. I watch it every week and love the songs. If you love transformers e-mail me!!!I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!!! "},{"Title":"TILL ALL ARE MINE","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Transformers of the 80's really was the best animated science fiction movie and series of all time.The story line's and plot's were flawless and will never be equalled the death sceans of the autobots and decepticons were awesome especially that of optimus prime's.TRANSFORMERS THE MOVIE IS A MUST SEE.  "},{"Title":"It's just a movie, it's just a movie, it's just a movie...","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I borrowed this video from the studly zipzop.  I hadn't seen it since I was a kid.  I remembered how much it bothered me then; it still bothered me just as much... now for more reasons.I was a huge Transformers fan.  I owned many toys.  I expected something magnificent for the theatrical release, something with more quality, with more action.  I didn't expect the murder of the characters I loved!  I mean, the Pokemon movie didn't kill Pikachu!  This was unnecessary.  The deaths were instant and painful, a little heavy for kids (boobs are bad but murder is fine?).  Here I am ready to watch Ironside kick ass on the big screen, just to watch him get shot and die.  What the hell?Now I know why this movie was made.  Everyone who was going to buy the old toys already bought them.  People may not be interested in the newer toys if they already had a collection of solid Transformers.  The solution kill them off and offer more. Son  Mom, I need a new Transformer. Mom  You have enough, play with the ones you have! Son  I can't - they're dead.  They were killed.What kid wants to play with toys that are outdated?How does the decepticon army (of what, 7?) so easily defeat the autobot army (probably of about 7)?  I mean, if it was that easy, how come it didn't happen before?  I guess because kids are too dumb to notice (sarcasm).I liked the soundtrack though - it was so bad, it was good.  You got the touch...  The weird al song didn't quite fit though - talking about Mr. Whipple squeezing Charmin toilet paper while the Autobots are being attacked.  Strange.It's my opinion that this movie killed the Transformers series.  The new characters, and the slaughter of the others, was too much for the kids. God knows why they had to change the Transformers world - they made the same mistake with the Power Rangers (see the movies, see the changes, see the popularity die). "},{"Title":"Great story, GREAT early animation, great for children AND adults!","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The only thing that ever disappointed me about this film was that they never made a sequel. It was intended to bridge the gap between the original generation of Transformers, and the next generation (when Megatron, Thundercracker, Skywarp and the Insecticons are regenerated into Galvatron, Cyclonus, Scourge and the Sweeps). As a youngster, I adored the toys as well as the TV show which my friend and I hurried home from school every day to watch. This was really the first instance of a major action based animated motion picture following a well-written script. It was a precursor to things like Titan A.E., and the huge Anime boom here in the US (although Anime had been around for years in Japan.) It was a film that stirred the imaginations of boys (and some girls) everywhere, opened doors to allow Japanese Anime into the mainstream (at least more than it had been), and employed some highly respected actors for the voice overs. Cynics can pick it to pieces today, but in its day it was a true pioneer of Anime-adventure/action films, and remains as an all around excellent film. "}{"Title":"More Than Meets the Eye?  You'd better believe it!","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film has to be one of the most underrated films ever made.  Looking back on it now, I realize that it is indeed more than meets the eye.  For an American film, this has anime written all over it  epic scope, atmospheric visuals, action, philosophy, drama, comedy, tragedy, and VERY detailed animation.  There is so much in this film that it took me more than one viewing to take it all in.  Apparently audiences and critics in 1986 were not ready to handle this kind of film, but I credit this as being my first taste of what animation could REALLY do.  The voices are great, especially Robert Stack.  My mind boggled at first at the thought of Eliot Ness and the Unsolved Mysteries host playing a robot, but he dove right into the role.  And let us not forget the soundtrack. Vince DiCola's score is great and The Touch and Dare are classics to me.  It makes me wonder if some of the crew on Batman Beyond were influenced by this movie (rock soundtrack, anime-style animation, torch being passed from one generation to the next).Until the day this film is available on DVD widescreen and with Dolby Digital sound...*sigh* "},{"Title":"Lenord Maltin Doesn't Know What He's Talking About?","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Transformers The Movie perhaps the COOLEST movie I ever saw in my life.  Sure the sound-track is a little bit deafening but the whole movie was aimed at little kids.  You can't expect to have a movie from that era and not have a deafening sound-track.In short Lenord you have no idea what you're talking about?  "},{"Title":"I got better things to do tonight than die","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Oh, hell yeah.  Believe me when I tell you that this is the best movie that could have possibly been made about the Transformers.  The animation's passable and the dialogue is often juvenile, but everything else is so white-knuckle and kinetic that you get swept up in it in spite of your best efforts to remain cool and adult.  It blew me away as a kid that the characters swore and killed each other; it blows me away now that an American animation studio was able to make this kind of movie about a children's toy line and get it released in theaters.  All the death and destruction psyched me up, and I was always really grateful that the filmmakers weren't trying to sugarcoat the struggle like they did on the television show (which was always kind of lame, to be perfectly heinous with you).  Only other cartoon I remember doing that was ROBOTECH (and, to an extent, VOLTRON).Not without its flaws it needed to be longer, to flesh out the story and characters more--most of the killing gets done in the first thirty minutes, without establishing who's really dying except for Optimus Prime and Ironhide (none of the other doomed characters even have dialogue).  Hot Rod's ascension to leader seems arbitrary, following the hoary old chosen one/HERO OF A THOUSAND FACES blueprint, even though there doesn't seem to be anything THAT special about him anywhere else in the movie (in his defense, though--maybe this is a good time for a SPOILER WARNING--it's not fair to say he gets Prime killed.  Megatron was reaching for a gun to kill Optimus anyway, Optimus was just standing there lecturing Megatron, it was a pressure situation.  He should have just screamed Hey! He's got a gun! but hell, he's an impulsive kid who made the wrong choice).  And Rodimus Prime is a blood-stoppingly stupid name, anyway.  Some of the songs on the soundtrack--I'm thinking mainly of Stan Bush here--are completely insipid, even for their era.Still. This movie is a thousand times better than a ninety-minute toy commercial has any right to be.  Impressive stuff, even today.  Go watch it. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was awesome. There is no stopping this movie. You should all go see it. This movie rocks. Optimus rocks, Unicron rocks, Megatron/Galvatron rocks. Do yourself a favor and watch it. The animation rocks and the voice acting rocks. The plot rocks. Whats not to like? You must watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Love/hate (contains spoilers)","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Okay, maybe not love/hate, but love/kind-of-dislike-a-bit.When I first saw this movie I was blown away. I didn't know what to expect, but it sure wasn't to see almost the entire old guard get blown away. Even as I looked on aghast at this shocking development, I marveled at the power displayed on the screen as well as the moxie involved in offing afternoon cartoon characters (though, cynically, I would have to submit that this was done, at least partly, to make way for a host of new characters; I guess they felt they needed to cull the herd). No other kiddie cartoon genre that I know of has done this (well, I haven't seen the GI Joe movie; anybody die in that?). The fact that they are robots may have made it easier, but those robots had more personality than most human cartoon characters. It was hard to see them go, especially Ironhide who, in a final, pathetic bid to stop Megatron gets a blast in the face for his troubles...Especially that is until the next rude slap in the face (I don't necessarily mean that in a bad way) the death of Optimus Prime. I couldn't believe it. If I was aghast before at the deaths of Prowl, Wheeljack, et al, I was mortified now. I just couldn't wrap my mind around it. I kept thinking they had to bring him back before the end of the movie, but somehow knew it wouldn't happen.At the same time, I thought this was awesome. Here was some more of that aforementioned maturity regarding cartoon characters. You just don't see this kind of thing happening in children's genres, before or even since (for all the violence depicted in Dragonball Z, does anyone ever get killed or even seriously bruised?). This was nothing less than epic storytelling...Or would be if it weren't for one thing Hot Rod. Here's a guy who is at least partly responsible for the death of Prime. Rightly, he should have been dismantled or at least incarcerated for interfering with Prime's justice and thereby helping bring out his demise. And if I were him, I would be torn by guilt; I mean it would have been a big issue and should have been in the movie, but wasn't; HR just doesn't seem all that broken up about Prime's death. No, instead of punishing or resenting Hot Rod for his impetuousness, or Hot Rod feeling torn up about it, he's made into a leader. And what do they call this fearless new leader?None other than Rodimus Prime. Say it again. RODIMUS PRIME. Turn it over and over again in your head and you can't help but reach the conclusion that it's and INTENSELY STUPID NAME. Optimus Prime; now that means something. Loosely, it's something like Best Leader or the like. What the hell does Rodimus Prime mean? All those cool developments I touted before seemed to come crashing down like a house of cards and OP suddenly seemed to have died in vain. This is a real blemish on the movie for me. It could have been great, but thanks to Hot Rod and whoever thought of Rodimus Prime, it wasn't. Whoever did think of Rodimus Prime should be made to dissemble, then reassemble the Rodimus Prime action figure till the end of his days.I guess I've gotten too much into this already, but I don't regard this movie as great as others seem to. I see it as a nostalgia kick and I still dig the mythology. The animation is cool, too, though not as even as it first appeared. This is largely a cult film and I suspect it has the status it has because it was the only Transformers film ever made. I'll probably still get it on DVD (eventually) despite all my gripes about it. It has its flaws but it's still a pretty cool thing. "},{"Title":"Not every animated movie has Orson Welles","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I first saw this movie in the cinema when I was seven, and OK maybe that's partly why I have such a high opinion of it but it certainly is a few notches above most animated films of the time.  It has a mystical quality similar to Star Wars, and the anime style of animation is very cool.  And look at the voice cast! It has ORSON WELLES in it, as well as Eric Idle, Leonard Nimoy, Judd Nelson etc.  One day it will be acknowledged as the classic that it is. "},{"Title":"Not every animated movie has Orson Welles","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I first saw this movie in the cinema when I was seven, and OK maybe that's partly why I have such a high opinion of it but it certainly is a few notches above most animated films of the time.  It has a mystical quality similar to Star Wars, and the anime style of animation is very cool.  And look at the voice cast! It has ORSON WELLES in it, as well as Eric Idle, Leonard Nimoy, Judd Nelson etc.  One day it will be acknowledged as the classic that it is. "},{"Title":"High point in animated movies","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok, so for those of who were living under rocks, or perhaps were'nt around in the mid-eighties, the Transformers were probably one of the biggest if not the biggest craze to ever grace this Earth. For those who do know about them let's get this straight b4 we start YES, they are only cartoon characters and yes it was only a cartoon, but the kicker is, it was a really good one. If one sits back and forgets that this movie is intended for children they will find a well made and, in some contexts, adult movie. Firstly the animation in this movie is excellent. Top of the range back then, and still good quality now. Action scenes are overwhelmingly detailed, slick and fast making for an enjoyable experience. Those who watched the show religiously (if not, why'd you see the movie?) will also love the crucial events that  unfold in the Transformers world. The death of Prime, the passing of the torch so to speak. Old characters featured continuously in the series who had laser blasts merely damage them or knock them around have their carcasses horribly torn to shreds, another example of a more adult way to address things. Also a good experience is the soundtrack, both instrumental and the songs which greatly heighten the scenes effects. So to summarise, when making this movie, the companies may have only had dollar signs in thier heads, but for those of us who grew up with these characters, this gave gave us an enjoyable movie and another chapter in a great story. This was top notch movie back then.....which would explain why so many still love it to this day  ) "},{"Title":"One of the best animated movies ever made....for adults and children","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've been a fan of transformers dice the beginning, I am 17 now and I just bought the move and watched 20 times in about 6 days.  This movie is genius!!!! It's an out with the old in with new type film, it introduces new characters and basically destroys all the old characters (I love Starscream's death) And Megatron's and Optimus Prime's battle is one of the greatest fight scenes ever on film!!!  The only problem with the film is the soundtrack Stan Bush's songs The Touch and Dare are good, but they don't match the mood with the parts of the film they were played in the 2 songs shouldn't be played in fight scenes (beginning and end credits maybe) Now the reason I love this film  Unicron!!  Unicron is both God and Satan in this film he resurrects transformers as well as savagely destroys them.  If your a fan of the transformers of  animated films  This one's for you.  On a scale of 1-10 a 9.8!!! (.2 taken off for the misuse of music.)  "},{"Title":"for fans only","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ahh the good old days when i was young and every afternoon i would tune into my favourite TV series Transformers . Then came this wonderful animated movie which completely blew me away. IT has top notch animation which in my opinion is still  as effective as it was 14 years ago. even today i still love it after watching it about 30 times and Know all the dialogue off by heart. As for the acting by the actors Leonard Nemoy's portrayal as Galvatron was a revelation as was Screen Legend Orson Welles as Unicron.And as always Peter Cullen was excellent as always as Prime.As much as i love this film its not flawless. For fans of the series its perfect but for anyone else it would just be a stupid film.But none the less if you are a fan do not miss it. I just hope this will be coming on DVD soon  "}{"Title":"The greatest animation film OF ALL TIME","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is without a doubt,  my favorite animated film EVER.  EVER.  There simply is no competition or anything that even comes remotely close.  I have been a fan of the television series since childhood and this movie was absolutely incredible when I first saw it,  and incredible every time it's played.  I own three copies of it;  the original video release, the uncensored version,  and the new release recently made.  Everything about this movie is good.  I am normally a casual television/movie watcher,  but this is the movie that I cannot get enough of.  Online,  you can find hundreds of people like myself who can easily recite the movie's lines from beginning to end and explain all the scenes in order.  It's not very hard to do;  watch the movie 2 times one can probably recite most of the show, because it's THAT good.  What about these classic linesFirst we crack the shell,  then we crack the nuts inside! I now possess that which you most fear!  You will do my bidding,  or taste my wrath! Spare me this mockery of justice! No way,  two can play!The person who wrote the dialogue in the movie is a genious,  and with a cartoon show backing this movie up with unforgettable characters,  it is unstoppable. People criticized this movie back in the mid-80s for having a hard rock soundtrack and being too violent.  SO?  Look at today,  and how popular anime is.  Everyone wants to watch shows with lasers firing and heavy tunes! Was Transformers ahead of it's time?  IT STILL IS,  because it is underappreaciated and nothing has yet to even come close.  Look at the opening sequence with Unicron.  Hand drawn! "},{"Title":"I laughed, I cried, etc. etc.","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I recall watching Transformers The Movie at the theatre when it first came out in 1986. My dad dropped me off at the movies, and when he came back two hours later to pick me up, I was visibly shaken. There was just too much to handle. The stunning animation, the tragic death toll, and Spike and Ultra Magnus swearing a blue streak. That movie touched me in ways like no other movie before or since; I'm sure it had a lot to do with being ten years old, but when Optimus died -- I cried. Lord, how I cried. And his wicked-awesome action-stunts sequence immediately beforehand, where he transforms, does a flip through the air in slow motion, and (chuuga-chuuga! chugga-chugga!) blows the crap out of the Decepticons on the ground -- it left me breathless.I saw this movie again a few years ago, and I'm embarassed to admit it was still really, really cool. It has its faults, though. Firstly, the soundtrack, with the exception of Weird Al Yankovic's Born to be Stupid and that You got the touch number from the aforementioned sequence (which is necessarily cheesy), has to go. I wonder how hard it would be to re-mix everything with some sort of thumping techno action, which would be fitting considering the subject matter. Transformers and Autechre? How cool would THAT be!As well, I would have appreciated a more realistic job with Unicron. As he exists in the movie, he's no larger than Delaware, and even that's pushing it. It would have been way better if they concieved of a robot entity that actually was the size of a planet, with a head the size of Quebec. It would take several days to transform, even with parts moving at hundreds of miles per hour, and would have small moons orbiting it...My apologies. Still, a great movie. It probably had a greater effect on my early development than all of my gym classes combined. "},{"Title":"Watching Star Wars in the theater for the first time must have been something like this...","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" ...And no, this is aside from the obvious Star Wars ripoff themes...)Seriously, this is a vastly critically misunderstood and underappreciated film.  They say it's a toy commercial.  They say it's too violent.  They say they don't get it.  What they don't say is that yes it's violent, but it's extremely focused and energetic-violent, the kind that's just plain exciting to watch.  They say it's a toy commercial, but that doesn't matter if it involves characters that you genuinely care about, like Optimus Prime.  They don't talk about the beautiful, anime-style attention to detail- I swear, if I didn't know better, you could tell me that this was done by the same people behind Macross Do You Remember Love, and I would have believed you.  Yes, it borrowed themes heavily from other sources and was a toy commercial, but it's the same case with another Sci-Fi classic.  It's called Star Wars.  And like Star Wars, it transcends crass commercialism, and takes these overused themes and injects them and the film on a whole with new life.  In my opinion, it is indeed the Star Wars of American animation.However, they do say they don't get it, and they're right.  This is a film that's virtually impossible to truly appreciate without the perspective of the television series behind it.  It's like watching the climax, the turning point of a film or series without having watched anything of it before.  If you're an anime fan, it's like watching End of Evangelion (another spectacular piece of science fiction) without watching the TV series before it.  So in a sense, I don't blame them for not getting the film.But if you are a Trans fan, or have at least _some_ memories of transformers growing up, _ignore_ the critics.  This is a spectacular film in the overall scheme of the Transformers that's more than worth your time.  "},{"Title":"After All Is Said And Done, This Movie Is Is #1 (Animation)","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  No two ways about it, this movie is the best animation movie there is, the best animation movie there was, and the best animation movie there ever will be. Here's why1) Emotion (Spoiler) Even in the show there was never this much emotion, because there was no deaths, just next time. This movie changed that. So many great Autobots die, like Prowl and Ironhide. To make it even, great Decepticons (Starscream) die as well. Painful to me, and other Trans-fans, but it had to happen to make it real. Then, of course, THE DEATH. You know who I'm talking about! And yes I cried like a lost sheep when IT happend.2) Soundtrack Too good to be put in words. Still available, everywhere. Which goes to show you how great it is.3) Memories Great movies ALWAYS bring back memories because you associate great movies with the time it came out. I always remember on the school playground talking to my friends about Transformers. I mean, those were the days.4) Availability The movie has been re-released in my country two years ago. That just goes to show you that the movie is still sought out to be bought, nearly 14 years after it came out in theatres. And why not? After all, it is a must for ANY Transformers/Beast Wars etc fan.Until the day8/10  "},{"Title":"New World Order","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Transformers The Movie attempted to change the direction of the television show.  Growing stagnant, the movie tried to rejuvenate the cartoon franchise.  While their effort should be commended, the end results were less than spectacular.  With Optimus Prime passing the torch to a new generation, it provided the inspiration for a number of shows and movies to come  most notably, Star Trek  Generations and the more recent, Batman Beyond. "},{"Title":"A must see if you were born in the 80's","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've been a Transformers fan since I was a kid.  Every weekend, I'd go with my father to Chinatown to buy another Transformer.  I used to rush home to see it after school.  Hell, I'm 18 now, and I never missed a Beast Wars episode.  Too bad that's over.  I found this movie in Manhattan last April, and I had to buy it.  Everyday, I'd come home from school to watch it.  It was practically my addiction.........along with smoking. Anyway, as I was saying, you gotta see this movie.  The first time I saw it, I cried when everyone was dying.  But I still sleep with my Powermaster Optimus Prime(and I'm in college, how sad is that?), knowing that he lived on after the movie. ) This was one of the best movies ever made in the 80's and possibly the best of all time.  Ok, so just see it or I'm gonna have to hunt you down. "},{"Title":"Nice... But somehow disappointed","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I was a little lad, I used to enjoy the Transformers.  They were full of action, suspense, mystery, and many more.  I lived this movie, and I somehow loved it back then.  But now, it just seems to fall apart. Yeah... I like the storyline and all, but the scenes and things are just few and far in between...First of all, that hard rock music soundtrack.  Every nook and cranny of the film, there was some hard rock track that kept droning.  One of the most disturbing scenes with hard rock soundtracks is when they meet the Junkions and that Bah weep Granah weep Ninni bog crap occurred.  Then they start doing a little dance...  Then there's the whole bunch of Transformers, there was a heck of a lot of Transformers and they can't even concentrate on one entirely,  Optimus Prime got killed off fast and we don't get to see more of perrennial favorites like Jazz and Bumblebee.  Also, the humans... Right the humans.  What's the point in the story with the humans.  They were stupid and took up alot of screen time and emotion.  Also, the animation wasn't even good all in all.  Compared to Disney's style, this looks like crap. And last but not least of all, everything went too fast.  No character and plot development were present, it was all meshed up into one movie to irritate people.This is a nice movie, just not worth somehow your time and the all-star cast is wasted (except for Leonard Nimoy).  If you want corny 80's fare, rent this movie.  Otherwise, stay away and watch the original. "},{"Title":"Great animation!","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The story is great as well as the characters. It's about OptimusPrime losing the matrix and then a new leader is among thereAutobot clan! It's a war of the decepticons and autobots. It's2004 and the future depends on futuristic robots! Watch thisgreat animated film. It was a childhood favorite of mine. Icollected all the robots in the early 80's. Now they have a shownow that is called BEAST WARS. It's very good too, but noTransformers The Movie. Just to name a few new autobots anddecepticons are Hot Rod, Blurr, Wheelie, Spicks' son Daniel,Galvatron(Megatron), It goes on and on. The show is great forkids as well as older kids at heart. It's a great show and film.They did very well! Out of 4 stars it gets 4 stars! "},{"Title":"Worth watching for the Soundtrack alone...","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The 80's are back in effect!! This has Weird Al Yankovick music playing while Transformers do battle and dance around. If that doesn't sell you, don't waste your time. This movie is very stupid and cheesy and very 80's. I loved it! It seems to be very much like the cartoon I loved when I was a kid. It makes you appreciate cartoons of yesterday before we were over-run with marketing ploys like Pokemon. Well, Transformers was a marketing ploy too but it was way more innocent and fun. And the soundtrack is SO 80's. The transformers are doing battle and killing eachother and they have like glam metal or hairspray music or whatever it's called playing. Oh, man. It's not really quality animation or anything but it's so damn entertaining. Rent it with a whole group of people and have a party...Makes one nostalgic for He-Man!! "},{"Title":"Animated movies do NOT get any better that this! Mesmerising!","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'd seen this movie as a child and loved it beyond words. To see it again over a decade later brought back incredible amounts of nostalgia and rekindled my love for this wonderful cartoon. This movie was a triumphant masterpiece, as was the entire original run of the Transformers cartoon to say the very least. Beast Wars is like so much used toilet paper when compared to the original Transformers. I even enjoyed this movie's cheesy soundtrack! I also had to break out my old toys immediately after viewing this delectable delight. Simply put, animated movies do NOT get better. "}{"Title":"*****A perfect 5 star rating,one of the best movies of 1986","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  (This is my last review for the movie the reason why I did the others was before I saw the movie again during my older brothers birthday)GoodToo many to list here.But here goes1Incredible performances 2Great soundtrack (The only other soundtrack I like more is the blues brothers) 3Great casting 4Some of you movie-fans might wanna see this because this is the final movie performance of Orson welles and scatman crothers. 5Its not just for transfans for one example it is also great for anime fans too.I can name all sorts of other things too.(By the way if you want to pick which version to go I defintely pick the canadian version because it is uncensored)The beautifulWell the animation is well done but the soundtrack is fantastic.The badWell there are 2 things(SPOILERS AHEAD)If you're observant enough you can see certain things like thundercracker (no john stephenson voice of thundercracker isn't in this movie) has appeared in starsreams coronation even though beforehand he got re-formated to one of galvatron's troops.(Spoilers end)The only way I can see on why would transfans be disappointed in this is because of that of all the original transformers perceptor had more screen time than any of the others.The uglyYou pokefans think you got it bad.Well we basically got the same thing.(Although the B.O record for this film was much lower) "},{"Title":"Hasbro, A transformer fan's worst enemy","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Sure you could say that Hasbro brought Transformers to the USA but they would have made it anyway its too good of an idea.  The thing that pisses me off is Hasbro's lame attempt on making a Transformer movie.  Dont get me wrong it was great.  However, the record needs to be set strait.  AFter watching the movie a thousand times, evaluating it, memorizing it.  I have come up with some conclusions.  One everyone thinks the animation is great. Well I disagree, some of the cells are beautiful but alot are not.  Just watch the movie, espcially the Optimus/Megatron fight.  In one cell Megatron is done with amazing detail and in the next shot i thought i was watching the old t.v. show.  Surely they could have spent more time fixing that garbage but they had a deadline.  My theory suggests that the movie had to come out right before the toy and since the toy was more important, time on the movie was sacraficed.  Two, it was a commercial, i mean Optimus gets like no air time whatsoever he's there he's dead.  I mean sure the screenwriter had to do it that way.  By plot point 2 the main character needs to be established and how can Hot Rod be the main character with Optimus around.  But, if Hasbro hadnt used it as a commercial, i bet Optimus would have made it to the end.  Or at least made more than a cameo death. Heck they brought him back anyway.  3rd, the ease of the old characters death, then after they are destroyed the new characters are practically invincible...what a plot hole, certainly Optimus could have done a better job than Hot Rod anyday, but unfortunately he just gets smacked around like he was a loser for all those years.  And then when Ultra Magnus eats it, the screen writer just has him brought back like he wasnt even scratched, I mean if it was just that easy to fix somebody they should have brought everybody back and finished this war a long time ago.  Another seriously idiotic excuse for keeping the new line of toys intact, if they were going to bring him back like that they shouldnt have killed the man in the first place. Concerning Hasbro, the bottom line is this.  They did well with the toys but they should have let the professionals handle the movie.  I mean the shadow they cast over the movie only hurt it.  Now after i have pretty much made Hasbro look like amature film makers, let me talk about what made it a good movie.  First was the realism, death...destruction, finally an animated movie with a attitude.  If Disney moives were bad like this i would watch them everday.  Vince Dicola busted some serious instrumentals and even though the songs were a tad corny they were loaded with inspiring motivation, but of course Hasbro didnt make the music, no wonder it was good.  The new characters were actually preatty darn cool.  They stood out against each other and each had their own syle.  The one-liners were great, which i might add was the one thing i thought the screen writer did well with.Alot of people think that transformer fans are dying off.  I disagree. i think that everyone who liked transformers has a place in their heart for them, but Hasbro continues to make that place harder and harder to find. They are a toy company but i feel they have too much leverage over the media portion of trasformers.  I think a Prequel dating before the original show should be made.  I think this seqel should be void of any Hasbro influence and should be made with more violence, drama, and geared more toward adults than even the first one.  I say this for the simple fact that trasformers was too popular to just die as easy as it did.  it was like right after the movie came out, trasformers deteriorated, not because we all grew up but because Hasbro kept it a kids program.  Trasformers in their nature were a violent lifelike creation.  I mean Hasbro bought them from someone in Japan who are known for violent cartoons.  If transformers came back to the big screen violent and bad ass, poeple would go see it. Adults would take their kids to show them what daddy used to watch.  And moral groups would hate the movie and we would all laugh at them as we got our money's worth. Unfortunatley however, if the first one hadnt bombed...All Hasbro's fault...A sequel would have already been made.  Many have tried to offer a script but no one will buy it.  But as i sit here typing, i am on a mission to do so.  The problem lies in the fact that most people who make the script are just starting out.  We need a man way up on the film food chain to come up with one and if no one has the gutts then let that man be me....Adam Arnold...one filmmaker not afraid to reach back into his child hood and bring out what should have ben done years before...Adam "},{"Title":"Before DragonballZ, before Poke'mon, There were TRANSFORMERS!","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've got 1000 words to say that something changed my life forever.  About 15 years ago that something was the Universe of the Transformers.  I'm 20 now and still remember it like yesterday.  Rambling off the theme song or just telling younger kids that there were Transformer befoer Beast Wars Transformers.  As for the movie.  I had an orginal metal Optimus Prime.  He was a hero.  Espeically when the line came out One shall stand, one shall fall. it cemented the Transformers firmly into my mind.  This movie had some of the 80's upbeat rock of that time.  Plus a guy now known nationally for recording his first record in a bathroom Weird Al Yankovic with his Dare to be Stupid song.  I've got recommend this movie for mabe older children because of the violents in it but as for adventure and action it's great.  They could have cut and pasted this thing togeather on plain paper. Then fan it on a projector made of Duct tape and tooth picks.  This is an underground classic.  But for the ture fans like I it will alway be close to my heart weather it's on tape or gets updated with the times and comes to DVD.  Only wishful thinking, mabe it could happen.  Oh, well.  I hope others feel the same I do.  You've got the touch, You've got the POWER-The Touch--Stan Bush. "},{"Title":"The series into a hour and half movie!!!","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is just a commerical for the old Transfomers (not Beast Wars!!). It has several of the old transfomers die, a lot of violence and the introduction of a new villian!!They also introduce several new transformers during the movie!!The animation is great considering it's from Japan!!If you grew up watching this after school like I did , you might like the movie!!Also if you like this movie, try G.I JoeThe Movie done around the same time!!!They will bring back memories of growing up in the 1980's and for some cool classic cartoons!! "},{"Title":"the all-time underrated classic!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was the movie that I grew up on.  There are a lot of Transformers fans that dislike the movie.  Sure, our favorite heroes(including Optimus Prime) were killed off(I cried at that part!), but it did add to the drama in the movie.The characters are very three-dimensional and believable and Galvatron is so awesome!  Leonard Nimoy(Star Trek's Spock) was excellent in the role of Galvatron.  I really love his first prime, then Ultra Magnus, and now you! line that he says while attempting to choke Hot Rod(Judd Nelson) to death.Critics hate it, but then again, they never grew up on Transformers.  I love anime, I love Star Trek, but NOTHING will ever beat my love for the Transformers.  I and many others will remain eternly grateful to the makers of the movie and the show. "},{"Title":"AND NOW LIGHT OUR DARKEST HOUR!!!","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  	I haven't seen Pokemon The First Movie.  I haven't even really ever seen an episode of Pokemon at all, but I can say without fear of hyperbole that Transformers The Movie is the greatest film ever based on a line of toys (and that includes video games).  Not only that, I'd go as far as to put it into the highly honoured and sought after category of one of the top 20 greatest films I've ever seen... and it doesn't even feature John Rhys Davies or Bruce Campbell.  I've always held that the addition of a robot (especially a giant one) can help any film... all the characters but 2 in this film are giant robots! 	Sure he's ripped of from both the death star and a monster Brianiac built in an early 80's Super-Man comic, but Unicron the &#145;devil figure' in this film has got to be one of the greatest villains ever in the history of film.  He's a robotic planet played by the acclaimed Orson Wells in his last and greatest role.  The opening scene in Transformers has got to be one of the most hard hitting in film history.  In opens in the dead silence of space.  We hear this blood chilling theme and from afar we see a giant mechanical planet race past these two suns.  Then we see this other planet inhabited by happy, peace loving robots.  Suddenly their world begins to shake and the giant robo-planet appears in the heavens above them, and then it proceeds to devour their world.  I guess what ever comity it is the regulates violence in film didn't think seeing robots killed would faze children much.  I guess they didn't realize that these robots were very real and very human to the children that watched the Transformers show.  Eight of the mane characters from the shows first season are all brutally killed with in the first 30 minutes of the film.  In fact Transformers probably has a higher death tole than any other children's movie.  When I saw transformers in theatre I was 7 years old and could distinguish between reality and fiction, I believed in the after life and also went to see the movie with my Dad so I wasn't really left an emotional wreck, (though I was rather upset with the death of Optimus Prime) but I have a friend who was actually left emotionally scared by the film for several years.  	Of corse the movie isn't all doom and gloom, it features one the greatest good turning the tides of battle against evil endings of all time.  Very few moments are as uplifting to me as the moment Roddimus Prime says This is the End of the Road Galvitron! and then proceeds to bestow a holy beating on the Decepticon leader.  As we all rock out to the amazing sound track The Touch by Vince(Rocky 4)DiCola. YOU CANNOT, DESTROY ME!! YOU CANNOT DESTROY MY DESTINEEEEEEGHH!!! Yeah right Unicron, kiss my shiny, robot ass!  So much of what makes this film great is the amazing sound track, with cool songs like the Extended Transformers Theme, Weird Al's Dare To Be Stupid and the action song The Touch, that Dirk Diggler sings in Boogie Nights.  Anyway though there are a few holes in the plot at some points, it's still one of the greatest films of all time and I'd put it up against Titanic any day.Each category is rated out of 10.  The Cool lines rating is based on quality not the quantity of cool lines.  For instance one really cool line in a movie that otherwise has none might get the film a 6 in the Cool Lines rating. Cool Lines 10 Story 8 Hero/Heros 10 Villain/Villains 10 Rockingness 11 Begging Scene 10 Ending Scene 10Moral/Morals One day an Autobot shall rise from our ranks and use the power of the matrix to light our darkest hour.  Also Big robots eat little robots for breakfast.  Also Grimlock kicks ass!   "},{"Title":"A mighty leader dies!  A evil ruler is Born again!","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  In all fairness, I think that this film is killed off by fans who thought that this movie took away a lot of the fun of the show.  I agree to a point. Optimus Prime, one of the only characters I enjoyed watching as a kid...does die.  Yet, he dies a heroes death. Megatron, one of the greatest villains, gets to be re-created in what I fell is one of the most dramatic and well-animated scenes in Motion Picture History.  Unicron's line of, You belong to me now. is dark and is a perfect example of classic foreshadowing that will lead to other events in the film. As for killing off all the other Autobots and Decepticons from the original show...I don't have too much to say about that except that it shouldn't have been done.  At least Soundwave survived.A great show...Only for true fans though.Out of ten............9/10.  "},{"Title":"Basically the TV series, made longer with extra polish and emotion.","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was a loyal Transfan, watching this movie today reminds me of waiting patiently for the series to come on everyday after school.  The movie was the climax of the Transformers world that I remember, before the Headmasters, and Beast Wars.  It was the pure, original, intended form. The movie was a polished, and emotional (for me as a child grieving as my heroes fell, and cheering as the bad guys got whipped).  The voice over was very good for a cartoon in my opinion, and the music at the time rocked perfectly with every point the movie went to.  I guess it was childhood innocence that I didn't see the obvious star wars theme, or the sneaky toy promotion as they killed everyone I had at that time pushing me to buy the new characters.  These were my friends that I played with in the form of toys that had been through allot with me in my imagination, all taken to a new level that I don't think was ever topped again in the Transformers line. It won't make sense to a new generation of kids, it belongs to the children of the mid 80's and memories it recreates as it is being watched today. "},{"Title":"After 10+ years, I Still Like the Movie","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm gonna begin by saying out loud that this was a movie made in the 80's based on a kid's TV show, and made *for* kids. All this movie does is expand the continuity of Transformers, creating some little new plot device called the Autobot Matrix of Leadership, killing off the older or less popular characters such as Windcharger, Prowl *sniff* and the vans, and introducing some new, sleeker models Hot Rod/Rodimus Prime, Magnus, Springer, et al.Being an adult fan of the Transformers line not a huge fan, for I own *none* of the toys anymore -- let that be a mark against me, I can watch this movie and objectively pick it apart.We have a simple plot; it cane be stated in two sentences, each containing only one secondary clause. Simple enough for the children to grasp. A killer soundtrack that children would love. (Oh, my gripe is that half the time the music crossfades did not work at all.)Animation *immensely* better than the TV series (both before AND after).Such great voices as Spock, that guy from the Breakfast Club, and Mr. Citizen Kane himself.All in all, a great movie for fans. A good movie for youngsters of today's age, even though I am liking the newer Transformers series' depth as compared to the simple 80's-style storytelling.But for someone picking this up at the movie store because there isn't much else to rent, it's only slightly below par. They could have benefitted by making this movie something more for all ages. (But hey, they didn't know then that the success of the Transformers line would have continued as it has up until today!)Dare Dare to believe you can survive The power is there at your command Dare Dare to keep all your dreams alive It's time to take a chance You can win if you dare "},{"Title":"ANIMATED MOVIE OF THE CENTURY !!","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The power and majestry contained in TFTHE MOVIE is incredible! Excellent script, fantastic voices, and pure adventure from start to finish. The concept of Unicron was epic , and the big screen brought the larger-than-life characters into an even bigger light! I quite enjoyed that potty-mouth Spike crying out Oh Shit, what do we do now? when Unicron was about to munch them to pieces. Exceptional!! Incredible!! "}{"Title":"The best animated film ever.","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Without writing a 'spoiler' although everyone should have seen this by now.... I will attempt to say what I think.There is no animated movie that can compare to this one. No.. no Disney garbage - if one thinks so, then one should go back to ESPN or Martha Stewart and leave the thinking to those who can.Nor anime, not Akira - not DBZ - not even GUNDAM.My childhood heroes dying in front of me.. it was a very serious an mature movie for a cartoon.My friends and I were stunned.. our universe crumbled.But, even as heartbreaking as it was for a few 8 yr olds... I don't know if anything less would have been fitting for such a great show.BTW I learned only today that 2/3's of that cast are now deceased... and half of those died in 85'-86' how ironic....RIP Orson Welles, Chris Latta, Scatman Crothers, and the others who made my childhood so interesting.GNo, there is nothing quite like the lessons learned from watching your childhood heroes die in a swift and horrible fashion. "},{"Title":"Absolutely amazing movie","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Many people might say that this movie is sad when someone >      like me is so old but cartoon aside, this movie is absolutely >      awesome. I remembered it at the cinema, the way scenes like >      the Optimus Prime death were written with maximum effect, >      how a tear came to my eye when I watched it originally. The >      artwork was amazing and one or two of the animators wenton to help in The X-men. The music score was also excellent.One of Hasbro's best achievements. This movie should not be >      missed. It's a cartoon, so what? "},{"Title":"Bah weep grana weep nini bong. C'mon how can you go wrong with a movie with a line as cool as that?","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is by far my favorite American animated movie. Beats the hell out of anything Disney churns out year after year. To this day I haven't found a movie as cool as this. Of course, right now I'm talking as an over-biased Transfan who's been in love with the original series that started way back in 1984 all the way up to the current series Beast Machines.The movie had everything any kid or teenager in the '80s would love Action, violence, drama, profanity, humor, and a loud soundtrack. Why this didn't do well in the theaters is beyond me because I distinctly remember, from the screening I was in, every single person in attendence cheering and clapping. From what I can tell from these comments posted here on IMDB this movie is still the awesome movie it was oh, so long ago. The fact this movie has been recently re-released on video and is being considered for DVD release next year proves that.When Unicron first appeared on screen I knew it was on. And what do I get after that rather violent opening sequence? A whole hour and a half of beautifully animated robots battling it out in a war that rivals anything that's been seen in Saving Private Ryan. This movie deserved the PG-rating it got. I'm sure it would have gotten a PG-13 rating, too, if it was just a little more violent. This was nothing like the TV series and that's the reason why the movie still lives on to this day.To anybody that hasn't seen this, don't listen to the critics. They have no idea what a Transformer is and why it is the classic it is today. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time! Really cool!","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Watch out! Beware of spoilers! This is one cool movie! I think it is one of the best movies ever made, period. I think that if you have not ever seen it, and are not really into cartoons, well, you'd like it anyway. Ya just gotta give it a chance and see it as not just a dopey cartoon. Anyway, I saw it as a 5 year old, and it was just the biggest, most powerful, incredible movie ever! I had never seen a movie on the big screen before, so that was part of it. Also, I had been watching the Transformers t.v. show, and this was a big departure in seriousness from the show. A lot of the main characters from the show I was used to died. So that's part of the reason I think it's so incredible; I remember the feeling of awe I had as a kid, seeing it. But even if you did not have this experience, you'd still like it. Lotsa action, shooting, robots transforming to cars, guns, dinosaurs,etc. There's even this huge planet named Unicron, and in the beginning, he DEVOURS this whole other planet, and all the inhabitants, too! It is the coolest part in the movie. Later, Unicron transforms into a huge robot to destroy the Transformers, and he looks really cool like this too. He has big horns and deep grooves in his face that make him look like he has a goatee. He looks like the devil! The great Orson Welles did his voice; it's very deep and ominous sounding. Unicron's not the only great character, there are lots more. My favorites are Grimlock and the Dinobots. They kick butt! Anyway, this is one wicked cool movie. I highly recommend it. The animation is so cool, fast paced!  "},{"Title":"Fast approaching cult status","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When a movie is released at a target audience of children, it is bound receive poor reviews as no there are obviously no children in the movie critic field. Any inescapable bad reviews this film received belied the quality and excitement it provided. For children, this was the mecha for their cartoon heroes, and they were treated to a spectacle of action and even emotion. It is recently that the movie has experienced a revival. More and more you can walk into a party and see a mob of people cheering wildly as they watch their childhood heroes battling it out. The movie is quickly gaining a cult following from people of all ages, and with time, and the releasing of new transformers toys, people are always going to look back to the originals. And as Hasbro show no signs of discontinuing the ever popular transformers toys, you can only expect the original transformers legend to grow. In my town alone, there have been many people lobbying the theatres to re-screen the movie. A resurgence is evident, and it is growing stronger. "},{"Title":"WOW!!!","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Might contain Spoiler.I can't believe that this movie got so many great comments on it nearly 13 years after I forgot about it. Today I just happened to trip on to this movie while surfing the IMDB. I think back to when I was 6, this series and movie was probably the starting ground for my love for other Sci-Fi and Cartoon series. First I saw Star Wars, then Star Trek, then The Simpsons and now The Matrix and yes South Park. I'm not the only one who followed the same path, my older brother did as well and other people much like us. I remember very little from the film, other than lots of death in the first 1/2 hour and that I loved it at the time. I guess I'll have to see it again to really know what I'm talking about. Just make a little nostalgic trip back to 1st grade, when I had no real problems. "},{"Title":"Optumus Prime is dead now Hot rod has to take over","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"   I saw this movie when I was a little boy, as a boy I ate, slept and drank transformers. Back in the 80's Transformers were the gods of cartoon. It is one of the greatest anime movies ever but nowadays all the transformers are gone. Voices of Jud Nelson(The Breakfest Club) and Leornad Nimoy (Star Trek) were great but the music was boring.  "},{"Title":"Wow.  What a movie.  Emotional, Action Packed, and more twists than an Elastic Band which is..  well, um...  Twisted.","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  *Spoilers Included*Well.  This movie had it all.  The comic series of Transformers had always been great.  Full of emotional characters, and surprises.  It touched on the virtues of self sacrifice, and self control, as well as bringing out some really evil, and insane characters.*SPOILERS NOW!!!*The movie continued in this trend admirably, with the advent of Galvatron, the death of Optimus, and the introduction of Wreckgarr.  No one expected Oppy to die.  And yet, it happened within the first 15 minutes of the movie. It would be as shocking to interested viewers if A movie of Buffy TVS was made, and Buffy died within the first 15 minutes!!!  And yet the film still worked without one of the greatest transformers characters.The action was thick and fast, with a fluid plot, visiting many locations, and making a relevant impact on the Transformers universe.  Galvatron was brilliant.  He was an unwilling, powerhungry slave, wanting to co-operate with the Autobots, a fairly new thing for a decepticon, and yet, forced to try and save Unicron, by destroying the Transformers one hope, Hot Rod, and his MATRIX.*Spoilers stop here*The film was also a new frontier for Western Animation.  The Space Battles, and the Underwater car scenes in particular, as well as the Metroplex and also Galvatron transformation sequences being very innovative, and entirely uncharacteristic of the current western animation trends.All in all, The movie was well structured, and I feel, one of the best pieces of animation I have seen this past few years.Go and rent it out, or buy the video.  It's great.  "},{"Title":"Hard-hitting nostalgic fun for Transformers fans...","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of my favorite cartoon series of my youth was Transformers.  I watched it every day, and my un-discerning eye really noticed no quality difference between it and the (much better) Japanese shows being aired concurrently.A few years ago, when Hasbro began to relaunch Transformers, I tuned in to the Transformers Generation 2 show; and saw hacked up versions of the original cartoon.  I felt that the sacredness of Transformers had been violated- but then I noticed how crummy the animation was, and how insipid the storylines were.Knowing that my fondness would more than likely be shattered by a cynical adult eye, I watched Transformers The Movie again... hoping to be redeemed in my memories of it.  Thank God, I was.As a child, I thrilled to seeing Transformers on the big screen.  I thrilled to the deaths, I thrilled to the cussing (unfortunately edited out of most/all of the video versions)- I was enthralled, and honestly didn't care if the movie sucked or not.  I loved the Transformers.As an adult, I found that someone cared enough to make the movie *good*. The animation is very, very improved over the television cartoon.  The storyline is hard-hitting (for a toy license).  It honestly does require a bit of familiarity with the Transformers universe, so it's not going to appeal to someone coming onto it cold... and elitists who only watch serious mecha shows (Gundam, Evangelion) will probably turn their noses up at it.When this movie came out, there was a big trend to make direct-to-video movies of various popular cartoons; it was surprising to ever see this on a movie theater screen... but it definitely one-upped the competition. (As an aside, Transformers the Movie was much more popular in Japan than here.  Odd, since some Transformers were repackaged Japanese mecha toys. Anyways, there was a live-action sequel made with American actors that was released only over there...  all true Transformers fans owe it to themselves to seek it out; it's horrible, but still...) "},{"Title":"Good movie for a good cartoon","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I should say first that this movie was made for people who watched the transformers series, most of us are in or 20's or on our late teens, and the fact that so many people still like it and take the time to write shows what an impact this movie made. I think that its unfair that IMDB lowers this movie's ranking. "}{"Title":"Their brightest hour (and a half)...","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Transformers the Movie is like a dream come true for any true Transformers-fan, my brother and I included! We couldn't believe our eyes when we first saw it all those years back when we rented it! Of course, after that I could never get a hold of a copy for my personal collection. Until last year. And when I saw it again, I was AMAZED! No no no, I was SHOCKED! This movie is a zillion times better than the regular Transformers show on TV (animation and soundtrack-wise) and is a revolutionary phenomenon in the Transformers Universe, and, well, I dunno, I think it's far better than Ghost in the Shell (Manga Video) any time of the day!! But that again is only because I've been a Transformer-fan since I was 8! And yes, this will only seem sensible if you know who/what the Transformers are!! Otherwise, be my guest, go watch ANYTHING ELSE!!!Oomph!-meter (from 5) **** "},{"Title":"Film version of the great cartoon.","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Maybe I'm being too nostalgic in saying this (since Transformers was my favorite cartoon & toys from 1st-4th grade) but Transformers was the greatest action-oriented cartoon ever. Not to mention the coolest characters ( guys like Jazz, Smokescreen, Optimus Prime, Hot Rod, and Megatron simply couldn't be beat). On top of that, the show was one long, continuing struggle through the years it was on the air (not like other cartoons which were random happenings). So what better way to having a major changing of the guard in the series than a feature film? This movie was fantastic!! Transformers provided fun-filled hours of entertainment that was suitable for kids. It was never mean spirited, never any serious violence, and had well a well drawn out good vs. evil theme. Whether on its own or as part of the series, Transformer The Movie is still very cool today! "},{"Title":"Dissapointing for this TF fan, but it had potential","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  An attempt to give the cartoon something it never had before i.e. depth, intricacy, gritiness, it fails miserably on this level, as well as many others. The critics hated it, but for all the wrong reasons. Firstly, many of the newer story elements are not foreshadowed in the cartoon series--never even hinted at! Things such as the Matrix of Leadership, with its obvious long-term importance to Transformers, should have been shown before the movie. And what of the plot? Predictable for the most part, though the worlds they visit are interesting. The voice acting is stiff, especially from the well-known stars in the cast, which is ironic, since their voices were appropriate for the characters they did. The animation and music are okay. But, like with many things, there is another side to this. In terms of ideas, the movie makes its contribution, adding several unique plot ideas that were improved and duplicated in the comic book, as well as giving TF canon a much wider scope. The personalites of the Autobot characters are well shown, even though about three are archetypal, but the new Decepticons leave a lot to be desired. It also shows that Sunbow productions has the audacity (or the stupidity) to kill off two of its main characters, and put quite different (though not necessarily bad) leaders in their place. In my opinion, the move tie-ins in the comic book and the post-movie cartoon handle these ideas much better, so enjoy them, and only think of the movie as a way to make ends meet. But it had potential, and is a good romp for some younger TransFans, though ultimately it dissappoints me. "},{"Title":"Big Guns, Big Robots, Big Smiles","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I first saw this film at the tender age of 7, with my older brother and my grandmother, and even now with after years of maturity (not) at the age of 19 I still love it like I did then. I still remember every line from the film,  (my favorite being Galvatrons  First Optimus Prime, then Ultra Magnus and now you......) you know the one I'm on about. But I've got to admit seeing it again I've got to admit that while the animation is good there are some parts when it falters, (take a look at when Ultra Magnus places the Matrix in his chest for example) but what it lacks in that department it makes up for everywhere else. With a host of characters such as Judd Nelson as Hot Rod and Leonard Nimoy as Galvatron, this film is the only kids film that I still look upon with the same eyes as I did on that day in Feburary 1987 In a word, Transformers is the best kids film EVER, and always will be TILL ALL ARE ONE! "},{"Title":"****.5,a 4.5 out of 5 starsBeyond good, beyond evil, beyond your wildest imagination this is a truly grand Sci-fi adventure that settles in new grounds & the bad reviews were simply narrow-minded(then a","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  (Same as before),but yet come to think of it the reason why it got such poor reviews is because it tries to break new ground(the 1st anim. film that got placed into a pg-rated film) but then again just about every 80's hit series that got turned into movies got pretty bad reviews(Gobots,Rainbow Brite,The littles although not as much etc.) one thing that makes it odd that this film gets bad reviews that this is Orson welles very last film as my older brother said about the film critic's Don't they have any respect for the dead? oh well but still now that I had enough trying to understand the film critic's reviews I'll place in more of my review It has funny & powerful lines & the films soundtrack is my 3rd favorite, but still if you can see this film(it is well available at the WWW & a re-issuing probably would never happen but still it would be a fantastic idea) I sure hope to see it again(it's been years since I last saw this) "},{"Title":"Good vs Evil, but by no means Black and White","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay. Hands up I surrender. Yes it is possible to say that this film, like the series, is a capitalist money grabbing scheme designed to sell toys. That fact is probably undeniable. Equally, however, this film represents some of the finest animated material ever. It is some of the finest television ever. The film does not solely deal in black and white. Yes good triumphs, but at what cost? Optimus Prime - the First and Best, he who embodies all that is good, honest noble and upright is himself a casualty in the battle between good and evil. The film displays a depth rarely touched by any childrens programme, and this is why it continues to hold up today.The sheer power and depth of this film can be sampled simply by looking at the cast list - how many cartoons can boast the vocal talents of Judd Nelson, a definitive eighties badboy hero (the breakfast club) Leonard Nimoy (need i say more), Eric Idle - one of the creative geniuses behind Monty Python and Orson Wells (YES IT IS HE!)although the film can be accused of promoting the american way it is by no means too guilty of this, it has its grey areas, there are casualties on both sides, but equally the story (in combination with a fine 80s soundtrack) provides a message that rings clear - we can all be prime, we can all be the best. Just as the reckless autobot Hot Rod matures into a great and honourable leader, so to can we become that person that deep down within our soul we hope to be. "},{"Title":"A reminder of my childhood.","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've heard a lot of people criticise Transformers The Movie just because it's a cartoon and they think it's for kids.  But to say this is to miss the point. The fact is that it is a brilliant film, with a talented cast (Leonard Nimoy, Orson Welles, Eric Idle are just some of those involved) and a great 80's soundtrack (Weird Al Yankovic features) taken straight out of the film.  The film is also an emotional rollercoaster due to the sadness caused by the death of Optimus Prime and cheery moments like when Daniel is reunited with and saves his father, Spike.It also features some staggering special effects and explosions, and to anyone who says it's a kids film, if you take a look at it, you will realise that it has actually got a very adult atmosphere.This film is great, and is a strong reminder of my childhood.  "},{"Title":"****4 out of 5 stars,a fantastic but a bit brutal & frightening Sci-fi fantasy story.","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'd have to agree the whole movie was rather underrated,sure the film was rather intense & nasty(like the quintesson judge),but still it's got a good amount of dramatic heart,incredibly cool battles,& a awesome soundtrack,not too mention a good star-studded cast(somewhat),Suddenly susan's Judd Nelson,Star trek's Leonard Maltin,& of course the infamous Orson Welles in a spectacular performance as Unicron,and of course Eric Idle of Casper,& Monty Pythons flying circus,& the infamous Frank Welker as the one & only now-classic Sci-fi villian the original Megatron,true perhaps the film went a little too far for trying to make it intresting to preteens-adults but it has a lot of things to back it up.  "},{"Title":"Please Re-issue this film again!","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have found the Movie Soundtrack and it's my favorite of all time. Now I have to find the video which happens to be extinct or very hard to find. The only thing that can bring many stocks of this astonishing animated film is to re-issue the film again on the big screen. And do a little improvisations just like the Star Wars trilogy. Somehow I happen to see one of the characters twice, for example the autobot Sunstreaker, he's on earth helping Kup.The second time I saw him was with Optimus Prime on the ship piloting. I hope that the owner of this film should think about this, It's a cinematic masterpiece, It has a good story and a good soundtrack and a powerful cast like Judd Nelson, and the late Orson Welles in his last film before he passed on. I'm desperate to see it again.. "},{"Title":"Can't say enough about it.","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is great.  Even if you're not a Transformer fan, this movie is a must see.  The action, drama, and even some comedy turn this cartoon into an excellent movie adventure.  The soundtrack to this movie also adds to the excellence, and to the decade that it was made in.  This is one of the best movies ever made.  If you haven't seen it, then you probably won't.  This is not an easy movie to get a copy of, since it has been out of print for awhile.  But it's worth the search. "}{"Title":"Great cartoon movie from the 80s","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The cartoon series that are having movies made today need to go back and look at Transformers the Movie and GI Joe the movie. I'm almost twenty and I grew up on Transformers and GI Joe cartoons and the movies. I recently bought a copy of Transformers the movie and I'm glad I did. I brought back great memories. Not only does it have great action, it also has some great lines too. During the main battle sequence we hear the autobot, Springer, say the line I've got better things to do tonight than die. Now that is a great line for any action film. It has great voice talents (Kasey Casem, Orson Wells, Judd Nelson, and others) I highly recommend this, especially to the who grew up in the 80's and remember the show.  "},{"Title":"2 robotic thumbs up!!!!!!!!","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  No Academy awards here, but who cares, Transformers the movie was made in 1986.  It was an underatted masterpiece to all youngsters who loved the cartoon series and toy line.... such as myself.  The film's story line isn't anything really different or unpredictable as the independent crap is today. This takes you from the ending of the era we all knew as Transformers, and brings these characters to a whole new realistic life and death.  Never in the TV show has any Autobot or Deceptacon been killed, it's unheard of in kids shows.  This movie broke the mold.. we see 4 of our favorite characters from the original show murdered by the Evil Deceptacons in one of the opening scenes.  Eventually we witness the fall of Optimus Prime and Megatron, the two leaders of Good and Evil as the duke it out in a final showdown.  Optimus Prime was everything to the kids who watched the show, he stood for all the good qualities we want our children to learn.  Many of us cried when he died.  We then are taken on a tremendously well written adventure, following a group of new Autobots and Deceptacons.  We slowly realize one stands out and becomes the star of the Film.  Hot Rod, played by Judd Nelson.  From the time when he was responsible for Prime falling to Megatron in an attempt to help out, until his Destiny that even he is not aware of.  This movie takes on a whole new Villian, one that seems unstoppable.. played by Orsen Wells.  The movie is a classic as it takes us on an emotional rollercoaster... sad, amazed, action-packed, and comedic/ heroic all of the good stuff... I'm no critic, but I had to give this movie 2 thumbs up..  it's a childhood favorite, and the Transformers are worth bringing back to Television for the kids of today.   Damn that was long.... sorry "},{"Title":"A Transformer's Fan Dream","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  In 1986 I was 15 years old, and on the verge of being too old to like toys such as Transformers.  But there I was, in the theater in August of 1986, watching what has now become a cult classic.  Sure critics have ripped Transformers the Movie, but it wasn't made for them; it was made for the numerous kids who were saving their allowance money to buy the toys and getting up early Saturday morning to see the most original toy concept ever created.  For those kids, the movie pleases, and even today those grown-up kids enjoy the movie for it's animation and no-holds-barred action.For starters, Transformers die!  To kill major characters was utterly terrible, but inevitable. Those characters had run their course.  The deaths but established a history, a mythos never before mentioned in the cartoon. Transformers were always cool because of their humanity; in the movie it is revealed that they have spirit as well through the Matrix.The movie moves at an incredible pace. The battle scenes were totally awesome, and the score accents the action. Was Devastator ever as destructive, Megatron ever so cunning and ruthless, Optimus Prime ever so valiant?  The (sexual?) tension between Hot Rod and Arcee was interesting, considering there were never any female Transformers, save for one episode of the cartoon, and seeing Spike all grown up and still buddies with Bumblebee was a treat for long-time fans.  The introduction of Galvatron and his forces was great, and he serves as a persistent and powerful antagonist through the film.  The movie did a great job at characterization, and gave life to our favorite robots as never before.The only problem that I have with the movie is the way it lags after what is now know as The Great War.  In the beginning, Ultra Magnus appears to be a force to be reckoned with, a warrior towering over his troops, yet he ends up being a grouch throughout the rest of the film.  Grimlock and the Dinobots were reduced to status of insolent, mindless, robotic oafs, a role unbecoming of them considering how powerful they are.In all it was a pretty darn good piece of animation, and I'm sure that there will be plenty more late nights where my friends and I kick back and reminisce over one of the most exciting phenomenons the toy industry will ever experience.  Transformers the Movie will always be the greatest toy movie ever created. "},{"Title":"Underrated, mature science fiction","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Transformers The Movie received poor reviews in the papers and was called unsuitable for children.  That was precisely the point.  Western culture has traditionally considered animated television programs and movies to be for children.  This movie was aimed at a mature (teenaged, at least) audience and did a fantastic job satisfying that demographic. Called an overly violent movie, it pales in comparison to almost any action movie teenagers regularly attend and even the Power Rangers which were popular with even very young children until recently.  One critic referred to the gratuitous profanity in this movie, a single, minor expletive appropriate to the situation. The premise is intelligent and the plot is well designed and executed. The animation was excellent for its day (perhaps some critics said the animation wasn't up to Disney's standards because the robots happen to be mostly block-shaped, but the backgrounds and Earth scenes are beautiful). The soundtrack, called noise by some critics, rocks.  The reality is that all of the things the critics didn't like about this movie are what make it so popular and perfectly suited for its target audience. My only complaint is that, in its eagerness to replace the old characters with a new generation, the movie glossed over the death of the original characters.  Most of the Autobots on the shuttle died too easily and didn't so much as hit any of the Decepticons, let alone take any of them with them. The death of some Autobots, Wheeljack for instance, are not even shown. Also, Optimus Prime's defeat of Megatron wasn't decisive enough and Megatron wasn't damaged enough in the fight.  The fact that Prime died and Megatron wasn't even dying make Megatron seem the winner, and not Prime the victor, tragically lost to the recklessness and inexperience of Hot Rod. That aside, the movie is simply a lot of fun of fun to watch and has excellent replay value.  The story, animation and soundtrack are excellent, making for a mature, intelligent work of science fiction which belongs in every young adult's collection.  Truly an animation classic. "},{"Title":"The novelty, the action, the music. mmmm, nice.","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As a longtime fan of transformers, I was gleeful to get my hands on a copy of the video as an 18 year old. The first thing to note about this film is the beauty of the concept behind transformers. robots turning into vehicles etc is a perfect source of amusement for both little and big kids alike. However, leaving aside the novelty value, I still feel it's a fantastic film. Despite the dialogue being aimed at children's vocabularies, there are many strong characters developing, and dying through the film.Most noteworthy for me, however, is the way in which the rock score has been tied in to the on screen action in a number of scenes. Firstly showing the youthful exuberance of Hot-Rod, then as the Autobot city comes under attack, and as Optimus Prime comes to the rescue, all early on in the film, the music is perfectly balanced to the excitement, and triumph of good. Again, towards the end the same tunes, by Stan Bush, are used to excellent effect as the autobots attack Unicron and Galvatron, and to mark Hot-Rod's ascension to leader of the Autobots. Basically it rocks, and the combination of perfect 80's rock music, and transforming action is yet to be bettered, even by the mighty Star Wars. "},{"Title":"A kiddie movie that adults can enjoy more than kids","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I know when I first saw The Transformers The Movie in the theatre, I went with a friend and his young nephew and his two friends.  They wanted to go see it and we ended up enjoying it ten times as much as the kids did.A great soundtrack...I went out and bought the CD and still listen to it quite often.  Great animation...better than most of the limited anime/manga that was flooding the US around that time (and for the most part still is)...and much better than the animation on the TV show (though it distinctly improved for a few months after the release of the movie).  Great cast...this was the last movie work of the late great Orson Welles, and features about the only decent filmwork (well voice work) of Brat-Pack wannabe Judd Nelson...and with Leonard Nimoy, Eric Idle, Robert Stack and Lionel Stander along for the ride.Just a damn fun movie...for all and any ages...even if you've never watched the Transformers before, I think you will enjoy this movie.  "},{"Title":"More than meets (You know the rest)","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Now I was very excited when I first saw this movie when it was released circa October of 85. I still have my old copy of the film and I recently purchased a newer copy. Yeah yeah, every critic calls it a toy commercial, Bah! That's what they say about EVERY movie not made by walt disney. I feel that as a music-lover, that scoring and music was great for this film, the heavy metal of course was very appropriate I thought, even when I first saw the film. Yeah, the film has about one or two weak moments, for example, wheelie, blurr and their annyoing voices (they need a voice-box cleaning bad!) Leonard Nimoy was powerful as Galvatron, whose ruthlessness rivals Megatrons. The animation is ahead of its time, and for those of you who like camp, and a bit of awesome action, here it is!  "},{"Title":"Remembering our past...","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Transformers was back from my childhood, the good old 1980's, and we all know it is great to sit back and watch the old cartoons we grew up with. Those born back in the early 70's were unfortunate to not have VCR's.  This movie-based-on-the-cartoon is one of few that actually correspond with the television show.  I recommend this for children of all ages and for those of us who enjoyed watching the show when we were children. "},{"Title":"Carnage, death, redemption, and rebirth. What more could you ask for?","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Having gotten used to a steady diet of the TV show, the movie was a huge surprise to me. Gone was the bad animation. Gone were the glaring, infuriating continuity errors (For the most part, anyway!). Gone were all the major characters. In their place, stunning animation, a good if at times cliched plot, interesting new characters (who curse!), and massive carnage, most of which takes place in the first half hour of the movie. Gotta admit that I was a bit upset about that last. Not the fact that it was carnage, mind you, but the fact that my FAVORITE characters got the longest, most graphic, most agonizing deaths. Like Ratchet (Smoke out the eyeballs, geez!). Like Ironhide (My heart was breaking! I was bawling!). Like Optimus Prime, of course, although his death wasn't totally unexpected. And then the carnage was over for a while and I thought I was safe. But then, the ultimate heartbreak. They went and did in my favorite character, twisted old Starscream. AAARRRRGH! Again, it wasn't totally unexpected, but did they HAVE to disintegrate him before my eyes? Sheesh!Enough bawling. Here's the gistCheers--As a HUGE Star Trek fan, I gotta admit that I got a big kick out of hearing Leonard Nimoy being a naughty character...--The animation was truly spectacular! Bravo!--As a HUGE Monty Python fan, I loved hearing Eric Idle's voice speaking some witty, unique dialogue.--Some great character development in the movie, more than I expected especially given the blow-'em-up quotient.So many people wrote off the show as a 30-minute commercial for the toys, and in many ways it was, but it also addressed some classic psychological issues, and so does the movie, even throwing in a coming of age story for good measure.Jeers--The music. Sorry, I'm not into metal or Weird Al. But I did like one or two songs...--The confusing side stories and little unexplained bits! What's with the Quintessa thing? Where the heck did Unicron come from? And WHY?--Wheelie. Enough said.--Some niggling, nitpicky questions. For instance, why couldn't the Junkions fix all the dead guys like they fixed Ultra Magnus?--As a female myself, I can't understand why they made Arcee such a stereotypical (i.e weak) female? Geez, she's even PINK for crying out loud! Did they think that only boys were Transformers fans? Though she did have some zippy, scathing one-liners...Overall A marvelous movie. I'm not sure someone who had never watched the show could follow it or appreciate it, but it was never intended to be for people who had never seen the show. It's got some faults, but the great moments far outweigh the weak. This is what I'd show a non-fan in order to convert them to the show. In fact, I did exactly that with my husband. And it worked! Enough said. "},{"Title":"A timeless masterpiece","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I was young, I remember my first ever experience in a theatre.  I was taken by my aunt to see TRANSFORMERS  THE MOVIE.  As I walked in for the first time, the huge banner with the gigantic robots towered over my head. The tag line said it all  Beyond Good, Beyond Evil, Beyond Your Wildest Imagination. I expected the movie to just be a more detailed re-telling of the series pilot, telling how the Transformers came to Earth, and their war began.  I was wrong.The movie was far darker then the bright, clean cut, good prevails over evil, television series.  The characters were far more complex and three dimensional, and the violence was more intense.  I sat through the entire film, going through all the emotions that other 6 year olds were going through.  I gasped in horror when Megatron and the the Decepticons killed everyone I knew and loved.  I cheered when Optimus Prime, the symbol of everything good in the universe to kids and adults everywhere through the 80's, came in to save the day single-handedly.  I cried when Prime sacrificed his own life.  I cursed Hot Rod for having interfered.  I cringed when Megatron was rebuilt as Galvatron and killed Ultra Magnus.  My eyes were never as large as when Unicron, the largest Transformer ever, transformed.The film was a perfect masterpiece.  The popular characters appealled to kids, while the violence and heavy metal soundtrack appealed to kids.  Most adults were lost unless they watched the series though.  This was a ground breaking film.  The animation was unlike anything seen before.  Even anything done by Disney.  It was the first animated film to contain swear words, and graphic violence.  I had horrible nightmares for weeks after seeing Wheeljack's and Windcharges's mangled corpses lying in Autobot City.I went to see this film several more times.  It was what began my hobby of collecting movies, and writing screenplays, and inspired me to become a director.If you have never seen this film.  See it!  It may change your life. "}{"Title":"A true transformation of the Transformer Universe","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is a good movie.  One of the few American Anime style movies (and if you don't think this is Anime style, you've never seen it), this is a turning point in the Transformers Universe.  Everything changes from here. It's too bad that Mattel failed to capitalize on what could have been a boom in Transformers... they lessened the quality of the toys after this movie and didn't cash in on the potential this movie gave them.  This movie is a MUST for anyone who's ever played with a Transformer, anyone who's ever been a fan of 1980s afternoon cartoons, or anyone who thinks that Americans can't deal with Japanese animation. "},{"Title":"A Cool movie, based on the cartoon series and toys. =","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Rating 3 (1/2) out of 5 stars.GOOD NEWS It has cool animation and a neat darker plot of the Transformer characters.BAD NEWS ALL of my favorite characters (including Iron Hide, SNIFF SNIFF) die!!!!!!!  Also, this movie gets very violent (people die and so on) and has some swearing.  In the Canadian version, both Spike and Bumblebee say the s-word.(By the way, Optimus Prime returns from the dead in the 2-part episode, THE RETURN OF OPTIMUS PRIME)Overall, Transformer fans will enjoy this.  I and my friends had a good time seeing it.  "},{"Title":"A blast from the past","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This being my first of many overwhelming years in college, I was surprised to see a used copy of Transformers The Movie for sale at one of our university video rental places.  Having been a huge Transformers fan in my elementary school days, I bought it, and was amazed at how much of the original show I had forgotten. I think that Transformers, like many of the great cartoons from the mid to late 80s, is better than much of the cartoons they have now.  Bring back Transformers, He-Man, and Rainbow Brite, and kids will be better! I guarantee it! "},{"Title":"More Than Meets the Eye","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is one of the greatest animated films in history.  In the past, many reviewers gave this movie a poor rating, because they were the parents who had to take their children to see it and they knew little about the series and thus the movie was boring to them.  However, to the children who watched it, this movie was something they would never forget.  The characters of the Transformers television series had an unequalled amount of depth to them compared with any other cartoon series, which made the emotions of the movie run even higher when many of our childhood heroes died in battle.  There are some who argue that the movie is too dark, but it must be remembered that the characters who died in this movie did so for the dramatic purposes of the film.  This movie was one of the first to challenge the emotions of children from the day and one of few that could back up its morals with real drama (i.e. one for all and all for one=death of prime).  "},{"Title":"A Diamond in the Rough","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Transformers The Movie was and is one the greatest animated films of the 80s.  Yes, there are continuity problems, the plot is somewhat predictable, and the story-line is somewhat reminiscent of Star Wars... but it still is a great movie. Good versus evil--a standard theme in films of this sort, yes.  But this film adds a strange twist to this formula.  In one of the most action packed first 20-something minutes of any animated sci-fi action film, most of your favorite characters--from the TV show that spawned this film--(96% of them good) die.  In fact, the legendary Optimus Prime (righteous and heroic leader of the Autobots) dies in battle at the hands of his arch-nemesis Megatron (vile leader of the treacherous Deceptions).  This is due in part to the reckless action of a young firey Autobot named Hot Rod.  And Hot Rod must go through the long hard road towards redemption. Some of this wonderful storytelling is lost at times through a series of somewhat unnecesary (e.g. the battle on Quintessa lacked a back story to explain why the Quentissons were so vicious), yet truly exciting, action sequences.  But the very core of the story are still there. Since the film does require a longer narrative sequence than the one provided, the plot can be confusing for those not familiar with the TV series.  In fact, the film fails to inform the audience that Unicron (the villain of the film) and Cybertron (the Transformer's home planet) were actually ancient enemies. But, faults included, The Transformers The Movie is a truly great movie and can be enjoyed both fans of the TV series and those who have never even seen the show, if viewed with an open mind.  Out of a possible ten, The Transformers The Movie deserves an 8 and a half. "},{"Title":"An admirable and inevitable attempt to bring the successful franchise to the big screen, but not without any flaws","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" STAR RATING ***** Saturday Night **** Friday Night *** Friday Morning ** Sunday Night * Monday Morning In the year 2005, the war between the Autobots and the Decepticons has raged to their home planet Cybertron, but humans Spike and his son have joined their friends the Autobots in their on-going battle for the good of the world. However, they face a new, even deadlier enemy in the form of Unicron, an all devouring planet that wants total supremacy over everything, which it thinks it's found in the shape of a defeated Megatron. When Optimus Prime is fatally wounded in a gun battle, he hands over his 'Matrix' to his closest friend to continue the battle until the end.With the massive, big new summer blockbuster just round the corner, I thought now would be as good a time as any to give my thoughts on this original 1986 movie adaptation of the highly successful kids action adventure show that began in 1984. Digitally re-mastered, the makers were obviously trying to give bigger spectacle to the original movie that every smart-arsey observer noted was 'just out to make money' like the show before it was.Making a movie was always going to be hard (God knows making the show must have been hard enough!) and the film-makers have to be given credit for taking such a mammoth task on and obviously trying their best. Sadly, though, their efforts are trampled by a wavey plot with no heart and a corny and niggling soft rock soundtrack that crawls out from under the rock it came from every time a key scene emerges. Still, it's not an attempt to be sniffed at, introducing some great new characters that never got any air-time when the original show was running, as well as some neat, emotionally charged scenes. We'll just have to wait and see what the new movie has in store. ** "},{"Title":"<3 Transformers","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It's hard to describe how much I love this movie. For me it's the best animated movie of all times - and I'm pondering whether I should leave out 'animated' altogether since I can't think of many movies in general I like more than TFTM. I first saw it when it came out and I still remember crying when Optimus Prime died (speaking of which, it still chokes me up). Love the score, love the story, love the animation ... love Transformers. The only thing I disliked about this movie is the brutal 'retirement' of key characters (throughout the original series) like Ratchet, Ironhide, Cliffjumper etc. 4 main autobots getting trashed within 10 seconds is well ... a bit awkward considering the actual death of a transformer was sort of non-existent in the original series. Apart from that everything about this movie brings a smile to my face. "},{"Title":"Transformers deleted scene","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Those who were fortunate enough to actually see Transformers The movie when it debuted in theaters in May 1986 witnessed a scene that was only shown once and hasn't been included in any version of Transformers The movie I have ever seen. It seems the DEG group has sold their rights to the movie to F.H.E. in the late 1980's, this is when Transformers The Movie was released on VHS format. More recently, Rhino has acquired rights and has re-released Transfomers The Movie on DVD format. The scene in question was only shown in theaters, and has been omitted in every release of the movie I have seen. It is during the attack on Autobot City (before Optimus Prime dies) Optimus Prime orders the Dinobots to destroy Devastator! In the next scene (from this point comes the scene that was omitted). Grimlock (voiced by actor Greg Berger) says in mid-air while he is flying in T-Rex mode Me, Grimlock kick Decepticon a$$. The next thing you see is Grimlock descending out of mid-air flight from the spaceship. As Grimlock nears Devastator (Devastator has his back turned away from the oncoming Grimlock-unaware of Grimlock nearing him.) Grimlock, who is still in T-Rex mode, uses one of his feet and delivers a firm, solid, and fast kick to Devastator's rear! I guess the reason I still remember this scene is because it was the first time I ever heard any Transformer swear. This was of course before Spike's famous Oh $hit scene transpired later on in the film, but to me, that was nothing compared to this scene. I believe when F.H.E. (which was a sort of family-values oriented company, much like Disney) acquired the rights to the VHS release of the movie, they chose to censor the Grimlock scene. But that still doesn't explain the Spike scene. Sometimes I feel like this scene never happened, but I swear it did..I wish some other Trans-fan who also has a vivid memory could come forward to state that they also recall this scene that was only shown in theaters. "},{"Title":"Long running war between Good and Evil.  'The Transformers, Robots in Disguise'..","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Every Kid who grew up in the 80's would have heard of the Transformers. The war between the Autobots and the Decepticons has been raging for thousands of years. With the war having now reached Earth, the evil Decepticons want to bleed the planet dry of Energon taken from earths resources.Following their adventures from Television and comic books, this movie is a must for all Transformer fans, and great viewing for kids young and old. Even today this movie doesn't look out of place or dated. Time has been kind to it and its characters.I urge you to watch this movie because come 2007, Transformers will be hitting the big screen yet again with a Live Action Movie. Our Technology has finally caught up a little to be able to show Megatron and Optimus Prime in a true heavyweight battle. But first watch the original, watch the TV series on DVD and read the comics, because people..... This is a modern day classic in Animated Adventure, with a star studded cast doing the Voices of the Robots.Sit back and relax because the Autobot are about to 'Roll Out'. "},{"Title":"Yup!  It's a Whopper alright!!!!","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" A whopper of a movie! Transformers The Movie is my childhood favorite. For those of us that grew up on the classic TV show, it's a must-own.From the oldschool fan POV, it's so inspirational. Stan Bush's crazy 80's music STILL Inspires me when I listen to it. I just wish I was being chased by an evil flying robot and saving the world while I'm listening to it. It's also the nostalgic centerpoint of Transfandom itself. Fans may have continuity disagreements throughout the franchise of comics and TV shows and toys, but all fans have love and respect for what goes down in the film.For the kid who skipped being a Transformers fan during the 80's. It's not that big of a deal. It could be looked at as a big toy commercial, as major characters are killed off in order to bring it new ones. It could also be viewed as a Star Wars rip off.I say, it's both. It's classic storytelling, therefore drawing obvious comparisons to films like Star Wars, and its a showcase for a surprisingly BIG cast. Including the infamous Orson Wells on his last film ever.The poster is hanging up in my room. I worked at blockbuster for 4 years and made it my goal to sell as many copies as I possible could, and I've turned many of my friends into fans of it as well.I've done my part.GET OUT THERE AND WATCH IT!!! "}{"Title":"Transformers The Movie really is MORE THEN MEET THE EYE!","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I always Love The Transformers ever since I was little. This Movie is without a doubt a true classes. Transformers The Movie looks Phenomenal. The battle scenes in Tranformers The Movie are bad to the bone! I'm glad that all of my favorite Transformers were in this movie. This movie has parts that will make the hair on the back of your neck stood up. I love the music in Transformers The Movie, Personally, My favorite songs in the movie are Stan Bush's The Touch And Dare And N.R.G. Instruments Of Destruction. The best fight scene in this movie Optimus Prime VS. Megatron. Two of the greatest Icons in the history of Cartoon show. They put a great group of voice actors in this movie. I have a lot of Transformers from Generation one and two. Transformers The Movie Is without a classes and A Phenomenal movie for all The Transformers Fans. Transformers The Movie gets a 10 out of 10. Check this movie out! "},{"Title":"If you aren't in the cult, stay away. Otherwise, this'll blow you away.","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The transformers has been going, in one form or another, for about twenty years now. It became iconic for it's transforming robots, lasers, cool heroes and evil villains. it has a large, powerful, cult following, and this movie caters to that cult. Other people will probably think less of this film because of that cult. We are delivered in this film the story of a robot named Hot Rod, who must stop an evil named Unicron, a transformer disguised as a planet. It's simple enough, but unlike other TV shows like He-Man or Care bears, this doesn't always seem like a big toy commercial, because it adds a human layer (many people die,and in the recent DVD release, they put in a controversial use of the word S**t). These who remember The Breakfast Club will probably not recognize Judd nelson as Hot Rod. He's less of a jerk, more of a hero. Leonard Nemoy is as good as ever as the evil Galvatron, Unicron's emissary. Eric idle turns in a hilarious vocal cameo, but it is Unicron, voiced by Orson Welles, who is the best character. Knowing that they needed someone with a booming voice to play the planet devouring monster, Welles was the obvious selection. If this film was beneath him, he dominates entirely. He's the closest we'll ever get to hearing God speak, without hearing God speak. Terrifying and cool. I still love this movie, ten years and counting since i first saw it. Many people won't like it, but it's fun, action packed and Welles rules. "},{"Title":"greatest movie and TV show ever","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" i have seen a lot of shows as a kid and a lot as an adult and i have yet to see any TV show or cartoon show that had the appeal that the transformers had to it, growing up it had the coolest plot anyone could imagine giant robots from another planet come to earth and after being dormant for 4.5 million years come back and start their war and with earth as the battle ground. the autobots were cool but i was a huge starscream fan and still am to this day. we all know some of the episodes stunk but the plot was what i loved about the show and the movie was a farewell to some of our favorite characters optimus prime, megatron and many others so when i hear someone say it was a long toy commercial i think so what if it was it was and still is the best animated movie of all time! "},{"Title":"Hello mute button?","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Very seldom has a film's soundtrack so annoyingly stood out in my mind (this coming from an avid collector of film scores.) While the synthetic non-lyrical score didn't bother me, and I took to the new rendition of the Transformers main theme, the rest of the lyrical music went above and beyond their scoring duties. If the point of a score is to underline the action, then the lyrical themes in Transformers underlines, bold prints, italicizes, and highlights the events on the screen so even the youngest and most intellectually challenged members of the audience get it. Any kind of sequence, and I mean any kind of sequence, that could get a pop song gets a pop song. I'll take a Franz Waxman score instead, thanks.With my most prominent thought (complaint) out of the way, I want to say I loved the Transformers when I was growing up. I watched the film when I was very young, and only recently caught up to it again . . . and I still feel Devestator is the baddest of the bad. Overall, I think it survived a little better in my memories, but now, years later, I'm attracted to completely different aspects of the film. Back then I liked the old-school Decepticons over the next generation, and my interest in the transformers series somewhat declined in the later seasons; now I have an equal fondness for the new wave of slicker and quicker baddies. Back then it was just a nifty cartoon with elements that were not available on the TV show (death and destruction!), and now I find it laced with a dark sense of humor too (Star Scream's death--'Megatron?' 'Here's a hint!' BAM!--classic) Still, then and now, Hot Rod is no suitable replacement for Optimus Prime. Optimus forever! I admire the film's ambition (for a 'kiddie cartoon'). Main characters drop left and right? Die StarScream! Die! Spock and Kane as Galvatron and Unicron respectively? Oh yes! Oh hell yes! Only Orson 'The Man' Welles could voice a planet-sized transformer.In closing, I'm tempted to complain about some jumps in logic that genuinely bug me now, but I remember the kid in me from 20 years ago didn't care about the silliness so I think I'll just hold my peace. I mean, it's a cartoon about giant robots that become cars and airplanes and boom boxes and yeah, that's not silly or illogical in the least . . . "},{"Title":"Movie that changed my life (although I was only 3 when I saw it) *SPOILERS (not that anyone reading this doesn't already know what they are)*","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  About a year-and-a-half ago, I was at supercuts getting my hair cut.  The guy cutting my hair (also a child of the 80s) was telling me about how he and his wife were going to have a baby, so he went out and bought a bunch of Transformers tapes so his kid would get to watch and love the same cartoons he did, only to be somewhat disappointed because he found out they were having a girl.  Until that day, the thoughts and memories of the Transformers hadn't crossed my mind for over 10 years.  Thinking of the Transformers brought my whole childhood back into perspective.  I couldn't really remember much, except for that my hero, the one who represented everything that was good in my childhood DIED in the movie.  Thats all I could think of for a good 2 weeks until my friends and I saw some guy wearing a Decepticon logo T-shirt.  We got to talking, and every one of my friends had watched and loved the series.  So we decided to see the movie after finding out it was on DVD.  Enough background info, time to talk about the movie itself.  There were some good parts, some bad parts, and some parts I still can't understand.  One scene in particular, the verdict scene with the sharkticons, I couldn't understand when I was little, and I still have no f'ing clue whats going on with that scene now.  One truly bad part was the weird Al dance scene.  When my friends and I all saw that we just groaned.  But it is outweighed by the good parts.  Like I already mentioned before, the one part that left a lasting impression on me was the scene that probably emotionally scarred me for life when I first saw it at the age of 3, the death of Optimus Prime.  I think this is the only movie that I ever cried watching, even though I was only 3 at the time, his death was that traumatic.  (I must admit that when my friends and I all watched the movie again, I had to hide back a tear during that scene).But that was the one thing that made this a great movie (which is the one point I want to make even though it took me 5 pages to get here) is the fact that Prime's death can have such an impact.  Just think about it, (I'm sure I'm not the only guy that shed a tear when he died, be honest) but this movie makes you have REAL feelings for when a PIECE OF METAL dies.  To me, that's amazing how when a big red truck dies, caused such an emotional surge.Those are my thoughts, and if you disagree, then you probably never watched the show when you were little.P. S. for you Transformer buffs out there, I was born in 1984 which means I probably never saw the first run of the series, therefore I saw it in syndication where they only showed the first two seasons.  That means the movie was truly an ending to the Transformers for me, which probably helped to give the lasting impact of primes death throughout my childhood.Oh, and one more thing for you Transformer buffs.  Everyone says comments on how beautifully animated it was, and how it is the bes American animation ever.  But it's not.  It is Japanese.  The story is American, but TOEI animation, a Japanese company did the animation. "},{"Title":"Decepticons For Ever","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Transformers The Movie has its good points and bad points like any other movie. The good points, Cyclonus, Jazz, Unicron, Cliff Jumper, Galvatron, and Grimlock. The supporting cast won the movie over for me. Mixing the new characters with some of the old was great to see. The battle scene at the end between Hot Rod and Galvatron is the best fight I have seen in this cartoon series. The element that any Transformer can die makes the fight much more intense. Another Good no Great scene was the Galvatron Starsceam Confrontation, classic. I will never foget the death of SCREAM.Now the bad points. Wheele Daniel Arcee Sharktacons Junkion and The Quintesson. All of the characters just named were pointless. All of these Characters came out of nowhere. The Cartoon was famous for characters appearing and disappearing. Example Hot Rod, Kup, Blurr, Ultra Magnus, Springer, there more that I can't think of right now but you get the point. Where is Omega Supreme the biggest baddest Transformer of them all? Skyfire awol, and the Arielbots, they must be on vacation during the movie. And clearly Someone hated Kickback and his Insecticon buddies. They Killed the Insecticons about 3 times in this movie.How could they make Hot Rod the main focus of this movie? Rod is a cool car but no real background story on him. All we no is he is The One. I guess because he touched the Matrix before Ultra Magnus did. Notice the Matrix was never in the cartoon series. But suddenly there a Matrix.Even with the bad plot. This is a great Cartoon movie for its time. But The Robotech series still blew Transformers away. "},{"Title":"what the !!!!!!!!","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just watched this movie with my buddy Chris and I was impressed with the animation in this old movie.  I really love the Transformers and they are a childhood favorite for me.  What I hated about this film was that the stupid director killed off most of the original Transformers.  I mean, what was he thinking?  He wasn't and that was the problem with this film.  He killed of the classic transformers.  I'm at least glad bumblebee was kept in the movie.  This was a kids movie so some parts are a little cheesy, but that's what being a child is all about.  Maybe they will come out with an actuall movie of the transformers?  Oh well, we'll see.  This cartoon was pretty cool. "},{"Title":"Not an epic treatment of the saga. Contains Spoilers!!","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I never got to see the film when it was initially released back in 1986. It had a very brief run in Irish cinemas. Only the excellent Marvel Comic gave me little snippets of the movie plot (such as Megatron's demise, Starscream's execution) interwined with their big Story they had developed in order to promote the movie. If only the producers of the Film had allowed Marvel comics (not Marvel Animation!) to draft the script. I only managed to see the film in 1997 after being told by many people of it's excellence.Unfortunately I did not get the Epic film that the Comics had hinted at but rather an extended TV special. Firstly the bad points1) The annoying Narration during the STAR WARSesque intro. (Sounds like Popeye the sailor trying to impersonate the bogey man)2) The fairly irrelevant and over the top soundtrack that seems to pop up (with singing) during the fight scenes.3) No apparent plot just over extended fight scenes.4) Just when you thought Spike was annoying along comes Spike Junior.5) Eric Idle's character was very hard to understand.6) We are treated to Optimus Prime's death and funeral only to be told by the Narrator at the end of the film that He will return.7) Not enough time was given to the old characters. Only the new characters seem to get all the dialogue. (At least Hound and Jazz did not get killed off like the others)And the good points1) The Animation and sound FX are excellent.2) The Fight scenes (although numerous) are very well staged.3) The Death of Prime adds an overtone of tragedy to the film.4) Some great scenes of violence and horror such as Megatron's execution of Ironhide. Decepticons killing their wounded in their bid to escape. Apparently one of the wounded (Thundercracker) reappears later on in the film. strange!!5) The cast are very good particularly Leonard Nimoy as Galvatron who denotes the complexity of the character.Overall the film would have been better if more time was spent explaining Unicron. (It would have been interesting if they scripted him as some mechanical God who created the transformers but who now wants to destroy his creation).It would also have been better if Unicron had an army of his own that the Autobots and Decepticons could unite and fight against. This would have added an interesting twist to the movie's plotThey should not have bothered with the Conversion of Hot Rod to Rodimus Prime plot device. They should have just let Ultra Magnus lead the Autobots full stop. Magnus's lack of self confidence seems to add an interesting dimension to his character.After reading some of the other passionate reviews of this film it might be a good idea if the Transfans lobby Lucasfilm and Industrial & magic to try make a big budget Live action Transformers film (with CGI Autobots & Decepticons). ILM would see it as a chance to further develop their CGI effects since George Lucas runs the company as a non profit organisation. It wouldn't too hard for ILM to do this as George Lucas seemed to have based the Trade Federation Droid Army from Episode 1 on the Transformers. (Such as Robot ships that walk around, Giant wheels that transform into robot killing machines) What does anyone else think of this idea? "},{"Title":"A bad movie in disguise?","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I grew up in the 80s, like most of the movie reviewers here, watching the Transformers and G.I. Joe.  However, unlike them, I 1) don't remember a whole lot about those series, but do remember having a good time watching them, and 2) did not like this movie.Transformers The Movie is about robots who can transform into mechanical machines such as cars and trucks and planes, to disguise themselves from humans.  This isn't really explained in the movie, but I guess the producers thought that everyone had already watched the cartoon series which the movie is based off. The good robots are called the Autobots, and the evil robots are the Decepticons.   There is this one big evil bot called Unicron, who swallows planets, who has forced the leader of the Decepticons to join him in destroying the Autobots.   There are multiple fight sequences between the Autobots and the  Decepticons and other creatures and finally with Unicron at the end.   There are many problems with the movie.  Most of the robots tranform into earth based vehicles, which are useless in outerspace.  So whenever there's a chance, the robots transform to play demolition durby or to run away from their enemies.  The Autobots base is demolished by the Decepticons, even though the Decepticons army seems just as tiny as the Autobots' (not to mention that the Autobots' base is very well shielded and armed)  And there is absolutely no payoff at the end with regards to the 'autobot matrix''.The one Autobot I remember from my youth is the leader Optiumus Prime, who quickly meets his maker early in the movie.  He is succeeded by 'Rodimus Prime.' (who came up with THAT  name??) This movie was made over 10 years ago, so perhaps I am being harsh, but there was no plot and no character development.. just a bad soundtrack that drove me nuts.  I am sure it was a fine animated work for its time, but I am not judging the merits of the animation but the quality of the movie. They should have let Optimus Prime transform into a Ferrari so I could get in and drive away from the movie at full speed. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good.","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I am a fan of the show, so I like the movie, but I hated the fact that so many died, including Optimus!!! A lot of my favorite characters died, including Ironhide, (I really liked him!) Brawn, Bluestriek, and Wratchet! What's with that! Wheeljack died also, I really hated seeing a lot of the characters that were there since the beginning! I'm 12 by the way. ) It made me sick to see the Autobots portrayed as wimps without Optimus, that is one thing I can NOT stand!!! Oh well, this movie is still pretty good despite that crap! I do like the new leader, but Optimus is Optimus and Hot Rod is Hot Rod, not Optimus! Who in the right mind thought of killing Optimus, huh?!? When I told my cousin Rebecca about Optimus dying, she said,That's stupid! Then she made a joke, Hi, I'm the lea-Pfffhht! (as in he died when he was introducing himself!). My cousin doesn't like Transformers much at all, but I'll try to convert her into a fan by having her and her brother watch it with me! And I'll have her watch episodes from all the seasons I've watched, too! That'll hook her, I hope.....o_o; Watch this movie a few times, then put it away for awhile then watch it again when you have recovered from some of your favorite characters kickin the bucket. 5/10 Ja-Ne! "}{"Title":"Ugh, what a travesty.","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I want to preface this first by saying I was a big fan of the Transformers back in the 80's, and even though I was much older than most kids who liked the Transformers and I wasn't interested in the toys themselves, it was the concept of robots who can change from humanoid to vehicle form that appealed to the sci-fi part of me.  I had also collected the Transformers comic books that Marvel had put out at the time.Recently I found this movie in the cheap bin at the store, so my curiosity got the best of me so I decided to buy it and check it out as I didn't get to see it when it first came out.  After watching it however, I came to the conclusion that I didn't miss much.  The film is a poorly made pile of scenes, and not even the use of well-known actors to be the voices of the characters could save this travesty of a movie.  Very disorganized with barely any kind of story other than the Autobots were trying to reclaim Cybertron and that there was a changing of the guard as some of the old Transformers many had grown to love were killed off which of course is the marketing ploy to bring in new characters so they can get kids to buy more toys.What especially turned me off to the movie was the constant use of annoying 80's pop music.  This wasn't a movie, this was a long MTV music video (interesting choices like Weird Al's Dare to be Stupid).  I actually fast forwarded many parts of the movie just so I could stop listening to the lame music.  At least in the animated TV series, they put in the effort to compose and use incidental music that was more appropriate.I'm sure hardcore fans will still want to see it, but for everyone else my advice is don't even waste your time with this. "},{"Title":"I absolutely hated this!","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" First of all I will admit that the level of animation is far, far superior to the frequently goof-ridden TV series and that Transformers The Movie looks more like Akira or Ghost in the Shell than the TV show. It adds a whole new level integrity to the Transformer's universe but it's a damn shame that the story had to be crap of the lowest order and that there are still technical faults within the animation. I know there are always going to be goofs whether a movie is live-action or animated but Transformers has always had a shocking amount of them.I know that many people are going to hate for this and call me cynical but this is not really a movie. It's an 85 minute toy commercial. Orson Welles was right. Many of the Autobots and Decepticon's die (including Starscream, thank God, he truly was irritating) but are soon replaced by new characters. It's like Hasbro was subliminally telling kids to throw out the old toys and go buy new ones.Set in the unfathomably distant future of 2005, when we'll be living on the moon and skating around on hover-boards, the gobbledygook plot involves a giant planet-eating robot planet called Unicron (barely an anagram of a certain magical creature, for no reason) and his mission to destroy the 'Autobot Matrix of Leadership', which is obviously inside Optimus Prime. It begins with the Autobots and Decepticons doing their usual battle of blowing up each other's stuff but what is bugging is that in the show they rarely get hit and certainly never die if they do. But here loads of them are killed-off easily and without any particular attention. So many of them fall it's hard to keep up. The story moves so fast that it becomes almost completely incomprehensible.None of these new characters have the same appeal. Once Optimus Prime is dead the new leader, Ultra Magnus, doesn't yield his authority or leadership with any special flair. Megatron is left to die, while floating in the depths of space and is reconfigured/evolved by Unicron into Galvatron, who doesn't seem to be any kind of eviler, just a new toy. The Matrix of Leadership happens to be a glowing ball in Optimus Prime's chest and when Ultra Magnus get his hands on it the movie could have become a 'chase for the bland MacGuffin' kind of story. But it continues to meander and go in eccentric/weird directions. The subplot involving the junk planet and the shark-bots and the judge and jury who execute robots for being guilty AND innocent is just baffling. What the hell is all that about? And even worse is the guff with the dancing biker-type robots with the leader voiced by Eric Idle. I mean...what? Either I accidentally took an acid and went on a weird trip last night or this film is just random nonsense.The main thing that makes this film so inaccessible is the almost total exclusion of human characters. An older Spike is in it for a few seconds and his son Daniel has a bit of character development. But where is Sparkplug? Where are any other humans? About 2 minutes of it is set on earth and everything else, set in space, seems kind of alienating (pun intended). I know we've seen the Transformers battle on Earth loads of times before in the TV show but this sudden switch of locale and whole new assortment of characters made it feel like something I had no familiarity with.I realize that the transition between seasons 2 and 3 had to be steep and drastic (a 20 year story gap and loads of new toys...sorry characters) but it needs more time to develop than this and everything feels rushed and hasty with no focus on pacing, coherence or character. The constant 80s rock is kind of fun though and Vince DiCola's score is fun. I truly miss this kind of hedonistic music, it may not fit the film terribly well but it has a nice kind of nostalgia to it.Vividly animated it may well be, but I found this film to be so asinine and dumb. I can only watch it with severely lowered expectations. "},{"Title":"Depressing first, then confusing and becoming more uninteresting","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Transformers The Movie was not as good as any of the episodes from the Generation One cartoon episodes from Seasons 1 to 2. Season 2 was an abundance of entertaining adventures of the Transformers in which both evil and justice battle each other while suffering the same troubles.The movie had clearly killed off so many beloved characters besides Prime, these included Prowl, Brawn, Ironhide, Ratchet, Wheeljack, and Starscream. However, the music and dramatic atmosphere of their death scenes were made to appear as if their deaths would not be tragic for the TV show audiences. The film quickly rushed into bringing upon new characters that hardly were introduced as well.The movie seemed to have just taken a not-so-much-of-an-advantage portion of its' length to add in complex plot structures that don't affect the main story of the movie, but instead to make sure this will be a bridge to Season 3 in the TV show. The Quintessons' entrance was clearly unnecessary in the plot and was only put in so that Season 3 can be established right away. The main villain of the story, Unicron, is really simple, he's just a misanthrope who wants to destroy EVERYTHING. Why? We don't know, that's just trying to make a character as a big, simple problem, which is a weak point common in several fictional stories.His voice actor, Orson Welles, was correct that this story is about a big toy attacking smaller toys. A lot of the plot was cheaply winged off of Star Wars such as the light sabers sounds, Arcee's cinnamon bun hairstyle like Leia's, and especially the climax between Hot Rod and Galvatron. "},{"Title":"Relic of the 80s","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" How does it feel to jump back 25 years, into a remnant of your childhood? Does the past hold up with the memories you once associated with it, or will it seem silly and outdated? I recently relived a portion of my childhood in watching the original Transformers cartoon movie from 1986. It is appropriately titled Transformers The Movie. I never did see this movie as a child, although I watched the show on and off in some of my early years. I recently decided to watch the movie, partially out of interest to see the movie for the first time, but mainly to relive something out of my childhood. I wanted to see how it would hold up after 15 years of no transformers cartoons.To keep things straight, Transformers is not a good movie. The story is heavily episodic and jumpy, as if several TV episodes were crammed together. The quality of animation was alright for its time, but hasn't aged well. The soundtrack is heavy on the 1980s power rock/ pop (think Top Gun), also not having aged well. The movie is cheesy and silly, and in all honesty, somewhat ridiculous.However, the movie, while definitely not good, works as a guilty pleasure fun movie. As dumb as it was viewing it, I highly enjoyed it. With each cheesy line, I was more drawn into it. Viewing it wasn't like the phrase about you can't turn away from watching a car crash. It was highly nostalgic. A part of me did wonder how we enjoyed such things as kids. While the movie is silly, it is highly exploitive in a sense of how much of it is focused on robot-on- robot action. Movies aren't made like this anymore. Transformers gets in, has no story but a ton of robot fighting, some cheesy 80s tunes to boost the mood, and gets out after 80 minutes. It's almost as if the movie knows exactly what it is, and does exactly what it can do.Transformers doesn't jump out as a must see movie. For people in their 20s and older, it can be charming, as a relic to a different age of TV. For people too young to remember it originally, it will jump out as an example of the questioning Is this REALLY what you used to watch? It is pretty much a toy commercial in disguise. However, it is worth viewing, both because it is a pure relic from the 1980s, but also because it comes from a time of more pure filmmaking. Transformers does exactly what it is sent out to do. While it wasn't aiming very high, it works. You could certainly do much worse than checking this out. 6/10. Go download the soundtrack if you need a new workout mix. "},{"Title":"don't expect a classic","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" this movie was god awful seeing this as a adult was torture the over rocked sound track the ridiculous story and just the out right ability of some of the characters voices to annoy you this might be fun for 4 to 10 years old children but finally getting to watch this as a adult disappointed heard so many people who raved about seeing this movie as a child was disappointed when i finally did get the chance would have gave it a 1 out of 10 if had not liked the animated TV show if your interested in seeing a pretty bad movie just for laughs have at it but for me i wish i would have passed some things remain strong in the memory of adolescents where they should stay never touching the horizons of maturity where innocents cannot blind you to faults "},{"Title":"Very well done for 80's animated film","Date":"26 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" While this isn't the greatest animated film of the 1980's, this one certainly stands out as one my favorites. The animation is done in basically the same style as the cartoons with bright colored cel shadings and stark lines. This was a formula that worked well for many 80's cartoons and I was glad to see they stuck with this for the movie. Computer animation was practically non existent back then so there was really no option other than to stick with the artists and style fans knew and loved or to get a new team in and a possibly different look The voice cast was well chosen and the musical score was wonderfully done by Vince DiCola and a few 80's metal bands. While the dialog was strictly comic book stuff (this was a comic adaptation after all!) it fit well into type of movie this was and the audience this was aimed at, young boys who wanted to see robots battle it out with just enough dialog to get the story into place. You can almost see how each sentence said would fit neatly into a word bubble above the characters heads. The plot was fairly basic science fiction but fit well into the genre and the level of understanding of the audience this was aiming to.Where the movie really shines though is in it's execution. The soundtrack and the action on screen flow together and compliment each other in a way that just feels right. The images and sound blend in such a way as to invoke emotion in the viewer (excitement, sadness, etc), helping to draw them into the scenes a little more. This is something that few directors get right and it seems fewer and fewer movies manage to do these days. Too often you see scenes with a song slapped into them haphazardly and in a way that clashes with the images and action on screen.So while this movie is your basic 8-12 boys film comic adaptation, the well done musical score and sound track and the brilliant execution of the scenes along with the music make this well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Great Soundtrack, Great Movie","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I will always regret that I didn't get to see this movie in the theater. As many have said, I was a fan of the show and toys. I saw it in 1987 on VHS and in my opinion, it is still the best animated movie ever made. But unlike some commenters here, I believe the soundtrack (specifically Stan Bush's songs)to be one of the main reasons the movie was so awesome, so moving and inspirational, even today. Now I own the DVD and watch it at least once a year and I listen to some of the soundtrack occasionally too. I also own season one and three on DVD but the movie is the highlight of the series. I've recently seen the new Transformers movie and it was excellent too.In this movie, the main character, and my favorite, is Hot Rod, the teenage autobot that transforms into a wicked-cool futuristic car. His bravery matches that of Optimus Prime, and the story reveals his destiny which is to unleash the power of the Autobot's Matrix in order to save the day. In the process, he becomes an adult autobot and new leader, Rodimus Prime. In season three of the TV show, Rodimus Prime is not the same confident leader he was at the end of the movie which is disappointing. Near the end of the series, Optimus Prime is resurrected and the leadership is passed to him again in order to save the world, yet again and Hot Rod returns.My only complaint as an adult fan and after seeing the storyboards for the unfinished scenes is that I wish the early scenes/battles would have at least shown all the original autobots once and their demise. We see a few of the main characters deaths but some of the autobots we are left wondering what happened to them in the rest of the movie/TV series.Overall, I recommend this movie to anyone, especially Gen-Xers. Just like when I was 7, I still wish I could be Daniel, riding in Hot Rod to Look Out Mountain with Dare blasting from the speakers. "},{"Title":"Alien robots battle for the safety or destruction of the universe","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I'm not gonna drone on about this, because then you'll be bored to the point of never seeing this movie in the first place, so I'll keep it short. The Transformers The Movie is amazing. The animation is among the sharpest and most eye-catching that I've ever seen, and the amount of violence and a no-holds-barred storyline (as far as animated movies are concerned) blew me away. The last battle of Megatron and Optimus Prime is probably my favorite in the movie, and I always wished that it could be dragged out just a little longer. But the new characters are awesome, the battles breathtaking, and the whole film itself is an animated epic, not to mention the last role of Orson Welles, and what a fantastic job he does! Hopefully the new live action Transformers will be every bit as amazing (on a grander scale). Buy it now "},{"Title":"To motoko Transformers are NOT real","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Motoko, I love your passion, and I agree that Transformers The Movie is a great little film that affected me when I was young as well. But dude... kick it down a notch. There isn't an organization out there (that I know of) trying to eradicate every copy of this film. In fact, most people I know enjoyed Transformers The Movie.After reading your review, I wondered what kind of kids you hung out with to have such a huge chip on your shoulder when it comes to Transformers. You have quite a defensive, strike-first mentality, when it comes to this film, making me think you had some traumatic experience as a child with this Hasbro product. If so, I hope you can move past such an incident. By giving into this anger, you're only letting the bullies who did this to you win. Don't give them the satisfaction. Prime wouldn't. Why should you?Remember this when you feel the walls caving in around youYOU got the touch. YOU got the POWER.Only you can move past this. But understand that you're not alone... we're all here for you. Let's roll out. "},{"Title":"The best animated movie ever!","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Transformers is the greatest cartoon series of all, so naturally I thought the movie was just as great. I don't care what some of you say, this was the BEST! Everything was great about the movie. The music I loved, much better than anything Disney, although there are a couple Disney movies I still like. And to the guy who compared it to Disney, the difference is that none of the characters on screen are singing. The songs are just part of the music, not part of the story. Disney songs stop the action. It's the complete opposite with Transformers; some of the best scenes happen while the songs are playing. The story was awesome with very small errors that can easily be fixed. Like all the other people, it was extremely shocking to see my favorite heroes die (my favorite, Brawn was the first to go), but that's life. And I was over 10 years old when I first saw the movie, so I took it a bit better than some kids. On the opposite side of the coin, I was shocked (in a completely different sort of way) when Galvatron killed Starscream. I hated him, so naturally I was glad they got rid of him (not totally, as it turned out, but at least that got a decent explanation) as well as the Insecticons (villains who take control of other people's minds are the worst villains if you ask me). Anyway, I enjoyed every single minute of this spetacular movie, & the post-movie episodes were my favorite episodes.BOTTOM LINE 100/10 Watch it, no matter the cost. Cause if you don't I'll crush you with my bare hands! Just kidding about that last line. The rest I really mean. "}{"Title":"Megatron MUST be stopped, no matter the cost...","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When a giant planet eating Death Star type Transformer named Unicron (voiced by the late Orson Welles) shows up all hell breaks loose, with Cybertron next on his list of munchies. With Optimus Prime and many other beloved Autobots lost in battle, it's up to the new crew, including Hot Rod/Rodimus Prime, Ultra Magnus, Arcee, Springer, Kup and Spike's son Daniel, along with the Dinobots, to pick up the slack and save their world from oblivion with the Matrix, which Optimus Prime told them would light their darkest hour. But there's a new enemy in the way - Galvatron, the reformatted version of Megatron. Will Hot Rod/Rodimus be able to open up the six pack of whoop ass that is the Matrix in time? You'll either love it or hate it. As we all know the beloved 80s cartoon that this was an offshoot of was part of a conspiracy to sell toys, and the big problem is that Hasbro, which owned Transformers as well as GI Joe, was always making new toys, so this film here, rather than focus on the characters we knew and loved, gives them an undeserved early send off and then foists new characters upon us (GI Joe The Movie, had a similar problem). Now Rodimus Prime and the new crew were a fairly likable bunch, but killing off Optimus Prime and the others, such as Ratchet, Prowl and Iron-Hide, so blithely and gruesomely, really wasn't necessary, especially considering that the target audience was mostly young children. And the way the Decepticons seem to get off so easily doesn't seem fair.Among the surviving Autobots - Bumblebee, Cliff-Jumper, and Jazz.In short, the film is never quite as much fun as it should be.Still, the film does have its redeeming qualities. The animation is top notch, the battles are well staged, the final clash between Optimus Prime and Megatron is quite good, proving once again that Optimus was the only competent Autobot based on his ability to actually hit what he's aiming at (I love his subtle way of saying I've got me some sissy ass Decepticon butt to kick, the above mentioned Megatron MUST be stopped...), and Leonard Spock Nimoy sounds like he's having a grand old time as Galvatron, and he is very good as the villain, as is Orson Welles as Unicron. Music's a bit weird though; I kinda like The Touch but I'm not too crazy about the other songs. Optimus Prime's death is actually quite touching, more touching than the deaths of most live action characters in live action movies, in part because Peter Cullen read the lines so well, heart breaking when he rasps Until that day... till all are one. And Optimus was a cartoon robot. The fact that we can feel more for a cartoon robot than a live actor means one of two things - the cartoon is either very good or live action movies suck.For fans or not, or maybe just general animation lovers, we may never know. "},{"Title":"did anybody else see this in the theaters?","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I loved this as a series on TV; so when the movie came out, of course, I went to see it even though I was in my early twenties. I was in Houston at the time. There were mostly kids and parents. What I remember that was most interesting was that at one point the boy (in the series, Daniel was it?) is grown up and he uses the 'S' word. Later, someone--maybe Hot Rod--says 'damn.' But it seems to have been cut from the VHS that I later bought. This is not surprising of course, considering the audience. But in the theater, all the kids 'oohed' and 'aahed' and the parents giggled. Can anyone confirm this? Is it possible to get this in the original, theatrical version? Has it come out on DVD? "},{"Title":"I still don't know what to think about this movie","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I grew up on the G1 characters and the I remember going to the movies to see this one, and I was floored. I loved the anime but they made the Autobots look weak and frail. Think about it throughout the series MANY people got blasted in the back, chest and even up close from Megatron's cannon and they lived, BUT ALL OF A SUDDEN the Autobots get shot(Mind you the Decepticons weren't given any new or special guns...) and the good guys are dropping like flies. What really ticked me off was the fact that there wasn't much damage shown to the decepticons, yeah on Astrotrain they looked pretty beat up but aside from Megatron, I would have loved to have seen Starscream get blasted by Hound or Jazz. Unicron's transformation was one of the coolest anime sequences I've ever seen, it looked very realistic, as far as the movements go... Then who are these new characters? No info on where they came from, because where the series was when the movie came out didn't introduce Kup, Blurr, Arcee, and Springer......Hmmmm....Love the Transformers but this movie left me kind of stumped... Predacons rule.....  "},{"Title":"'such heroic nonsense...'","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Right. I grew up in the eighties, and have a fondness for the cartoons of that era. You know, He-man, Thundercats etc. They had great stories for us, and loads of violence, even with a morale tacked on at the end to keep parents happy. One movie went deeper. One movie killed off all the characters we had grown to love from the series without remorse, showing us that the good guys got slaughtered every once in a while. Transformers The Movie is as dark as &#145;children's cartoons' can be, and many have likened it to Vietnam War epics. It is frequently used by people in my University who are studying war modules. There is a happy ending of course, it's a cartoon&#133;isn't there? "},{"Title":"80's nostalgia trip","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  ****Warning, Spoilers****OK, so its basically a 90 minute toy commercial, but Transformers The Movie is actually quite a fun trip down memory lane for 80's kids like myself. The Transformers may have been the Pokemon of 1986, but unlike Pikachu and his annoying brethren, you don't have to be 5 to appreciate it.The plot totally rips of Star Wars (to the extent that the movie begins with a Lucas-esque opening crawl), but don't hold that against it -  the first 25 minutes especially are actually pretty gripping, as the giant planet devourer Unicron rips apart a world while the Transformers continue their age old civil war with the Decepticons attacking the Autobot city on Earth. You've got to admire a film that kills off the hero of an entire generation of adolescent boys before we're even half way through (even if it was only done to clear the shelves for a new batch of toys). After that things deteriorate a bit, with some annoying editing that seems designed to incorporate commercial breaks or the Transformers familiar spinning logo, but it still builds up to a rousing conclusion.The dialogue is quite amusing in parts, especially the scenes involving the Dinobots, Kup or the TV talking Wrek Gar, with quite a diverse range of vocal talent on display, including a last film role for Orson Welles. The animation is probably the thing that's aged least well, as it's not a patch on the likes of Princess Mononoke or Akira. It still looks OK however, and adds to the films sense of retro cool.Probably the best thing about the film though is the pounding 80's Power Rock soundtrack. Yes, it's extremely cheesy, but the little kid inside you will undoubtly start to jump up and down as Optimus Prime goes into battle accompanied by Stan Bush's The Touch.Rating - 6/10   "},{"Title":"It's Better When You're Twelve","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a fun movie, and it fit perfectly between seasons of the TV show when it was released.  But watching it fifteen years later brings to light problems with the film that its target audience would easily overlook.First and foremost, this is not a stand-alone film.  If you don't know who the characters are, forget it.  If you are not familiar with the general storyline of the series, don't consider watching this movie.  (Just knowing that the autobots are good guys and the decepticons are bad guys isn't enough.  You need to know about Cybertron and the overall history of both sides.)  First you should familiarize yourself with the first few episodes of the series.  Why they couldn't have spent five minutes (the film is very short) establishing the backstory is beyond me.  Obviously no one ever intended for this movie to be anything more than a transition into a new, darker season of the series.The other main problem with the movie is the ease with which the decepticons kill autobots (and, to a lesser extent, vice versa).  No one ever died in the TV show, which was understandable, and it was understandable that the writers wanted to make the movie more believable.  But they went too far to the other extreme.  The decepticons easily (Megatron acknowledges that this is almost too easy) kill a space-shipload of autobots and a few more occupying their base city on Earth.  One shot and they die, while in the series, these same weapons had virtually no effect.  It's all just too easy, like an animated shoot 'em up.  If only the writers had spent time beefing up the battle scenes, then they might not have needed to insert the ultimately pointless Sharkicon subplot.Again, the target audience (which I was a part of when this movie came out) would see none of these things as problems.  But those who have grown more discriminating tastes will wish this movie had a bit more substance. "},{"Title":"Robot profanity","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Two words baby, Robot Profanity.  That's right, that's what I took away from Transformers the movie.  Autobots using four letter words.  Of course, these were CONVENIENTLY edited out of the version found in most video stores.  Because in REAL life, robots don't swear. I think the Transformers movie was better than the GiJoe movie. Mostly from robot profanity.  I think if Sgt. Slaughter ever said poop in an episode of G.I. Joe, I'd never be sad again.  But anyway, another important thing to learn from Transformers the movie is that heroism and leadership in robots is not from a noble soul, but a little dohickey matrix of leadership that they carry in their chests...and that without it they're NOTHIN'. Also, guns that did very little damage in the cartoon, were very lethal to robots in the movie.  This movie only lacked one thing, and that is Robot Nudity.  But I guess we'll just have to wait for that. All in all, dead robots swearing makes for a pretty entertaining movie. An interesting sidenote, as mentioned elsewhere on this site, the theme song to Transformers the Movie is the same song Dirk Diggler tries to record in Boogie Nights.  So, if you liked Transformers the Movie, you'll like Boogie Nights.  Peace.  "},{"Title":"TFTFM Underrated Genius","Date":"6 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  So often looked on by reviewers as mere action cartoon mindlessness, there is a definite charm to TFTM that demands viewing. Firstly, it appeals to the emotions in a way that no other animated movie does- many Transformers, both heroic Autobot and Evil Decepticon are slaughtered in the carnage, and to add to this, Autobot leader, Optimus Prime - the figurehead of all good and true in the universe - dies due to the foolishness of a naive cavalier Autobot, Hot Rod. The characters, unusually for a cartoon, actually show some evidence of being three-dimensional. While the middle of Transformers the movie is mainly contrived plotless action in the manner of every 80s cartoon, with a loud heavy metal score (effective in some places) drowning out the simple dialogue, the traumatic deaths at the beginning, and the selfless sacrifice of Prime make 'Transformers The Movie' a worthwhile exercise in comparison to many of its ilk. Though the plot is predictable for the most part, I still cannot help grinning to myself at the climatic victorious ending. Check out The Transformers if you have any interest in the toys of the 80s, or if, like me, you simply want to rekindle your youth -) "},{"Title":"Fell Short of what I had hoped for","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT!  Do not read this if you have not seen the movie and would still like to be surprised.I decided that I had to finally see this movie for myself once I read all the comments made about this film.  As a brief background, I also grew up with the transformers and absolutely loved them as a kid.  I remember when the movie came out I was chomping at the bit to see it, but for some reason was never able to do that.  I remember that once the movie was out the cartoon program changed.  Who are all these new guys? I would ask.  My friends who saw the movie told me what happened and I was devastated. Optimus Prime dead, Wheeljack, Ironhide, Ratchet, Cliffjumper, Prowl all dead?  Who is this new Hot Rod - Rodimus Prime guy, I thought.  I tell you that I still remained a fan of the cartoon, especially when they brought Optimus back, but it was never the same and definitely not better.I finally saw the movie yesterday, and I have to admit that the only great thing about it was the fact that I rented it from the children's section of the video rental store and got it for 99 cents.  Now don't get me wrong, the animation was definitely up to snuff, but come on, they had to be able to do a better job with the story.The idea of a planet eating robot was great, even the idea of killing off some of our favorites, but the ease with which some of them were destroyed compared to others was terrible.  Ironhide was downed in one shot and destroyed with one more.  The other Autobots destroyed along with Ironhide on the shuttle were done in with one shot.  Meanwhile the Dinobots were unscathed later in the movie taking on heavy fire from the Unicron upgraded Decepticons. In addition, how was Ultra Magnus destroyed with one shot from Galvatron and put back together and brought back to like by the Junkions? Why not bring Primes carcass to the planet Junk and resurrect him?  No consistency.  Also, please someone explain to me how Astrotrain can grow when he transforms to accommodate even Devestator inside of him.They could have done a better job of ending the movie as well.  Introduce us to Rodimus Prime; explain how the Matrix changed Hot Rod to him.  Don't just have all the survivors cheer and end it there.Like most people said, out with the old in with the new... try to sell more toys.  I guess it worked, but as a Transfan, who never owned a single toy, the movie needed more of a story, and better execution.  That would have guaranteed a sequel, and what more could I have asked for?I only gave it a 5 because it really did sell out our favorites by trying and failing to give us new favorites.  "},{"Title":"It is the year 2005","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" We are now living in the year that The Transformers The Movie occurs in.The Movie, which looking very good with the best G1 animation prior to the anime series, has numerous errors (no more so than in the series, usually), and the plot has numerous holes. Prior to the series being put on DVD, the Movie is what fans have shown to non-fans to get them interested in Transformers, due to it being the most widely available Transformers story on VHS. This wasn't such a great idea, since first-time Transformers viewers would be hopelessly lost as to what was going on.Characters are introduced and removed every few minutes. The plot jumps around a lot. Pointless characters are introduced, adding to an already overcrowded film. I'm surprised that the film didn't collapse under its own weight.Watch some episodes of the show before attempting to watch the Movie. "}{"Title":"Crap!!!","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I can't believe all of the reviews that this movie is supposed to be the best ever. You grown ups should put the toys down. Anybody above the age of 4 years old should be insulted on how little intelligence the writers perceived they had. There are so many things wrong with this movie there needs to be a new number system to count them.Why would the decepticons be worried about autobots on earth when they still had both moons chock full of autobots? Wouldn't that open them up to invasion?Why are the autobots so easy to kill? Throughout the entire movie they just can't seem to shoot straight. The movie has them running constantly from the decepticons thus promoting the bad guys as strong and the good guys as weak. And why do they die so easily while the decepticons do not. The decepticons get shot, run over, etc. and seem to be alright constantly. Soundwave, the Insecticons, etc for example.What's with all of the crummy speech patterns of the Autobots, with Blurr talking a mile a minute, Blaster speaking in street slang, the dinobots - no need to say more on them, wheelie talking in kidergarten rhymes, Wrek Gar like a rubber room tv junkie. With this assortment of speech impediments they could have formed a new robot called Irritation Supreme.What happen to Prime's gun when he firsts confronts Megetron? Somehow it just magically disappears. And even when he eventually does have it why hesitate to shoot Megatron the supposedly vaunted villain.? On the flip side why does Megatron hesitate to shoot prime when he is down? Plus no one would just simply watch as their opponent openly shows a double fist coming. I know its a movie but be somewhat realistic.The Matrix. Nothing more than 1 word needs to be said and that word is dumb.Why doesn't Unicron just go on his merry way? It's not like the Autobots knew of his existence. Makes no sense. Why not just repair megatron instead turning to the confusing Galvatron bit. I assume they are different because Galvatron refers to Megatron in the 3rd person.This is only a review of the first half of the movie the second half is worse.  "},{"Title":"You Must Be a Fan to Get Anything Out of This Film","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Transformers is a hard film to critique.  It is poorly made, overly loud, and very violent.  However, fans of the popular toys and cartoons should love the film.  The film was little more than an elaborate ploy by the film-makers and Hasbro to introduce new characters and sell a boat-load of toys to young kids.  There is no real direction, the screenplay will only make sense to those familiar with the series, and the voice characterizations are interesting to say the least.  2.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure.","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The robots in disguise get to branch out in the movie based on the television cartoon.  As I've told more than one person over the years Yes, it really was released theatrically.  At its worst this movie is a big commercial for toys.  At its best its an attempt at bringing anime to the mainstream.  The cartoon is visually beautiful, although the animation is rather uneven.  The story is a typical passing of the torch-yarn which introduces a cast of new characters (or new toys) to a huge group of devoted fans. I was 12 when I saw this movie.  I loved it.  (I remember sitting in the front row.)  Seeing it as an adult I found it rather corny, but reflecting on how much I loved the Transformers as a child I get a greater sense of satisfaction.   This film definitely a cult film, and my only real complaint is that the profanity in the film was removed from the home video. "},{"Title":"Ahhhh...","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First off, as a movie, THIS IS BAD. This is Ator bad. Bad Bad Bad.As a person who grew up on the show, this is one of the greatest films ever released since Kubrick's 2001. This is the invention of sliced bread of animation. Sick violence, swearing and adult themes for children. THE OPENING SCENE IS SO POWERFUL IT'S NIGHTMARE-ISH! Quality Goods!Unicron Forever! "},{"Title":"A poor animated movie","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The first 30 minutes of Transformers The Movie was exciting, but the last 50 minutes the movie was plotless and boring.  For an animated movie, the animation is below average, the dialogue is cheesy and the music is unremarkable.  Even though I am a Transformers fan, I kept anticipating the end of the movie because it was so bad.   I felt sorry for the talented actors who participated in the movie.There is more entertainment in 5 minutes of Beast Wars than in the entire 120 minutes of Transformers The Movie. "},{"Title":"Dangerously overrated","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Why do so many TF fans regard this as a masterpiece!? 1. They killed Optimus Prime.2. Who the hell were Hot Rod, Kup, Arcee, etc.? If they were gonna replace the main protagonist, at least do it with someone we actually know.And people accuse Micheal Bay of ruining this franchise? They killed more of our favorite characters in favor of some losers we've never heard of. Why? Profit.Now, there are some pros. 1. The animation was great.2. The soundtrack was awesome.3. They thankfully didn't dispose of all the good characters.Despite that, it's still overrated as hell. I mean, this was the film that destroyed G1. Why do you fan boys still like it? "},{"Title":"The Down fall of greatness","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It is said that the love for money is the root of all kind of ruin, and indeed it was the reason for Transformers the movie and therefore the downfall of the transformers franchise. This movie has been consider as a full length commercial to advertise toys, which i agree. The only purpose of this film was to introduce a new cast/toy line and eliminate the prior one. That was a big mistake, because children back then didn't watch the series just to see which toys they wanted the next day. It had relevance, but they also view it because they identified and related with the characters, some of them were role models(perfect example,Optimus Prime) and besides that there was the story line. Transformers had one of the most elaborate and fantastic narratives that attracted even teenagers and adults, and they didn't play with toys. Still it puzzles me this cheap trick measure by Hasbro/marvel/sun bow,because let's face it they had money,what was the big deal of presenting both toy lines. I mean Transformers was a hit, they would have triple their profits.In my opinion another factor that had influenced in this movie was the incursion of anime culture in the U.S. A particular trend of these genres was the death or replacement of a first generation of characters,giving way to a second new generation form with the remains of the first one, so was the case of series like Robotech.Transformer the movie was not the exception because it had a Japanese crew in its production and animation(Toei co).From my point of view Hasbro and co tried to apply the anime formula on the Transformers which backfired because they eliminated main,central characters that kept the show going and with out them it just wasn't same, So was the case of Optimus Prime. Why did they believed the series could possibly work without Optimus, i mean what would series back in the 80's like Superfriends(JLA),Masters of the universe, or Thunder cats be without Superman, He-man, or Lion ho; nothing. This move from Hasbro and co. made no sense, but it cost them dearly. The movie flopped, season 3 generation wasn't embraced and accepted as season 1& 2 generation did, been therefore the last one and although the toy line survive for a couple of years; it wasn't kids main expectation anymore. About this i have 2 ideas for the future 1- Keyword Marketing( nobody specially kids go to the movies to see their favorite characters die, it was a bad promo). 2- Saying If it ain't broken, don't fix it. In conclusion, i think Hasbro and co. should have analyzed deeper the motto of the Transformers,more than meets the eye, because indeed they were. "},{"Title":"Should have a disclaimer 'for fans only' put on it.","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" To be honest this movie was a real deception, after hearing all the positive stories about it.Guess I'm just not a fan. I remember watching Transformers as a kid and I remember playing with the toys with my friends at their house. But further more I really have no recollections of the series. Guess I was too young at the time when the Transformers were at their prime in the Netherlands. I remembered the basic main characters but that was about it.For anyone who isn't really that familiar with the '80's cartoon series, this can be a very confusing and even bad movie to watch. Really nothing is ever explained in this movie and everything is just taken for granted. Basically the entire movie is about the Autobots constantly fighting the Decepticons but in the movie it never gets clear way. The entire story lacks a purpose and the movie is just basically the one event after the other without bothering to explain anything, or even introduce the characters. I'm sure that the movie worked better in 1986, when new Transformers animated series episodes were still being made and everybody was still really into the series and characters. The movie was perhaps perfect for its time but in todays perspective the movie is just silly and without a point.The '80's musical score makes the movie feel even more outdated!The story is really the weakest thing about the movie. Sure, when compared to a animated series episode the story is more complex and bigger but nevertheless, for 'just' a movie the story is just way too weak and simple. The movie also heavily 'borrows' from the Star Wars movies with its story.For the fans this movie is a nostalgic trip to a great period of growing up with the animated series and the classic characters. They should be able to appreciate all of the characters and big battles in the movie but for a non-fan the movie simply just has very little entertainment to offer. The humor is underused and the most fun and interesting characters seems wasted in the story. Often characters are introduced quickly in the movie and they disappear out of just as quick (often without a clear reason or explanation) again.Still the characters are the reason why the movie still somewhat works out. All of the characters are highly imaginative and obviously have a long background with each other. But like I said before, all of the best and most interesting characters are wasted in the movie and the movie also has way too many characters in it for a 84 minutes short movie.For most part the animations look just the same as for the television show, with the exceptions of a couple of big battle sequences, that are detailed but at the same time also quite confusing to watch at times.Oh, and Orson Welles somehow also got mixed up in this. I'm really not surprised that he later regretted this and actually hated the movie.If you're a fan and grew up with the series, then by all means see this movie, already for nostalgic reasons alone but if you're just like me, a person who've seen some of the animated series episodes but it didn't made an huge or lasting impression on you, than you're really better of just skip viewing it. 5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"it is what it is...","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The first thing you have to realize and accept when watching this movie is that it is 90 minute commercial for a series of toys. It is nothing more. Its purpose is to kill off old characters so new characters and their corresponding toys can be introduced and sold. This is a bad movie. Yet it is a bad movie I have seen over a hundred times and I will likely see many times more. Every time I watch it, a smile reminiscent from my childhood stretches from ear to ear across my face. I first saw this movie when I was a young child, perhaps 4 or 5 years old. Within the first ten minutes, some of my favorite characters had met fairly graphic and violent ends. But all of this would be overshadowed by an event exponentially more tragic. This was the first time I had ever cried in a movie.The story begins during a civil war between two groups of robots, one good and one bad. While this is going on, a gigantic robot that devours planets, threatens the robot's home world. The rest is fairly obvious. Somehow the gigantic robot that devours planets will have to be destroyed, or else there would be now new toys to introduce. The animation is significantly better than the television series, but that really is not saying much. At times it is quite good, but there are other times where it almost looks unfinished. The soundtrack consists of some of the best 80's rock music I have ever heard and it totally fits the film. The heavy metal version of the Transformers Theme is most enjoyable and sets the stage for a very violent movie. The story is clearly the brainchild of the toy maker's marketing department. The title character, 'Hot Rod' is the typical rebellious teenager, or at least what a 9 year old believes what a rebellious teenager should be, who eventually discovers his potential. Then there is the child in the story who was created so young members of the audience would have somebody to both idolize and relate to. The only character of interest is 'Unicron', voiced by the late great filmmaker Orson Welles in one of his final roles. This works only because he adequately brings arrogance to an otherwise one-dimensional character. I love this film, or should I say I love this very bad film. I've tried to write an honest review for one of my all-time favorite movies. Die-hard Transformers fans probably will not enjoy reading this, but sometimes the truth hurts.  "},{"Title":"Fans will probably like it","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have nothing with the animated series 'The Transformers' and therefore, I guess, didn't like the movie either. The only reason I wanted to see it is because Orson Welles does the voice of the main villain. I didn't like it because I have nothing with the series, but also because there was no real story, almost no funny moments, at times some really messy animation and irritating music playing on the soundtrack.Again, if you liked the series you will like the movie. Almost all of the famous characters are there and it is filled with action (too much for me). If you know the characters better than I do you know what you are watching exactly and that is definitely something that will help you. Sometimes I had no idea, although I did understand that the autobots were the good ones. I guess this is only for the fans. "}{"Title":"Tranform & ROLL OUT...perhaps for the last time *SPOILERS*","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Warning THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS, SO BE MINDFUL AS YOU READ THIS.I'm straddling the fence here. On one hand, this is one of the few examples of excellent American NON-DISNEY animation and should be herald as such. On the other hand, this movie singlehandedly destroyed the Transformer Franchise as a whole, and after several relaunch attempts, from Beast Wars, to Beast Machines, to Robots in Disguise, to Armada, they still haven't gotten it back.First things first, the animation. Marvel/Sunbow put in some serious work during the two years it took to make this movie. From the intricate details in Unicron, to the fight scenes, it took lot of effort to put all this together, and they have done such an awesome job with it.The writers have done a pretty decent job of letting the audience know that this Autobot/Decepticon Civil War has gone nuclear. For all the arguments over 'cartoon violence', I think it's more valuable to teach kids the consequences of violence as opposed to cand-coating it, and that the good guys don't always win. The death of Optimus Prime was a good example of this.HOWEVER, killing of major characters is a risky proposition if not handled right. This has to be a gradual process. You have to bring in new characters and gradually let them grow on people before you write old characters off. This is what Hasbro didn't do. They wanted OUT WITH THE OLD-IN WITH THE NEW in one fell swoop, and it didn't work. While Optimus Prime's death was well handled, their attampts at writing in a successor wasn't!If you are going to ge rid of characters, you have to at least have interesting characters to replace them. So how interesting were these new characters? Let's see...BLURR aside from being able to talk fast, his pressence was pretty worthless! KUP the rambling old robot who loves to bore people with his 'LONG AGO' stories. WHEELIE a high-pitched robot who speaks in rhymes. This character is right up there with Serpentor (G.I. Joe) and Minmei (Robotech) as one of the most ANNOYING CHARACTERS EVER CREATED!!! ARCEE the docile, wimpering, token female robot. CYCLONUS he looked cool. That's it. He served no other purpose than to stand around and look cool. SCOURGE your typical evil henchman who is a total DUNCE, who leads an army of clones that are dumber then even he is! GALVATRON a new vrsion of Megatron...and boy, did Megatron lose a lot in the process, as he lost everything that made him cool in the first place, only to become as annoying as Serpentor! ULTRA MAGNUS Optimus Prime's original successor. Had an opportunity of a lifetime and choked harder than the Knicks! When you are kneedeep in death and destruction, and your leader screams, I CAN'T DEAL WITH THAT NOW!, you ar in trouble! HOT ROD A hot-headed idiot who, despite being the one that got Optimus Prime KILLED in the first place, became THE CHOSEN ONE, THE ONE WHO WILL LEAD US IN OUR DARKEST HOUR, BLAH-BLAH-BLAH, to becomethe new Autobot leader, Rodimus Prime. A VERY CRAPPY LEADER!!! His leadership was so inept, he ruined the third season so badly, that not even Optimus' resurrection was enough to save them from cancelation!!! ...and it was worth kilng off IRONHIDE, BRAWN, PROWL, RATCHET, STARSCREAM, THUNDERCRACKER, SKYWARP, THE INSECTICONS, WHEELJACK, WINDCHARGER, AND OPTIMUS PRIME for THAT?!All you Transformer fans, if you want a much better attempt at portraying war in the Transformer mythos, look for any of the Simon Furman written issues of the Transformer comics. If you want some entertaining Transformer shows, check to firs two seasons. Though this movie is notwithout merit (awesome animation and fight scenes), this movie did driv a nail in the Transformer Franchise, leave a void that still hasn't been filled. "},{"Title":"Disappointing to this series fan","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I loved the original series. Along with Gi Joe...sure they were toy commercials but they had some interesting characters thanks to the imput of Marvel comics and some good cartoon  writers. I really looked forward to the movie--but was disappointed. It was neat how they jumped the action to 2005, and had the Decepticons winning on Cybertron. I remember cheers from the audience when Grimlock and the dinobots appeared..Starscream's treachery was classic--but then, after  15 minutes, they had killed off the likeable old series regulars and added some less than attractive new ones(Rodimus Prime for example). It seemed as though they aimed the movie at a slightly younger audience than the tv show too(Blur and the Junkions were really annoying). The fact that these robots who had been routinely blasted in the series and then recovered were wiped out so easily seemed quite strange. The Matrix of leadership had no connection to the series--surely they could have come up with a better story but I guess they had to satisfy the toy makers.And then there was the music! The music was absolutely terrible. One of the best things about the tv Transformers and Gi Joe was the fantastic musical score by Michael Walsh and Johnny Douglas(I think Anne Bryant and Ford Kinder did the song lyrics). I felt nothing when Ironhide and the others were blasted thanks to that terrible screaming nonsense. As Wheeljack might say if it aint broke--dont fix it! "},{"Title":"the beginning of the end","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" i have watch more times this movie. i was a very fascinated by the G1 cartoons ,specially season 2 witch where quite decent written and had some good characters and stories but with the movie everything went downhill. First of all the fact that they kill or change 3/4 of the characters most notably Optimus and yes ... Starscream (who had a funny Voice) to make room for the new Hasbro toys was quite obvious a marketing move. also in the movie the Stunticons, aerial bots , Combaticons don't show up also the newly introduced characters like the quintessence i didn't really like at all and neither Rodimus Prime.i think the movie should have been completely different written and for me at half point of the movie it started the demise of the Transformers. "},{"Title":"A shocking revelation!","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I rented this movie and watched it because it was just about the only 80s cartoon movie I haven't seen yet and I had heard it was actually pretty good.  About halfway through the climatic battle, I came to a stunning conclusion.  A revelation that suggests that this movie has been much more influential than anyone would want to admitIt's Star Wars 1 the Phantom Menace.I'm serious, you watch these two movies back to back if you doubt me.  You have an annoying kid (Danny/Anakin) who ends up saving the day.  You have an apprentice (R.C./Obi-Wan) who must reluctantly prove his mettle (hahaha) when his master (Optimus Prime/Qui-gon Gin) dies.  You have a final battle sequence that switches P.O.V.s around like nobody's buisiness.  You have gigantic sea monsters made of armour and teeth.  And you have a bunch of gibberish speaking locals (the Junkbots/the Gungans) who help the good guys save the world.Then again, since Unicron is essentially a sentient Death Star, the influence is give and take.I found the movie itself to be pretty good although it's about as far away from a chick-flick as you can hope to get.  In a way, this is a good thing (it's bad in that there is only one female character in the entire movie and she's given nothing to do).  Just a warning for other female 80's cartoon fans expect a lot of REALLY drawn out battle sequences. "},{"Title":"The Transformers The Movie (Nelson Shin, 1986) **","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I used to watched the animated TV series (from which this was spawned) on Italian TV as a kid, whereas the film itself was shown as a Friday matine at my secondary school! Naturally, I rented this in anticipation of the recent Michael Bay live-action (and big-budget) versionbut I still havent caught up with that one! All in all, the 'original' is generally watchable but also childish and dull I have to say, however, that the accompanying rock score is pathetic (and dates it most of all); it was a mistake, too, to kill off the two leading figures from the TV series early on  so that were left no one to identify with! A plethora of name actors  Scatman Crothers, Eric Idle, Leonard Nimoy, Clive Revill, Robert Stack, Lionel Stander and (most notoriously perhaps) Orson Welles  provide voices for the various charactersbut all singularly fail to breathe life into them, mainly because the script is so muddled and the whole enterprise incredibly slipshod. "},{"Title":"My hate of this film runs deep","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This was one finished product that should not have been tossed upon the masses the way it was. As others have said there should have been a lead up episode regarding the matrix, the Quintessons, etc. It would have been thrilling to have an pre-movie episode with the Sharkticons squaring off against the Insecticons. Me, I would also add having episodes introducing these new characters. As it is, only two very annoying sounding characters were introduced in season 2 (warpath and seaspray) but they were spread throughout its course and many times proved useful in moving a story along a given episode. In the movie there's no less then six very annoying characters introduced in a matter of minutes Blurr, the Sweeps, Wheelie, Wreck-Gar, Daniel, the Sharkticons who are pummelled in our heads without the benefit of commercial breaks. Other than Wreck-Gar and of course big Unicron, how did they push along this story? Does anyone remember a particular line they said? However I remember all the portions where the ORIGINAL CAST dominates a scene. It's their brief appearance as well as the painful depictions overbalance the survival as opposed to many great Autobot character getting decimated that stays with me most. I'd think the writer of this favored the Decepicons as Optimus Prime (in IMHO the film's most memorable sequence) shoots amongst others Soundwave in the same spot Starscream had hit Brawn yet we see him many times again (including making a bid for Decepticon leadership).Oh and dear, sweet Optimus--As my sisters and I sat through the tedious mishmash of gimmicky characters interacting with boring settings after Optimus' gut turning death scene, I kept thinking He'll be back in this scene So he's not coming back in this scene, he'll be back in the next scene--The camera finally pulls back and the movie ends and--WHAT IN THE HECK??? NO OPTIMUS! I adored Optimus Prime! How? WHY??? All 3 of us figured it out at once--To bring in this new line of toys--These rather boring (and in the case of Rodimus in the subsequent 3rd season, increasingly not worthy of respecting) characters by comparison to all the Cybertronians in seasons 1 and 2 who spoke only one or two lines every other episode. "},{"Title":"This movie stunk","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie was the most blatantly exploitative ripoff production imaginable. After spending a couple of years getting kids into the Transformer characters via television, they announced a big gala Transformers Movie!!!--only to then kill off all the major characters (including Optimus Prime?!) in the first few minutes of same. They never returned; no, instead we got a whole slew of new characters introduced to carry on for the rest of the film...an obvious ploy to cynically generate sales of action figures of those new characters. I took my four-year-old son to see this movie; he was a big Transformers fan and looked excitedly forward to seeing the show translated onto the Big Screen; he was reduced to tears by what the movie showed him for his (actually, my) money. Nuff said. "},{"Title":"It was bad then and it's bad now","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie was garbage when it came out in the 80's and it's garbage now. People who watch Transformers and My Little Pony now are people who didn't live through the 80's and wish that they could have. Let's talk about the 80's... The 80's was a time when nearly 60% of America snorted cocaine on a daily basis. The other half was drunk. And all cartoons were just 1/2 an hour commercials. You could buy anything and everything you seen on a show. You want to be that guy that was in a scene for literally 2 seconds... You could buy his toy and he had a name. These people who like these shows now most weren't even born at the time. So, they say... Oh, this is so cool. You know why? Because they have parents who are/were dorks at the time and that's what they liked. So, the kids love it. Transformers was a steaming pile. And Optimus always saying... Let's roll out. Got annoying. GI Joe? Another pile of crap. Who can shoot all the bullets in every clip they have on them and never hit anyone?! Transformers was crap then and it's an even bigger load now. Go ask your parents if they ate paint chips as a child if they liked the transformers. Chances are that they did and they're the reason people can't have lead based paint on their houses now. "},{"Title":"When you unfortunately grow up, this movie becomes terrible.","Date":"26 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I adored the Transformers cartoon. I ran home from elementary school the first two seasons. Then there was a movie (which I didn't get to see), followed by two eerie seasons. OK, so I didn't like the follow up series (even though I did buy some of the toys). As soon as the movie hit VHS and Beta, I decided to rent it.I disliked it. What little kid wants to see their all time favorite characters get killed? It's heavy on a kid. Not just Optimus Prime, which was severe on me, but Brawn and Ironhide too? The rest of the new characters lacked any kind of charm. I soooooo didn't care about Kup or Radimus Prime. The pink car, who's name I still don't know, looked horrible.So now my son is 5, and he likes transformers. I showed him some of the early cartoons. He was hooked. I thought I'd show him the movie today and watch it with him.First, I forgot how violent it was. I also forget how many deaths there were. From civilizations being eaten, to melted, to blown up, to turning gray and crumbling, with the creepy dark overtones, this felt like a weird horror movie. I quickly realized that he wasn't ready for this, and showed him something else.Man, this movie was not only the hugest sell-out of all time, but just poorly done. It was crude and boring. The animation is hard to watch in this day of much better animation. This could have been a classic. A legacy. A major childhood franchise is now just a cult film. At least wrap it up and fix some of our favorite characters and retire them in style. It's fiction for kids - not real life. "},{"Title":"I didn't find it as impressive as people say it was.","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I didn't find it as impressive as people say it was . I found the dialogue predictable and corny (it sounded like the sort of stuff you would hear on Saturday morning cartoons to make it funny or more corny, not the sort of stuff sci-fi animated films are supposed .)Also, some of the voices provided were either good for the mise-en-scene (Orson Welles as Unicron was certainly recognisable and enjoyable in the sheer boredom of the 2-dimensional characters), or utterly cringe-worthy (Eric Idle as Wreck-Gar must have been a complete embarrassment for Idle, for me, a Monty Python fan, to hear his voice used so inappropriately in an animated film like that!) On a positive note ,which I found very hard to note while watching this, was the soundtrack, which was an unusual mix of hair metal, and non hair metal music (Weird Al Yankovic's Dare To Be Stupid was unusually used, making a particularly uninspiring a little bit more tolerable to watch).As neither a fan of the popular animated series, nor the popular toys for that matter, I could not find anything that interesting, or say anything interesting for that matter, of this uninspiring film to get to grips with. In other words, it is nothing but a pointless animated series spin-off, which belongs to the league of other embarrassing outings for an animated series to the silver screen, such as The Flintstones. "}{"Title":"The nail in the coffin to the Transformers saga, very sad","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After seeing this movie , like many other fans, I could only draw one conclusion, the guys who made this film, made it clearly for money and to capitalize on the popularity of the Transformers. Worst part is they write a stupid ending and managed to kill of several of the best Transformers most notable is Optimus Prime. The Transformers series was a great show between good vs. evil with the good guys winning at the end. However, somebody forgot to tell the writers that. The animation is great but meaningless after Optimus Prime dies the life of movie was slowly slipping away. Most fans hate this movie and I can see why when it could have clearly been written better. The series continued after this movie but became less popular and drove fans toward other cartoon shows that dont kill of the good guys!! "},{"Title":"Worst Way To Bring The Transformers To The Big Screen","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Transformers The Movie, a cult classic to many fans the world over, was a total disaster at the box office, only grossing $5.8 million dollars at the box office, upon its release in 1986. The plot was senseless. There was no previous mention before the movie, to The Autobot Matrix Of Leadership, and Unicron. Only in the Season Three episode Call Of The Primitives, was the Autobox Matrix, and Unicron explained. There should have been an episode leading up to the movie, that showed Megatron, and the rest of the Decepticons, re-taking control of Cybertron. The film started with the Decepticons, already on Cybertron. They should have been able to do this film, without animation casualties. Seeing Prowl, with fire spewing out of his mouth, and Ironhide's head blown off by Megatron, was too much to handle. The new characters, were annoying to listen to, like Blurr, Wheelie, and Wreck-Gar.The Rhino DVD, was awful. The DEG movie intro, was not included. The coloring was too bright, it lacked all three movie trailers, interviews with the known voice talents, and it should have at least, included the commercials to all the Transformers, that were newly introduced in the film. With all the disappointing Transformers incarnations they have had, since the series ended in the U.S. in 1987, one can hope, when the new movie is released in movie theaters, on July 4, 2007, it will stick to the original G1 format, we have grown to love, from 1984-1987. If not, it will be a disaster, like the film of 1986. "},{"Title":"The world's longest music video","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Okay, I've got nothing against animated films. In fact, I often prefer animated films to live action ones. Not this time. Not by a long LONG shot. Nearly all the comments I hear from people is that this film is awesome; well, lemme tell you something, I rented this film from the library, and I'm glad it was free 'cause otherwise, I'd've kicked myself for paying for it. Bad doesn't begin to describe it. Frankly, it's pretty lousy animation to begin with; yes, it was good for American things at the time, but let's take a look at two other movies (with far better stories, thank you) - Akira and Castle in the Sky. Both were made about the same time, maybe a year later, maybe a year earlier. Either way, this doesn't even COMPARE to some things of the time animation-wise. Next, the plot good plot - definitely helps to have seen the series or have been familiar at least with the characters, but a good plot nonetheless. However, HORRIBLE execution. Anyone who hates Disney movies for being too musical and for kids, yet likes this movie, REALLY needs to sit down with this one again and watch it. The music is basically just thrown in randomly, often overbearingly, and don't even START on that damn dancing sequence. Also, one of the characters gets blown to bits... and then put back together and he's fine. WHAT IS THAT!? KILL HIM OFF, FOR GOD'S SAKE! The fact is, there are a ton of plot holes, inconsistencies, characters thrown in for who knows what, and finally, we end up with 2 hours of incredibly bad animated film. Frankly, the thing that makes most people crazy for this movie is that it's the film version of the show - that's it! It strives on fanbase, and is most arguably no where NEAR one of the best films ever made; it may be famous, but it is far from good. "},{"Title":"What a piece of crap","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I use to love transformers when I was a kid, then the other day I decided to watch the movie and all I can say is it's one of the worst pieces of rubbish I have seen.Not only do they kill of the majority of the original cast (with one shot). The music is terrible, like what were they thinking? I prefer to listen to Billy Ray Cyrus then that garbage.Oh yeah and my favorite scene in the entire movie is where they are on the junkyard planet and meet those stupid robots and they give them some sort of greeting and they all break into a Batman dance from the 1960's.I can some it up in one word craptastic. 1/10 only because I couldn't rate it any lower.  "},{"Title":"Invasion Of The Crapticons","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ugh! It's amazing how all children exploitation films are the same, no matter what the trendy toy...Power Rangers, Pokemon, Transformers, etc, ad nauseum. All of them, including this one are devoid of imagination, plot, and animation quality.  "},{"Title":"Even my five year old hated this movie.","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have to admit, I like the Transformers. I have several of the original action figures from 20 years ago. It's a guilty pleasure that I've been able to pass on to my son.But this movie is garbage. The animation is horrible, story does not make any sense, and the music has nothing to do with the story, and is just a bunch of noise (the composer also wrote the horrible score to Rocky IV).What a waste of talent. Orson Welles, Leonard Nimoy and Robert Stack must have really needed the paycheck.Pure dreck.1 out of 10 "}]