[{"Title":"James Belushi is The Principal","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let me just start by saying James Belushi totally kicks a$$ as Rick Latimer, a city school teacher, who one night, after drinking a few shots of alcohol, gets a bat and smashes up the car of the lawyer who is dating his wife, who represented her at their divorce trial.  For his violent actions the night before, the school board offers him to be principal at Brandel High School. The other board members just cringe at the name.  Rick doesn't take the offer lightly, but he has no choice.  Once he gets to the school, he discovers that the school seems more like a prison than a school.  He quickly learns that Brandel is actually the end of the line for kids who have been kicked out of all the other good schools in the district.  Rick is p***** at the condition of the school and calls an assembly.  At the assembly, Rick announces that he will enforce a new and painfully simple rule of, No More. Rick says,This means no more skipping class, dealing drugs, or whatever the hell it is you've been majoring in here, No More! He is able to enforce this rule by forming a mediocre security team with the help of a janitor (Louis Gossett, Jr.) to help bring back order to the school.  However, this does not look good in the eyes of Victor, a drug dealer who has set up in the school.  He begins making threats to Rick, telling to get out of the school while he still has a chance.James Belushi is what makes this movie worth watching.  He's made this movie what it is.  He cracks a few occasional jokes and does this well.  I think The Principal started the whole teacher vs. inner city school generation of films.  Similar films like Dangerous Minds (1995), The Substitute (1996), 187 (1997), and High School High (1996), but The Principal, I think is the one that started it all.  I give The Principal a 10/10 for being original and James Belushi. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's James Belushi Superstar.","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Principal (1987) was another star vehicle for James Belushi. This fun film is Blackboard Jungle mixed with Class of 1984. The film is filled with a lot of the minor stars of this era such as Lou Gossett Jr., Rae Dawn Chong, Esai Morales and Kelly Jo Minter to name a few.J.B.stars as a washed out High School Prep teacher who's personal life begins to fall apart. He snaps one day and his immediately canned. That is until he's given a second chance. He's appointed Principal at a local rundown high school. During his tour he plots out away to change not only the school but his own life around. A nice movie in the vein of Lean On Me. Who am I kidding, this is a bone crunching exploitive film that features all of the things that we love about these type of movies. If this movie was made today it would be a P.G.-13 flick. Not a classic but a nice exploitive affair.Recommended. "},{"Title":"good Belushi movie","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In order to like this film I think one has to like James Belushi. SInce I do, I found this film entertaining and exciting. Belushi takes a job as a principal at a tough inner city high school where he must contend with many problems there.  Louis Gossett Jr. also turns in a strong performance as the custodian who befriends Belushi.  "},{"Title":"Do Not Mess With This Administrator","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  James Belushi stars as a teacher with a short fuse who gets to become the principal of the roughest high school in the city.  He turns out to be just what the doctor ordered and just what the students and employees needed. The Principal is a very violent film that could be best described as Lean on Me or Stand and Deliver gone stark-raving mad.  Belushi is solid here and so is high school security guard Louis Gossett, Jr. in a supporting role.  4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Belushi at his best...","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  'The Principal' is one of those films where Belushi could have been nominated for Best Actor, and Louis Gossett Jr. for Best Supporting Actor...The film has some great scenes, a good story and character development, and a decent soundtrack...The film is pretty hard-edged, though has elements of comedy...overall - an under-rated film (ones which I love to review) worth seeing...7/10 "},{"Title":"An Overlooked Eighties Classic","Date":"27 October 2010","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I first saw The Principal as a young boy. It made quite an impression on me, and now as an adult, I can't help but revisit it every now and then. Despite having lost some of its shock value over time, the movie has retained its suspense. The style is unmistakably Eighties (I think in an endearing way) and James Belushi's charisma and drama chops carry the story- which occasionally gets silly (also endearingly). The plot is delivered in a compelling way, and evenly divides it focus between character development and the central conflict. By today's standards, the exaggeration and melodrama would probably lead most to dismiss The Principal as stupid. Although I partially appreciate it in the way it was intended, a lot of what makes the movie entertaining is how easily it can be laughed at. "},{"Title":"Closest thing to a modern John Wayne.","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the things I like to  ponder is what modern stars would fill the shoes of actors of the past or parts they played. For instance, if they did a remake of Bonanza, John Goodman would fill Dan Blockers shoes pretty well as Hoss, & I think Michael J Fox may be a passable Little Joe. Also of course, Cheryl Ladd did well as Grace Kelly. Some stars have been so one of a kind though that one would be hard pressed to imagine  who would be up to the task. John Wayne is one such figure. While James Belushi may not quite have the physical stature of the Duke, his performance in The Principal comes the closest in my impression to reminding me of the cut the crap individualism of the screen legend. Public schools  could probably learn a lot from this feature.Of the many comedians of early Saturday Night Live who have gone on to movies, Belushi appears to be the one who has most successfully transcended the comedian stereotype. While Bill Murrey may do well as a comic role being serious, the few pictures I've seen James Belushi in suggest that he's more like a serious actor who's also funny.Good feature for those of us who are tired of irresponsible youth getting a free pass.  "},{"Title":"GET - OUT - OF - THE - F***ING - CAR - MOTHERF***ER!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a great 80's film - James Belushi and Louis Gossett, Jr. are excellent and you're with them all the way as they're so likeable.Rick Latimer (Belushi) is great; he starts off as being a kind-of drunken, violent loser (but he's funny so we let him off) and then becomes a reluctant hero who realises why he's a teacher in the first place and makes an effort to SORT THINGS OUT.This film is full of COOL bits; every scene with Latimer on his motorcycle (Disneyland! or 'El Principal'), the scene where the makeshift security team crack down (...set it off on the left, y'all, set it off on the right...), the assembly scene (NO MORE!)...all great.  Soundtrack's also TOP (if you like 80's music..!).Recommended.I got my a** kicked for nothin', Ricky! "},{"Title":"Worth seeing more than once","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A washed-up teacher is offered a principal position, but it is at the worst school in the district. Belushi confronts the school druglord and kingpin as he tries to save the few decent kids that are stuck in this environment. A bit humorous at times, but what do you expect from a James Belushi role? Louis Gossett Jr turns in a decent performance as the school security chief.Violence, language, adult subject matter "},{"Title":"I'm the principal, man!","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rick Latimer (James Belushi) is a high-school teacher with some social issues. Hard drinking and soon to be divorced, Latimer flies of the handle when he spies his ex out having a drink in a bar with another man. Up before the school board, who have tired of his combustible attitude, Latimer is informed that he has finally got the Principal position he has long since courted. Trouble is is that it is at Brandel High, a notoriously troubled school where violence and crime are part of the curriculum. Taking up an attitude of fighting fire with fire and working from his motto of No More, Latimer hopes to bring order and respect to the school. But with only Security guard Jake Phillips (Louis Gossett Jr) as an ally and the thuggish school kingpin Victor Duncan (Michael Wright) after his blood, Latimer will do well to just survive the first week.The formula of such movies like The Principal is now seen as old hat, post the release of Christopher Cain's movie you can trace a line from Lean On Me in 1989, to The Substitute 1996 and on to One Eight Seven the following year. Prior to The Principal the topic is a bit more thin on the ground, we can probably laud the excellent Blackboard Jungle from 1955, while 1984 saw Mark L. Lester tap into the video nasty zeitgeist of the early 80s with his trashy Classs Of 1984. So plenty of film's, and similar types like Stand And Deliver, from which to choose should you require a night in with a teacher intent on straightening out those ruffians; whilst ensuring the good kids get the education they deserve. So why choose The Principal then?Well James Belushi's fans don't need much convincing here, an always likable star who knows the limits of his talents, the film gives him the chance to mix serious drama with his comedy bent. This played out with immeasurable cool too. Latimer is one bad ass teacher, he drinks hard, plays hard, whirls his baseball bat and rides a motorcycle. He's no Dolph Lungdren (Detention) or a Tom Berrenger (The Substitute), but Belushi can carry off the tough side of Latimer, whilst showing his fallibility's via little comedy moments as he wonders just what the hell he is doing here. Belushi is admirably supported by Gossett Jr, a believable tough security guard if ever there was one, while a lot of the film's strength is drawn from the developing relationship between the two men. Of the rest of the cast it's Michael Wright who stands out as head thug Victor. Already at the time of release a cult actor thanks to his turn in The Wanderers, Wright is supremely cool and terrifying into the bargain. When he shouts I expel you, you start to pack your bags, that is unless you are Principal Latimer of course.As ever with a film of this type there are complaints that it's full of stereotypes, but were they in 1987? Director Cain is for sure not addressing the then fledgling problems of education and crime amongst African-American and Latino school kids. But he is not shying away from the issue either. That the most unsavoury point in the film sees a white youth perpetrate crime on a black teacher tends to get over looked by snarky PC critics. Make no bones about it tho, this is more macho than the rest, again this is something that has upset many a critic who prefers the reach out to the kids approach in something like Morgan Freeman's excellent, but tonally different, Lean On Me. Oh yes sir, this is taking a different tack, but I for one appreciate having a different angle from which to view such subject matter. Some hooligans can be saved by reaching out to them, but lets not kid ourselves that some of them don't need more than just a telling off from The Principal. Yes the film is also very 80s, none more so than with the soundtrack where we get a mix of the bad; some American Heartbeat sounding fluffer, and the great; Strafe's pulse rocking Set It Off. Not setting out to win awards or moralise about an ongoing problem, The Principal goes for a tough and gritty approach for this semester. Amen to that sir. 8/10 "}{"Title":"One of the best Teacher Takes Over Movies I've seen","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Granted, I am a James Belushi fan, and I maybe a little bias, but I honestly think that this is one of his best works yet. This is the best teacher-like movie that I have ever seen.Basically Ladimer (Belushi) was assigned to a principal job at the absolute worst school in the whole state, Brandel, and it became his job to try and change the kids from convicts to students. Ladimer, and security guard counterpart Phillips (Lou Gossett Jr.) team up to take down the drug king pin, Victor Duncan. Although it seems that pretty much everyone Ladimer tries to help, ends up the worse for wear, he is determined to make a change in the school, and make everyone understand two words..NO MORE.I highly recommend this movie if you're like for an 80s movie filled with its fair share of action, almost dark comedy, and a good drama. "},{"Title":"A Terrific Movie!","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie ranks as one of my personal favorites as I've watched it dozens of times.  I love Belushi's character, and cheer him every step of the way. If there is anything I can't stand it's a punk.  And, in this movie, the principal teaches the punks a lesson they'll never forget. "},{"Title":"Excellent action","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" THE PRINCIPAL is one of those high school gang flicks that continues to run on TV with some regularity. It is the kind of B-action flick I will stop and watch every time it is broadcast. Jim Belushi is a new principal at a beleaguered, drug-riddled school. With the aid of janitor Lou Gossett, Belushi makes a bid to take back the school, and by the end of the flick, appears to have succeeded. Nasty, R-rated fighting and violence are sprinkled throughout, and the whole thing is engrossing even with Belushi's Captain Kirk beer gut often getting in the way. One incredible and truly exhilarating sequence has Belushi riding his chopper into the school in pursuit of a thug about to rape the delectable Rae Dawn Chong. Another terrific sequence has Belushi trapping some thugs in the school library, eventually sending one of them sailing through a second story window to the school grounds below. The big finale, set in a darkened locker room, is suspenseful and not your ordinary finish. It would appear this cheese lovers' delight influenced the one and only THE SUBSTITUTE, which came out about five years later. It will help if you are a Belushi fan to truly enjoy THE PRINCIPAL. I happen to be a Belushi fan from way back. By the way, I don't disagree with those who say Gossett might have been equally effective in the lead. "},{"Title":"This Was Great!","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I LOVE inner-city exploitation movies! I think that this was the one that started the genre. I have to note that in one scene, a teacher is walking out of a classroom, and he says, Substitutes don't get paid enough around here. I really believe that at that moment, producers and screenwriters alike decided to expand on this idea, and they came up with a Substitute series. I could be wrong, but that's just my theory. Now, about this film, John Belushi is a very cool guy. I was so happy to see him get serious in this role. Rae Dawn Chong is not a good actress, but she fit the role perfectly.  I especially liked the scene where John's character drove his motorcycle through the school. The beating-while-a-towel-is-over-my-head scene was good too.  This is a must see for anyone who loves this genre! "},{"Title":"Belushi gets tough as a school principal","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  James Belushi socks it to em' and gives a creditable performance as a high school teacher going through a difficult time. He is posted as the new principal of a school nobody wants to be involved in. Plot is akin to Michelle Pfeiffer's Dangerous Minds but in this case, Belushi is the hard-case Principal determined to make a real change of his life and his students. The movie builds to a climatic ending that has you rooting for Belushi. The feel good ending, however, mars what otherwise is a good and engaging story. "},{"Title":"Don't mess with the principal.","Date":"9 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a pretty good '80s vehicle for James Belushi, who gets to show off both comedic and dramatic chops as Rick Latimer, a teacher who, in a drunken state one night, flies into a rage upon seeing his ex-wife with another man (her attorney, no less). After beating the hell out of the mans' car with a baseball bat, his superiors decide to reward him with a principal gig. The catch is that the gig is at the city's most crime ridden inner city high school. Now, Latimer may have his faults, but being a more or less good guy he's incensed at what he sees and decides that he's going to clean up the school, no matter what. Offering some assistance is the schools' head of security, Jake Phillips (Louis Gossett Jr.). Rick takes special interest in students such as young mother Treena (Kelly Jo Minter) and the sincere Arturo (Jacob Vargas), who's only now learning to read. Meanwhile, the biggest piece of criminal scum at the place, Victor Duncan (Michael Wright) tries to scare off Rick, but Rick won't have any of it, and the stage will be set for a final showdown at some point. The Principal does score high marks for good intentions, even as it recalls earlier films such as The Blackboard Jungle and Class of 1984 (other films in this genre, of course, include Stand and Deliver, Lean On Me, and Dangerous Minds). It's reasonably absorbing and tells a decent story, which was written by Frank Deese, a real life teacher who also plays a small role in the movie. What makes it work as well as it does are the variety of entertaining characters, both likable and unlikable. Belushi is in fine form and does seem to be improvising at some points. Gossett Jr. is solid as a rock and the sexy Rae Dawn Chong has the role of impassioned teacher Hilary Orozco. Wright is completely convincing as the antagonist, largely because he mostly underplays the part. Playing other students are Esai Morales as the poetic Raymi Rojas, J.J. Cohen as scuzzy white creep White Zac, and the engaging Troy Winbush as Baby Emile, the gang member who has a change of heart. Director Christopher Cain also creates some very effective suspense in the ultimate confrontation between principal and criminal. Best of all, while there is some serious subject matter in the material, Cain and company never get heavy handed in the attempt to create some sort of message movie, and mix the exploitative ingredients with the serious ones to make an entertaining package in general. By the end, you can't help but cheer the principal on. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Movie's A Bit Silly, But Still Good, And Belushi's Performance Is Pretty Good","Date":"14 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The basic story was told (and much more effectively, I might add - perhaps because it was based on real people and events) a couple of years later in Lean On Me. This movie is a fictional account of roughly the same chain of events - a teacher gets assigned as principal to an inner city school that's become a haven for gangs and drug-dealing and he sets himself to the task of cleaning it up. Perhaps because it's not based in reality, at times The Principal comes across as a bit too extreme, and at times it even seems a bit silly, to be honest. Some of the characters - especially Miss Orozco (Rae Dawn Chong) also seem to be a bit of a puzzle. I'll explain my confusion over her later.I will say that James Belushi did well with this part. He played Rick Latimer - the down and out teacher who gets assigned to Brandel High School because there's no one else to go there and basically the Board of Education is throwing him away. That's the reality of Branden. Neither the students nor the teachers have anywhere to go. That, by the way, is my confusion over Miss Orozco. Why was she there? She seemed to be a pretty good, young teacher who clearly (as the movie finally points out) does have options. Her character seemed out of place because she didn't belong in that school; the attack on her seemed out of place because it really didn't serve to push forward the main story; her budding friendship (romance - it wasn't really clear) with Latimer seemed out of place. That's an aside, mind you. Again - Belushi did well as Latimer. For a down and out teacher, it seemed a bit strange that he would set himself to the hard work of trying to clean up the school, but the characters in this admittedly aren't that believable.The story works, though. It's a good story. It inevitably draws you in and gets you rooting for Latimer. It's all pretty clear-cut in terms of good guys and bad guys. There are no real moral dilemmas to confront you because everything is so clear-cut. You just watch, and you stay interested. You know there has to be a final confrontation coming between Latimer and Victor (the drug-dealing student who ruled the school until Latimer arrived) and you basically wait for the final confrontation between the two. That final confrontation is for part of the time suspenseful, but in the end it also turns rather silly. Latimer's my turn after Victor gives him a pretty good beating made me chuckle a bit.It's not a bad movie. It's too simple and straightforward and it has some extraneous material and some extraneous characters, but it's not bad. Even enjoyable, for the most part. (7/10) "},{"Title":"One rule&#x85; No more.","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Nothing new under sun, as The Principal could be seen as a more aggressively modern Blackboard Jungle inspiration (which it could possibly have done the same for Dangerous Minds) amongst a urban ghetto backdrop. You could also say its like Class of 1984, only less trashier and explicit with the action and cleaning out. John Belushi (an effectively imposing turn balancing the dry humour with a serious side) stars as a teacher Rick Latimer who's life is falling apart and an brutal act involving his ex-wife and new lover, sees him being offered (though there's no real choice to it) a new position as principal at a school that's over-run by drugs, violence and gangs who don't have education on their minds. So he goes about making changes, but a certain drug dealer Victor Duncan (a superbly lethal Michael Wright) sees this as a threat and goes on to make it hell. But Latimer doesn't cave in and soon finds an ally in janitor Jake Phillips (a tough performance by Lou Gossett Jr.) The formulaic story (which at times can get preachy) seems to be fuelled by such topics as crime, racism and talent untapped in what Belushi's strong-minded character transforms, as he might be in over his head however his got nothing to lose. He takes it on the chin, and tries to build upon the foundation than letting it slide&#x85; despite the scoffing and violence targeted at him. Director Christopher Cain does a polished job with his forward handling, but never letting it loose focus on the raw and brutal side of things. Crisp, but explosively high octane. Surprisingly it was more intense and action-oriented than I was expecting. The encounters involving Latimer and Victor coming to blows in what was a power tussle for control and dominance was always gripping in the scheme of things. Performances are well-guided with some other familiar faces in Rae Dawn Chong, Esai Morales and Jacob Vargas. Also throughout we get some drowning 80s tunes spliced throughout to evoke spirit and grit. "},{"Title":"Belushi and Gossett Jr, strike hard","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Principal is an extremely underrated movie. James Belushi never really reached the height that John Belushi did, but he still has had some hits that I think people have had a hard time recognizing. Many people have probably not seen this movie, but it brings a satisfactory chemistry between both Belushi and Gossett Jr. in which they fight off punk teen gangs at their school. The concept is pretty different from any other movies involving the main character as a principal. It really isn't a comedy, which you normally see from James Belushi, but that doesn't make it bad. Give it a try, you might like it.7/10 "},{"Title":"Before you pick on your principal or teachers, watch this movie...","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Principal is a good movie to watch on Sunday morning or late, late cable. We get badass characters and some kickass fighting sequences. I even wanted to behave like Rick or Jake! I also wanted to speak like in the ghetto you know. Now seriously, this is a fairly entertaining B-Flick. The plot is simple, easy to follow, and overall interesting. James Belushi is hired to straighten some lower class trash students. Most of them insult, threaten, and even kick the hell out of the principal. But he won't give up with his badass attitude. He fights against the most dangerous gang from high school and teaches them the basics to respect. James Belushi delivers a kickass performance as Rick Latimer. The man is hardcore. But Louis Gossett Jr. steals the show as the tough Jake Phillips; the janitor and overall school vigilante. I love the scene where he says that he won't fight against Victor because when that day comes, one of them will die! Rae Dawn Chong also is fine in her role and looks very sexy. I didn't like the scene where one of the gang members tries to rape her. She seemed very uncomfortable with that scene. Michael Wright is truly one creepy tough guy. He's mean, imposes fear, and kicks some serious asses.Watch The Principal; a quality B-movie from the 80's. It has the elements to make you enjoy it if you are into fighting sequences and badass characters. "}{"Title":"All worth while watching","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  'The principal' independent movie which is representing the hard work many teachers have to face every day. James Belushi is very good in the suffisticated personality as the angry principal who is gonna teach the kids to cherish their values. A nice story about few people mean great difference. Great casting as well as great acting. "},{"Title":"You Can't Help But Like This Movie","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Why? Because it has all the elements that make for an excellent story. I've always liked James Belushi but hadn't figured out why until I first saw The Principal. Then it hit me while watching the first minutes of this one, he is really a good actor, with a range that is missing in many of the new generation.Rick Latimer (Belushi) is a down and out loser in the educational system, a drunk and trouble maker. He gets sent to a high school to be the Principal of an inner city crime infested multi-racial school at the bottom of the list for academic excellence. Knowing that he is at his last stop, Latimer realizes that he really does care about education and begins to clean up the school, raising eyebrows and taking names in an effort to help the students realize their own potential. With the help of a crusty school security head (Louis Gosset Jr.), and a young teacher who cares, plus a growing group of kids who see the light, Latimer takes on the resident student kingpin, a very unlikable young man who deals drugs openly and believes he is in charge. The interplay between the two factions comes to a head when the kingpin and his goons try to kill Latimer after school one day. The fight and subsequent ending is quite amazing.This movie deserves a lot better grade than has been given to it in the past... "},{"Title":"Stupid, But Entertaining","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a very good action film. The movie moves at a quick pace and there is a lot of action. The characters are cartoonish and stereotyped. There is the dedicated teacher, the bad kid with a heart of gold, the evil bad guy always in black,and of course James Belushi doing his best to copy his brother's John wildman acting style. However, the film is really as stupid as a movie can be. A wild,out of control teacher, involved in bar room brawls and drunken fits of anger being promoted to be a principal. Once a principal, he drops f-bombs, throws fits, knocks out students and is just an overall crazyman. But, that is Hollywood. Besides, there is a very happy ending after a High Noon type showdown in the school, and everyone lives happily ever after. Jim Belushi best role and a good way to relax and enjoy an action packed entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Western in school","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The principal is one of many movies dealing with violence in school . Other movies about this subject are Blackboard jungle (1955) , Class of 1984 (1984) , Stand and deliver (1988) ,Lean on me (1989) , Dangerous Minds (1995) , The Substitute (1996) , High School High (1996) ,187 (1997).The best way to look at this movie is to look at it as unusual western. The lines between good and evil are very clear and there are no real moral dilemmas here. Some people might criticize that this movie is sometimes over the top , especially the action scenes. However I don' t think that this movie is too far from the real life problems. The reality is a lot worse. In my country there have been accidents in last years where teachers were attacked by aggressive teenagers . The problem of bullies , school violence and street gangs existed in 1987 and is even a bigger issue now. I agree with the message of The Principal &#x96; some kids you can reach to , but some are just lost case. Some punks only understand violence. Some hooligans can be saved by reaching out to them, but some will only understand baseball bat. In a way you could say it's a teacher fantasy , but one that makes you feel better. I believe that a teacher in school should be untouchable and every punk who doesn't know how to behave should get a serious ass kicking.I also don't believe that the movie is racist. Yes , the main villain is black , but we have also a white creep White Zac (JJ Cohen) here and few Latino gangsters. The janitor and female teachers who help Latimer are black and don't forget that there is one black Baby Emile (Troy Winbush) and Latino kid Raymi Rojas (Esai Morales )who become friends with Latimer. Most of the kids in this movie isn't portrayed as bad , they just apathetic and the same goes for almost every teacher in Brandel.James Belushi (Red heat) fits the main role of Rick Latimer incredibly well. He's totally endearing and very likable character from start to finish. It was refreshing to see a teacher who isn't so noble and more down to earth. The film gives him the chance to mix serious drama with his comedy talent. Louis Gossett Jr. (Officer and gentleman) gives a admirable support as believable tough security guard Jake Philips. The relationship between Belushi and Gossett Jr. is fun to watch thanks to some great chemistry between them. Michael Wright (The Wanderers) is quite convincing as the main villain Victor Duncan and Rae Dawn Chong (Commando) is fine in her role of impassioned teacher Hilary Orozco . The students played by JJ Cohen , Troy Winbush , Esai Morales are also very OK.It feels strange to write about action scenes in a movie about inspiring teacher , but the truth is that they are done nicely and the climax of the movie is full of suspense . Director Christopher Cain (Young guns) did a good job. The screenplay was written by Frank Deese, a real life teacher who also plays a small role in the movie. The story gives enough time for character development and material for actors to work with. Some nice and memorable one liners here I will expel you , No more , He's the principal man. The only problem is the undeveloped role for Rae Dawn Chong and her friendship/love story with Latimer. It doesn't seem to go anywhere like the writer didn't knew what to do with her. Some cliché moments at the end of movie , but I didn't minded them. The soundtrack is nice , especially if you like 80's music . Notable songs &#x96; Strafe Set it off , Jay Gruska /Bruce Roberts / Andy Goldmark Livin in the line of fire and Rob Jungklas Hello heaven.The Principal might be a B-class movie , but it's a well made B-class movie. It has some good messages and is a positive movie . It's entertaining and actually inspiring. It's a movie how few people can make a difference. It does quite good job portraying the hard work many teachers have to face every day. It's a movie about fighting apathy and doing what you think is right no matter what. It never gets preachy , it's charming and enjoyable small movie. I give it 6/10. "},{"Title":"This principal is gonna makes a difference No more","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It was great to see Belushi in this. I have another confession. This is my favourite JB film. He has two assets, apart from some bad vices- a big motorcycle and a big baseball bat. His latest incident, that has him exploding when seeing his ex with another guy, who just happens to be a lawyer, I think, puts him on the bad end of the faculty, where he's demoted and made a principal, of one of the worst high schools, in L.A- Brandell. Don't expect this movie to be as violent as you think. One scene, where he's getting pounded on a rape scene, where Belushi to the rescue, on his big bike, in one of the best and coolest entrances, you'll ever see, is what earned the film it R certificate. To be frank, this film would have the same effect on an 18 year old, as it would a 15 year old. The film is more than a violence for violence sake of a movie. We see a man beaten by the odds, about to rebuild his life, and turn this wayward school around, if it means getting rid of the chief hood, Victor, permanently (a frightening and menacing performance by a fine black actor, Michael Wright, him and Belushi reteamed in 1994'S, Race The Sun). I can't imagine what this film would be like without Belushi, and I don't want to imagine. This is a great, popcorn, bubblegum, high school flick, with action, thrills, and a nice re paint job on Belushi's reconstructed bike, as it was dismantled, by Victor and his boys. The young latino kid, Arturo, who is beyond getting sucked into Victor's gang, lifestyle, was an impressive debut of naturalistic acting, I missed not recognizing him, as Benecio De Toro's partner in Traffic. I do admit The Principal did show room for improvement, may'be a little more ingredients, or structure, in the story, but nonetheless, we're given quite an entertaining ride with a tremendous lengthy showdown, and with Belushi at the helm, we can't go wrong. "},{"Title":"Dangerous Minds on Speed !","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is about a simple guy that become principal in a tough school. That's what he always wanted but in a city he does not belong with criminals and drug dealers. James Belushi is the perfect choice in this movie, he was very young at that time in 1987, he was like 32 years old. But he looks 40. Plus, he got the help of the security agent of the school (yeap, only one agent) in the name of Louis Gossett Jr. (Iron Eagle). Gossett Jr. & Belushi have so much chemistry together, you forget about the script and the negatives of the film. Belushi is yet simple but effective, he's convincing in his role, and the ending is very violent but needed to happen ! B+ "},{"Title":"(To Sir with Love) Meets (Dirty Harry) !","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Education lives a problem. I don't think it's related to certain age or place. So that's why movies talk about it non-stop. Every movie has a case of stubborn idealistic teacher, and a mess that varies between poor underachievers and frank criminals.The icons of the kind aren't many across the way. In the 1950s (Blackboard Jungle &#x96; 1955) came out as very important one and almost a milestone. In the 1960s there was (To Sir With Love &#x96; 1967). In the 1970s somehow the sport movies exploited the formula, comically, leaving the serious case of school out of cadre with movies like (The Longest Yard &#x96; 1974), (The Bad News Bears &#x96; 1976), (Slap Shot &#x96; 1977),..etc. Then at the 1980s we came back to school in (The Principal) yet in a whole different way.This movie approaches the case through an angle that gathers between the commercial look (war with crime, action scenes, comic remarks) and the rule of meet violence with violence; which was &#x96; and still is &#x96; a pretty bold matter in movies of that kind. However it ended up as a bit unserious movie which deals with scarily serious subject. While it provides a swamp of a school, classic situation for its stubborn idealistic lead to face, rather to fight, many examples for the poor underachievers (single underage mom, a bright yet gangster student, Latino delayed in reading..) and frank criminals (a drug dealer, a rapist..), even loyal assistants (a tough janitor, a nice teacher..), it &#x96; in the same time &#x96; shows and handles everything and everyone as just a thrilling B-movie fare.All the characters are underdeveloped. Strangely the only well made, well portrayed, character was the janitor / security manager (Jake Phillips), done greatly by (Louis Gossett Jr.) in his finest hour after (An Officer and a Gentleman &#x96; 1982)'s success. The rest you know by the similarity with other &#x96; more deep &#x96; movies. Simply we didn't go, or have the time to go, through the characters, despite how troubled they all are; which would have been a feast for another drama. (James Belushi) is always the lovable Jim. Back then he did well in comedies or action comedies like (Red Heat), (K-9). And here he wasn't away from his area.The worst acting, or the worst anything, this movie has; came from the head of rebels, or the movie's villain for that matter !, (Victor) played by (Michael Wright). That guy, by the way he was written and acted, represented the worst of the B-movies' making. He's a professional drug dealer, with absolute evil and no background. The way he punished one of his gang, for leaving it and making friends with the principal, was too sophisticated, looking borrowed from horror movies or maybe drastic Blaxploitation ones. (Wright) as an actor has no middle; he's whether a badass, utterly confident, Dracula or a sudden pathetic wimp with terrified look in his eyes. Moreover, he doesn't get to kill the principal while having him under his pistol at the climax, according to being scared, yet he's so ready to kill his henchmen for not doing it (???!). Sure that exaggeration and contradiction weakened the conflict, and pushed the movie out of being believable.The last one-on-one sequence was more suitable for a Dirty Harry movie. And with an end like (Who do you think you are ?! / He's the principal *MAN* !), the action movie concludes nicely, but not the social commentary though. Unlike the endings of Dirty Harry's movies, where the long-shot and the lead walking sorry embody sadly declarations such as (the system doesn't work), this round the end with the lead riding his motorcycle, so proudly, after finishing the bad guys; must remind you more of the old westerns where the noble cowboy wins and struts over his strong horse heading to the sun.. and stuff like that. As you see; this is more refreshing happy end !On the other hand, aside from (Belushi) and (Gossett Jr.), there are some cool dialog (F**K YOU ! / They told me that you can't make a complete sentence here in Brandel !), and little fair action. Although the principal is another Blackboard Jungle's fighter mixed with the original cowboy, and its modern image; namely the 70s maverick cop, but the highest singularity this movie achieves isn't that mix inasmuch as showing that lead as someone who scares, gets confused, and feels helpless. So while John Wayne didn't use to ride motorcycles or fear of his enemies, you'll never see Dirty Harry drinking in a bar or reproaching an elevator's door for a failure he had either. That portion of human delicacy was a good different point. It did distinguish that hero and its movie to some extent.It carries out the message of being defiant instead of disappointed, in a way most of the thriller actions deal by. And in terms of having the message of meeting violence with violence in schools, it is less melancholic, more feel good than (187) 10 years later. Finally, some say that despite poor box office, (The Principal) managed by the years to turn into a cult classic. I believe it is a classic, however as an entertaining B flick, where the (dirty.. ) part ruled, and the (sir..) part / the problem of education, seemed like a cover or subplot. "},{"Title":"Belushi is ideal for the role","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you enjoyed Dangerous Minds, 187, High School High, Lean on Me, or any other movie of its ilk, I highly recommend The Principal. The aforementioned movies are pretty good, but what I enjoyed about this one is that, thanks to the talent of James Belushi, is never dull. Louis Gossett, Jr. also gives the picture some energy. Unlike most of these other movies, it doesn't necessarily take place in the classroom; it's about more than just getting these students to learn. And it doesn't sermonize. It's what this kind of movie should be gritty and realistic.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Above Average 80's Action Vehicle for Belushi","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Principal was released in 1987. During the 1980's, public schools of many inner-city communities were at a low ebb, with suburban flight and state/city cost-cutting contributing to the poor conditions. This led to many schools becoming especially vulnerable to gang activity and other crimes. New York educator Joe Clark became infamous around this time for his bat-wielding tactics, and was honored by president Ronald Reagan. Most teen-centric films of the 80's focused on upper-middle-class suburbia, and teens of color were barely seen, if at all. Hollywood soon resurrected the well-meaning teacher confronts the urban dilemma movie, and The Principal was one of them.Starring Saturday Night Live alumnus Jim Belushi, in this film he plays Rick Latimer. In an unnamed city (but filmed in Oakland, CA), Rick is a teacher at a suburban prep school; he's also recently divorced. One evening, while visiting a bar he sees his ex-wife with another man. Drunk and enraged, he harasses the man and vandalizes his car with a baseball bat.After being arrested (it's unclear what charges are filed, if any), Rick is called in by the school board for sanctioning. It is decided that he won't be fired, but instead he'll be promoted only he'll also transferred to Brandel An inner-city high school that has seen its better days.Now the principal of Brandel, Rick shows up on his motorcycle to see gang attacks, kids wandering graffiti-tagged hallways, drug commerce and other vices taking place out in the open. The teachers there are ambivalent and mostly resigned to the sub-standard conditions. Aghast, Rick calls an impromptu school assembly, and declares that things will start to change at the school immediately-- only, perpetual senior Victor, a gang leader and defacto boss of the school, will hear none of this, and declares war on Rick and his reform ideas.The Academy Award-winning but underrated Lou Gossett continues to slum it here, as Jake, the head of security. He soon becomes one of Rick's few allies in enforcing law and order at the school. Another ally is Rae Dawn Chong as Ms. Orozco, one of the few teachers who doesn't mind going out of her way to help the kids. There are hints of romance, but they are never followed-up on.An unusually labyrinthine locker room is the setting for the climax of the film, as Rick has a final showdown with Victor and his gang.The film is rife with several stock characters and situations, but as a B-action film, it delivers most of its points effectively.It's amusing to look back at some of Belushi's early vehicles, before his box office status petered out in the early 90's, before his comeback with According to Jim. "},{"Title":"Lean On Me's moody, pessimistic older brother.","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Teach these kids! Oh, I think I will just beat the crap out of the gang to scare them into submission. Hey, sometimes the diplomatic approach doesn't work. James Belushi cries No more! and lets slip the dogs of war with trusty Louis Gossett Jr. at his side. Rae Dawn Chong as the helpful teacher and Michael Wright as the evil Victor excel in their some roles. Esai Morales(La Bamba) and Jacob Vargas(Six Feet Under) are good in supporting roles. This movie makes little effort to be anything but a fun B action movie. It may have the gangs in school element, but it is not a very message minded movie. It trumps Dangerous Minds, The Substitute, and possibly 187. Lean On Me is a better movie, but The Principal manages to be what it set out to be, a rough little slice of inner city justice.P.S. I still think this and K-9, while giving James Belushi something to proud of, still can't match The Blues Brothers and Animal House. "}{"Title":"Carnival Of Carnage","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SemiSpoilerI consider this movie a great movie, and the closest to the actual brutality of Inner city life. As a Juggalo, one must remember the inside of the booklet of Carnival Of Carnage (1991ish), Last year more lives were lost in the ghettos of Detroit than in Desert Storm... so we were sittin on our a**es, spending billions on shxt like Star Wars that don't even work, they should be spending money on tearing down abandoned buildings, fixing up the schools they expect us to learn in... I wish more people had seen this movie, to understand WE GOTTA FXXKING PROBLEM HERE! It was an awesome movie, as well... a lot of brutality to keep the teens, James Belushi was awesome, and that Victor guy was undeniably evil... you loved the little guy that couldn't read, and hated the guy who made fun of him until you understood his story. So many round characters, i enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable 'positive message' movie","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a very enjoyable film about a ne`er-do-well teacher, Belushi, who's 'thrown to the wolves', placed into a job that's a living hell for any teacher.  Can he stand tall and face the challenge?  He'll certainly try and it's a plot we can all identify with.Yeah, the stereotypes abound, but when you think about it, it isn't too far off the mark, except that the reality is a lot worse.  I prefer to think of the characters as caricatures rather than stereotypes.  It's a perfect Jim Belushi role, and for all of his paleness from having lived in his brother John's shadow for the entirety of his career, he pulls this off better than John ever would have.  He's not as funny as John Belushi, but he's got more depth and versatility.  The beauty part of Jim Belushi is, if you didn't know he was John's brother, you wouldn't figure it out very quickly if at all.This film doesn't even seem like an 80s movie, so that's why you see it on TV a lot.  It doesn't have all of the 80s quirks you normally see, e.g., greed, slick production sets, etc., but the soundtrack certainly does give it away.It has some good messages and is a positive movie done tastefully, and for that alone it deserves a good recommendation and your viewing time.  An easy 7 of 10  "},{"Title":"Great exploitation picture.","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best exploitation movies I have ever seen. The Principal is a great low budget action film and a lotta fun. Let me start by saying that Jim Belushi holds this picture together and Louis Gosset Jr. is great in the supporting role as a janitor or security guard or something. This movie is just fun. I mean Belushi has to deal with some crazy kids and does so in a harsh manner. I mean their only kids and he roughs them up like grown men in a bar fight. The climatic fight at the end is very entertaining and the director, Christoper Cain, builds up some great suspense. If you are in the mood for a great little action picture, check out The Principal.  "},{"Title":"I'm The Principal, Man","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think my review title says it all about the James Belushi starring film, The Principal. It's yet another of those Blackboard Jungle inspired films now updated to the Reagan Era.Belushi's a teacher with a really lousy personal life and after beating up on his ex-wife's boyfriend and trashing the car of same, he gets to spend a night in the clink. It's a good thing that teachers have some strict tenure rules or I'm sure he'd have been history and not taught it any more.Anyway even though he can't be fired without all kinds of rigmarole he can sure be transferred from his nice suburban school to one toilet of a school in inner city Oakland. So Belushi's off to Brandel High School which is run by drug dealer Michael Wright and he's only got school custodian Lou Gossett, Jr. as an ally. The teachers aren't crazy about him, they keep an uneasy truce and try to teach the ones that want to learn. One of them, Rae Dawn Chong is hostile, but she gradually converts.Belushi's under pressure from above, he has to succeed or they will go through the laborious process of getting rid of him. Turns out he might just be what Brandel High needs.Belushi and Gossett have a nice chemistry in their scenes together. Esai Morales is strangely underused, I have a feeling a lot of his performance was left on the cutting room floor. My favorite however is Jacob Vargas, a kid that both Chong and Belushi take an interest in.The Principal is in a long line of similarly themed films from The Blackboard Jungle to Dangerous Minds. Entertaining enough with a lot of action for a school based film. "},{"Title":"entertaining action movie","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" this movie is about a man who ends up being principal of one of the worst schools in the country.the school is pretty much run by a drug lord/gang banger and his cronies.the teachers have given up hope on the kids and stopped teaching them.Rick Latimer (James Belushi)is Latimer,who finds himself in over his head,but won't quit.this is more of an action movie than an inspirational one.it's sorta like The Substitute and other similar movies.i don't think there's any real deep message here.and maybe that wasn't the intent of the filmmakers.maybe they just set out to making an entertaining action movie.if so,they succeeded.i found it entertaining.for me,The Principal is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the cult classics of the 1980's.","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" High School Teacher Rick Latimer (James Belushi) is been transfer to other High School in the urban part of the city. Which he's been promoted to be The Principal, where the school has a very bad reputation. While he tries to get back his life in track, after been in a nasty divorce. He becomes friends with a tough security officer in the school (Oscar-WinnerLou Gossett Jr.) and some of the struggling students. But he finds his biggest changeling, when the tough teenager Drug Dealer Victor Duncan (Michael Wright). Who thinks he's owns the school by corrupting the youth and senseless violence that happens during the week in school. Latimer didn't expect that Duncan would be tough, since Duncan has a tough gang and He might be a murderer as well.Directed by Christopher Cain (That Was Then... This Is Now, Pure Country, Young Guns) made a tough urban drama with fine performances by Buleshi and Gossett Jr. Which is one of Buleshi's best roles to date. This film represents fairly how is Urban High School are like during the 1980's. Which High Schools are becoming much worse now, then they were over 20 years ago. A much more controversial movie came out the early eighties that was Class of 1984. The Principal didn't have a big success in theaters but it sure when to have a cult following on video. Perphas one of the flaws of this movie, it has a odd if unusual high mix of Comedy and Drama. If it stayed more to being a Drama and less humour, this movie would be have been more effective. This has good supporting performances by Rae Dawn Chong, Kelly Jo Minter, Easi Morales, Tony Winbush and Jacob Vargas. The reasonable tense finale between Latimer and Duncan are one of the best parts of the movie. Certainly worth a look. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"a pretty good movie","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For being a 1987 action movie, I liked this movie. J. Belushi is a new Prinicipal at a crappy, beat up school. He soons finds out of a gang & their stupid but bad leader-Victor. Belushi takes action as action & humor insues. The effects weren't the best but you just got to hate Victor so much that you are wishing something would just happen to him. Louis Gossit JR.(FIREWALKER) also stars. This is worth seeing on cable or renting if you are looking for an old movie to rent. NO MORE!-Belushi. "},{"Title":"Not bad....but !","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Seeing an inner city high school change for the better is very delightful to the senses. Change is good! The Principal has its moments. Moments like the riot in the school auditorium and Latimer's No More! speech are captivating to watch. Other moments include mafioso-type gangsters that hide out inside Brandel High are very convincing and aren't clichés. You want to care about the teachers and some..some of the students. However, the plot is thin and leaves you with more questions such as Why do the students still go to this school without a principal and out of the control of the teachers? Do the people who live around the school give a damn about Brandel? The damn school looks like an abandoned Turkish prison. There are hundreds of inner-city schools that appear more alive than that. There has to be some order and students there willing to learn something other than arson, rape, robbery, and gang initiation somewhere, right? And where the hell were the cops in this movie?! This was before guns and whatnot. I mean do they need an entire SWAT team to defeat an army of thugs armed with switchblades and baseball bats! Unfortunately, The Principal is a Lean on Me wannabe that fails miserably. This is a stereotypical ghetto movie that's like Death Wish with a compassionate conscience. Why, you ask? Well, we have a battered, tired, middle-aged white dude who's down on his luck that is attacked, bullied, and harassed by black kids. And then he confronts them with violent action? C'mon here, where's the logic. There were principals of tougher schools that did not even raise a balled fist and did the same thing. To be fair, this was during Reagan's America and being Black or Latino in the inner-city wasn't a wonderful experience either and this was the era where white men were looked at as superheroes. "},{"Title":"No More!","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" James Belushi, Louis Gossett Jr., Rae Dawn Chong and Michael Wright star in this 1987 drama. A teacher is sent to be principal of a drug-infested high school. Rick Latimer (Belushi) is a school teacher who gets himself in trouble and is asked to be principal of drug-infested high school, Brandel. He meets hall monitor, Jake Phillips (Gossett) and learns that student, Victor Duncan (Wright) is the drug-dealing king of the school. Rick tries to clean up Brandel with his rule, No more and gets in over his head. Chong plays Miss Orozco, a history teacher who dislikes Rick at first, but gets close to him later after he saves her from getting raped by a student. Soon, Rick is forced to fight against Victor and make him an example of his rule. I've always liked this film and think it's one of Belushi's best. I recommend this great 80's drama. "},{"Title":"An Average Action Film With No Scene To Actually Die Over, But A Solid Idea Nonetheless(SPOILERS)","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" SPOILERS There are too many movies out there that are mediocre action or thriller or adventure or crime films. This is an average crime and action film. The plot of this film is okay, and it is pretty simple. The acting in this movie is nice and solid, but some people are laughable. There are also every single stereotype in this film imaginable. No character in this film is original. I mean, you have the bad guy in leather, the guy with a bean-bag hat, you have the greasy guy with a tank-top, everyone is here.Here is the plot of this film. Like I said before, it is pretty simple. A man named Rick has to become a principal at Brandel high school. The only problem is that all of the students at Brandel are drug users. Rick tries to straighten the school out with the help of a janitor and a couple of teachers. The students are mean, though. They beat up Rick, the attack a teacher, and there is a big leader of the school named Victor. Victor says if Rick steps in the school again he will kill him. He steps in the school again. In the climax Victor hunts Rick down but Victor is arrested in the end.Overall, this is a basic idea with a poorly plotted structure. I know this film could have been much better, they just needed to work much harder at this film. There are some well-done scenes, but the climax of this film stands out, like all climaxes do. I just wish they did not use so many obvious stereotypes in this film. I mean, every person in this film is a stereotype. Anyway, this is an average movie of the 80's that makes some bad moves, but also makes some good moves. The bad moves are really average actually, but the good moves are above average.6/10Recommended Films Kindergarden Cop. "}{"Title":"Not work of art, but passable.","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've seen a lot of movies about teachers taking over schools and classes that are violent. While this is not the best one out there, it gets the job done. The movie turns out to be surprisingly entertaining through all the bad acting by James Belushi, and the poor script for this movie. Jacob Vargas is good as the kid who can't read. Louis Gosset Jr. is totally wasted in the movie, and gives one of the most wooden performances of the whole cast. Michael Wright was downright sick as Victor, but sometimes he overplayed the role a bit too much. The Oakland location used for the background of the movie was very interesting, and made the bad atmosphere around the school realistic. This is not a good movie by any means, but it certainly isn't bad. It is just passable entertainment that will be forgotten two hours later. "},{"Title":"Powerful and dynamic character for a great James Belushi","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The energy that the movie pramolgate is infinity.After that you see The Principal you feel a great sense of revolution to your problem.In your mind the disharge of adrenalin is too hard that seems a thunder,but also if you can't fallow this feeling,it's anyway a good sensation for realize you that in life the bestest thing that you can do it's fight till to end.the actors are superbJames Belushi in the character of hungry Principal is in one of his best performance,nothing else can do this role so conviction,becausealso in the real life Belushi is Rick Latimer.Louis Grosset jr.is very good and Rae down Chong convictedme in this character. "},{"Title":"Predictable yet enjoyable","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Belushi plays Rick Latimer, a school teacher who is reluctantly promoted as the principal of Brandel High School, a school which is over run by gangs,drugs and violence. Due to the school's abysmal reputation and the fact that most of it's students have already been expelled from other schools help from the police is not forthcoming, and most of the school's teachers have lost there motivation and no longer care. With the exception of the school's head of security Jake Phillps (Academy Award Winner Louis Gossett Jr) and teacher Ms.Orozco (Rae Dawn Chong).Anyway,with Latimer's life seemingly at a dead end he decides he's going to clean up the school, which he states in his speech to the school where he says he will do everything within his power to enforce his painfully simple rule of No More!. Latimer's main foe, comes in the form of Victor Duncan, the main bad guy who runs a series of drugs rings within the school. The Principal is a decent film which is fairly straight forward and predictable, yet sends you away satisfied. Everyone plays their parts well enough,although there are no real stand out performances. Belushi gives a good, solid performance as the lead showing he can do the serious stuff as well as comedy. It's also got a fairly good soundtrack. I gave it 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Who do you think you are?","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Newly divorced High School teacher Rick Latimer(James Belushi) has been reassigned, he is now the Principal of Brandel High School, this inner city school is the physical embodiment of hell, students run amok, smoke dope, drink, and fight (and boy do they FIGHT). Latimer takes it upon himself to clean up the school, along with security guard Jake Phillips(Louis Gossett Jr.) take on crime and troublesome students. This movie dosen't live up to other movie's in it's genre like The Substitute and even to a lesser extent Dangerous Minds. This movie is a new classic and should be treated as such so if your flipping through the stations and it is on you should check it out, but only if it is on showtime.  "},{"Title":"Michael Wright shines in an otherwise average bad school kids movie","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Newly divorced drunken looser (Belushi) is transfered to an inner city High School as principal of classes of derelict youth punishment for beating the crap out of his ex's new boyfriend at a local bar. Forgoes character development in favor of two word mantras and over the top action sequences (some exciting, some not). The dialogue is mostly cliché and performances mostly hammy and unremarkable. Most character drama introduced at the beginning of the picture (particularly Belushi's) is never resolved and quietly goes away by the middle of the movie as it builds towards the expected violent climax. Still, there are some rousing and humorous action sequences and a few good one liners, but Michael Wright (of HBO's Oz) is the real star here who steals the show in his typically sullen-turn-electrifying fashion as the drug dealing self-proclaimed King of the school. Sounds silly, but as soon as he walks on screen you believe him. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you might think","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Principal was filmed in my adopted hometown of Oakland CA, and I was fully prepared to hate it. Most media depictions of Oakland are very negative, and this one is no different, except...it's set in an unnamed city, and all of the school names have been changed. So even though we're still dealing with inner city troublemakers, at least the film doesn't bash my beloved Oaktown. The depressing part is that the abandoned college campus they used for exteriors is still empty...but that's another story. SO, how's the movie, you ask? Well, it's pretty standard fare, a few notches below Blackboard Jungle and a few above Class of 1999. In other words it's another juvenile delinquency picture. The acting isn't bad, the story is hackneyed and predictable, and the end result is a mildy entertaining night in front of the boob tube. "},{"Title":"It's a bad movie, but at times you can see something good peeking through","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Principal - as dee.reid (above) states - did *seem* to kick-start Hollywood into making a few more films of this genre. However, one must consider the true genre-defining film in this case to be the 1955 film Blackboard Jungle which, at the time, certainly broached the subject which many refused to listen to - namely the disillusioned (mainly black) youth of America and their relationship with their educators. This is a topic relevant in 1955, in 1987 when the Principal was made, and now.Blackboard Jungle is a far better film than The Principal, primarily because the script and acting are better, particularly the excellent Sidney Poitier, but it's unfair to compare the acting skills of Belushi with the likes of Poitier. Belushi has attempted to make a drama tackling serious issues, and despite some very shaky parts (let's say, 90% of the film)there is the occasional glimmer of hope.He does makes the occasional Belushi wise-crack, but in almost every case they aren't funny, and none of his little speeches is any good either. There are scenes which seem like they might provide comic relief, but these opportunities are missed repeatedly. This is a film confusingly caught between - at the start - attempting to be the typical Belushi fare whereby he plays a smart-mouthed slob loser, and a more serious piece. It needs a heavyweight (not in the Belushi sense) actor, but for the budget you can see why all they got was a second-rate comic.The strange thing is, Lou Gosset Junior - who plays the school security chief - would almost certainly have made a better lead. I'm not suggesting that Gossett could out-act a paper bag, but he can at least do a convincing 'angry' (much in demand in this flick) whereas with Belushi you keep expecting him to flash that pock-marked smile of his and suck back on a beer. When he attempts angry, it seems kind of silly. And it's certainly not convincing when the portly, out of shape JB manages to beat up a number of young thugs who seem helpless before his Kirk-esquire moves.And yet for some reason I sat and watched the whole thing. At times you can see that there was a really 'good day' on set, and they actually go some way to capturing what the Director was attempting, and for a brief moment it's engrossing. Some of the interplay between Belushi and the young and entirely unknown actors and actresses is very convincing and quite sweet.There are a lot of extras in this film, and in two scenes they use them to good effect by allowing them to improvise bedlam, and then inserting the lead actors into the scene with some vague direction and some lines. It feels natural, and was actually surprisingly good film-making. It was also entirely out of character with so many films of the era where this sort of thing was attempted and choreographed, and looked horribly fake. There are some really nice 'candid' shots of the kids in the school which could have been lifted straight from a documentary. It was moments like these which convinced, and which made me keep watching.There is also an interesting denouement where Belushi fights the school bully for want of a better term, in the oddly maze-like girls shower room, of all places. It's a strange, tense showdown and I think it works surprisingly well. What's also refreshing is that there is no clearly defined ending, happy or otherwise. JB inevitably beats the main bully, but the rest of the pupils remain outside the school fence hanging onto it like animals, their loyalties still uncertain. There's no fanfare, there's no ticker-tape, and it takes one young boy who is actively pursuing an education to deliver the final line in response to the cry Who the hell do you think you are? He's the Principal! says the young kid. Belushi echoes the sentiment, credits roll, and I wonder how the hell I just sat through two hours of a bad movie and came out the other side wanting to recommend it. Any help would be appreciated. "},{"Title":"No More!","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I originally saw this movie on HBO back in the late eighties about 300 AM after a night of drinking. I laughed my rear end off, not because it was funny, but because of how stupid it was. That doesn't mean it is a bad film. It gives you exactly what you would expect from Jim Belushi which is Jim Belushi! He doesn't act, he just acts like a tough guy that is really likable. Him as a high school principal is the most ridiculous idea for a plot. It came out during the Reagan years, which is no surprise because that was a time when any lazy person could make a movie. It was also during that tough love era, where it takes a good-hearted, aggressively dumb person, to straighten out problems with the education system of poor inner city schools instead of stuffy liberal weasels. Forget the stupid plot, grab some alcohol, sit back and laugh! "},{"Title":"Awfully simple; simply awful. (Contains SPOILER!)","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Principal (1987)  is one of those formulaic movies in which theending can be predicted after the first fifteen minutes.Quiz   The principal has been threatened with death if he arrives at his school the next day.  His response is toa) Notify the policeb) Take a personal dayc) Show up, stay late, and wait until he is attacked by three psychopathic killersThis quiz is the spoiler of which you were notified.  (Actually, I only added the spoiler warning because I respect IMDb and its guidelines.  This film is so awful that it defies spoiling!) "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it as a child","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remeber seeing The Principal back when I was six years old and really enjoying the movie. Belushi and Gosset Jr both give good performances and have some nice chesmirty together. Extra kudos to Micheal Wright as Victor the film's bad guy. "}{"Title":"Poor Urban Drama","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was terrible.  Full of poor acting (this coming from someone who loves James Belushi) and an even worse plot.  I could barely stomach Belushi's Dirty Harry tactics for taking back an urban school.  I dunno, maybe I didn't realize it was an action film and not a drama, which is what I expected, but I was personally hoping for a better dealing with issues in this movie, like a young teenage mother, and the community in which this school is in.  Why didn't he consult with the community and the police to get help dealing with this situation?  I don't know.  I suppose if the movie actually dealt with that issue, then you'd lose the action audience... "},{"Title":"A school principal tries to get trashy slum  kids  to attend school","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sad to say, this dreadful film is a sickeningly violent reflection of American schools today where discipline is questionable and students are obviously more interested in drug deals than in getting an education. Having grown up watching films made in Hollywood's golden era I am wondering why the producer ever felt this story was worth producing. As a former screenwriter at MGM and a screen writing instructor at a Dallas college for over thirty years, I can only say, as I have for a long time, that contemporary films lack the quality and appeal of those made before 1979.Killings, stabbings, murders, car crashes and buildings being blown up do not constitute entertainment for me and in the case of this particular disaster, the actions of trashy slum teenagers have no appeal at all. TV viewers should be warned about the objectionable content of this film which should appeal only to trashy ghetto teenagers. "},{"Title":"Weak","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Both a waste of film, and a wasted opportunity.Was this a movie, or a contest to see how many visual cliches and social stereotypes could be packed onto one roll of celluloid at the same time? There were lots of potentially interresting characters who could've been fleshed out in a decent script; not one of them was.The filmmakers went to a lot of trouble to make their setting look like Los Angeles, when it was obviously shot in and around an abandoned school in Oakland. The great irony there is that Oakland has some schools that aren't far off from what the film depected.Even then, it was cliched, formulaic, with no real character development to speak of.  All in all, a pretty sad.g. "},{"Title":"terrible","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie sucks from start to finish, terrible acting and terrible fight scenes. I was very disappointed in this because the fight scenes were so slow and just terrible! There was no sex scene with Rae, which I wanted to see but still the movie just sucked, the Substitute is much better  "}]